
                              15 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 22, 2005 Wednesday REGION EDITION

SENATE FAILS;
TO MANDATE;
EMISSION CUT HEAT-TRAPPING GAS LIMIT IS VOLUNTARY

BYLINE: H. Josef Hebert The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-11

LENGTH: 785 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate endorsed President Bush's climate-change policies
yesterday, approving a measure that avoids mandatory reductions of heat-trapping
pollution while still boosting government support for cleaner energy sources.

In a second setback for environmentalists, the Senate also agreed to conduct an
inventory of offshore oil and gas resources that some senators called a prelude
to drilling in coastal waters now off limits to energy development. An attempt
to strip the inventory from a broad energy bill failed 52-44.

On climate change, Republicans rallied around a measure offered by Sen. Chuck
Hagel, R-Neb., that would rely on voluntary industry measures to slow down the
growth of heat-trapping emissions through an expansion of "private-public
partnerships" to develop ways to produce energy with lower carbon emissions.

Carbon from burning fossil fuels is the principal heat-trapping gas that many
scientists believe is warming the Earth.

The Hagel amendment was approved 66-29 and inserted into the energy legislation
that Senate leaders hope to finish this week.

Among regional lawmakers, voluntary industry measures were supported by Sens.
Arlen Specter and Rick Santorum, both R-Pa.; Mike DeWine and George Voinovich,
both R-Ohio; and Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va. They were opposed by Sen. Robert Byrd,
D-W.Va.

Senators later began debate on a more ambitious climate-change measure that
would require industry and power companies by 2010 to reduce heat-trapping
emissions -- mainly carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels -- to levels they
were five years ago.

A vote on that proposal, offered by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Joe
Lieberman, D-Conn., was scheduled for today. It was given slim chance of being
approved. A third proposal, billed as a compromise, was abandoned by Sen. Jeff
Bingaman, D-N.M., after it became clear that it would get scant GOP support.

McCain and Lieberman argued that mandatory measures were needed to get industry
to reduce its flow of heat-trapping pollution into the atmosphere. McCain called
Hagel's measure "meaningless" because it has nothing to force industry to make
greenhouse emission reductions.

"We've gone from outright opposition [to mandatory reductions] to a fig leaf,"
he said.

"It will do nothing to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions," Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., said of the Hagel amendment, arguing that the
McCain-Lieberman proposal was "the real climate amendment."

The Bush administration has opposed regulating carbon or other greenhouse gases,
contending that voluntary actions by industry are already reducing the growth of
emissions and that to go further would harm the economy and raise energy prices.

"The McCain-Lieberman amendment will put coal out of business," said Sen. George
Voinovich, R-Ohio, as he supported the Hagel proposal.

Hagel described his measure as "a market-driven, technology-based approach" to
dealing with climate change without imposing mandatory emission-reduction
requirements on industry. Yet it will dampen the growth of greenhouse gases both
in the United States and in developing countries, he said.

Environmentalists have dismissed Hagel's approach, saying it would do little to
move climate policy beyond what the Bush administration is doing: relying on
voluntary industry measures and focusing only on slowing the growth of
greenhouse emissions, not reducing those emissions.

The inventory of oil and gas resources beneath the nation's Outer Continental
Shelf was strongly criticized by some coastal senators, who said it would lead
to drilling in areas where energy development has been barred since the 1980s.

Among regional lawmakers, the inventory was endorsed by Specter, Santorum,
DeWine, Voinovich and Byrd. It was opposed by Rockefeller.

"It's the first step to drilling. It's the proverbial camel's nose under the
tent," declared Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., who said the Interior Department
already is conducting an inventory of offshore energy resources every five
years.

Proponents of the inventory said the country needs to know what offshore oil and
gas resources might be available in future years. "This gives Americans full
information of what is there," said Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La. "This is not a
drilling amendment."

Oil and gas development has been banned for more than two decades in almost all
of the country's coastal acreage outside the western Gulf of Mexico. Congress
enacted the first moratorium in 1981 and later expanded its reach and reaffirmed
it every year. A succession of presidents have continued the moratorium since
1990. The latest extension, issued by President Bush, expires in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              18 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 16, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

WARMING TREATY TAKES EFFECT, BUT U.S. ISN'T PART OF IT

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE and TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A controversial world treaty designed to curb emissions of global warming gases
goes into effect today, but even ardent supporters say it isn't enough to stop a
runaway environmental problem.

That's because some big polluting nations -- including the United States, which
produces about one-quarter of the world's greenhouse gases -- aren't part of the
deal.

The Kyoto Protocol, ratified by 33 countries, goes into force 90 days after
Russia endorsed the treaty, which was written in 1997. It requires that
industrialized countries -- mostly European nations and Japan -- who have
ratified it reduce their emissions of six gases implicated in global warming,
including carbon dioxide, by an average of at least 5 percent. That would take
them back to 1990 levels. These goals are to be achieved by 2008-2012.

Signators have some flexibility in how they attain these emissions reductions.
Developing countries don't have to cut back. Neither does the United States,
since it has not ratified the treaty.

Growing amounts of those gases are seen by most scientists as causing higher
atmospheric temperatures, which in turn melt polar ice, increase ocean levels
and alter global weather.

The Bush administration contends that the science is not clear enough to act and
that the treaty would be costly and penalize the United States unfairly. To
signal its doubt about the science, administration officials call the
environmental phenomenon "climate change" rather than "global warming."

The 33 nations which have endorsed the treaty will celebrate with speeches,
parties and demonstrations of clean technology. Proponents say the treaty is a
needed first step in tackling a major worldwide environmental problem.

"We are quite convinced that it is THE hurdle that had to be overcome and
perhaps afterwards the uphill battle is not that steep anymore," said Henning
Wuester, a special assistant to the head of the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change in Bonn, Germany.

The consensus of most of the world's climate scientists is that global warming
is real and caused by carbon dioxide and other emissions from the burning of
fossil fuels, mainly coal, oil and gasoline. The National Academy of Sciences
and the International Panel on Climate Change said the Earth's temperature could
rise between 2.5 and 10.4 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of this century.

The Bush administration opted out of the treaty in 2001. Large polluting
developing nations, such as China and India, aren't part of its curbs on
industrialized nations, which the Bush administration says is unfair.

"The United States continues to believe that the Kyoto Protocol is not in the
best interest of the United States, and it's just not the administration but the
Congress that does not support it because of the deleterious effects it would
have on the economy," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said. In 1997, the
Senate voted 95-0 against the treaty's basic principles.

Greenhouse gases are likely to grow despite cutbacks from countries signing the
treaty, said World Bank chief scientist Bob Watson, past chairman of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. That is because of increased
pollution from the United States, which has increased emissions of greenhouse
gas by 13.4 percent since 1990, and fast-growing China and India.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              19 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 5, 2005 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

BUSH PUTS DAMPER ON SUMMIT HOPE

BYLINE: ALAN COWELL, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: LONDON


With some signs of discord after a weekend of free rock concerts and celebrity
urgings to end Africa's poverty, politicians and protesters prepared yesterday
for the Group of 8 summit meeting later in the week.

The leaders of eight major industrial nations are to meet tomorrow through
Friday at the luxurious Gleneagles golf estate north of Edinburgh, Scotland,
preoccupied by two main subjects -- climate change and relieving African poverty
through changes in policies on trade, aid and debt.

In Edinburgh yesterday, police officers drawn from the estimated 10,000 on duty
to guard the meeting fought running scuffles with several hundred
anti-globalization protesters. No injuries were immediately reported.

In an interview broadcast yesterday on British television, President Bush seemed
to damp any expectation that he might reward Prime Minister Tony Blair, the
conference host, for his support in the American effort to prevent terrorism.

Bush is generally seen to be at odds with Britain and most other members of the
group on accepting the scientific evidence relating to the causes of global
warming, and thus on the need for immediate steps to reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases. Indeed, the United States is held by other group members to be
the world's biggest polluter.

Bush's remarks seemed to conflict with a forecast on Sunday by France's
President Jacques Chirac that the member countries -- the others are Canada,
Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia -- were "heading toward an agreement" on global
warming.

At a news conference in London yesterday, Michael Jay, Blair's representative at
talks by senior officials in advance of the meeting, said climate change "was
never going to be an easy discussion," and added, "There are differences of
opinion, particularly about the science."

Bush maintained his opposition to deals like the Kyoto Protocol, which set
targets for lowering greenhouse gas emissions and which the United States has
refused to accept.

His only apparent softening lay in remarks during the interview that climate
change represented a "significant long-term issue that we've got to deal with"
and that the problem was "to some extent" a result of human actions.

Environmental groups said those remarks fell short of acknowledging the scale of
the problem.

At other talks in advance of the summit meeting, G-8 countries have apparently
made some progress on increasing aid to Africa and canceling debt. But trade,
Jay said, "is going to be one of the most difficult issues."

In part, that is because a change in trade rules would affect huge farm
subsidies in both the United States and the European Union -- an area in which
Bush seemed to suggest the Europeans had more changes to make than the United
States.

"We've got agricultural subsidies, not nearly to the extent that our friends in
the EU have," he said.

In support of more aid for Africa, campaigners like the former rock singer Bob
Geldof urged the leaders to heed the voices of millions of people who flocked to
rock concerts across the globe over the weekend or took to the streets. More
than 200,000 people demonstrated on Saturday in Edinburgh to reinforce the
slogan: Make Poverty History.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John D. McHugh/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images: A policeman in
riot gear holds his shield, bearing graffiti written in lipstick, in central
Edinburgh, Scotland, yesterday, a day that started out as a carnival and ended
in riots. Thousands of demonstrators have gathered in Scotland ahead of the G8
leaders summit in Gleneagles later in the week, and more protests are expected.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 11, 2005 Friday
                                 REGION EDITION

ORION RETURNS TO THE MORNING SKY;
MORE THAN ONE CITY IS A PHOENIX;
PLANETS CLIMBING HIGHER IN THE SKY;
EARTH'S CRYOSPHERE IN DANGER

BYLINE: Libby Copeland and Neely Tucker The Washington Post

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. D-9

LENGTH: 1349 words


American cities have faced destruction by fire, flood, earthquake and
hurricanes, seen thousands dead and hundreds of thousands more turned homeless.
But so far, no natural disaster has broken a major city, no matter how
impractical its location.

The San Francisco earthquake of 1906 was, like the catastrophe Hurricane Katrina
brought to New Orleans this month, the worst and most expensive natural disaster
in the nation's history when it happened. On April 18 of that year, a major
quake and subsequent fires killed more than 3,000 people, leveled almost the
entire city, and left more than half the population of 400,000 homeless.

Thousands of victims took boats across the bay to a little town called Oakland.
They never left, and Oakland became a big city. Others headed south, helping a
town called Los Angeles boom. And many moved right back, using new technology to
build stronger buildings. Buttressed by the westward push of millions of
Americans, today it is one of the nation's most beautiful, expensive and
desirable places to live.

Last week, with violence, explosions and swampy water covering New Orleans,
there was much despair that the freewheeling jazz capital may never really
return. Dennis Hastert, speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, suggested
that a city below sea level, wedged between a huge lake and one of the world's
mightiest rivers, should not get federal funds to rebuild.

But U.S. history is of a people who stand their ground and take their chances --
even amid devastation. San Francisco rebuilt. So did Chicago, which suffered a
catastrophic fire in 1871. So did Galveston, Texas, after a 1900 hurricane
killed more than 6,000. The city built a massive seawall and raised the entire
elevation of the sandbar on which it sits -- though the storm knocked it out of
the race with Houston to become the dominant Texas city on the Gulf.

That's not to say things will automatically bounce back in the same way.
Consider Hurricane Andrew.

One of only three documented Category 5 monsters to hit the United States, it
wiped out much of South Florida on Aug. 24, 1992. Ten years later, researchers
from the International Hurricane Research Center at Florida International
University found that many middle-class white residents in Miami-Dade County had
taken their insurance settlements and rebuilt their lives. By contrast, an
impoverished, predominantly black area called Florida City never really
recovered.

In New Orleans, nearly a third of its population of 485,000 lives below the
poverty line. More than half the population are renters, rather than homeowners,
a sign of tenuous ties to the area, ties that many may just abandon.

If the Saints, the city's football team, leave town, as the owners have hinted,
and the Superdome never returns to its grandeur as host of the Sugar Bowl and
Super Bowl and NCAA championship basketball games, the city would lose a great
deal of its national cachet.

"This is a real moment in history, when New Orleans will begin to change
dramatically," says Craig Colten, who wrote "An Unnatural Metropolis: Wresting
New Orleans From Nature," which came out earlier this year.

Some storm evacuees will never return to New Orleans, and Shreveport, La.,
likely will gain new residents, as will Baton Rouge. But New Orleans is one of
the world's busiest seaports and has been the gateway of the Mississippi River,
the commercial artery of the American heartland, since the Louisiana Purchase.
Though its short-term future is certainly bleak, there's doubt that it's going
to turn into a ghost town.

Orion, the most prominent constellation of the winter sky and the harbinger of
the cold nights ahead, has returned to the morning sky. The mighty hunter
disappeared below the western evening horizon early in May and has been slowly
rising in the east in the morning since the beginning of August. Look for Orion
standing tall about 5 a.m.

When searching for Orion, first locate three stars close together in a row that
form his belt. Two bright stars mark his shoulders and two more his knees.
Betelgeuse, in Orion's right shoulder, is a red giant and one of the largest
stars known to astronomers. The very hot blue star Rigel, in Orion's left knee,
is the opposite temperature of Betelgeuse. The Orion Nebula, or M42, can be
found in the middle of a line of stars that hangs down from Orion's belt.

-- By Dan Malerbo, Henry Buhl Jr. Planetarium & Observatory

Each Friday through the remainder of the Major League Baseball season, a Pirates
player will answer questions about growing into his role as a professional
ballplayer.

What organized sports did you play as a youngster?

I played baseball, basketball and football ... which was my favorite growing up.
I was the quarterback for my high school.

What advice did you get that helps you today as a major leaguer?

I always try to remember to just keep doing what got me here and not to try to
be something I'm not.

What other games (sports, video games, etc.) do you love to play?

Outside of baseball, I love to play "NCAA Football 2006" on PlayStation 2. I
bring it on the road everywhere!

To learn more about the Pirates and activities for their young fans, visit
www.pirates.com and click on "KIDS."

Venus and Mars continue to climb higher and higher in the sky at dusk this
month: bright Mars in the east and dazzling bright Venus in the southwest.

Last weekend in the southwestern sky, Venus was right above the spout in the
Teapot of Sagittarius. Tonight, around one hour after sunset, look for brilliant
Venus right below the top star in the Teapot. Our sister planet will continue to
move east through the Teapot, reaching the handle by next weekend. Binoculars,
used in daylight or at sunset, will detect a crescent phase.

Brilliant Mars is still shining at it's best this weekend, rising in the east
shortly before sunset and setting after sunrise. Next week, as the Earth moves
further away from Mars, you may notice the Red Planet begin to decrease in
brightness. Mars will shine below the moon Monday night and above and to the
right of the full moon (called the frost moon) Tuesday.

-- By Dan Malerbo, Henry Buhl Jr.

Planetarium & Observatory

A recent United Nations report on the environment, conducted by 1,300
researchers from 95 countries, warns that 15 of 24 global ecosystems are in
decline. The study warns of the emergence of new diseases, sudden changes in
water quality, creation of coastal "dead zones," the collapse of fisheries and
shifts in regional climate. One of those ecosystems affected by climate change
is the cryosphere.

The word "cryosphere" comes from the Greek word "kryos" meaning cold, and refers
to low-temperature elements of weather such as snow and ice. The Earth' s
cryosphere includes freshwater ice, sea ice, snow, glaciers, permafrost and
frozen ground. Even Pittsburgh is part of the cryosphere in the winter when the
ground is frozen and snow covered.

Sea ice is frozen seawater that floats on the ocean surface. Covering millions
of square miles, sea ice forms and melts with the polar seasons, affecting both
human activity and biological habitat. In the Arctic, some sea ice persists year
after year, whereas almost all Antarctic sea ice melts away and reforms
annually. While Arctic and Antarctic ice is of vital importance to the marine
mammals and birds for which it is a habitat, sea ice in the Arctic appears to
play a more crucial role in regulating climate.

Scientists have been studying the floating cap of sea ice on the Artic Ocean.
Satellite data has revealed that Arctic sea ice shrank this past summer to its
smallest size in the past century. Climate experts believe that a trend toward
less summer Artic ice can be attributed in part to human caused global warming.

Human activities have altered the chemical composition of the atmosphere through
the buildup of greenhouse gases -- primarily carbon dioxide, methane, and
nitrous oxide. According to the National Academy of Sciences, the Earth's
surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit in the past century.

-- By Dan Malerbo, Henry Buhl Jr.

Planetarium & Observatory

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette
Pirate outfielder Nate McLouth crosses home plate after hitting his first major
league home run, in an Aug. 23 game against the Cardinals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              43 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 25, 2005 Monday SOONER EDITION

THE POLITICS OF CLIMATE;
GLOBAL WARMING GRAPH OVERHEATS DEBATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.B-6

LENGTH: 401 words


A hockey stick in the hands of an angry player can create quite a ruckus on the
ice. Another hockey stick, created by a computer program used to study global
warming, is doing worse in the scientific community and Congress. It's high time
for an intermission so the players can take a few deep breaths and focus on the
real problem.

The "hockey stick" is a famous graphic that emerged from research by
climatologist Michael E. Mann, of the University of Virginia, and two
colleagues. A linchpin of the case for manmade global warming, it shows global
temperatures during the last 1,000 years and has appeared in major reports on
the topic.

Its shaft is relatively straight until the 20th century, when the blade -- and
the mercury -- angles upward. Bottom line: Earth is warmer now than any time in
1,000 years, and industrial activity did it.

That idea steamed U.S. Rep. Joe Barton, a powerful Texas Republican who chairs
the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and fiercely opposes international
efforts to curb global warming. He launched an investigation of the three
professors.

Other scientists claim it's simply harassment by politicians opposed to action
on global warming. Democratic members of Mr. Barton's committee agree. The
National Science Foundation said Mr. Barton's demand for the scientists'
computer program was inappropriate.

Granted, Mr. Mann admits the program has a bias toward generating hockey
stick-shaped graphs even when none exist in the data. But he insists his
conclusions are still correct. And like other climate-change research, his data
and methodology have never been fully scrutinized.

Government decisions to spend billions of dollars to remedy global warming must
be based on solid, unbiased research. Mr. Barton's committee, however, it not
the right venue for such an inquiry.

Global warming already is highly politicized. Politicians have their agendas.
Industries have theirs, being reluctant to spend heavily to curb emissions of
carbon dioxide. Climate scientists are only human, and their objectivity can be
swayed by personal convictions or the bounty of research grants that this field
promises.

The real problem is how to depoliticize climate science before matters get
worse, and research loses more public credibility. That certainly should be a
topic for congressional hearings and funding agencies like the NSF.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              53 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 18, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

BLAIR 3RD-TERM AGENDA UNVEILED;
NATIONAL IDENTITY CARD CONTROVERSIAL

BYLINE: JANET STOBART, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Prime Minister Tony Blair unveiled a controversial measure for a national
identity card embedded with the bearer's biological data, one of 45 new laws
proposed as the British Parliament reopened yesterday following the hotly
contested election earlier this month.

Returned to power for a third term, but with a severely reduced majority,
Blair's Labour Party government presented its program in a speech that was read
amid traditional pomp by Queen Elizabeth II in her role as head of state.

The prime minister, who has ruled out leading his party into another election,
is believed to be trying to complete his historic legacy in this term. He said
he wants his government to continue its ambitious social reforms while fostering
a "culture of respect" for law and responsibility among the British people.

With many people believing that rude behavior is on the upswing in cities and
towns, Blair told Parliament during later debate on the speech: "It is time to
reclaim the streets for the decent majority."

He stressed issues ranging from education, social services and security and
immigration on the domestic front to the European Constitution, the war on
terrorism and global climate change in foreign relations.

The ceremony saw the queen, in regal white gown and wearing her imperial crown,
and the Duke of Edinburgh, resplendent in gold-braided naval uniform, arrive in
a gilded horse-drawn coach for the ceremonial opening of Parliament -- the only
time by custom that the ruling monarch is permitted into the legislative
building.

Blair's hopes to have all his government's bills passed depends on whether he
can count on full support within his own party, including the 30 to 40 Labour
members of Parliament who opposed his alliance with the United States in the war
on Iraq. Labour has 354 seats in the 645-member Parliament.

The queen opened the speech by building on the Labour Party's main strength: the
economy. She then announced that the government would address "legislation in
key areas of public service delivery: education, health, welfare and crime."

Among the most discussed issues are proposals for ID cards, tightened control
systems for immigrants and asylum seekers, stronger and wide-ranging
anti-terrorism laws and the outlawing of "incitement to religious hatred."

Home Secretary Charles Clarke reintroduced with some changes the proposed
identity card bill, defeated in the last Parliament, in an effort to crack down
on credit-card and identity fraud, theft and illegal employment and immigration.

The proposal, which has the support in principle of the opposition Conservative
Party, would call on each British citizen to carry a card with "biometric" data,
including fingerprints and personal details that would also be stored in a
national identity database.

Critics from the Liberal Democrat Party call the bill intrusive. The measure is
"contrary to principle, contrary to the constitutional history of this country
[and] a momentous change which, once made, will never be reversed. That is why
it should be regarded with the greatest scrutiny," Menzies Campbell, a senior
figure of the Liberal Democrats, said during a Sky TV debate.

Other proposals included tightening up of regulations on immigrant workers and
asylum seekers, introducing a points system for those seeking work in the
Britain and strengthening border controls.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              55 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 25, 2005 Friday
                                 REGION EDITION

BUBBLES SUPPORT GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: Lauran Neergaard The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 358 words


WASHINGTON -- There is more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere today than at any
point during the last 650,000 years, says a major new study that let scientists
peer back in time at "greenhouse gases" that can help fuel global warming.

By analyzing tiny air bubbles preserved in Antarctic ice for millennia, a team
of European researchers highlights how people are dramatically influencing the
buildup of these gases.

The remarkable research promises to spur "dramatically improved understanding"
of climate change, said geosciences specialist Edward Brook of Oregon State
University.

The study, by the European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica, is published
today in the journal Science.

Today, scientists directly measure levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse
gases, which accumulate in the atmosphere as a result of fuel-burning and other
processes. Those gases help trap solar heat, like the greenhouses for which they
are named, resulting in a gradual warming of the planet.

Those measurements are disturbing: Levels of carbon dioxide have climbed from
280 parts per million two centuries ago to 380 ppm today. Earth's average
temperature, meanwhile, increased about 1 degree Fahrenheit in recent decades, a
relatively rapid rise. Many climate specialists warn that continued warming
could have severe impacts, such as rising sea levels and changing rainfall
patterns.

Skeptics sometimes dismiss the rise in greenhouse gases as part of a naturally
fluctuating cycle. The new study provides ever-more definitive evidence
countering that view, however.

Deep Antarctic ice encases tiny air bubbles formed when snowflakes fell over
hundreds of thousands of years. Extracting the air allows a direct measurement
of the atmosphere at past points in time, to determine the naturally fluctuating
range.

A previous ice-core sample had traced greenhouse gases back about 440,000 years.
This new sample, from East Antarctica, goes 210,000 years further back in time.

Today's still rising level of carbon dioxide already is 27 percent higher than
its peak during all those millennia, said lead researcher Thomas Stocker of the
University of Bern, Switzerland.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This undated image provided by Science magazine, shows the drill head
and ice core, drilled on Nov. 30, 2002, at a research station at Dome Concordia
in Antarctica. The core allowed scientists to study greenhouse gases dating back
650,000 years.
L. Augustin,Science Magazine/Associated Press......

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              65 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 28, 2005 Thursday SOONER EDITION

RIGHT PLACE, WRONG;
JOB;
RIGHT PLACE, WRONG JOB HIGH-PAID EXECUTIVES STRUGGLE TO STAY IN PITTSBURGH AFTER
A LAYOFF

BYLINE: Jim McKay, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-1

LENGTH: 1251 words


After three decades of working in Pennsylvania, metallurgical engineer Ken
Albano found his best opportunity for a new job was not in Pittsburgh but in
Houston, Texas.

That doesn't surprise Right Management Consultants, an outplacement and
organizational consulting firm that finds many of its clients in upper salary
ranges frequently must leave Pittsburgh for the right job.

Yet outplacement and job search firms here say the employment climate in the
region is beginning to improve, particularly for white-collar job seekers,
including new college graduates and mid-level professionals.

"Hiring is definitely up," said Susan Sisk, principal owner of Tops Staffing. "I
am seeing it across the board the last couple of months, more in white collar
than in blue collar. But I am seeing heavy increases in both."

In the blue collar sector, Sisk said she has had success placing well-paid
mechanics who have lost jobs at a shrinking US Airways because their skills are
transferable to other industries.

"These guys are muddy, people you can pretty much stick anywhere," she said.
"It's easy to translate the jobs they did at US Airways into a manufacturing
environment. They can do a lot."

But on the highest end of pay scales, Right Management estimates that 65 percent
or more of its clients who are looking for executive positions that pay $100,000
or more end up leaving Pittsburgh to get them -- though the experience elsewhere
isn't all that different. Such jobs are relatively rare no matter the locale --
only 8.3 percent of U.S. taxpayers earned $100,000 or more in 2002, the most
recent data available.

"We generally believe the economy is picking up based on outplacement
statistics. It is still, however, a tough job market when you are looking to
replace significant income," said Rick Swegan, vice president of client services
in Pittsburgh for Right Management. "I think you are seeing more flattening of
organizations with fewer opportunities at the top."

The average length of time it takes for executives to land new jobs started to
decline last year after rising in 2003, according to statistics compiled by
Right Management from its client experience. Last year, it took an average of
3.75 months for lower and mid-level managers in Right's program to find work in
Pittsburgh, vs.  5.5 months in 2003.

The average for senior executives dropped to 6.1 months last year from 8 months
a year earlier, Right said. Local data was unavailable for the higher level "key
executives," because none were in the Right program last year, but the national
job search average for them fell to 8.4 months from 22 in 2003.

Donna Korenich, president of Three Rivers Career Management, said her firm,
which focuses professional employees, is seeing a similar improvement in the job
market.

"More of our clients are getting jobs faster -- and that really includes almost
all of the sectors -- manufacturing, sales and marketing, which had been very
slow," she said. "After the first of the year, things really started to
improve."

As one might infer from its name, Three Rivers deals mostly with local clients
who want to stay in Pittsburgh. And for those seeking top jobs that pay six
figures or more, the local opportunities are still rare, Korenich said.

A 30-year veteran of the former Bethlehem Steel, Albano last year amicably left
a small railroad products company in Pittsburgh, where he was a vice president,
after the economic downturn pushed the family-owned business to change
directions.

After seven months of looking for something new, Albano, 54, got three offers
within a two-week period. The best one took him to Houston as general manager of
an Ameri-Forge Group business unit.

He blames diminished opportunities in Pittsburgh on continued downsizing of
manufacturing and the metals industry, competition from imports and other
regions of the country that are perceived to be friendlier to business.

"You don't need to do an exhaustive study to understand what has happened to
manufacturing in Western Pennsylvania. Just drive through the region," Albano
said, ticking off a list of steel mills and factories that are no longer in
business. "For somebody like me who has worked in heavy industry, the
opportunities simply are limited."

Celeste Calfe, executive vice president of Bizet Human Asset Management, an
outplacement firm, said it's true that higher-level executives take longer to
find new positions than others lower on the corporate ladder.

But, she said, they can often afford to take their time.  Senior executives may
receive up to 15 months of outplacement services and an equal amount of
severance payments, plus unemployment compensation in Pennsylvania.

"You have to consider that senior level executives are getting very attractive
severance packages," she said. "That gives them a little longer to do their
search. They're not feeling the pressure."

Calfe said senior executives who use Bizet's services are finding work in
anywhere from six months to a year -- half the time it took a year or two ago.
Staying in Pittsburgh usually takes longer than relocating.

"If you are willing to go out of state, you can cut your search time pretty much
in half," she said.

Charlie Beck, director of Priority Two, a nonprofit employment assistance group
that meets at the North Way Christian Church in Pine, said he is seeing more
older white-collar workers in need of job-search help.

"If you are in manufacturing in Pittsburgh and you were downsized, you're in
trouble. You probably are going to have to leave Pittsburgh to find a similar
job," Beck said, adding that older information technology workers with specific
skills are similarly in tough straits.

"The other thing is if you are a white-collar worker and you're 40 and you lose
a job, the chances are that the next one is only going to last 18 months to
three years, and that is a big change," Beck said. "As you get to be 50 and 55,
it gets harder and harder to find that job."

%% Surveys point to better job climates for execs, graduates %%

ExecuNet, a career management resource for executives and recruiters, expects an
increase in job opportunities this year for executives after years of slow or no
growth.

Its recent survey of 1,498 executives and 223 search firms and corporate
recruiters found growing demand for executive talent in health care and related
fields, business services and high-tech industries. Medium-sized companies with
sales from $51 million to $200 million are expected to see the most growth in
hiring.

Another sign of an improving climate is an increase in average salary offers
being made to college seniors who graduate this year.

The National Association of Colleges and Employers, based in Bethlehem, said its
spring survey of graduates showed starting salaries were climbing at a steady
pace.

Business disciplines are faring especially well this year. Starting salary
offers to accounting graduates, for example, are up 3.9 percent over last year
to an average $43,809.

Salary offers to economics and finance graduates are up 5.1 percent over last
year to $42,802.

Marketing graduates are averaging $37,832, up 6 percent, the association found.

Most engineering disciplines posted gains as well. Information sciences and
systems graduates, however, are seeing slight decrease in average salary offers,
down 0.8 percent, to an average of $43,732.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Jim McKay can be reached at jmckay@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1322.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Stacy Innerst/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              70 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MANUFACTURING A BRIGHTER FUTURE;
FIRMS UPBEAT ABOUT INCOME AND JOBS, BUT THEY GIVE PA. LOW MARKS FOR BUSINESS
CLIMATE

BYLINE: Jim McKay, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 645 words


Despite recent troubles, many of the region's midsize manufacturers are
optimistic about future revenue and employment growth, even though they consider
Pennsylvania to be only a fair to poor place to do business.

A survey of 66 manufacturers released yesterday by the accounting firm Alpern
Rosenthal painted a surprisingly positive picture of such basic industries as
metals, chemicals and rubber or plastic products.

"Manufacturers have gone through some difficult times recently, but our survey
results indicate that many have plans for ... expansion," said Joel M.
Rosenthal, director of Alpern Rosenthal's Manufacturing Services Group.

The local survey comes as capital-goods industries across the country are
starting to see increased orders for new equipment and a swelling backlog of
unfilled orders. As the holiday shopping season approaches, companies also are
starting to rebuild inventories depleted over the last couple of quarters in
part because of energy-related uncertainties, said the Institute for Supply
Management, whose local index of business activity has been rising on higher
orders, production, employment and exports.

The Alpern Rosenthal survey focused on manufacturing firms, most of which are
privately held and range in size from $5 million to $100 million in annual
sales, with the bulk falling between $10 million and $50 million a year.

Roughly a quarter of those surveyed said their employment levels shrank over the
last three years, down from more than half that responded that way in last
year's survey. Moreover, 95 percent of the companies expect to increase
employment over the next three years, with 11 percent projecting the jobs rise
by 10 percent or more, Mr. Rosenthal said.

Almost all of the companies said they expected to see revenue growth in the next
three years, with 61 percent projecting gains of 10 percent or more -- a result
that Mr. Rosenthal said surprised him, particularly since nearly one-fifth of
the companies reported revenue declined over the last three years.

"A lot of people are expecting growth greater than 10 percent, which I thought
was very interesting," he said.

A slim majority, 52 percent, said they planned to expand in the state, while 31
percent said they were planning to expand elsewhere. Only 10 percent conceded
that they intend to downsize operations here.

About one-third of the companies said they had lost business to offshore
competitors in the past five years, and 18 percent said they themselves had
ventured into the international market and owned a foreign concern.

For the most part, though, local manufacturers have remained domestic with
international ties. They purchase an average 15 percent of their products from
other countries, and many sell to foreign countries -- international sales
averaged 11 percent of their overall sales.

A large majority, 79 percent, rated Pennsylvania as a fair or poor place to do
business. Only 18 percent said it was a good place, and none chose excellent.

The survey did not ask the reason for Pennsylvania's poor marks, but business
climate issues generally include taxes, infrastructure, labor cots and other
economic factors.

But Mr. Rosenthal, a CPA, noted that, "It usually comes down to taxes."

He said many local manufacturing firms field overtures from other states that
try to lure them away with financial incentives.

On the plus side, the companies rated their Pennsylvania work forces as assets.
The companies said staff turnover was comparatively low -- 7 percent on average
-- and that nearly 58 percent of their employees had been with the same company
for more than five years.

After work force, the businesses listed the region's best assets as its
geography, a regional hub, then transportation and roads, and the quality of
post-secondary education.

"The big positive when you look at it is Pennsylvania's work force," said Mr.
Rosenthal.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jim McKay can be reached at jmckay@post-gazette.com or at 412-263-1322.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazette:
\ CHART: Ed Yowzick/Post-Gazette; Alpern Rosenthal: MIXED REVIEWS/Is Western
Pennsylvania Attractive to Business?
\ CHART: Ed Yowzick/Post-Gazette; Alpern Rosenthal: MIXED REVIEWS/Expected
Revenue Changes (next three years)
\ CHART: Ed Yowzick/Post-Gazette; Alpern Rosenthal: MIXED REVIEWS/Expected
Employment Changes (next three years)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              73 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 18, 2005 Thursday SOUTH EDITION

SCHOOLWORK, NO BOOKS A ROUNDUP OF RENOVATION AND BUILDING PROJECTS IN SOUTH
SCHOOLS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.S-11

LENGTH: 2099 words


Brentwood

Completed: 2001

Price: $18 million

Brentwood built a 31,000-square-foot addition containing family consumer science
classrooms, four science labs, a drawing room and other classrooms. It added a
gymnasium, updated the band room and fitness room and wired the high school for
fiber optics.  The library was doubled in size and upgrades were made to the
swimming pool, lighting and ventilation.

The district houses grades six through 12 in one middle/high school building.

Finished in six phases over two years, the project had some faults, said Jim
Dilla, a longtime school board member, such as the high school gym not having as
much bleacher space as he expected.

"But we accomplished what we wanted to.  We brought the high school up to date
and created a true middle school learning environment."

"The main lesson [learned from the project], I think, is that more time should
be spent in the planning," Dilla said.

-- Al Lowe


Elizabeth Forward

Completed: 2005

Price: $5 million

Elizabeth Forward has been upgrading its high school, which was built in 1957,
over the past five years.

Last summer, the board spent $1.35 million to rebuild restrooms throughout the
school, plus an additional $250,000 for other improvements, including a new
cafeteria storage area.

Work began this summer to replace the six-lane high school track at Warrior
stadium. The project will be finished for the start of school Aug. 29, district
spokeswoman Jane Milner said.

She said the track would cost $544,250, to be paid from an existing bond issue
designated for construction. It was necessitated because the track surface,
installed in 2001, became detached from the paving system, making it unstable.

Two engineering studies found that the problem was caused by an industrial
slag/stone base that was installed in 1991, a common material used at that time.

In addition to that track, the district will spend about $342,750 on renovations
to two high school stairwells, outside canopies and repairs to the auditorium
floor.

-- Jan Ackerman

Keystone Oaks

Completed: 2002

Price: $13 million

The Keystone Oaks School District, which serves Green Tree, Dormont and Castle
Shannon, began renovations of the high school in the summer of 2001. The project
required a one-time, 1.5-mill tax increase.

The high school, built in 1969, had its original electrical system.

More than half of the $13 million project cost was spent on asbestos abatement,
and for heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical and general
upgrades.

Besides technological upgrades, all of the classrooms received new windows,
flooring, lighting, storage cabinets and entrance doors.

Classrooms in the math/computer science, English, languages, science, art/music,
and social studies departments were grouped together, and a conference room for
each department was added.

Other work included upgrading science laboratories; relocating administrative
offices and building a new board room; air conditioning the gymnasium and
auditorium, and upgrading flooring and seating in the auditorium.

Each department received a computer laboratory.

"The project was absolutely worth the cost," Superintendent William Urbanek
said. "It transformed a dark, aging building into a vibrant learning environment
that gives our students vastly improved access throughout the facility and
greatly improved technological resources.

"Lots of schools would love to have the types of facilities that we now enjoy."

The district is wrapping up its $5 million renovation of 55-year-old Dormont
Memorial Stadium, which will have new seating, concession stands, restrooms,
locker rooms, ticket booths, synthetic turf and 76 parking spaces.

It will be ready for the first home football game against Highlands on Sept. 9.

-- Margie Smykla


McKeesport Area

Completed: 2004

Price: $18.2 million

The McKeesport Area School District spent $18.2 million to renovate and put
additions onto the North Hall and South Hall buildings at the high school
campus. The job was finished last fall without a real estate tax increase,
Business Manager David Seropian said, adding that the millage rate in the
district had not increased since 1991.

The project was financed with a $14.2 million bond issue and $4 million the
district raised by selling its tax liens.

Before the renovation, North Hall was used for the school district's vocational
facilities and housed some of the district's seventh- and eighth-grade pupils.
With the renovation, vocational classes were moved to South Hall, where other
technical classes are held, and North Hall now houses all seventh- and
eighth-grade classes, administrative offices and board room, said Robin Tedesco,
public relations coordinator.

After a naming contest, North Hall was renamed Founders' Hall.

The North Hall changes allowed the district to align the rest of its grade
levels. Now, all three of the elementary buildings house grades K-3 and the
middle school houses grades 4-6.

South Hall has become the high school and now holds the vocational/technical
classes, including a food service program, with its Tiger Inn Restaurant;
cosmetology; building trades; auto body; and auto mechanics.

High school students no longer have to travel between the North and South hall
buildings for classes, an improvement to security at the campus, Tedesco said.

Another security improvement is that, during the day, there is one main entrance
to Founders' Hall, which is locked. Visitors must be buzzed in and cleared by a
security guard.

Each building has additional classroom space, more parking and the latest
technology in each classroom.

Weigle-Schaeffer Tiger Stadium also saw improvements. A new artificial grass
field and updated all-weather track were installed and other upgrades were made
to the track and field facilities.

-- Mary Niederberger

Peters

Completed: 2001

Price: $25 million

The 15-month renovation of Peters Township High School, East McMurray Road,
added 75,000 square feet of science labs and science classrooms and renovated
175,000 square feet of existing space, including an upgraded cafeteria and media
center.

"We needed more space and the building was getting aged," Peters Township School
District Business Manager Daniel Solomon said.

The original building was built in 1969 and renovated in 1981.

A bragging point for the district is its ability to keep change orders low, in
most cases, less than 1 percent of the building project cost. It does that by
breaking down responsibility and putting a staffer in charge of monitoring it.

District Maintenance Supervisor John Mizia was the "go-to guy." In addition,
contractors and supervisors are held responsible for each step along the way.

"You have to keep all those people working together," Solomon said.

In discussing costs, Solomon said people have to keep in mind that it's not just
debt service taxpayers will be financing.

For example, Peters added square footage, which meant it needed more janitors.
And more complicated heating, ventilation and air conditioning meant it needed
more sophisticated equipment and employees to monitor and maintain the system.

The district pays about $1 million a year in debt service and interest on the
high school, but it also pays another $500,000 in additional assorted costs to
run that building, Solomon said.

-- Laura Pace

South Park

Completed: 2005

Price: $41.8 million

The project was finished in late January for the start of the second semester.
Construction took two years. The cost at this point totals $41.8 million, but
although some change orders are still outstanding, the total is not expected to
change dramatically, Business Manager Ed Gannis said.

The school board raised taxes by 2 mills in June 2004 to finance the project and
to pay for some construction of the elementary center, built in 2001. "Our
projections are that we will not need a millage increase, but those things are
affected by various factors," Gannis said.

The high school construction comes on the heels of elementary and middle school
construction projects. The district will have its debt from those projects paid
off by 2028, Gannis said.

A feasibility study "clearly indicated it would be better to build a new
facility than to renovate," said Superintendent Richard Bucchianeri, who was the
project manager for the new high school.

The new building is "much sunnier and brighter" than the old school, which was
built in 1956, and now has 206,000 square feet.  The old school was about
170,000 square feet.

"The halls are twice as wide and they are sunny and bright. The flow of the
traffic for students is excellent, giving them plenty of time to get to their
buses and their lockers," Bucchianeri said.

There is more parking and there are more areas of the school that have direct
access from outside, such as the gymnasium, pool and auditorium. The building
has an auxiliary gym as well as a main gym.

The new building is air conditioned and the technology is far more advanced than
in the old.

"We couldn't even wire the old building for what we needed," Bucchianeri said.
The new building has a television studio that is expected to be equipped this
year.

Classrooms are larger and each one is equipped with a telephone, computer,
television and white boards. "They are more functional and conducive to
learning," Bucchianeri said. Chemistry and biology labs all have state-of-the
art equipment.

Once the building is completed -- some work is still being done on the
natatorium -- the board will embark on a discussion about what to do with the
old building.

"The options are to sell the facility or to keep the facility and use part of it
for any other needs the district might have," Bucchianeri said.

-- Mary Niederberger

Upper St. Clair

Completed: 2000

Price: $37.3 million

Planning was the key to the success of the $37.3 million redo of Upper St. Clair
High School, said Assistant Superintendent Terry Kushner, who was high school
principal during the renovation. A one-time 2-mill property tax increase was
implemented in 1998 to fund the project.

The district took 10 years to study needs, including public forums with
educational consultants, who asked teachers, students, residents and taxpayers
how the school should function before deciding what it would look like or where
it would be.

"It is a prime example of form fitting function," Kushner said.

The campus on Route 19 rose on the site of the former school, with portions of
the gym, pool, cafeteria and auditorium retained. An academic wing was set up to
be flexible and allow departments to move as educational methods evolve.

"It kind of flows," Kushner said of the layout.

Part of the benefit of the project's process was that the school's 1,400
students could remain in class while the school essentially was built around
them. Construction began in 1998.

Kushner doesn't see anything he'd do differently. He believes the district was
as financially prudent as possible, pointing out that the building does not have
luxurious features. For example, cinder block is a major building material.
Ceramic tile is used only in entry ways.

Kushner's advice to other districts embarking on similar projects is to "Plan,
plan, plan.  Involve your public. We planned like you wouldn't believe," he
said.

"I am personally very proud of what we've accomplished with that building."

-- Laura Pace



West Mifflin Area

Completed: 2001

Price: $35.5 million

The renovation of the West Mifflin Area High School increased the school's size
from 142,660 square feet to 225,425 square feet and added an indoor swimming
pool for the first time. The original school was built in 1960.

Among the additions were major technological improvements, a 824-square-foot
climate-controlled greenhouse, a multimedia library, a large cafeteria, multiple
computer labs, a music technology suite, a large group instruction room that
seats 100 and a 1,280-seat auditorium with computerized lighting and sound
system.

The school board's biggest decision was to install the pool, a six-lane,
regulation-size structure. The school also has two gymnasiums and weight rooms
and an athletic complex that includes a stadium seating 5,000, an eight-lane
all-weather track, tennis courts, and softball and baseball fields.

-- Jan Ackerman

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette
Looking up into the atrium at the entrance of the newly remodeled West Mifflin
Area High School.
John Beale/Post-Gazette
The new cafeteria in Founders' Hall at McKeesport Area High School.
Post-Gazette
The high school library is part of the renovations at the Brentwood middle/high
school. The old gym will be used by the middle school.
Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette
Site of the West Mifflin Area High School construction.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EPA CHIEF: NEW FUEL ECONOMYTESTS NEEDED

BYLINE: Dee-Ann Durbin, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 529 words


The head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said yesterday he plans to
propose new regulations for testing vehicle fuel economy by the end of this year
and wants the new tests in place by the 2008 model year.

The update will be the first major change to the EPA's fuel economy tests since
1985. The EPA tests vehicles to get the estimated city and highway fuel economy
that is displayed on vehicles' window stickers.

EPA Administrator Steve Johnson said he hasn't decided what the final proposal
will look like but it will take into account more factors than the current test.
People drive faster than they did in the 1980s and road congestion has
increased. Vehicles have more accessories like air conditioning, which use up
vehicle power, and the EPA still conducts tests at 75 degrees, which doesn't
take into account the effect of hot or cold weather on fuel economy.

"Everyone agrees that the test procedures and our calculations are outdated.
We've got 20 years of new technology, 20 years of experience, 20 years of new
driving conditions," Mr. Johnson said.

He made the comments during a tour of the EPA's National Vehicle and Fuel
Emissions Laboratory.

There has been growing pressure to change the tests in Washington. This summer,
the Senate agreed to require the EPA to update fuel economy tests to reflect
real-life driving, saying fuel economy numbers are inflating performance by 10
percent to 30 percent. That amendment was later dropped by a House-Senate
conference committee, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, an
environmentally oriented group that has been pushing for changes.

Automakers perform the EPA's tests themselves and post the results. The EPA
tests around 10 percent of all new models each year to make sure manufacturers
are reporting accurate numbers. The agency also visits automakers' labs.

Margo T. Oge, the EPA's director of transportation and air quality, said it's
very difficult to design a test that mimics real-world conditions because they
vary so much. But she said the agency will use data collected from various
states about real-world driving habits. She said the EPA also can require labs
to raise or lower the temperatures to see how climate effects the tests.

She said new tests could lower the posted fuel economy for some vehicles and
raise it for others.

"The impact will vary from vehicle to vehicle," she said.

The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers says it's not opposed to a change but
believes it's difficult for the EPA to conduct a scientific test because there
are so many variables.

"We will work constructively with the EPA providing data, but people need to
bear in mind that they can have tremendous influence on their own personal fuel
economy," said Eron Shosteck, a spokeswoman for the automakers' group.

For example, she said U.S. drivers could save 1 billion gallons of gas each year
if they kept their tires properly inflated. Obeying speed limits also would help
cut down on fuel.

The EPA first began testing vehicle fuel economy in 1977. The test currently
assumes drivers won't go over 56 mph in the city and 60 mph on the highway, and
that drivers won't speed up more than 3.3 mph per second.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              84 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       July 8, 2005 Friday SOONER EDITION

SCIENCE FICTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.B-7 AS OTHERS SEE IT

LENGTH: 342 words


Once again a scientific report has been recast for the sake of political
expediency and used as the basis for a federal rule that puts industry profit
over the health of people and the environment. If that sounds familiar, it's
because it has been happening regularly throughout President Bush's tenure.

In the most recent case, a government biologist and hydrologist complained that
their findings on how cattle grazing damages wildlands were rewritten to produce
contrary conclusions. A "significant adverse impact" on wildlife, for instance,
somehow became "beneficial to animals." Then the Bush administration announced
that based on these rosy findings, it would relax rules that limit grazing on
public lands.

The Bush administration's efforts to undermine, ignore and edit scientific
findings add up to something even more dismaying than the resulting poor public
policy. It's bad enough to push an ill-considered idea -- such as increasing
budgets for abstinence-only sex education -- despite studies that show the idea
doesn't work. Even more disheartening is the rewriting and deletion of
scientific truth. It damages the scientific disciplines that have held the
rational pursuit of truth above all else and, in that pursuit, have produced
technical and medical marvels.

This country already faces unprecedented challenges to its scientific supremacy
from India, China and Singapore. It's not going to help the nation's scientific
prestige to downgrade the work U.S. experts do.

The grazing case follows revelations weeks earlier that a former lobbyist for
the oil industry, while working for the White House, tinkered with government
reports on climate change to make global warming appear a more dubious and
trivial phenomenon.

These alterations of inconvenient fact have grown serious and pervasive enough
that Congress should act to ensure that government research comes to public
light, in its draft as well as final forms, and that government scientists are
protected in their efforts to speak out.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              90 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 29, 2005 Thursday SOONER EDITION

ARCTIC ICE CAP SHRANK SHARPLY THIS SUMMER

BYLINE: The New York Times

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE and TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 207 words


The floating cap of sea ice on the Arctic Ocean shrank this summer to what is
probably its smallest size in at least a century, continuing a trend toward less
summer ice, a team of climate experts reported yesterday. That shift is hard to
explain without attributing it in part to human-caused global warming, they and
other experts on the region said.

The change also appears to be becoming self-sustaining: the increased open water
absorbs solar energy that would otherwise be reflected back into space by bright
white ice, said Ted A. Scambos, a scientist at the National Snow and Ice Data
Center in Boulder, Colo., which compiled the data along with the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The data were released on the center's Web site, nsidc.org.

"Feedbacks in the system are starting to take hold," Scambos said. "The
consecutive record-low extents make it pretty certain a long-term decline is
under way."

The findings are consistent with recent computer simulations showing that a
buildup of smokestack and tailpipe emissions of greenhouse gases could lead to a
profoundly transformed Arctic later this century, when much of the once
ice-locked ocean would routinely become open water in summers.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              97 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     February 4, 2005 Friday SOONER EDITION

DIVERSITY RULES AMONG STATE SYSTEM PRESIDENTS

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: STATE, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1132 words


Once he's introduced at a news conference today, Tony Atwater may yield some
hints about his early plans as the new president of Indiana University of
Pennsylvania, largest of the 14 state-owned campuses.

But simply by his presence, the black former Youngstown State University
administrator will symbolize something. Atwater's appointment, effective this
week, means that for the first time, women and minorities outnumber white males
as presidents across the 14 universities belonging to the State System of Higher
Education.

It's a share well beyond the national rate for minority college presidencies. It
is particularly notable, some say, given the small minority enrollment at most
of the State System schools, which generally are located in rural and largely
white areas.

Counting Atwater, eight of the 14 presidents are women or nonwhites. That's in
addition to State System Chancellor Judy Hample, who in 2001 became the first
woman to head the 106,000-student system, which includes California, Clarion,
Edinboro and Slippery Rock universities in Western Pennsylvania.

The eight leaders include five black presidents -- four males and one female --
plus two white females and a male Latino.

State System officials say the shift reflects ongoing diversity efforts on their
campuses. The fact that seven presidencies became vacant over the last few years
offered an unusual window to launch searches and make sure strong candidates
from varied backgrounds were considered, Hample said.

To prospective students, a female or a nonwhite in the president's office "sends
a signal that the campus environment is friendly to women and minorities in a
way that brochures and everything else could not send," Hample said.

"Our students are going out into a global workplace that is extremely diverse,
racially, culturally, by gender," she said.

Nationwide, 87 percent of college presidents are white and 79 percent are male,
according to the American Council on Education, a Washington, D.C., group
representing colleges and universities. More women and minorities have reached
the top job over the last two decades, though the rate of increase has slowed
recently, according to the group's latest survey, which was released in 2002.

Claire Van Ummersen, an adviser to the survey, said the State System's share of
women and minority presidents, if not unique, is unusual for a major four-year
system. Still, she said, it has become apparent that many schools pushing for
diversity are trying to apply that goal in filling the top post.

Those schools may be responding to long complaints that the president's office
today does not reflect changing student demographics. Women, for instance,
account for 58 percent of undergraduates nationwide, Van Ummersen said.

A change in the president's chair isn't likely to end campus flashpoints like
gender inequities in pay and advancement, or the tendency at many schools for
students to segregate themselves by race. Still, some say a change at the top
can't hurt.

Kyle-Tyree Turman-Lewis, 21, an officer with a black student group at IUP, said
he believes the racial climate at his school has improved from 1995, when black
students protested what they regarded as unfair treatment when they shopped at
an off-campus mall in the largely white community.

But racial groups don't mix enough on campus, he said. And there ought to be
more programs for urban students -- white and minority -- who face a large
adjustment to life in a rural part of the state.

He said Atwater might bring a better understanding of how to address such
issues.

In the early 1980s, shortly after the State System's founding, there was only
one minority president, C.T. Enus Wright at Cheyney, a historically black campus
in the Philadelphia area.

As recently as the mid-1990s, all but four presidents were white males.

Patricia Heilman, head of the State System faculty union, sees the shift as one
more sign of the evolutionary change in academia from the days when presidencies
were awarded with little accountability and "one white male knighted the next
white male."

"Educational attainment in the profession [once] ended for women and minorities
at the elementary and secondary school teaching level," said Heilman, president
of the Association of Pennsylvania State College and University Faculties.

But women and minorities who attained professorships by the mid-1970s are now in
their 50s and 60s, and often are in administrative posts, she said. They are
helping to broaden the pool of qualified presidential candidates.

As of last fall, minorities represented 10 percent of State System enrollment.
It's up from 9 percent in 2001 but still below the share of minorities in
Pennsylvania, which stands at 16 percent, said State System spokesman Tom Gluck.

IUP's Atwater, 52, a journalist turned academic, said he wants to both champion
diversity and bring people from all parts of campus closer together.

Along with more need-based aid and better student retention, he's already
considering ideas like reinstating a freshman convocation on the 14,000-student
campus and, perhaps, offering incoming students a shared reading assignment.


Leadership in state universities

Pennsylvania's State System of Higher Education has a greater percentage of
presidents who are women and minorities than the national average

.......................National......State System

Gender

Male.....................78.9%.........73.3%

Female...................21.1%.........26.6%

Racial or ethnic group

White...................87.2%...........60%

Minority................12.8%...........40%


University.......President...........Race/Gender......Started Year

Bloomsburg......Jessica Kozloff......white/female.......1994

California......Angelo Armenti.......white/male.........1992

Cheyney.........Wallace Arnold........black/male........2004

Clarion........Joseph Grunenwald......white/male........1990

East Stroudsburg..Robert Dillman......white/male........1996

Edinboro..........Frank Pogue.........black/male........1996

Indiana..........Tony Atwater.........black/male........2005

Kutztown.......Javier Cevallos........Latino/male......2002

Lock Haven......Keith Miller..........black/male.......2004

Mansfield......John Halstead..........white/male.......1998

Millersville..Francine McNairy........black/female.....1981

Shippensburg..Anthony Ceddia...........white/male......1981

Slippery Rock..Robert Smith............white/male......2002

West Chester..Madeline Adler..........white/female......1992

Chancellor, State System..Judy Hample..white/female.....2001

Sources: American Council on Education, Pennsylvania State System of Higher
Education

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bill Schackner can be reached at bschackner@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1977.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Tony Atwater, IUP's new president

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              100 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 18, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

CHANGE COMING AT IUP?;
NCAA REVIEW COULD FORCE NEW NICKNAME

BYLINE: Ray Fittipaldo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.F-1

LENGTH: 667 words


Indiana University of Pennsylvania is one of 30 schools the National Collegiate
Athletic Association has asked to explain the usage of Native American imagery
in its sports programs.

IUP, a Division II school that competes in the Pennsylvania State Athletic
Conference, uses Indians as its nickname.

The NCAA asked schools that use Native American nicknames, mascots or logos to
examine the use of such imagery, which many Native American groups find
demeaning.

IUP president Tony Atwater responded to the NCAA by letter. He gave the
governing body background information and other details on the derivation of the
school's nickname.

The NCAA could decide this summer whether it can ban schools from using Native
American imagery.

"When our membership first met on the issue, we talked to tribes, the general
public and athletes to get their views," said the NCAA's Corey Jackson. "That
took place in 2002. Now we want to bring some closure to the matter. It's now
centering on the institutions with nicknames and images, getting them to assess
the climates on their campuses and their relationships with Native Americans."

It's unclear whether the NCAA legally can prohibit institutions from using
Native American images, but Jackson said the NCAA could try to push through
legislation depending upon the recommendations of two subcommittees that will
study the issue.

The NCAA could penalize schools that refuse to change in the same manner it
penalizes states that recognize the confederate flag. Those states --
Mississippi and South Carolina -- are not allowed to play host to association
championships.

Indians are one of many Native Americans nicknames under scrutiny.  Florida
State (Seminoles) and Utah (Utes) are two of the more high-profile Division I
schools on the list. Other nicknames under review are: Braves, Redmen, Savages
and Warriors, among others.

Several schools have bowed to the pressure of Native American groups and changed
their nicknames in recent years -- St. John's (Redmen to Red Storm), Marquette
(Warriors to Golden Eagles) and Miami, Ohio, (Redskins to Redhawks), among them.

This is not the first time IUP has grappled with the issue of Native American
imagery. A Brave had been the school's mascot until the 1980s, but that
tradition was discontinued because the school became sensitive to the portrayal
of Native Americans. The school went without a mascot for about a decade until
former president Lawrence Pettit put together a task force and studied the
issue.

In March 1999, after surveying more than 1,000 people, Pettit decided that a
bear would be the official mascot for the school. "He wanted to honor the Native
American legacy, and the bear is revered in Native American culture," said IUP
publicist Michelle Fryling.

Which leads to the question: Why not just use Bears as the official nickname?

That's where it gets a little complicated for IUP. Alumni and townspeople
identify with the nickname. The local high school team goes by the name "Little
Indians." In some minds, tradition is at stake.

Not to mention that the name of the university is derived from the name of the
town (Indiana, Pa), which, according to the Historical and Genealogical Society
of Indiana County, is named for Indians who inhabited the land centuries ago.
Thus, the name pays homage to Native Americans.

"We take in all of the information they put forward," Jackson said. "For
example, everyone knows about Florida State and how it has a relationship with
the Seminole tribe. Anything submitted by IUP, we will take into consideration."

The NCAA's Minority Opportunities and Interests Committee will study the issue
next month. The NCAA executive committee, composed of university presidents and
chancellors, will make a final decision in August.

When asked if IUP was ready to change its nickname, should the NCAA recommend
doing so, Fryling said, "We want to hear what the NCAA has to say and respond
accordingly."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ray Fittipaldo can be reached at rfittipaldo@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1230.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              102 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 22, 2005 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

THE GREAT MARRIAGE PARADIGM SHIFT;
WITH WEDDING SEASON IN FULL SWING, STEPHANIE COONTZ CHARTS THE WHOLESALE
REVOLUTION IN THE INSTITUTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.J-1

LENGTH: 1411 words


Thirteen years ago, Vice President Dan Quayle attacked the TV sitcom "Murphy
Brown" for the title character's bearing a child out of wedlock, claiming the
show's failure to defend traditional family values was encouraging America's
youth to abandon marriage. His speech kicked off more than a decade of outcries
against the "collapse of the family."

Today, such attacks have given way to a kinder, gentler campaign to promote
marriage, with billboards declaring that "Marriage Works" and books making "the
case for marriage." These campaigns share the idea that people are willfully
refusing to recognize the value of traditional families, and that their behavior
will change if we can just enlighten them.

But recent changes in marriage are part of a worldwide upheaval in family life
that has transformed the way people conduct their personal lives as thoroughly
and permanently as the Industrial Revolution transformed their working lives 200
years ago.

Marriage is no longer the main way in which societies regulate sexuality and
parenting, or organize the division of labor between men and women. And although
some people hope to turn back the tide by promoting traditional values, making
divorce harder or outlawing gay marriage, they are having to confront a
startling irony: The very factors that have made marriage more satisfying in
modern times have also made it more optional.

The origins of modern marital instability lie largely in the triumph of what
many people believe to be marriage's traditional role: providing love, intimacy,
fidelity and mutual fulfillment. The truth is that for centuries, marriage was
stable precisely because it was not expected to provide such benefits. As soon
as love became the driving force behind marriage, people began to demand the
right to remain single if they had not found love or to divorce if they fell out
of love.

Such demands were raised as early as the 1790s, which prompted conservatives to
predict that love would be the death of marriage. For the next 150 years, the
inherently destabilizing effects of the love revolution were checked by women's
economic dependence on men, unreliable birth control, harsh legal treatment of
illicit children and their mothers' social ostracism.

/ These restraints collapsed between 1960 and 1980. Divorce rates had long been
rising in Western Europe and the United States, and although they leveled off
following World War II, they climbed at an unprecedented rate in the 1970s. This
led some to believe the introduction of no-fault divorce laws, which meant
married couples could divorce if they simply fell out of love, had caused the
erosion of marriage.

The so-called divorce revolution, however, is just one aspect of the worldwide
transformation of marriage. In places where divorce and unwed motherhood are
severely stigmatized, the retreat from marriage simply takes another form. In
Japan and Italy, for example, women are far more likely to remain single than in
the United States. Singapore's straight-laced government has resorted to
sponsoring singles nights in an attempt to raise marriage rates and reverse the
birth strike by women.

U.S. and British divorce rates fell slightly during the 1990s, but the incidence
of cohabitation and unmarried child-raising continues to rise, as does the
percentage of singles.

Both trends reduce the social significance of marriage in the economy and
culture. The norms that traditionally penalized unwed mothers and their children
have weakened or been overturned, ending centuries of injustice but further
reducing marriage's role in determining the course of people's lives. Today, 40
percent of cohabiting couples in the United States have children in the
household, almost as high a proportion as the 45 percent of married couples who
have kids, according to the 2000 Census. We don't have a TV show about that yet,
but it's just a matter of time.

By the 1970s, women in America and most of Europe could support themselves if
they needed to. The 1980s saw an international increase in unmarried mothers, as
more people gained the ability to say no to shotgun marriages, and humanitarian
reforms lowered the penalties for out-of-wedlock births. That decade also saw a
big increase in cohabitation before marriage.

Almost everywhere, women's greater participation in education has raised the
marriage age and the incidence of non-marriage. Even in places where women's
lives are still largely organized through marriage, fertility rates have been
cut in half and more wives and mothers work outside the home.

Countries are having to codify the legal rights and obligations of single
individuals and unmarried couples raising children, including same-sex couples.
Canada and the Netherlands have joined Scandinavia in legalizing same-sex
marriage, and such bastions of tradition as Taiwan and Spain are considering
following suit.

None of this means that marriage is dead. Indeed, most people have a higher
regard for the marital relationship today than when marriage was practically
mandatory. Marriage as a private relationship between two individuals is taken
more seriously and comes with higher emotional expectations than ever.

But marriage exerts less power over people's lives now that most Americans spend
half their adult lives outside marriage and almost half of all kids spend part
of their childhood in a household that does not include their two married
biological parents. And marriage no longer determines political and economic
rights.

It's hard to believe we could revive the primacy of marriage by promoting
traditional values. People may revere marriage in the abstract, but most have
adjusted to a different reality. The late Pope John Paul II was enormously
respected for his teaching about sex and marriage. Yet during his tenure,
premarital sex, contraception use and divorce rose in almost all countries. The
Bible Belt has the United States' highest divorce rate. And although many
American teens pledged abstinence during the 1990s, 88 percent broke that
pledge, according to the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Youth
released in March.

Although many Americans bemoan the easy accessibility of divorce, few are
willing to waive their personal rights. In states where "covenant" marriage laws
allow people to sign away their right to a no-fault divorce, fewer than 3
percent of couples choose that option. Divorce rates climbed by the same
percentage in states that did not allow no-fault divorce as in states that did.
By 2000, Belgium, which had not yet adopted no-fault divorce, had the highest
divorce rates in Europe outside of Finland and Sweden.

Nor does a solution lie in preaching the benefits of marriage to impoverished
couples or outlawing unconventional partnerships. A poor single mother often has
good reason not to marry her child's father, and poor couples who wed have more
than twice the divorce risk of more affluent partners in the United States.

Banning same-sex marriage would not undo the existence of alternatives to
traditional marriage. Five million children are being raised by gay and lesbian
couples in this country. Judges everywhere must apply many principles of
marriage law to those families.

/ We may personally like or dislike these changes. We may wish to keep some and
get rid of others. But there is a certain inevitability to almost all of them.

Marriage is no longer the institution where people are initiated into sex. It no
longer determines the work men and women do on the job or at home, regulates who
has children and who doesn't, or coordinates caregiving for the ill or aged. For
better or worse, marriage has been displaced from its pivotal position in
personal and social life, and will not regain it short of a Taliban-like
counterrevolution.

Forget the fantasy of solving the challenges of modern personal life by
re-institutionalizing marriage. In today's climate of choice, many people's
choices do not involve marriage. We must recognize that there are healthy as
well as unhealthy ways to be single or to be divorced, just as there are healthy
and unhealthy ways to be married.

We cannot afford to construct our social policies, our advice to our own
children and even our own emotional expectations around the illusion that all
commitments, sexual activities and caregiving will take place in a traditional
marriage. That series has been canceled.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Stephanie Coontz (www.stephaniecoontz.com) teaches family history at Evergreen
State College in Olympia, Wash. She is author of the recently published
"Marriage, a History: From Obedience to Intimacy, or How Love Conquered
Marriage" (Viking). She wrote this for The Washington Post.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wendy Maeda/Boston Globe/Associated Press: Whatever it takes.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              108 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 23, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

BUSH SCOFFS AT IDEA OF IRAN ATTACK;
'SIMPLY RIDICULOUS,' HE TELLS EUROPEANS AS TOUR CONTINUES

BYLINE: MICHAEL A. FLETCHER AND KEITH B. RICHBURG, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Belgium


President Bush said yesterday that concern about possible U.S. military action
against Iran "is simply ridiculous," but he added at a news conference that "all
options are on the table" in dealing with suspected Iranian attempts to acquire
nuclear weapons.

After meeting with NATO and European Union officials, Bush welcomed modest
pledges from opponents of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq to help train and equip
security forces there. While U.S. and European officials said there was an
improved tone in their discussions, serious divisions remained over U.S. policy
toward Iran and the Bush administration's objection to European plans to lift an
arms embargo against China.

U.S. charges that Iran wants to build nuclear weapons have raised concern in
Europe about U.S. military planning. Bush has repeatedly said he wants diplomacy
with Tehran's theocratic government to work.

"This notion that the United States is getting ready to attack Iran is simply
ridiculous," Bush said. "And having said that, all options are on the table."

He said he was "getting good advice from European partners," who agreed with the
United States that "it's in our interests for them not to have a nuclear
weapon."

European nations would like the United States to join talks with Iran -- now
involving Germany, France and Britain -- by offering Tehran security and
economic guarantees in exchange for abandoning its nuclear ambitions. The Bush
administration has refused to participate in the talks. The Iranian government
has said its nuclear program is intended only for peaceful purposes.

On China, Bush said he was deeply concerned that an EU proposal to lift a
15-year ban on arms sales would "change the balance of relations between China
and Taiwan." European officials dispute that, saying they could build in
safeguards to allay U.S. concerns.

Despite his reservations, Bush said he would consider European views on the
issue. "They think they can develop a protocol that ... shouldn't concern the
United States," Bush said. "And I said I'm looking forward to seeing it."

Bush focused on cooperation and said that new pledges of support on Iraq meant
all 26 NATO nations had agreed to help train Iraqi security forces, a
development hailed by U.S. and European officials as evidence that they had put
aside their deep disagreements over the invasion and occupation.

"Twenty-six nations sitting around that table said it's important for NATO to be
involved in Iraq," Bush said. "That's a strong statement."

Besides the United States, 15 NATO nations have at least small troop contingents
in Iraq, while the others have committed to providing money or expertise to help
train Iraqi security forces inside or outside the country.

France yesterday became the final NATO member to commit to the training effort,
following recent commitments by Germany, Greece and Belgium. France pledged one
military officer to help in coordination at NATO headquarters and agreed to
train 1,500 Iraqi military police officers outside Iraq.

"We're very pleased that we have not only unity in theory, but, on the question
of Iraq, for the first time in three years we now have unity of purpose," said a
senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.

The NATO commitment is much smaller than the Bush administration had originally
hoped. Last year, the United States proposed that NATO take charge of an entire
sector of Iraq, now overseen by Poland. But members of the alliance roundly
rejected that idea.

Several European policy analysts said they believed Bush's trip was going far
toward mending the transatlantic rift that developed during his first term --
with disputes rising over the Kyoto climate change treaty and the International
Criminal Court, as well as Iraq.

They took note that Bush spent three nights here in the city considered the
capital of Europe and ventured into the heart of Europe's burgeoning new
bureaucracy, the towering European Commission building.

"I was very impressed," said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European
Reform, a London-based research group that favors strong links to North America.
"Of course it's only words -- but in diplomacy, words set the tone."

Guillaume Parmentier, director of the French Center on the United States, said
in a telephone interview in Paris that the Bush trip was "atmospherics -- but
that was the aim. The aim was to change the atmosphere, and to that extent, he's
succeeded. I don't know if he's changed any minds."

Still, an underlying schism is emerging between the United States and some of
the countries -- particularly France and Germany -- that Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld famously labeled "Old Europe."

Specifically, those countries and others would like to see the EU become the
main institutional link between the United States and Europe, so they were
delighted at Bush's visit to EU headquarters. But the United States remains
committed to seeing NATO as its primary connection to the continent -- and Bush
pointedly spent more time at NATO headquarters, where he lunched with alliance
leaders and held a mini-summit with the new Ukrainian president, Viktor
Yushchenko.

Bush is spending much of his time on this trip meeting with some of the most
vocal critics of the Iraq war. He met with Belgian Prime Minister Guy
Verhofstadt and dined with French President Jacques Chirac. He is scheduled to
meet today with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and, before returning home
tomorrow, he is to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Slovakia.

"The major issue that irritated a lot of Europeans was Iraq," Bush said at a
news conference. "I understand that. I can figure it out. And the key now is to
put that behind us and to focus on helping a new democracy succeed."

Earlier yesterday, Bush held a working breakfast with British Prime Minister
Tony Blair.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images: French
President Jacques Chirac, left, and Luxembourg's Prime Minister Jean-Claude
Juncker point fingers as they talk to President Bush before a photograph
yesterday with other members of the European Union in Brussels, Belgium.
 PHOTO: Michel Spingler/Associated Press: A police officer runs from a firebomb
during a protest yesterday in Brussels, Belgium, as President Bush met with NATO
and Europen Union leaders.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              117 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 29, 2005 Sunday REGION EDITION

MAY DAYS;
PRODUCE;
WARM;
ENCOUNTERS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.D-14

LENGTH: 632 words


In May the natural world transforms from drab and dreary to vivid and vibrant.
Thanks to cool, wet weather, this year's metamorphosis has been slow and
prolonged, but I think we've finally crossed the threshold to summer.

Dawn breaks each day amid a chorus of birds; cardinals, robins, wood thrushes
and house wrens usually wake me. I listen to the avian symphony and monitor the
weather by leaving a bedroom window ajar.

Watching morning come -- from a favorite spot in the woods, with a cup of coffee
on the deck, or even through the window at my desk -- is the first of the day's
highlights. The eastern sky brightens. As the sun peeks over the horizon, the
sky clears and on the best of days, it turns bluebird blue.

As I gaze across the yard to the woods, I notice a sea of variegated greens. If
the grass needs mowing, I can almost see the chlorophyll coursing through its
veins. The leaves on the tender outer branches of the honeysuckle bushes
contrast with the darker growth on the older inner branches.  The trees in the
forest, viewed from the ridge above, mottle the landscape. Poplars, red maples,
sassafras and oaks paint the woods, each with its own subtle shade of green.

Along the road, fire pink and columbine set the embankment ablaze. Hummingbirds
take a break from the feeders and sip from these natural nectar sources.
Lavender geraniums lend an elegant touch to the display.  Though I plant
wildflowers every spring, my efforts pale compared to those that occur
naturally.

The dogwoods, redbuds and apples are past their prime, but just a few weeks ago,
when the woods were just beginning to green, these trees hinted at the show to
come. A magnificent flowering dogwood in a far corner of the yard sets my spring
clock. The showy white sepals that protect and embrace clumps of much smaller
flowers come and go in May. This year a redbud I planted almost 20 years ago
bloomed brighter and longer than it ever had.

As the earth warms and spring rains fall, amphibians and reptiles emerge. After
an evening rain, frogs seem suicidal as they hop across country roads. The first
box turtles of the year appear on the edge of the road; it's a warning to all
drivers -- slow down.

And eventually, inevitably, warming temperatures drive snakes from their winter
dens.  Most are small, inconspicuous and go about their business unseen. But
occasionally a large, black rat snake slithers near the house. Such a sight may
send shivers down the spine of some, but rat snakes deserve respect because they
keep rodent populations under control.

By the time Memorial Day arrives, wild babies begin to appear.  We notice the
first litter of squirrels. Young ground hogs get their first glimpse of
daylight. And some does have dropped their fawns. If you happen upon a seemingly
abandoned fawn, take a peek, but stay away. The mother is nearby and probably
watching. Resist the urge to pet the fawn. It's a wild animal. Never touch a
wild baby.

Perhaps the most notable event in May is the emergence of morels. My wife, the
family's most enthusiastic morel maven, rates each spring by the size of the
morel crop. If we collect several grocery bags full of morels, it's been a good
year.

Those are the springs we look forward to dinners of venison tenderloins
smothered in fresh sauteed morels. There are few better meals.

As each day ends, wood thrushes sing their evening vespers, toads trill and bats
sweep the sky for flying insects. In the western sky, a glowing orange sun sets
behind the tree tops. It happens so quickly. In just minutes the sun drops
completely out of sight, leaving a palette of atmospheric colors in its wake. An
hour later, 3,000 stars illuminate the clear, black sky.

It's May on the ridge, and life is good.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Send questions and comments to Dr. Scott Shalaway, R.D. 5, Cameron, W.Va., 26033
or via e-mail to sshalaway@aol.com.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              133 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 9, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

BOEING EXIT SHOWS APPEARANCES STILL COUNT

BYLINE: LILLIAN THOMAS AND LEN BOSELOVIC, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 851 words


Harry Stonecipher was scorched by his own e-mail when the message found its way
into a reporting system he created at Boeing Co. to help the firm rebound from a
string of scandals.

Boeing directors asked Stonecipher, 68, to step down as president and chief
executive officer of the Chicago-based company on Monday after his extramarital
affair with another Boeing employee came to light when a tipster sent an excerpt
from a "very graphic" e-mail to the company's ethics officer.

While it's uncommon for a major corporation to sanction a CEO for engaging in a
consensual sexual relationship, the case indicates some of the changes in
workplace expectations.

"Whatever happened is happening in a much more sensitized environment than a few
years ago," said Brad Agle, director of the Berg Center for Ethics and
Leadership at University of Pittsburgh's Katz Graduate School of Business.

"There's no question management and boards are much more sensitive to this than
they were a few years ago."

Many companies prohibit relationships between employees involving a superior and
her or his subordinate.

But despite an increase in codes of conduct and rules on behavior, the emphasis
tends to be less on moral issues and more on the actions that could potentially
affect the business: it's bad if it's bad for the bottom line. Boeing said that
Stonecipher lost his job over the poor judgment he showed in having the
relationship, not the affair itself, which the company said did not violate its
code of conduct.

The company's directors felt that the man who had launched a high-profile
campaign to clean up the company -- damaged by revelations that it had obtained
a government contract by illicitly using a rival's documents and had illegal
contacts with an Air Force official controlling contracts -- couldn't afford to
look in the least soiled.

Stonecipher's case is unusual for many reasons, not least of which is how
career-suicidal his actions were: He had established an ethics office at Boeing;
he had established a code of ethics that all employees were required to sign
each year; he had established a mechanism for reporting violations that included
a toll-free "ethics hot line;" he had said that the code applied to all
employees and promised to punish infractions even at the highest levels of
management. And, working at a company that had been damaged by revelations that
came from e-mail correspondence between Boeing and Air Force officials in 2002,
he sent e-mails to the woman with whom he was having an affair on the company
system.

Boeing's willingness to take quick action, however, indicates a change from the
days when questionable conduct was often overlooked in CEOs and others in the
category known as UGLI -- an "Untouchable, God-Like Individual" -- a term coined
by Ellen Bravo, executive director of the 9to5 National Association of Working
Women.

Many major corporations have formal policies concerning relationships between
employees, according to a 2003 American Management Association survey. Eleven
percent of respondents said their company banned employee dating altogether.
More than 90 percent of those who worked for companies with policies on dating
said only relationships between subordinates and superiors were prohibited.

"Whether it's enforced is always a question," said Dale Hershey, who teaches
business law and ethics at Carnegie Mellon's Tepper School of business.

Hershey said beyond that prohibition, companies are reluctant to regulate the
personal lives of their employees.

Instead, most make broad statements of how employees should act, frequently
emphasizing to employees the importance of considering how their actions, words
and writings would be viewed by others should they become public.

"As an employee, your personal conduct should reflect the highest professional
standards of behavior," Mellon Financial's employee code of conduct advises.
When in doubt, employees are told to ponder how customers, shareholders and
other interest groups are likely to interpret their behavior.

Duquesne Light's three-page guidelines encourage the utility's employees to
"rely on your own conscience and your common sense when faced with questions
about the 'right' way to act."

"We're asking employees to look beyond what's in the black and white of these
three pages," said spokesman Joe Balaban.

The tone set by the firm's leadership is important, Hershey said.

"What the top leadership does defines a corporate code within a company no
matter what statement of ethical policy the company has developed," he said.

Allegheny Technology's 17-page manual includes an admission from L. Patrick
Hassey, the company's chairman, president and chief executive officer, that
rules "alone cannot assure a climate of integrity and ethical behavior."

"Each of us, through our daily actions, will determine what kind of company we
are," he states.

The corporate scandals of recent years drive Hassey's point home.

"Enron had a beautiful code of ethics. Enron had an ethics officer," Agle said.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Len Boselovic can be reached at lboselovic@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1941.
Lillian Thomas can be reached at lthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-3566.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Stonecipher: His case is unusual for many reasons, not
least of which is how career-suicidal his actions were

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              134 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      March 14, 2005 Monday SOONER EDITION

EGYPT'S FEARFUL GAYS SHY FROM HIV TESTING

BYLINE: Anita Srikameswaran, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg.A-1 AIDS IN THE MIDDLE EAST: A LOOMING DISASTER

LENGTH: 1861 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Egypt


In May 2001, police raided the Queen Boat, a floating nightclub moored on the
Nile River, and arrested 52 gay men.

Ultimately, judges sentenced one defendant to five years in prison for
debauchery and deriding religion, another to three years for deriding Islam, and
gave 21 others three-year prison terms to be followed by three years of
probation for "habitual debauchery."

Human rights groups around the world protested that the arrested men had been
beaten and threatened with torture to confess their "crimes."

The Queen Boat incident began what many see as a crackdown on homosexuality,
heightening gay people's distrust of the government and driving them even
further into hiding.

So now that the government is offering anonymous HIV testing for the first time,
many gays are understandably wary.

Some suspect that if they get tested for the infection, they could be identified
publicly as gay, which could lead to imprisonment regardless of their HIV
status.

"It's not anonymous [testing ], don't believe that," warned one gay Egyptian who
asked not to be named. "The first thing they do is call the cops."

The 22-year-old man said that when his partner visits the United States, friends
ask him to bring back HIV tests that can be done at home, so that they can learn
their status in private.

However, the only home-based test that is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration requires that the blood sample be mailed to an American lab.
Other home test kits have an indicator window and promise results in 15 minutes,
much like a pregnancy test, but the FDA doesn't consider them reliable.


Do infected gays disappear?

Rumors of HIV-positive gay men disappearing add to the fear.

The Egyptian gay man spoke of trying to track down an infected acquaintance to
offer help. He couldn't find the man and his family had no information on his
whereabouts.

"Either they disappear or they stop having sex with people because they are too
scared or they leave the country to get treated," he said. Besides, "it's
becoming very, very difficult for any AIDS patient or HIV-positive patient to go
and seek medication [in Egypt]. There have been too many horror stories lurking
around."

Dr. Khalil Ghanem, of Johns Hopkins University, said HIV-positive people in
Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, both gay and straight, have similar concerns about
being stigmatized.

Those "who have money are actually leaving the country and getting treatment
somewhere else," he said. "They go to France, they go to Switzerland, to the
United States for care."

Ghanem pointed out that people who leave don't get counted in official case
numbers. A small number of others, he said, may strongly suspect that they are
infected, but avoid being tested.

"They are essentially dying without care," he said.

In Egypt, the same conservative social norms that make gays so fearful also make
it hard to preach HIV prevention methods.

In this predominantly Muslim culture, both homosexuality and sex outside
marriage are considered sinful, so any discussion of safe sex among unmarried
partners or gays could amount to condoning forbidden behavior.

"Premarital and extramarital sex are not accepted socially and culturally," said
Dr. Nasr El-Sayed, leader of the AIDS program for Egypt's Ministry of Health.
"The girls should be virgins. It's not accepted for the girl to not be a virgin
when she gets married."

As in other countries, people are not as young as they used to be when they wed.
The marriage contract specifies that the prospective groom must provide the
bride with a suitable apartment, but even down payments are far out of reach for
the average worker.

So some men in the Middle East, unwilling to wait for years before they can have
sanctioned sex with their wives, have sex with other men -- but they don't
consider themselves homosexual or bisexual.

Bob Preston, an American gay man who does consulting work in Egypt, said these
Egyptians "don't have access to have sex with women, so they have sex with men
and it's OK because they're not married yet. They don't think of it as gay sex
[if] they're the active partner," meaning they take the male role during
intercourse.


A bisexual pattern

One of Preston's friends even attended the wedding of his Egyptian male partner
of several years, and Preston broke off a relationship because he didn't want to
play out the same scenario.

"He showed me the apartment he bought for his wedding," Preston recalled. "He
was having it remodeled. And we went out with his straight friends."

Female prostitutes do exist as another outlet for unmarried men, but they are
believed to have longer relationships with fewer partners.

The hidden world of gay sex and the obscurity of prostitution worry those who
want to test for HIV.

"In Middle Eastern countries, the prostitution is kept so hidden that it's
almost impossible to figure out what's going on," said Carol Jenkins, coauthor
of a World Bank report on HIV and AIDS in the Middle East and North Africa.

Meanwhile, the general public doesn't seem to know much about AIDS or have much
interest in learning about it.

"We used to have in our [news]paper that this disease is not present in our
country because we are morally, culturally and religiously" superior, said Dr.
Mervat El Gueneidy, a consultant with Egypt's AIDS hotline. "So people would not
even try to learn about it because it's not our disease, it's the disease of
those bad people."

An October article in a student newspaper of the American University in Cairo
noted mixed feelings about having HIV education available on campus. Some said
they knew enough already; others thought there was no such thing as too much
information.

And some, like the student union president who called HIV a "shameful disease,"
worried that an awareness campaign would encourage people to have sex.

In 1996, with the assistance of the Ford Foundation, the health ministry's
El-Sayed started the AIDS hotline as a way for people to get information
anonymously. In the early days, callers had questions about basic reproductive
biology and sexuality, not just HIV.

The hotline's El Gueneidy hoped the service would also discreetly broaden sex
education for women, but men make up the overwhelming majority of callers. Women
are more likely to be illiterate, so they may not be aware of the service, she
said. There may be no phone in the home, and they may be uncomfortable asking
sensitive questions on a public phone.

There are still myths that need to be dispelled, such as the idea that AIDS can
be avoided by not having sex with a foreigner -- which does not keep young
Egyptian men from trying to strike up conversations with female tourists, whom
they think are more promiscuous than their countrywomen.

Another common belief is that HIV patients are quarantined, a rumor that is hard
to refute because not even foreign and local health experts are convinced that
it's an urban legend.

"Once you're found to be HIV positive, the police show up at your house and
accompany you to the fever hospital," Jenkins said. "If international donors
came and talked to people they would be told that doesn't happen. But we know it
happens."

Others say AIDS patients were quarantined in the past, but it doesn't happen
anymore.

"This is 10 years before," said Dr. Cherif Soliman, of Family Health
International, the agency that helped develop the new anonymous HIV testing
program. "Now, they can go out and in, they have no problem."

El-Sayed, of the health ministry, just laughed at the quarantine notion.

"Never happened," he said emphatically. "This happened in a movie and the people
believe the movie was fact. They mentioned in this movie that any person who had
HIV, they put in quarantine. But we never had a quarantine."

There is far less stigma attached to AIDS now, El-Sayed continued.  Fifteen
years ago, his experience was that family members typically demanded that their
HIV-positive relative be kept in a hospital.

"They didn't want to take [them]," he said. "Now almost 97 percent of the
families are accepting."


Could it explode?

So far, low infection numbers and conservative sexual behavior seem to have
prevented the rapid spread of the virus in Egypt.

How long that will last, though, no one knows.

To get an epidemic rolling, an HIV-positive person "has to infect more than one
person," said Karen Stanecki, a senior advisor on demographics for the United
Nations AIDS agency.

"People tend to think that once it gets started, it's just going to explode,"
she said. "But that's not necessarily the case. If it's just a very small group
of people then it's not necessarily going to break out into any kind of major
epidemic."

But behaviors can change, especially with globalization increasing the movement
of people and ideas across borders, and very little research is being conducted
to keep tabs on the cultural landscape.

For example, even though sex outside marriage is considered illicit, a study
conducted by Family Health International and the U.S. Agency for International
Development found that 16.5 percent of about 1,200 unmarried Egyptian university
students have had sex.

And there has been an increase in unofficial "orfi" marriages, which fulfill
people's desires for a romantic, sexual relationship in a climate where weddings
are extremely expensive. Orfi unions are not legally binding, so there are no
protections for the partners, or their children, if the relationship sours.

"You have to be ever vigilant as to what's happening in terms of changes in
behaviors," Stanecki said.

Public health experts say societies cope best with HIV and AIDS when leaders
talk about it openly. But such discussions can still be divisive in the Muslim
world.

In 2003, American professor and Muslim theologian Amina Wadud presented a paper
at an HIV conference for Muslim scholars in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Among other things, she said that Muslim women are more vulnerable to getting
HIV because they're expected to have sex with their husbands, who are under no
obligation to say whether they are infected with the disease.

Those remarks infuriated some audience members, 10 of whom walked out.  The
moment became a hallmark of the tension between religious traditionalists and
reformers.

Theologian Farid Esack, who cofounded a South African group to support
HIV-positive Muslims, said he believes some people rely too much on the moral
code of Islam to protect them from HIV.

"I think the religious factor is overplayed in the low prevalence rate in Arab
countries," he said. "Real Muslims are . . . having sex outside marriage
regardless of what the Quran says. And somebody has to deal with the real
consequences of this."

Even if a rigorous surveillance effort were to confirm a low prevalence of HIV,
"it doesn't let you off the hook," said Hopkins' Ghanem. "In fact, it should
prompt you to be more aggressive from the prevention standpoint."

As the experience of other nations has shown, he and other experts say, it's
never too soon to act.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
SECOND OF TWO PARTS / Anita Srikameswaran can be reached at
anitas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-3858.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 13, 2005 Wednesday NORTH EDITION

PEAK PERFORMANCE LOOKS, DURABILITY MAKE METAL ROOF A TOP CHOICE

BYLINE: Kevin Kirkland Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SHERIFF SALES, Pg.NW-9

LENGTH: 992 words


Twenty years ago, an architect friend of Pat McGonigle's asked him to reroof his
Squirrel Hill mansion's mansard roof with steel.

"I didn't like the idea at the time," said McGonigle, president of Welte Roofing
in Baldwin Township. "But it looks great. It's forest green, and 20 years later,
it looks like new."

Though durability is one of the selling points of metal roofing, no one is
promising your roof will look mint-fresh two decades from now, like the one in
Squirrel Hill from Petersen Aluminum's Pac-Clad division. But manufacturers are
promising a metal roof will still be keeping out rain and snow, in some cases
for as long as you live and beyond.

Metal roofs have been around for centuries. In fact, log houses and other early
American buildings were often topped with tin or steel coated with terne, an
alloy of tin and lead, now tin and zinc. Standing-seam roofs, distinguished by
strong vertical lines running down from the peak, also became common on
Victorian houses and on barns and outbuildings.

A steel standing-seam roof looks very much at home on a 100-year-old house on
Redstone Lane in Washington, Pa. Mike Silich and L.W. Miller Roofing of
Washington, which specializes in metal roofing, installed Centria's RollCOM
product there several years ago.

Today, standing-seam roofs are popular on commercial buildings and some
modern-style homes, but they haven't made much of a dent in the residential
roofing market. Enter metal shingles and shakes.

Most are designed to look like other materials, including wood, slate and even
fiberglass/asphalt, which still dominates the residential part of the business.
But steel and aluminum are much more durable than wood and asphalt and
significantly cheaper and lighter than slate. So why aren't metal roofs more
popular? The short answer is that most people don't know much about them.

The Metal Roofing Alliance, an industry trade group, has begun a TV and print
marketing campaign to educate the public. On its Web site, www.metalroofing.com,
consumers can find information, photos and links to manufacturers.

Looking at the photos, you might notice that many of the homes appear to be in
warmer climates. This points to two advantages of metal roofing that have become
obvious over the past year -- wind and fire resistance. Metal roofs, which can
stand up to winds of 120 mph or more, easily pass standards set by
hurricane-prone Dade County, Fla. And their heat and flame resistance make them
a good choice in areas of California hit by wildfires.

Warm-climate residents also like the fact that white-colored metal roofs reflect
more heat than other materials, saving nearly 25 percent of a household's energy
use, according to studies by the Florida Solar Energy Center and Florida Power
and Light Co.

Despite such advantages, metal often loses out to fiberglass/asphalt because of
its price. An aluminum or steel roof installed can cost two or even three times
a fiberglass/asphalt one, which, according to Remodeling magazine, runs about
$12,000 for a 3,000-square-foot roof in the Pittsburgh area.

But if you consider that most metal roofs carry a warranty of at least 50 years
-- vs. 30 years for the best asphalt shingles -- it doesn't seem like a bad
deal.

"Most of our customers are people who intend to stay in their house for a
while," said Todd Miller, president of Classic Products and its Perfection
Building Products division in Piqua, Ohio. "They're looking to avoid one
re-roofing in the future."

Classic, which makes mostly aluminum shakes and shingles, has the Country Manor
shake, made until 1996 by Alcoa. Classic bought the rights and equipment to make
this product and others from Alcoa, Reynolds and Kaiser. Country Manor comes as
an interlocking 48-by-12-inch panel that looks like eight randomly sized shakes.

Because aluminum roofing is so light -- about 40 pounds per 100 square feet --
it can be installed over two layers of other shingles. By comparison, 100 square
feet of steel weighs 110 pounds, fiberglass/asphalt 250-425 pounds, wood shakes
500 pounds and slate 800 pounds.

Jim Evans, a local sales representative for Englert, says metal roofing's light
weight opens up design possibilities.

"Architects like them because they don't have to worry as much about weight. And
architects are getting more involved in residential projects," he said.

Evans sees steady growth in residential sales of Englert's Decra stone-coated
steel shingles and shakes, which have the granulated look of asphalt shingles
and come in six or seven colors, respectively. Evans said he stresses metal's
longevity, especially when customers note the cost difference between it and
fiberglass/asphalt.

"Cost is still an issue. It's hard to change people in this Tri-State area."

John Davis, project manager of Schultheis Brothers in Plum, said metal accounts
for only about 10 percent of its residential business, but that's increasing.

"METALWORKS [by TAMKO Roofing Products] has a steel shingle that looks exactly
like slate and tile," he said. "And you can get almost any color you can think
of."

That's not necessarily a good thing. You probably wouldn't want on your roof the
same bright red metal shingle installed on a local McDonald's. But there is
something distinctive and clean-looking about metal roofing, even if it's
designed to look like another material.

"It's amazing, the folks that take care of their houses aesthetically," said
Silich, president of L.W. Miller Roofing. "It sets the whole property apart."


* Classic Products: www. classicroof.com

* Follansbee Steel: www. follansbeeroofing.com

* Metal Roofing Alliance: www.metalroofing.com

* METALWORKS by TAMKO: www.metalworksroof.com

* Pac-Clad by Petersen Aluminum: www.pac-clad.com

* Perfection Building Products (division of Classic Products):
www.perfectionroofing. com

* RollCOM by Centria: www.rollcom.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Post-Gazette Homes Editor Kevin Kirkland can be reached at
kkirkland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1978.

GRAPHIC: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette
Several years ago, L.W. Miller Roofing put a steel standing-seam roof on this
100-year-old house in Washington, Pa.
Classic Products' Country Manor aluminum shake comes as an inter-locking
48-by-12-inch panel that looks like eight randomly sized shakes. Because
aluminum roofing is so light -- about 40 pounds per 100 square feet -- it can be
installed over two layers of other shingles
Decra stone-coated steel shingles by Eckert.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              147 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 18, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

FALLOUT UNCLEAR OVER SENATE MOVE TO CURB DEBATE ON JUDGES

BYLINE: MICHAEL MCGOUGH, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-10

LENGTH: 1265 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


If the U.S. Senate votes this week or next to prohibit filibusters of judicial
nominees, the fallout could be considerable -- ranging from increased acrimony
between the parties to a slowdown in Senate business to second thoughts among
Democrats about their policy of obstructing several of President Bush's nominees
to federal appeals courts.

It also could make it more likely that Chief Justice William H.  Rehnquist, who
is expected to retire this summer, would be replaced by the most conservative
candidate on the White House short list.

That would be an ironic outcome for those Democrats who felt that filibustering
Bush's most conservative appeals court nominees might force him to consider a
more moderate choice for his first Supreme Court appointment. Yet even if
Democrats succeed this week in preserving the filibuster, they would employ it
against a Supreme Court nominee at their peril.

It is possible that a vote on the "nuclear option" still can be avoided.
Senators who fear a Democratic reaction that could paralyze the Senate continue
to float compromise proposals.

But if no last-minute agreement emerges, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist,
R.-Tenn., is expected to trigger the option as early as tomorrow when the first
of seven contested Bush appeals court nominations comes before the full Senate.
Only 51 votes would be needed to ratify a ruling by Vice President Dick Cheney,
the president of the Senate, that the Constitution requires an up-or-down vote
on judicial nominees.

The immediate result would be floor votes on the disputed Bush nominees to the
regional U.S. appeals courts. But with virtually everyone expecting the
cancer-stricken Rehnquist to retire this summer, the rule change also could
influence Bush's choice of a successor and that nominee's confirmation
prospects.

Abolishing the filibuster not only could allow a polarizing nominee for chief
justice -- such as current Associate Justices Antonin Scalia or Clarence Thomas
-- to be confirmed by a simple majority instead of the 60 votes needed to end a
filibuster. In the view of some observers, the rule change means that Bush would
be more likely to seek to elevate Scalia or Thomas than to replace Rehnquist
with some other candidate favored by the president's culturally conservative
base.

"In some ways, the Democrats' biggest problem was Chief Justice Rehnquist's
cancer, said Paul Rosensweig, senior legal research fellow at the Heritage
Foundation Center for Legal & Judicial Studies. "That is to say that they might
have been able to continue this if the Republicans had closed their eyes to the
inevitable" -- that the filibuster might also be used against a Supreme Court
nomination. "Now everyone sees that Rehnquist is on his way."

Referring to the 10 appeals court nominees stalled by Democrats, Rosensweig
recalled, "I said to a Democrat over a year ago, 'Two is OK, 10 are too many.'
They could have gotten away with filibustering Miguel Estrada and Janice Rogers
Brown because they could have made the argument that they were picking their
shots and not being obstructionists and they might have won that argument. With
only two, the Republicans wouldn't have had to call them on it."

Estrada, an appellate lawyer who served in the U.S. solicitor general's office,
withdrew his nomination for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit after he was filibustered in the previous Congress. California
Supreme Court Justice Brown has been renominated by Bush to the D.C. Circuit.

Even some Democrats wonder if their party overplayed its hand in blocking so
many Bush nominees -- only 10 of 229 overall but a fifth of those named for
appeals courts. If the result is abolition of the filibuster, Bush would have a
hard time naming a moderate conservative to succeed Rehnquist, even if he were
so inclined, because he would not be able to tell his conservative religious
base that it was pointless to nominate an extremely conservative figure because
of the possibility of a filibuster.

Other combatants in the confirmation wars scoff at that theory.

"Bush is going to tilt to the right in his appointments regardless of whether
there is a filibuster," said Nan Aron, president of the liberal group Alliance
for Justice, which has opposed several Bush appeals court nominations.

That was obvious, Aron said, early in Bush's first term when he ended the
practice of consulting the American Bar Association on potential judicial
appointments.

"With the president tossing out the ABA, he made it clear he was going to tilt
to the right and pick judges hostile to individual rights," she said.

David M. O'Brien, a government professor at the University of Virginia and
author of "Storm Center: The Supreme Court in American Politics," agreed.

"I wrote a piece in December saying that Bush would likely nominate Scalia or
Thomas to succeed Rehnquist," O'Brien said. "If the Senate goes nuclear, he's
going to feel no compunction not to do that. He wants to outdo Ronald Reagan and
it's going to be virtually impossible for the Senate to defeat the elevation of
Scalia and Thomas."

Mark Tushnet, a law professor at Georgetown University and the author of "The
Rehnquist Court and the Future of Constitutional Law," agrees that Bush is
likely to look to the right for Supreme Court nominees.

"I don't think that he has any interest in not trying to put the most extreme --
from my point of view -- person on the court," Tushnet said.  "Even if that
person went down to defeat, Bush would be better off because he would have an
issue. One of the problems in this situation is that in some ways it's in
everyone's interest to keep escalating even though at the end of the day
probably a lot of people don't think that is good for either side."

Tushnet suggested that, even if the filibuster is still an option, Democrats
should not seek to block a conservative successor to Rehnquist, who dissented in
the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abortion and frequently votes with
Scalia and Thomas.

"If I were a Democratic senator, I would say that we almost certainly do not
want to filibuster a Supreme Court nominee if it's a replacement for Rehnquist
because the replacement is not going to be so much worse that it's worth the
political heat we would take for a filibuster," Tushnet said.  "What the
Democrats should do is line up 45 votes against the appointment and say, 'We
could have filibustered, but we didn't.' "

Tushnet acknowledged that a decision by Bush to elevate Scalia or Thomas to the
chief justice's role would complicate political calculations for the Democrats.

"With Scalia or Thomas, interest groups that the Democrats have to worry about
might be suspicious," he said. "Extended debate and 45 votes against the nominee
but no filibuster might not be enough for the interest groups, but they're not
entirely rational either."

If Bush successfully elevated Scalia or Thomas to chief justice, that would
create a vacancy for a new associate justice. The last time that two-step
process occurred was in 1986, when President Ronald Reagan elevated Rehnquist to
chief justice and named Scalia, then a judge on the D.C. Circuit, to replace him
as associate justice.

Senate Democrats and liberal interest groups worked hard against Rehnquist's
elevation, but he was still confirmed by a vote of 65-33. Scalia was approved
98-0.

In today's political climate, it is difficult to imagine Bush naming anyone who
could win unanimous approval for a new slot on the court.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Michael McGough can be reached at 1-202-662-7025 or mmcgough@nationalpress.com.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              149 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 23, 2005 Monday SOONER EDITION

DATA MINING DOWN UNDER;
SUBMERSIBLE VERSION OF WIDELY USED CHEMICAL MONITOR WOULD TELL A LOT ABOUT LIFE
DEEP UNDER THE SEA

BYLINE: BYRON SPICE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-6

LENGTH: 1180 words


Sometimes in science, you just have to be there.

In October 1993, for instance, oceanographer John Delaney just had to see what
happened on the ocean floor following an earthquake.

When he and his University of Washington colleagues reached the Juan de Fuca
Ridge off the Pacific Northwest coast in the deep-sea submersible Alvin, they
found the water filled with "marine snow," vast amounts of microbial material
billowing up from beneath the seafloor.

These microbes would come to be known as Archaea, a fundamentally different form
of life that thrived in temperatures near boiling. And scientists now knew that
life didn't just exist in the upper layers of sediments, but could be found deep
within Earth's crust.

It's an observation that couldn't have been made if scientists hadn't been at
the right place at the right time, said Richard Camilli of the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institute in Massachusetts.

Unfortunately, when it comes to studying the ocean depths, humans just can't be
there for long.

"We don't really know all that's going on down there," he said.

That's why Camilli, an environmental engineer, envisions a day when tethered
instruments and robotic subs would take the place of humans, tirelessly
gathering information for months or years after their human counterparts have
headed back to shore

Camilli is developing chemical sensors that might be part of such an instrument
array. In particular, he is working with a Cheswick firm, Monitor Instruments
Co., to build a submersible version of a mass spectrometer, a widely used and
powerful tool for identifying chemicals.

Called the Tethered Yearlong Spectrometer, or TETHYS, it could operate for
months on its own, checking for dissolved chemicals released from the seafloor,
for biological chemicals that might reflect the health of deep sea life and for
environmental pollutants.

Long-term monitoring with "mass spec" might help resolve the fate of methane
released from methane hydrates, ice-like deposits in the seafloor.  No one knows
if this methane dissolves or ultimately reaches the surface, where it can join
other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.

"The nice thing about a mass spectrometer is that, rather than measuring only
one parameter, it can measure a bunch of chemicals simultaneously," said
Camilli, who designed a mass spectrometer for a robotic submarine as his
doctoral project at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The vision of an array of seafloor instruments continuously monitoring the
environment without a human presence already is being pursued by oceanographers,
with Woods Hole and the University of Hawaii establishing a pioneering seafloor
observatory called the Hawaii-2 Observatory midway between Hawaii and California
in 1998.

Large underwater observatories, cabled to allow real-time monitoring by
scientists, also are being developed off the coasts of California and British
Columbia.

A version of TETHYS should be ready within a year and will get an early tryout
at the Martha's Vineyard Coastal Observatory, Camilli said. It also could be
incorporated into the Pacific seafloor observatories and might see use in a 2007
Woods Hole expedition to study the volcanic underwater mountain range in the
Arctic called the Gakkel Ridge.

/ Well-established technology

Mass spectrometry has been in use in various forms for decades. The technology
varies but, in its simplest form, mass spec involves taking atoms or molecules
from a sample, electrically charging them and then using electrical fields to
accelerate them to a uniform velocity. These particles then pass through a
magnetic field, which deflects them. By measuring the degree to which the
particles are deflected, the mass spec can calculate the particles' mass, which
in turn identifies what type of element or molecule it is.

Mass specs can be room-sized instruments, but even small ones can fill a
tabletop; they all generally require lots of power and regular calibration by
highly trained engineers. Prices can range from hundreds of thousands of dollars
to millions.

"Monitor's goal is to make mass spec a tool for the common man," said Anthony
Duryea, president of the Cheswick company. "We set out to miniaturize and
simplify the use of mass spectrometry and also make it portable. It's taken us
10 years to do this."

What they developed is a very compact device called a cycloidal mass
spectrometer. Rather than electromagnets, it uses permanent, powerful rare earth
magnets to deflect particles.

A version Monitor has developed for NASA, which plans to use the devices to
sniff for rocket fuel leaks aboard the space shuttle, is just 2 inches in
diameter and a half inch thick, Duryea said. The company also is developing a
medical version, which can analyze a person's breath to determine if his stomach
harbors H. pylori, the bacteria that can cause ulcers.

It's an elegant design, Camilli said, which can operate at much lower power than
the typical electromagnetic device. That is a big advantage for autonomous
devices such as TETHYS that must operate using batteries for extended periods.

A major obstacle to underwater mass spec is that fact that mass spectrometers
must maintain a near-perfect vacuum. That hasn't been a problem for NASA
planetary and space probes, such as Viking and Galileo, that carried mass spec
instruments; outer space is a near-perfect vacuum to begin with. But the deeper
underwater you go, the harder it is to maintain a vacuum.

"Every 10 meters you do down in the water column, you increase the ambient
pressure by one atmosphere," Camilli explained. "At 6,000 meters, you're at 600
atmospheres of pressure."

That's where another Monitor innovation comes into play. Rather than maintain a
vacuum using a mechanical pump, which would have to pump its exhaust out against
the high ambient pressures of the deep sea, Monitor has developed a pump without
exhaust and without moving parts.

Called a NEG-ion pump, it relies in part on a "non-evaporable getter," or NEG, a
material that traps gases. And those particles that the getter doesn't get are
handled by the ion pump, which uses electrical fields to embed the particles
into a layer of titanium, said Mark Wilson, Monitor's marketing director.

Camilli hopes TETHYS can be built for a fraction of the cost of a conventional
mass spec. The project is sponsored by National Science Foundation, the Office
of Naval Research and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

Being able to analyze chemicals in sea water at depth promises to be an
important tool, Camilli said, because removing water samples from the deep sea
can change the samples' physical properties. Water at high pressure, for
instance, contains a greater fraction of dissolved gas; that's why deep-sea
divers can suffer the bends if they surface too quickly.

"It's kind of an exciting time in oceanography," Camilli said. "We're finally
getting the tools, the technology, that allows us to see in places that we've
never seen before."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Post-Gazette science editor Byron Spice can be reached at
bspice@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Monitor
Instruments Co.; Ed Yozwick/Post-Gazette: (On the seafloor)

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              167 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 6, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

STRONGER DOLLAR OFTEN TROUBLING FOR EARNINGS

BYLINE: Rachel Beck, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-2

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


While investors obsess over how higher oil prices and rising interest rates
could hurt corporate profits, they seem to be overlooking something else that
could cause earnings growth to fizzle: this year's unexpected rise in the U.S.
dollar.

While estimates on Wall Street had forecast the greenback to fall around 10
percent in 2005, just the opposite has happened, with the dollar gaining about 7
percent against other major currencies so far this year.

The U.S. currency's rally could crimp profits at companies with significant
foreign operations. What a change from the not-so-distant past when a declining
dollar jolted profits higher.

The dollar had been sliding in recent years, and fell into a significant
sell-off during the second half of 2004. It lost about 13 percent of its value
against a trade-weighted basket of other currencies, according to the Federal
Reserve.

While expectations were for similar losses to continue in 2005, the dollar has
rallied, instead. That move is attributed in large part to the Fed's course of
tighter credit policy. The relatively higher U.S. interest rates have spurred a
massive inflow of money to U.S. financial markets from foreign investors looking
to take advantage of the healthier economic climate compared with other major
developed nations.

But corporate America has largely been mum on what a stronger dollar could do to
earnings, even though it could hurt U.S. companies with major operations abroad
that need to convert their foreign earnings to dollars and make it more
difficult for U.S. companies to compete in foreign markets.

With more than 30 percent of the nonbank sales from companies in the Standard &
Poor's 500 derived from foreign operations, a 10 percent appreciation in the
dollar would reduce the Standard & Poor's 500 operating profits by about 8
percentage points over the next two years, according to new research by Merrill
Lynch.

Even if the U.S. currency stays where it is now, the gain in S&P 500 operating
earnings would go from 10 percent to 7.6 percent in 2005 and from 10 percent to
3 percent next year, Merrill said.

Market watchers think companies may start warning about the negative currency
translations as soon as later this month when the second-quarter earnings season
gets under way and they begin to discuss their outlooks for the coming year.

History shows that the impact of the dollar's rise can take time to trickle
through to earnings. Over the last decade when the dollar has had an
appreciation of 10 percent or more over 12 months, the decline in earnings was a
trickle initially and then soared nine to 12 months later. For instance, during
those dollar-rising periods, the information technology sector saw profits fall
by 6.2 percent after one quarter but were down by 21.9 percent after four
quarters, Merrill said.

Those investors who want to get a jump on where the problems could show up may
want to keep an eye on companies that saw the falling dollar help boost the
bottom line in the past, such as Nike Inc., IBM Corp. and Coca-Cola Co.

The dollar pullback in 2003 and 2004 helped add about 12 percentage points per
year to earnings growth of S&P 500 companies, according to Merrill.

There are, of course, sectors that thrive when the dollar gains ground,
including retailing, health care, utilities and energy. One big benefit of a
stronger dollar is that prices on foreign goods and services fall.

In addition, the stock market tends to be stronger when the dollar is up,
according to research by Lehman Brothers chief U.S. market strategist Henry Chip
Dickson. Looking at data back to March of 1985, Dickson found that the S&P 500
has appreciated at an average yearly pace of 14.6 percent when the dollar is
rising and gained 10.7 percent on average per year when the dollar was falling.

So far, though, the rising dollar isn't getting much attention. Hugh Johnson,
chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors, says that
might be because we are in a "theoretical sweet spot" now -- there are still
benefits emerging because of the previous decline in the dollar, and the
troubles that could come because of the rise in the dollar haven't yet appeared.

That sweet spot probably won't last much longer, unless the dollar quickly
changes its course.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Rachel Beck is the national business columnist for The Associated Press. Write
to her at rbeck@ap.org.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              169 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 NORTH EDITION

PEAK PERFORMANCE;
LOOKS, DURABILITY MAKE METAL ROOF A TOP CHOICE

BYLINE: Kevin Kirkland, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. NW-9

LENGTH: 973 words


Twenty years ago, an architect friend of Pat McGonigle's asked him to reroof his
Squirrel Hill mansion's mansard roof with steel.

"I didn't like the idea at the time," said McGonigle, president of Welte Roofing
in Baldwin Township. "But it looks great. It's forest green, and 20 years later,
it looks like new."

Though durability is one of the selling points of metal roofing, no one is
promising your roof will look mint-fresh two decades from now, like the one in
Squirrel Hill from Petersen Aluminum's Pac-Clad division. But manufacturers are
promising a metal roof will still be keeping out rain and snow, in some cases
for as long as you live and beyond.

Metal roofs have been around for centuries. In fact, log houses and other early
American buildings were often topped with tin or steel coated with terne, an
alloy of tin and lead, now tin and zinc. Standing-seam roofs, distinguished by
strong vertical lines running down from the peak, also became common on
Victorian houses and on barns and outbuildings.

A steel standing-seam roof looks very much at home on a 100-year-old house on
Redstone Lane in Washington, Pa. Mike Silich and L.W. Miller Roofing of
Washington, which specializes in metal roofing, installed Centria's RollCOM
product there several years ago.

Today, standing-seam roofs are popular on commercial buildings and some
modern-style homes, but they haven't made much of a dent in the residential
roofing market. Enter metal shingles and shakes.

Most are designed to look like other materials, including wood, slate and even
fiberglass/asphalt, which still dominates the residential part of the business.
But steel and aluminum are much more durable than wood and asphalt and
significantly cheaper and lighter than slate. So why aren't metal roofs more
popular? The short answer is that most people don't know much about them.

The Metal Roofing Alliance, an industry trade group, has begun a TV and print
marketing campaign to educate the public. On its Web site, www.metalroofing.com,
consumers can find information, photos and links to manufacturers.

Looking at the photos, you might notice that many of the homes appear to be in
warmer climates. This points to two advantages of metal roofing that have become
obvious over the past year -- wind and fire resistance. Metal roofs, which can
stand up to winds of 120 mph or more, easily pass standards set by
hurricane-prone Dade County, Fla. And their heat and flame resistance make them
a good choice in areas of California hit by wildfires.

Warm-climate residents also like the fact that white-colored metal roofs reflect
more heat than other materials, saving nearly 25 percent of a household's energy
use, according to studies by the Florida Solar Energy Center and Florida Power
and Light Co.

Despite such advantages, metal often loses out to fiberglass/asphalt because of
its price. An aluminum or steel roof installed can cost two or even three times
a fiberglass/asphalt one, which, according to Remodeling magazine, runs about
$12,000 for a 3,000-square-foot roof in the Pittsburgh area.

But if you consider that most metal roofs carry a warranty of at least 50 years
-- vs. 30 years for the best asphalt shingles -- it doesn't seem like a bad
deal.

"Most of our customers are people who intend to stay in their house for a
while," said Todd Miller, president of Classic Products and its Perfection
Building Products division in Piqua, Ohio. "They're looking to avoid one
re-roofing in the future."

Classic, which makes mostly aluminum shakes and shingles, has the Country Manor
shake, made until 1996 by Alcoa. Classic bought the rights and equipment to make
this product and others from Alcoa, Reynolds and Kaiser. Country Manor comes as
an interlocking 48-by-12-inch panel that looks like eight randomly sized shakes.

Because aluminum roofing is so light -- about 40 pounds per 100 square feet --
it can be installed over two layers of other shingles. By comparison, 100 square
feet of steel weighs 110 pounds, fiberglass/asphalt 250-425 pounds, wood shakes
500 pounds and slate 800 pounds.

Jim Evans, a local sales representative for Englert, says metal roofing's light
weight opens up design possibilities.

"Architects like them because they don't have to worry as much about weight. And
architects are getting more involved in residential projects," he said.

Evans sees steady growth in residential sales of Englert's Decra stone-coated
steel shingles and shakes, which have the granulated look of asphalt shingles
and come in six or seven colors, respectively. Evans said he stresses metal's
longevity, especially when customers note the cost difference between it and
fiberglass/asphalt.

"Cost is still an issue. It's hard to change people in this Tri-State area."

John Davis, project manager of Schultheis Brothers in Plum, said metal accounts
for only about 10 percent of its residential business, but that's increasing.

"METALWORKS [by TAMKO Roofing Products] has a steel shingle that looks exactly
like slate and tile," he said. "And you can get almost any color you can think
of."

That's not necessarily a good thing. You probably wouldn't want on your roof the
same bright red metal shingle installed on a local McDonald's. But there is
something distinctive and clean-looking about metal roofing, even if it's
designed to look like another material.

"It's amazing, the folks that take care of their houses aesthetically," said
Silich, president of L.W. Miller Roofing. "It sets the whole property apart."

SOURCES

* Classic Products: www. classicroof.com

* Follansbee Steel: www. follansbeeroofing.com

* Metal Roofing Alliance: www.metalroofing.com

* METALWORKS by TAMKO: www.metalworksroof.com

* Pac-Clad by Petersen Aluminum: www.pac-clad.com

* Perfection Building Products (division of Classic Products):
www.perfectionroofing. com

* RollCOM by Centria: www.rollcom.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPRING HOME & GARDEN/ Post-Gazette Homes Editor Kevin Kirkland can be
reached at kkirkland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1978.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: Several years ago, L.W. Miller
Roofing put a steel standing-seam roof on this 100-year-old house in Washington,
Pa. \
PHOTO: Classic Products' Country Manor aluminum shake comes as an inter-locking
48-by-12-inch panel that looks like eight randomly sized shakes. Because
aluminum roofing is so light -- about 40 pounds per 100 square feet -- it can be
installed over two layers of other shingles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              171 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 17, 2005 Sunday
                                 NORTH EDITION

Peak performance;
Looks, durability make metal roof a top choice

BYLINE: Kevin Kirkland Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. N-7

LENGTH: 974 words


Twenty years ago, an architect friend of Pat McGonigle's asked him to reroof his
Squirrel Hill mansion's mansard roof with steel.

"I didn't like the idea at the time," said McGonigle, president of Welte Roofing
in Baldwin Township. "But it looks great. It's forest green, and 20 years later,
it looks like new."

Though durability is one of the selling points of metal roofing, no one is
promising your roof will look mint-fresh two decades from now, like the one in
Squirrel Hill from Petersen Aluminum's Pac-Clad division. But manufacturers are
promising a metal roof will still be keeping out rain and snow, in some cases
for as long as you live and beyond.

Metal roofs have been around for centuries. In fact, log houses and other early
American buildings were often topped with tin or steel coated with terne, an
alloy of tin and lead, now tin and zinc. Standing-seam roofs, distinguished by
strong vertical lines running down from the peak, also became common on
Victorian houses and on barns and outbuildings.

A steel standing-seam roof looks very much at home on a 100-year-old house on
Redstone Lane in Washington, Pa. Mike Silich and L.W. Miller Roofing of
Washington, which specializes in metal roofing, installed Centria's RollCOM
product there several years ago.

Today, standing-seam roofs are popular on commercial buildings and some
modern-style homes, but they haven't made much of a dent in the residential
roofing market. Enter metal shingles and shakes.

Most are designed to look like other materials, including wood, slate and even
fiberglass/asphalt, which still dominates the residential part of the business.
But steel and aluminum are much more durable than wood and asphalt and
significantly cheaper and lighter than slate. So why aren't metal roofs more
popular? The short answer is that most people don't know much about them.

The Metal Roofing Alliance, an industry trade group, has begun a TV and print
marketing campaign to educate the public. On its Web site, www.metalroofing.com,
consumers can find information, photos and links to manufacturers.

Looking at the photos, you might notice that many of the homes appear to be in
warmer climates. This points to two advantages of metal roofing that have become
obvious over the past year -- wind and fire resistance. Metal roofs, which can
stand up to winds of 120 mph or more, easily pass standards set by
hurricane-prone Dade County, Fla. And their heat and flame resistance make them
a good choice in areas of California hit by wildfires.

Warm-climate residents also like the fact that white-colored metal roofs reflect
more heat than other materials, saving nearly 25 percent of a household's energy
use, according to studies by the Florida Solar Energy Center and Florida Power
and Light Co.

Despite such advantages, metal often loses out to fiberglass/asphalt because of
its price. An aluminum or steel roof installed can cost two or even three times
a fiberglass/asphalt one, which, according to Remodeling magazine, runs about
$12,000 for a 3,000-square-foot roof in the Pittsburgh area.

But if you consider that most metal roofs carry a warranty of at least 50 years
-- vs. 30 years for the best asphalt shingles -- it doesn't seem like a bad
deal.

"Most of our customers are people who intend to stay in their house for a
while," said Todd Miller, president of Classic Products and its Perfection
Building Products division in Piqua, Ohio. "They're looking to avoid one
re-roofing in the future."

Classic, which makes mostly aluminum shakes and shingles, has the Country Manor
shake, made until 1996 by Alcoa. Classic bought the rights and equipment to make
this product and others from Alcoa, Reynolds and Kaiser. Country Manor comes as
an interlocking 48-by-12-inch panel that looks like eight randomly sized shakes.

Because aluminum roofing is so light -- about 40 pounds per 100 square feet --
it can be installed over two layers of other shingles. By comparison, 100 square
feet of steel weighs 110 pounds, fiberglass/asphalt 250-425 pounds, wood shakes
500 pounds and slate 800 pounds.

Jim Evans, a local sales representative for Englert, says metal roofing's light
weight opens up design possibilities.

"Architects like them because they don't have to worry as much about weight. And
architects are getting more involved in residential projects," he said.

Evans sees steady growth in residential sales of Englert's Decra stone-coated
steel shingles and shakes, which have the granulated look of asphalt shingles
and come in six or seven colors, respectively. Evans said he stresses metal's
longevity, especially when customers note the cost difference between it and
fiberglass/asphalt.

"Cost is still an issue. It's hard to change people in this Tri-State area."

John Davis, project manager of Schultheis Brothers in Plum, said metal accounts
for only about 10 percent of its residential business, but that's increasing.

"METALWORKS [by TAMKO Roofing Products] has a steel shingle that looks exactly
like slate and tile," he said. "And you can get almost any color you can think
of."

That's not necessarily a good thing. You probably wouldn't want on your roof the
same bright red metal shingle installed on a local McDonald's. But there is
something distinctive and clean-looking about metal roofing, even if it's
designed to look like another material.

"It's amazing, the folks that take care of their houses aesthetically," said
Silich, president of L.W. Miller Roofing. "It sets the whole property apart."

b> SOURCES

/b>

* Classic Products: www. classicroof.com

* Follansbee Steel: www. follansbeeroofing.com

* Metal Roofing Alliance: www.metalroofing.com

* METALWORKS by TAMKO: www.metalworksroof.com

* Pac-Clad by Petersen Aluminum: www.pac-clad.com

* Perfection Building Products (division of Classic Products):
www.perfectionroofing. com

* RollCOM by Centria: www.rollcom.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPRING HOME & GARDEN / Post-Gazette Homes Editor Kevin Kirkland can be
reached at kkirkland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1978.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Decra stone-coated steel shingles and shakes from Eckert have
the granulated look of asphalt shingles and come in six or seven colors. \
PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: Several years ago, L.W. Miller Roofing
put a steel standing-seam roof on this 100-year-old house in Washington, Pa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 22, 2005 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SUNNI ARAB, SECULAR POLITICAL GROUPS JOIN TO PROTEST VOTE

BYLINE: Patrick Quinn, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq


Sunni Arab and secular political groups joined forces yesterday to decide
whether to call for a repeat of parliamentary elections that gave the Shiite
religious bloc a larger than expected lead.

The main Sunni coalition has said the elections were tainted by fraud, including
voting centers failing to open, shortages in election materials, reports of
multiple voting and forgery.

The election commission, known as the IECI, has said it received 1,250
complaints about violations during the Dec. 15 elections, 25 of which it
described as serious. But the commission says it does not expect that the
complaints will change the overall result, to be announced in January.

U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said, "There have been a number
of complaints lodged with IECI, and their track record on following up on these
things have been pretty good."

The agreement to join forces over registering complaints was reached at a
meeting in the offices of a secular bloc headed by former Shiite Prime Minister
Ayad Allawi, a U.S. favorite.

"We decided to form an operations room to collect the complaints from all the
affected parties and present them to the Iraqi Electoral Commission" and
international organizations such as the United Nations, said Naseer al-Ani of
the Sunni Arab Iraqi Islamic Party.

The bitter climate has raised questions about U.S. hopes that the election would
lead to a more inclusive government involving Sunni Arabs, the minority group
that formed the core of deposed President Saddam Hussein's government and is now
the backbone of the insurgency.

Sporadic violence across the country killed 15 people yesterday, nearly all of
them Iraqi police or army soldiers.

In Baghdad's Green Zone, more than 50 representatives of Sunni Arab political
groups met in the offices of Mr. Allawi's Iraqi National List.

The parties will meet again today for further discussion, according to those who
attended the meeting. The Iraqi Islamic Party is one of the three main partners
in the Iraqi Accordance Front, headed by Adnan al-Dulaimi.

A senior official in the Shiite United Iraqi Alliance, Hasan al-Rubaiei, said
the groups were complaining because they were not doing as well as they expected
at the polls.

" But these complaints do not change the reality," Mr. Rubaiei said.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              187 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       June 3, 2005 Friday REGION EDITION

REALITY SHOWS RULE;
NETWORKS IN SUMMER

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-5

LENGTH: 928 words


By Rob Owen

Here's the reality of summer TV: Most of the really interesting scripted shows
will be on cable. A few will pop up on broadcast networks, too, but mostly we'll
be stuck with a barrage of reality shows, including several that premiere over
the next week.

Perhaps the one some viewers will find most irksome is a reality show ... with a
laugh track, not-so-ideal viewing for those who feel insulted by both sitcoms
and reality shows.

In CBS's "Fire Me ... Please" (9 p.m. Tuesday), two contestants try to get fired
from different jobs by 3 p.m. on the same day. The owners of the shops are aware
hidden cameras have been installed, but the employees are not in the know.

Basically, "Fire Me" is "Candid Camera" with a competitive element. In the first
half-hour -- and I do wonder if this show were originally designed to air in
half-hour segments rather than a full hour -- Kurt goes to work in a coffee shop
where his boss is quick to exclaim, "I can't deal with him!" Katie goes to work
in a women's clothing store where her boss thinks she's from another planet
after Katie tries to warm her hand in her boss's armpit. Whichever player gets
fired closest to but no later than 3 p.m. wins $25,000.

Though it gets old fast, "Fire Me" is occasionally funny in a "Candid Camera"
way, but the production values are so low-rent that one can only hope for CBS's
sake that the series is as cheap to produce as it looks.

On the other hand, CBS's "The Cut" (8 p.m. June 9) gets the big-budget reality
show treatment. Fans of "The Apprentice" and "Project Runway" should be satiated
by this imitation -- down to the "Apprentice"-like opening credits -- that pits
16 aspiring fashion designers against one another with the goal of winning a job
with designer Tommy Hilfiger and a $250,000 one-year salary.

Contestants are split into two teams each week and must complete an artistic,
design-driven task. First up: Make a Hilfiger billboard in Times Square within
48 hours. The teams then go to a "style forum" where Hilfiger, who notes he's
built his corporation "into a global lifestyle brand," picks a winning team and
a losing team and kicks out one of the members of the losing team.

"The Cut" offers more of the same as what you'd see on "Survivor" or "The
Apprentice": Quick work on tasks, temper tantrums, infighting among team
members, etc.

Following in the footsteps of feel-good reality hit "Extreme Makeover: Home
Edition," ABC's "The Scholar" (8 p.m. Monday) pits 10 straight-A students
against one another to compete for a full-ride college scholarship.

The 10 live together "Real World"-style and of course they don't all get along,
with a cocky know-it-all named Davis proving to be the most divisive.

In Monday's premiere, the kids file onto a Hogwarts-like set and compete to pick
captains and then form teams to solve Odyssey of the Mind-type problems. A final
competition proves to be more trivia challenge than a real test of knowledge.

Though host Rob Nelson tries to create a sense of the show's import by declaring
it to be the students' "single best chance" to grab a piece of the American
dream, the reality is these overachievers can get college scholarships without
the help of a TV show. In other words, don't be too crushed on their behalf when
they get voted off.

Last night, after deadline, NBC premiered "Hit Me Baby One More Time" (9 p.m.
Thursday), an opportunity for washed-up music acts to get back in the spotlight.

Apparently 13 million viewers can be wrong. That's how many people tuned in
Wednesday at 9 for the top-rated premiere of ABC's dull, amateurish "Dancing
with the Stars." Host Tom Bergeron only made matters worse with clunkers like
this: "We've had a boxer, a singer, a super model and an actress, so if we only
had a talk show host this would be like the witness list at the Michael Jackson
trial. Thank you, I'm here all week."

But after that, will anyone tune in next week?

Quality reruns

On the other hand, if you're looking for a quality drama to watch this summer
that you missed the first time around, tune in for UPN's "Veronica Mars." The
entire mystery-drama begins again with the pilot episode at 9 p.m. June 14.
Subsequent episodes will air at 9 p.m. Wednesdays beginning June 15.

TCA Award nominations

Nominations for the Television Critics Association Awards were announced
yesterday, and "Veronica Mars" was among the nominees for new program of the
year and individual achievement in drama for star Kristen Bell.

TCA, made up of 200 writers and editors who cover TV (including yours truly),
gave the most nominations to ABC's "Desperate Housewives," which led with five
nods. "Lost" and "The Daily Show" had four nominations each. Among networks, ABC
led with 11 nominations, followed by Fox with eight nods and HBO with seven.

Other series receiving multiple nominations include "24," "Arrested
Development," "Deadwood," "Frontline," "House," "Nightline" and "Rescue Me." A
full list of nominations is online at www.post-gazette.com/tv.

Of local note

Though the title sounds like a sweeps stunt and we're out of sweeps, National
Geographic Channel's 'Explorer" looks into "Elephant Rage" (8 p.m. Sunday) with
the help of Pittsburgh Zoo elephant care specialist Willie Theison. ... WQED was
among the PBS stations to air the controversial "Postcards from Buster" episode
featuring a lesbian couple. The controversy over "Buster" is explored on "In the
Life," a gay/lesbian newsmagazine show airing tonight at 10 on WQED.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
TV editor Rob Owen can be reached at rowen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2582.

GRAPHIC: Adam Larkey/ABC
Scot, Jeremy, Milana, Alyssa and Amari are five of 10 straight-A students who
will compete for a full college scholarship on "The Scholar," a reality show
debuting on ABC at 8 p.m. Monday.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              194 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 6, 2005 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

PLAIN [AMP] FANCY;
SOME DESIGNERS APPROACH THE MAX ON MINIMALISM IN NEXT SEASON'S FASHIONS

BYLINE: LaMont Jones, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 943 words


They say you never forget your first love.

Barbara Harris didn't. Her first love was fashion design. And while other
children in her small North Carolina town sketched trees, she liked to draw
women in beautiful clothes.

Harris was accepted to Parsons School of Design in New York, but her parents
persuaded her to take a more traditional college and career path. So she studied
psychology and sociology and then spent more than 20 years working in corporate
America.

But "Bree" never stopped sketching clothes. When she retired from a vice
presidential position in human resources at a global company, she reclaimed her
first love and established the Multi by Bree label in New York City in 2003.

"I don't fit the profile of the new, young eyes-on-the-world 23-year-old," she
said during a break from putting the finishing touches on her spring 2006
collection. But she is confident in her ability to combine design skills with
"significant, real-time experience in the corporate world" to create clothes for
women -- and a few looks for men -- that are versatile, stylish and
career-friendly.

For eight days beginning Friday, the gaze of international media will turn to
the Big Apple, where Harris and more than 100 other American fashion designers
will unveil their looks for spring 2006. What they show on models and mannequins
during Olympus Fashion Week will provide a glimpse of how Americans will dress
next spring and summer -- or, more to the point, how the Diane von Furstenbergs
and Tommy Hilfigers want them to dress.

After several years of opulence and extravagance, more talk of pared-down,
streamlined, classic looks seem to indicate the imminent swing of the style
pendulum back toward the minimal. And although there is no resounding chorus of
designers singing the "M word" -- minimalism -- it has been whispered for about
a year.

The thousands of retailers, stylists, journalists and fashionistas restless for
the Next Big Thing who will gather for the semi-annual fashionfest will be
watching the runways for trends and common themes as designers share their
visions of what ought to be.

Harris said her spring designs wed creativity and structure to "infuse lightness
into corporate dressing while still acknowledging that women won't go make board
presentations with a blouse cut down to the navel."

Her objective was "Hollywood idol coupled with chic professional," graceful yet
provocative looks for casual day and evening wear in colorful florals, white and
shades of sunset red, sea blue, iridescent copper and coral.

/ Sharing secrets

Womenswear designer Cynthia Steffee promised a line that will feature new
colors, graphic patterns and oversized prints on cotton and linen.

"There's a tremendous amount of newness," she said. "It's very different from
last spring, very cleaned up. Last spring was very bohemian and embellished and
relaxed, an heiress in a desert in Morocco. This spring, she's more of a lady
who lunches. It's a return to sleekness, but [it's] an exciting sleekness."

Steffee will have her show Monday morning, between Carolina Herrera and Matthew
Earnest. All three, like the majority of their colleagues, have paid handsomely
to reserve one of four spaces in a large network of tents erected at Bryant Park
in midtown Manhattan. Kenneth Cole officially kicks off the fashionfest at 9
a.m. Thursday, and Chado Ralph Rucci wraps it up at 7 p.m. on Sept. 16.

Then there are the dozens of other official (translation: produced by 7th on
Sixth, the event's organizer) and unofficial shows elsewhere. They include
Nautica's showing Thursday evening at Boylan Studios, Diesel's launch Sunday at
Hammerstein Ballroom and Kai Milla's (Stevie Wonder's wife's) presentation
Sunday evening at the New York Public Library.

Designers tightly guard their collections until the appointed hour, typically
releasing in advance no more than a vision statement, color palette and, in a
few cases, copies of sketches.

Ellen Tracy's new designer George Sharp, whose resume includes design work for
Escada and Rena Lange, speaks of refined, clean and modern elegance that builds
on the aesthetic established by former longtime Ellen Tracy designer Linda
Allard -- but with a sexy twist.

"My aim is to get Ellen Tracy back to where it was, which was always couture
bridge," he said as he described iconic print jackets, wide-leg pants and
luxurious knits. "Silhouettes are modern and clean. Embellishment is subtle and
refined. Moorish-inspired soutache ribbon embroidery and warm African spice
colors played off cool lagoon tones evoke glamorous destinations."

By contrast, Roland Mouret said his spring line "explores the contradictions of
austerity and lushness, restraint and deconstruction" with prints and colors
inspired by viewing objects through water. He was inspired by the music of Cole
Porter and the photography of Norman Parkinson.

Occasionally, a designer's theme is tinged with irony. There is certain to be
more than a little interest in the increasingly popular Tracy Reese, who is
combining Southern belles of 1917 New Orleans with the lost golden age of
Edwardian Belle Epoque and the '60s for "a winsome reverie of tiered, frothy
looks with intriguing delicacy."

But designers know that when all is said and done, it boils down to whether the
public likes it enough to buy it and wear it.

That's why Barbara Harris works so hard to combine practical with pretty and
polished.

"I believe in the ease of dressing," she said. "Selecting a stylish,
well-tailored blouse, jacket, skirt or pant should not have to be a two-hour
event."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Post-Gazette fashion editor LaMont Jones can be reached at
ljones@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1469.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara "Bree" Harris' evening gowns are graceful yet
provocative.
/ PHOTO: Known as "Bree," Barbara Harris is founder of the Multi by Bree label.
One of her spring 2006 designs is above.
/ DRAWING: A gown from the spring 2006 collection of designer Ellen Tracy.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 30, 2005 Sunday REGION EDITION

TRANS-SIBERIAN PIPELINE;
COSTLY AND CONTROVERSIAL

BYLINE: James Brooke The New York Times

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-6

LENGTH: 567 words


PEREVOZNAYA, Russia -- Stretching from Lake Baikal to the Japan Sea, the first
trans-Siberian oil pipeline is to run 2,565 miles -- more than three times as
long as the trans-Alaska pipeline. With a price tag of $15.5 billion, it looms
as modern Russia's biggest infrastructure investment, President Vladimir V.
Putin's answer to the Trans-Siberian Railway of the czars.

Because China and Japan both rely on the Middle East for about 85 percent of
their oil imports, both economic giants competed fiercely over what could be the
world's longest and most expensive oil pipeline. Trumping China with a more
generous financing offer, Japan, the world's second-largest oil importer, hopes
that the 4-foot diameter pipe will bind it to Russia, the world's second-largest
oil exporter.

It may be a decade before the pipeline is completed. But the line would
represent about a one-third increase in Russia's export oil pipeline capacity
and would mark a major Russian shift toward the Pacific, where oil could be sold
to any country, including the United States.

But the project still faces major hurdles. There are no guarantees there will be
enough oil to fill the pipe, although Russia has as much as 67 billion barrels
of untapped oil reserves along the pipeline route. When the oil reaches the Sea
of Japan, there are no public commitments binding Russia to sell it to Japan,
whose ports are only a day's sail away. And Russia's last-minute switch of the
Pacific terminal site from an existing oil port to this pristine bay is already
putting Japanese banks in the crosshairs of a growing global environmental
protest movement.

Contrary to the traditionally opaque nature of many major Russian investments,
the pipeline is expected to come under rigorous international scrutiny. The
Kremlin has vowed not to contribute state funds for the pipeline construction.
Instead, Transneft, the state pipeline monopoly, has been told to go find its
own financing, preferably on international markets.

Foreign banks, especially the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, will
increasingly face questions over the pipeline's future profitability and over
Moscow's little-publicized decision in December to switch the pipeline terminus
from Vostochny, Russia's main industrial port in the Pacific, to Perevoznaya, a
tranquil bay known for its beaches and wild nature.

In the summer, this bay's sandy beaches and its warm waters are frequented by
ferry loads of beachgoers from Vladivostok, 10 miles to the east. In the winter,
this frozen semi-wilderness is home to some of the last 30 to 40 Amur leopards
in the world. On the brink of extinction, this black-spotted cat is one of 50
endangered species found only in this corner of Pacific Russia.

To get to the terminal and planned oil refinery, dozens of tankers would steam
daily past Russia's only maritime nature reserve, a collection of 11 islands
prized for 3,000 species -- a rare wealth of biodiversity that comes from a
meeting of boreal and subtropical water currents. Navigating a 5-mile-wide
channel littered with more small islands, the tankers would then enter a
maritime cul-de-sac with such shallow waters and fragile ecology that
environmentalists have started calling Perevoznaya Bay "Siberia's Prince William
Sound," evoking memories of the 1989 oil spill in Alaska by the oil tanker Exxon
Valdez.


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 3, 2005 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REALITY SHOWS RULE NETWORKS IN SUMMER

BYLINE: Rob Owen, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; TUNED IN; Pg. C-5

LENGTH: 909 words


Here's the reality of summer TV: Most of the really interesting scripted shows
will be on cable. A few will pop up on broadcast networks, too, but mostly we'll
be stuck with a barrage of reality shows, including several that premiere over
the next week.

Perhaps the one some viewers will find most irksome is a reality show ... with a
laugh track, not-so-ideal viewing for those who feel insulted by both sitcoms
and reality shows.

In CBS's "Fire Me ... Please" (9 p.m. Tuesday), two contestants try to get fired
from different jobs by 3 p.m. on the same day. The owners of the shops are aware
hidden cameras have been installed, but the employees are not in the know.

Basically, "Fire Me" is "Candid Camera" with a competitive element. In the first
half-hour -- and I do wonder if this show were originally designed to air in
half-hour segments rather than a full hour -- Kurt goes to work in a coffee shop
where his boss is quick to exclaim, "I can't deal with him!" Katie goes to work
in a women's clothing store where her boss thinks she's from another planet
after Katie tries to warm her hand in her boss's armpit. Whichever player gets
fired closest to but no later than 3 p.m. wins $25,000.

Though it gets old fast, "Fire Me" is occasionally funny in a "Candid Camera"
way, but the production values are so low-rent that one can only hope for CBS's
sake that the series is as cheap to produce as it looks.

On the other hand, CBS's "The Cut" (8 p.m. June 9) gets the big-budget reality
show treatment. Fans of "The Apprentice" and "Project Runway" should be satiated
by this imitation -- down to the "Apprentice"-like opening credits -- that pits
16 aspiring fashion designers against one another with the goal of winning a job
with designer Tommy Hilfiger and a $250,000 one-year salary.

Contestants are split into two teams each week and must complete an artistic,
design-driven task. First up: Make a Hilfiger billboard in Times Square within
48 hours. The teams then go to a "style forum" where Hilfiger, who notes he's
built his corporation "into a global lifestyle brand," picks a winning team and
a losing team and kicks out one of the members of the losing team.

"The Cut" offers more of the same as what you'd see on "Survivor" or "The
Apprentice": Quick work on tasks, temper tantrums, infighting among team
members, etc.

Following in the footsteps of feel-good reality hit "Extreme Makeover: Home
Edition," ABC's "The Scholar" (8 p.m. Monday) pits 10 straight-A students
against one another to compete for a full-ride college scholarship.

The 10 live together "Real World"-style and of course they don't all get along,
with a cocky know-it-all named Davis proving to be the most divisive.

In Monday's premiere, the kids file onto a Hogwarts-like set and compete to pick
captains and then form teams to solve Odyssey of the Mind-type problems. A final
competition proves to be more trivia challenge than a real test of knowledge.

Though host Rob Nelson tries to create a sense of the show's import by declaring
it to be the students' "single best chance" to grab a piece of the American
dream, the reality is these overachievers can get college scholarships without
the help of a TV show. In other words, don't be too crushed on their behalf when
they get voted off.

Last night, after deadline, NBC premiered "Hit Me Baby One More Time" (9 p.m.
Thursday), an opportunity for washed-up music acts to get back in the spotlight.

Apparently 13 million viewers can be wrong. That's how many people tuned in
Wednesday at 9 for the top-rated premiere of ABC's dull, amateurish "Dancing
with the Stars." Host Tom Bergeron only made matters worse with clunkers like
this: "We've had a boxer, a singer, a super model and an actress, so if we only
had a talk show host this would be like the witness list at the Michael Jackson
trial. Thank you, I'm here all week."

But after that, will anyone tune in next week?

Quality reruns

On the other hand, if you're looking for a quality drama to watch this summer
that you missed the first time around, tune in for UPN's "Veronica Mars." The
entire mystery-drama begins again with the pilot episode at 9 p.m. June 14.
Subsequent episodes will air at 9 p.m. Wednesdays beginning June 15.

TCA Award nominations

Nominations for the Television Critics Association Awards were announced
yesterday, and "Veronica Mars" was among the nominees for new program of the
year and individual achievement in drama for star Kristen Bell.

TCA, made up of 200 writers and editors who cover TV (including yours truly),
gave the most nominations to ABC's "Desperate Housewives," which led with five
nods. "Lost" and "The Daily Show" had four nominations each. Among networks, ABC
led with 11 nominations, followed by Fox with eight nods and HBO with seven.

Other series receiving multiple nominations include "24," "Arrested
Development," "Deadwood," "Frontline," "House," "Nightline" and "Rescue Me." A
full list of nominations is online at www.post-gazette.com/tv.

Of local note

Though the title sounds like a sweeps stunt and we're out of sweeps, National
Geographic Channel's 'Explorer" looks into "Elephant Rage" (8 p.m. Sunday) with
the help of Pittsburgh Zoo elephant care specialist Willie Theison. ... WQED was
among the PBS stations to air the controversial "Postcards from Buster" episode
featuring a lesbian couple. The controversy over "Buster" is explored on "In the
Life," a gay/lesbian newsmagazine show airing tonight at 10 on WQED.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TV editor Rob Owen can be reached at rowen@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2582.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adam Larkey/ABC: Scot, Jeremy, Milana, Alyssa and Amari are five
of 10 straight-A students who will compete for a full college scholarship on
"The Scholar," a reality show debuting on ABC at 8 p.m. Monday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              203 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

PITTSBURGH MUSEUMS SATISFY CRAVINGS FOR FOOD, ART ALIKE

BYLINE: Marilyn McDevitt Rubin

SECTION: TRAVEL; DOWN THE ROAD; Pg. K-3

LENGTH: 1259 words


If you have out-of-town company traveling here for the holidays, chances are
you'll want to show them some of Pittsburgh. There are no better places to start
than with the city's outstanding museums. Should your sightseeing coincide with
lunch time, here is a brief menu of what seven primary institutions offer to
satisfy their patron's appetites.

OAKLAND

Carnegie Museum of Art; Carnegie Cafe

A year and a half ago the Carnegie Museum of Art turned its ground floor,
full-service restaurant into a casual dining cafe. Service is now faster and
prices more modest, while the food remains every bit as good. Guests now move
through a cafeteria line behind the wall where the two Andy Warhol acrylic and
silk screen portraits of Andrew Carnegie hang. Cafe supervisor Melissa Schindler
and executive chef John Gruver do a good job of making guests comfortable and
feeding them well with a selection of made-on-the-premises food, including
soups, salads, sandwiches, daily specials and desserts. Soups of the day are
$2.25 per cup, $3 per bowl or $4.50 in a bread bowl. Specialty desserts start at
$1.25. Coffee is $1.35 a cup; refills are free.

The cafe is operated by Parkhurst Dining Services, a division of Eat'n Park
Hospitality Corp.

Carnegie Museum of Natural History; Fossil Fuels Brown Bag Lunch and Vending

Also operated by Parkhurst, Fossil Fuels' food is simple and straightforward,
but the path to it is fabulous -- right through the museum's paleontology
collection. I liked the lunch room. Clean, bright and stripped of amenities, it
took me back to my own field trips when I was in fourth grade. Museum staff
members eat here, too. It's my guess they appreciate the low prices.

Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens; Cafe Phipps

Cafe Phipps is to your immediate right as you enter the Conservatory. Circled
with windows looking out to the park and filled with garden tables and chairs,
it is a pretty place to eat. What makes it a good place to eat are the efforts
of Chef Chris Noonan and his staff, all part of the big Burrito group, a
Pittsburgh restaurant and catering operation. Checking it out on a recent
midmorning, a friend and I shared a grilled, pressed panini sandwich filled with
brie cheese and thinly sliced Granny Smith apples spread with honey butter,
$6.50. The combination was the inspiration of the sous-chef, Jenny Jo Patton,
the great-great granddaughter of the famous World War II general.

Chef Noonan is rightly proud of his kitchen staff who, with a help from
restaurant Eleven (the pastry chef there makes the pumpkin cheesecake) turns out
a variety of offerings that includes soups, omelettes, sandwiches, salads and
pastries. He is excited too by the philosophy of the conservatory, focused as it
is on conservation. In use are biodegradeable utensils (made with wheat starch),
plates (from sugar cane stalks), cups (from cornstarch ) and paper products that
can be composted.

"We want to participate with the Phipps in raising consciousness about our
environment," Chef Noonan says.

NORTH SIDE

Carnegie Science Center; Riverview Cafe

The patrons at the Riverview Cafe are largely school children, and considerable
consideration has been given to their preferences. Every category is
represented: salads (prepackaged), a variety of pizzas and grilled food, french
fries and a deli counter offering made-to-order sandwiches. There is also a hot
table offering a different menu each day; when we visited it was roast beef,
mashed potatoes and gravy. Prices are reasonable. Operated by Eat'n Park's
Parkhurst Dining, its desserts include Smiley Cookies, brownies with sprinkles
and taffy apples.

What most impressed me was Bob Virag, the jolly fellow in a big chef's hat who
clearly understands his clientele. A meek 6-year-old ordered a grilled cheese
sandwich, but after Mr. Virag put it on the grill, the girl saw the French fried
chicken strips and changed her mind. She was scolded by the adult with her, but,
noting the child's distress, the chef smiled down at her and said, "We can do
that for you."

The Andy Warhol Museum Cafe

Sean Kelly, a graduate of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y.,
is the chef here. He has previously worked at the Steelhead Grill and Eleven.
Colin Noonan, who assists him, is an artist who, while making his reputation, is
supplementing his income working at a museum he respects. Both have put their
shoulders to the wheel, determined to make this cafe a destination in itself.
Their first act was to scrub down the kitchen and make it shine. Then they sat
down and thought through the menu. Because the basement cafe is operated by
Pittsburgh's big Burrito Group, who also owns Eleven, the soup served at the
Warhol comes straight from the kitchen of that four-star restaurant, and
sandwiches are served on bread fresh from its bakery. The fresh salad greens are
from Penn's Corner Farm Alliance. Quesadillas are also available. The coffee is
fresh, and so are the desserts. Lunch prices are modest. (You can get a grilled
cheese sandwich for $3.)

The Mattress Factory Museum

Having decided five months ago to open its first food service venue, the
Mattress Factory turned for assistance to the Coca Cafe in Lawrenceville, where
the philosophy is fresh, creative food at reasonable prices. The catered lunches
are very good. From more than a dozen menu options, I chose a warm spinach filo
tart (a version of spanakopita made with feta cheese and toasted pine nuts). The
greens in the side salad were fresh and expertly dressed, ($6.50 for the
combination.). My friend ate every scrap of his turkey, ham, bacon, cheddar,
Jarlsberg, lettuce, tomato and mayo, whole wheat wrap. ($6.75). Desserts are
made fresh daily.

STRIP DISTRICT

Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center; Reymers

For Pittsburghers -- both those who live here and those coming home to visit --
this is the place for lunch because of its access to local history. The small
cafe in the corner on the street level of the center is named Reymers, after the
former candy company, famous in Pittsburgh for more than a century. Fortunately,
Reymers Blennd, an orange-lemon flavored drink, is still produced by
Pittsburgh's Turner Dairy. It is a refreshing accompaniment to the famous
chipped-chopped ham sandwiches, inspired by Isaly's. Prepared in the cafe's
kitchen, the sandwiches are served with a Heinz pickle. Meeting Carol Ross, the
Cafe's owner/operator, was like coming home to mom.

After we finished eating, it seemed appropriate to visit the Heinz exhibit on
the center's fourth floor. It begins with displays that explore the company's
early days selling horseradish door-to-door, and continues through to its
products now in global distribution.

POINT BREEZE

The Frick Art & Historical Center; the Cafe at the Frick

With its extensive menu, the Cafe at the Frick resembles a full service
restaurant. Under the leadership of executive chef Patrick Laird, sous-chef Cory
Hughes and pastry chef Dan Deright, the cafe has food that is complex, intensely
flavored and somewhat masculine in its orientation. Tea and high tea are
available, and, as has always been the case, there is an emphasis on desserts.
We tried an individual Fromage Blanc Cheesecake made with very mild goat milk
cheese, produced on the premises, and served in a graham cracker and white
chocolate crust.

Regular cafe hours are 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., but for six Wednesdays during the
holidays (Nov. 30, Dec. 7, 14, 21, 28 and Jan. 4), the Frick Cafe also will be
open for dinner between 5:30 and 8:30 p.m. Reservations are recommended.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marilyn McDevitt Rubin can be reached at 412-263-1749 or
mrubin@post-gazette.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              204 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GAMES GALORE;
WHETHER YOU WANT TO SCORE TOUCHDOWNS, RAISE NINTENDOGS, HUNT GIANT MONKEYS OR
SHOOT AT NAZIS, THERE'S A GAME OR TWO, OR THREE, FOR YOU

BYLINE: CINDI LASH AND JONATHAN D. SILVER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; 2005 ANNUAL GAME GUIDE GAMEDAZE; Pg. W-4

LENGTH: 11016 words


The eyes are bleary. The fingers are gnarled. The backs are sore and hunched
from the hours spent tapping on controllers, steering analog sticks and clicking
keyboards in front of glowing screens.

We're done in, beat, pooped, Quit Game. Only for you, dear readers, would we
devote so many late nights, expend so many brain cells and even risk personal
injury. Those arcade-dance pads can be slippery, you know.

But you're worth the time and effort, video game fans. For the sixth consecutive
year, we've waded through hundreds of titles so you won't have to. Check out our
categories before scribbling your list of holiday wishes or before hitting
stores to please someone special with the gift of a game or genre of their
desire.

We've stalked drooling zombies and potted game-winning slapshots from the blue
line. Shot down aliens from every galaxy and tracked white-tail deer through
snowy Washington County. Crashed vintage planes and creamed hostile armies
present and past.

Seems like we bemoan the industry's emphasis on sequels each year, but yet again
we've zipped through a slew of titles that include numerals. We've also employed
more systems than ever in 2005, thanks to the launch of Sony's versatile,
handheld PlayStation Portable in March and the release this week of Microsoft's
powerful Xbox 360 console.

Wish we could give you a bit more of the skinny about Xbox 360 today, but
Microsoft didn't grant us a sneak peek before the system hit store shelves two
days ago. But we've managed a look at more than half of its launch titles on
other game systems, and we'll have more to offer in coming weeks.

Games are rated from one star (the lowest) to four stars (perfect). The titles
listed here were judged by your weekly game correspondents, with contributions
from PG sports writer Chuck Finder.

Confused by the abbreviations in the reviews? GBA is for Game Boy Advance; GC
for GameCube; PS2 for PlayStation 2; X360 for Xbox 360; X for Xbox; PC for
Personal Computer; PSP for PlayStation Portable and DS for, you guessed it, the
DS. Game prices start at $19.99 for GBA titles and escalate to $59.99 for new
Xbox 360 titles. Most run around $50.

Worried about what the kids are playing in the basement? Peruse the parental
ratings: E for Everyone, the new E10+ for young ones 10 and up, T for Teens and
M for Mature.

It's your turn to play or purchase. Whichever pursuit you choose, good luck with
the eyes, fingers and backs.

TOP 10 PICKS

1. CALL OF CTHULHU: DARK CORNERS OF THE EARTH (2K Games; X; ***1/2; M) -- Call
of Cthul-who? Don't worry if you're not familiar with the disturbing and
hard-to-pronounce mythos created by horror writer H.P. Lovecraft. Fans of the
genre will thrill to this descent into fear that is heavy on atmosphere and low
on light. Seriously -- you'll need to crank the brightness or you won't be able
to see a thing. Despite the darkness, this is a chilling, challenging story of
slithering, shambling creatures, a race of Elder Gods and weird clannish people
in a 1915 Massachusetts town. As Detective Jack Walters, you struggle to uncover
the mystery behind the cult of Dagon and how your memory was wiped clean from a
horrifying experience six years earlier. Conversation and your internal
monologue are a bit stiff, but that's a mere trifle in this sinfully slick
spectral spookfest.

2. CALL OF DUTY 2 (Activision; PC, X, X360; ****; T) -- A terrific triple threat
as World War II plays out from Russian, British and American perspectives across
27 rubble-strewn levels. With its excellent graphics, tense campaigns and
bone-jarring sound -- listen for the Nazi sound trucks spewing propaganda in the
background and watch tanks rolling overhead as you cower in a trench -- this
vintage tale cracks our list of elite wartime shooters. Little interactivity
with the environment and characters who move somewhat woodenly detract slightly
from the immersive experience, but you still feel as if you're under heavy fire
in the combat zone in the most intense wartime adventure this year.

3. F.E.A.R. (Vivendi Universal; PC; ***1/2; M) -- Have no fear, it's our pick
for the best pure shooter of the year. With the crisp graphics of a "Splinter
Cell" and the tension of a "Doom 3," this game boasts the most stunning
lighting, explosions, gunplay and physics of any 2005 title. As a soldier in an
elite special ops squad that deals with paranormal problems, you're dispatched
to hunt down a military madman who is psychically linked to an army of soldiers.
And what's the story with those mysterious ghosts? Your hair will stand on end
as you unravel their secrets. Beautiful slow-mo action, top-notch sound,
excellent pacing and devilishly clever enemies give you your money's worth. Our
only gripe? Too many repetitive level designs and foes. Beware -- it takes up 5
gigs on the hard drive and sometimes stutters even on a state-of-the-art system.

4. MADDEN NFL '06 (EA Games; PS2, X360, X, GC, PC, PSP, DS, GBA; ****; E) -- The
standard bearer for all sports games comes through for yet another year. Choose
your own DNA and build your own player in Superstar Mode, but take our advice
and avoid being sired by the sports agent dad. Quarterback Vision Control endows
pass throwers with better precision. Graphics, sound and gameplay, too, have
been fine-tuned to inject still more realism to a franchise that, year after
year, strives to improve its stats.

5. MYST V: END OF AGES (Ubisoft; PC; ***1/2; E) -- Developer Cyan hits a home
run in this final installment of the outstanding Myst series that began 12 years
ago with puzzles so tough they could make a grown gamer cry. This time around,
you journey to four gorgeous dimensions, or "ages," to collect stone slates that
will help unlock a powerful tablet. Finally, players can freely move through the
stunning scenery, which is so beautiful that you will want to sit back and drink
in the imaginary landscapes. The history is deep, but newcomers shouldn't worry.
Manipulating machinery is still a mainstay of the game, but many of the tough
puzzles partly depend on using a mouse to draw mystical symbols on the slates.
Prima's game guide is a must for developer interviews, game history and help for
the desperate.

6. NINTENDOGS (Nintendo; DS; ****; E) -- Endearing, startlingly lifelike
cyber-pooches coax you into adopting them, follow your commands and wheedle for
your love by shimmying against the DS touch screen. Generations beyond those
simple "Tamagotchi" egg virtual pets, "Nintendogs" look, sound and act so real
that their barks sent our pets into a howling frenzy. But should you forget to
feed, walk or tend them, they'll run off or pine away. And watch out for the
little packets they may leave on the sidewalk.

7. PETER JACKSON'S KING KONG: THE OFFICIAL GAME OF THE MOVIE (Ubisoft; PS2,
X360, X, GC, PC, PSP, DS, GBA; ****; T) -- If you're looking for one all-around
entertaining game this season, you've found it. Play from the perspective of
screenwriter Jack Driscoll, trapped on hideous Skull Island with '30s filmmaker
Carl Denham, actress Ann Darrow and shiphand Carl Hayes. Menacing settings,
nuanced sound that allows you to hear Jack's fearful panting and a horde of
vicious prehistoric flora and fauna will scare you nearly to death before you
even lay eyes on the monkey, let alone play as him. Hang in there -- he's worth
the wait.

8.PSYCHONAUTS (Majesco; X, PS2, PC; ***1/2; T) -- Call us psychic, but we
predicted this would happen! This quirky platformer and its adorable hero Raz,
who crashes the party at a summer camp populated by really weird kids and
counselors with psychic powers, earns our best of show for the genre. It's not
traditional and certainly not for everyone, but that's why we loved it so.
Follow Raz as he flexes his mental muscle and travels through 10 Tim Burtonesque
worlds inside others' minds to defeat an evil scientist who wants to capture
students' brains. Cartoony, clever and clearly a winner.

9. RESIDENT EVIL 4: (Capcom; PS2, GC; ****; M) -- So-cool cop Leon Kennedy
leaves Raccoon City, but not trouble, behind when he sneaks into Europe to track
down the president's kidnapped daughter. Turns out they've got Spanish-speaking
zombies across the sea, and they don't waste time before going after Leon with
pitchforks and other nasty implements. Too bad the developers didn't stick to
more Spanish -- stilted English dialogue can make you wince. But great graphics
and gory combat sequences get your heart going as Leon susses out what's gone
wrong with these surly townfolk. New PS2 version is no mere port of previous
GameCube version but contains added material.

10. SUPER MARIO STRIKERS (Nintendo; GC; ****; E) -- Imagine playing soccer on a
pitch packed with crazies, banana peels and a gorilla lumbering about. This is
how things unfold in "Strikers," which, we think, is what would result from
staging a Super Smash Brothers melee in a sports arena. Mario, Donkey Kong and
buddies cavort when they score, then hurl bananas and turtle shells to trip up
their opponents with startling power-ups. It's irresistible.

ACTION ADVENTURE

ADVENT RISING (Majesco; X, PC; **1/2; T) -- "Halo" rip-off, anyone? Not to
mention partial "Star Wars" clone and "Starship Troopers" copycat. Yep, this one
steals from them all to create a mishmash sci-fi shooter with a personality
disorder. Gideon Wyeth lands smack in the middle of an alien invasion and
eventually unlocks superhuman powers. It's hardly best in show, but huge
cityscapes and colossal running gun battles lightened the load, thankfully,
making this game a not-so-unpleasant pastime.

AEON FLUX (Majesco; PS2, X; ***; T) -- Yeah, we know plenty of folks who will
embark on this third-person journey for one reason alone: gorgeous Charlize
Theron in that skin-tight black suit. We say, "Get a grip, people" and suggest
that they look past the superficial. Spin-off from the futuristic MTV series is
actually pretty gripping, with plenty of weapons and acrobatic moves to master.
And yes, that IS the lovely Charlize's voice and image oozing out of the suit.

COLD WAR (Dreamcatcher; X; **1/2; T) -- If you thought ex-New York Times
reporter Judith Miller had questionable ethics, you haven't met freelance
journalist Matt Carter. He knocks out armed guards, sneaks into Lenin's tomb and
fashions rubber bullets out of plastic bottles. If you can get beyond the absurd
story line that has Carter framed as a CIA assassin by the KGB in a complex
plot, you might enjoy this stealth shooter that relies on an X-ray camera and
fashioning gadgets out of everyday objects. Basically an inferior knock-off of
"Mission Impossible -- Operation Surma."

50 CENT: BULLETPROOF (PS2, X, PSP; Vivendi Universal; ***; M) -- Fabulous
soundtrack crammed with original songs and video may be reasons enough to pick
up this bleak depiction of life on hard urban streets. But a tale drawn from a
near-lethal attack and other events in the life of rap star 50 Cent, along with
an effective selection of weapons and counterkill attacks, will keep you playing
his game as well as his music. Dialogue is as blue as any game or movie we've
ever heard, tempting us to tot up the number of times the F-word cropped up in
simple conversation. No doubt "Bulletproof" soon will be the controversial game
of the year. But 50 Cent's hands-on involvement in developing, starring in,
scoring and convincing other names to join "Bulletproof" has produced a harsh
but riveting adult title.

FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE (EA; GC, PS2, X, PS2; ***; T) -- Hats off to Sir Sean
Connery for returning as the true original 007. But sadly the old boy's raspy
voice seems weakened with age and doesn't deliver the punch it once did. We had
high hopes for this release but were somewhat disappointed that it wasn't more
interesting. Bond flies through levels as if he's got a hellhound on his tail,
as he travels to Istanbul to mix it up with the agents of Octopus. Special
gadgets, check. Dinner jacket, check. Cool cars, check. The driving is great,
the Bond moments are fun, but there's just something lacking here to make this
one worthy of the main man.

GOD OF WAR (Sony; PlayStation 2; ***1/2; M) -- Consider yourself forewarned: Red
stuff flows nigh-constantly in this otherwise stylish journey through ancient
mythology on a quest for Pandora's box. Better hope she's stashed a tourniquet
in there.

GRAND THEFT AUTO: LIBERTY CITY STORIES -- (Rockstar Games; PSP; ***1/2; M) So
you never could understand, despite all that time you devoted to GTA III, how
Liberty City became such a hellhole? Back up a few years and tag along with
mobster Tony Cipriani for an inside view of the Leone crime family. "Liberty
City Stories" packs astonishing action, missions, territory and options into our
favorite PSP title to date. Exhilarating, raunchy and violent and the radio
stations are as amusing as ever.

INDIGO PROPHECY (Atari; X, PS2, PC; ***1/2; M) -- We guarantee you haven't
played anything like this excellent albeit erratic thriller about two cops
chasing down a ritualistic serial killer. In a stroke of genius, you play both
the police and their prey, computer technician Lucas Kane. You know things will
be hairy when the game starts with you as Kane carrying out a murder in a diner
bathroom. Doing away with traditional running and gunning, designers have
players interact and attack by responding to on-screen prompts. If you flub,
you'll miss crucial clues or even die. A cinematic approach, split screens
showing simultaneous events, atmospheric music and strong characters fuse to
create a unique experience. But some dull levels, a mid-game twist that didn't
feel quite right and some truly useless button-pushing knocked this off our top
picks list. Prima's game guide will steer you to the right choices.

KILLER 7 (Capcom; PS2, GC; ***; M) -- Schizophrenic hero and his seven alter
egos crowd a garish, crazy quilt of a game that can't quite figure out if it
intends to be a shooter, stealth adventure or political treatise. Plot isn't
always clear, subtitled Japanese translations verge on goofy and set routes
prohibit exploring. And that annoying ninja sidekick must have a death wish. Yet
"Killer 7's" lurid graphic-novel settings, techno soundtrack and novel premise
deserve props for daring to be different.

KINGDOM UNDER FIRE: HEROES (Phantagram; X; **1/2; M) -- This sequel to last
year's "Kingdom Under Fire: Crusaders" breaks little new ground and returns with
the same frustrating problems: horrific pathfinding for your units, too few
fighting moves for your champion and a dense plot that takes itself too
seriously. Control one of seven heroes who alternate between leading their
armies into pulse-pounding battles with wyverns and giant scorpions and
strategizing on still screens. Combat is uniquely exciting but marred by the
awful heavy metal soundtrack. Hack-and-slashers who don't want to think need not
apply.

METROID PRIME PINBALL (Nintendo; DS; ***1/2; E) -- Space bounty hunter Samus
Aran's trademark move is morphing into a rolling sphere, so it makes sense that
she pops ups in a pinball package with its own rumble pack. Spell Samus' name,
collect trinkets and mow down enemies who abruptly rise up from glowing
Metroid-themed tables. May not be typical Metroid but sure is fun.

RATCHET: DEADLOCKED (Sony; PS2; ***1/2; T) -- Gladiator premise moves this
fourth installment of Insomniac Games' clever series out of the platform realm
and into the combat arena. Ratchet and robot buddy Clank have been captured by
mad media magnate Gleeman Vox, who plans to pit our doe-eyed leading man against
other superheroes in deadly televised brawls. And "Survivor" castaways thought
Guatemala was rough? Snappy dialogue and a wiseacre star are a bit too spicy for
youngsters.

RAZE'S HELL (Majesco; X; ***; M) -- The right way to do a weird shooter. The
helium-voiced, ultra-cute Kewletts set off on a genocide mission with overtones
of Nazi Germany. Raze, an odd-looking humanoid, stumbles upon special powers and
is the only thing that stands in their way. Raze rolls over Kewlett shock
troops, vacuums up their guts, and shoots them with guns that use bug-like
creatures as ammunition. There's no real genre to describe this bizarre game,
but we preferred it to this year's other offbeat offerings, "Worms 4 Mayhem" or
"Serious Sam II."

SHADOW OF THE COLOSSUS (Sony; PS2; ***1/2; T) -- Developed by the same team as
2001's well-regarded "ICO," "Colossus" pits a desperate young man against 16
beasts in an underdog mission to save the life of his dying love. Stripped-down
plot provides mere shreds of a story, but the gulp-inducing Colossi are the
stars here. With little more than a bow and arrow and your wits, you must apply
your puny talents to seek out and vanquish these fearsome giants if you are to
tap a mysterious, healing power.

SPARTAN: TOTAL WARRIOR (Sega; GC, PS2, X; ***; M) -- Return with your shields or
upon them as you take up weapons as a long-haired Spartan, one of history's
toughest opponents. Third-person combat satisfies as Spartans and enemies swarm
over large levels. It's not the prettiest action game, but the premium is on
fun. Your Spartan swings a mean sword, shoots flaming arrows, launches catapults
and unloads boiling oil as he does the bidding of Ares. Fans of Roman and Greek
mythology will feel right at home.

TRUE CRIME: NEW YORK CITY (Activision; PS2, X, GC, PC; ***1/2; M) -- Your
drug-dealing dad is in jail, your detective mentor has been bumped off and
you've turned your back on street life to join the NYPD. Now it's up to you to
unravel the mysterious threads that may connect the two most important men in
your life. "True Crime" shifts coasts and entices a remarkable cast of voice
talent to assist newbie cop Marcus Reed against formidable thugs.

VIEWTIFUL JOE: RED HOT RUMBLE (Capcom; GC; ***; T) -- Joe's story mode is more
robust this time around, hinging on movie idol Captain Blue's search for a
successor. But why hold a normal audition process when a fighting competition
would be so much livelier? Choose to play as Joe, his gal pal Sylvia or other
characters from Joe's last two installments, although a bunch of folks are
locked away at first. Joe pulls away from his platform roots but retains
signature cel-shaded graphics and button-mashing gameplay.

FIGHTING

GENJI: DAWN OF THE SAMURAI (Sony; PS2; ***1/2; M) -- Try not to get beheaded or
maimed while you're marveling at the delicate, warbling birds, the ethereal
flute and drum soundtrack and the drifting cherry blossoms in this samurai
story. Attention to detail is stunning, with elastic faces of characters,
seamless melding of cut scenes into game action and film-style Japanese dialogue
supported by English subtitles. Might have earned a perfect rating if it hadn't
been so short.

LEGEND OF KAY (Capcom; PS2; ***1/2; E) -- Surprisingly thoughtful allegory
masquerades as a kung-fu fighter while gently instructing children about the
folly of totalitarianism. Kay the cat steps up to save his placid village when
power-mad gorillas and their rat allies threaten to invade. Kiddies too young
for "Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks" will be so enthralled with Kay's martial-arts
moves that they'll never know they're learning something.

MORTAL KOMBAT: SHAOLIN MONKS (Midway; X, PS2; **1/2; M) -- Call it Mortal Kombat
Lite, little grasshopper. Dumbed down for those who hate remembering endless
button combinations, the latest Mortal Kombat game makes pulling off flashy
martial-arts moves easier than ever. Play as Lui Kang or Kung Lao, champions of
the Mortal Kombat tournament, as their school is ambushed by demonic hordes.
Minor irritations pile up to make this a must-have only for true fans, but worth
a rental any day. The single-player campaign makes it impossible to get all the
hidden goodies, so it works best if you play with a friend.

SOUL CALIBUR III (Namco; PS2; ***; T) -- A trio of new characters join tormented
souls who vie for the coveted swords. Beautiful graphics and exhilarating combo
moves enhance crazy fights in long-overdue sequel. Stringing it all together is
a story that's a tad flowery but generally makes sense. Character creation mode
is amusing, allowing you to dream up and send forth your own fantasy fighter.

THE WARRIORS (Rockstar; PS2, X; ***; M) -- It's a vintage Rockstar game --
profane, violent and hardly PC -- but believe it or not, there's no driving.
Based on the 1979 cult movie about a Brooklyn gang called the Warriors who are
wrongly accused of murdering a gang leader and must battle their way back home,
the game starts months before the assassination. Fisticuffs and felony carry the
weight here, as you switch among gang members who wield bats, bottles and even
crutches to break windows and heads during rip-offs and rumbles. More linear
than Grand Theft Auto and not as interesting, "The Warriors" still allows plenty
of room to roam alleys and rooftops in search of loot and enemy gangbangers.
Faithful to the film and devilishly fun.

PLATFORM

PAC-MAN WORLD 3 (Namco; GC, PS2, PSP, X; ***; E) -- Who doesn't love the big,
yellow guy? It's Pac's 25th birthday, but before he can down his cake, he's
transported into another world by the evil Erwin. Pac must team up with ghosts
Pinky and Clyde to get home, save the Pac world and enjoy his just desserts. If
you get a charge out of playing a canary-colored ball with mittens, boots and a
big smile, you can't miss with this fun platformer. Pac unleashes his groovy
moves, such as wall jumping, pole swinging and -- we are not making this up --
butt bouncing to beat a motley crew of enemies. Atrocious dialogue will make you
cover your ears, but fun levels will more than compensate. As a bonus, the
original arcade game is included!

SHADOW THE HEDGEHOG (Sega; PS2, GC, X; **1/2; E10+) --Tweaked and twisted,
"Shadow" is a sequel of sorts to Sega's signature "Sonic" franchise, but we're
not sure we approve of where he's going. Black, spike-armored hedgehog totes an
AK-47 in what appears to be a heartburn-induced bad dream, where gun battles
erupt in stark industrial neighborhoods. Purists will abhor so much tampering.
Parents should beware that Shadow is definitely the black hedgehog of this clan.

SLY 3: HONOR AMONG THIEVES (Sony; PS2; ***; E10+) -- Sticky-fingered raccoon
hunts his family's lost fortune by retracing the footsteps of his larcenous
father and the legendary Cooper gang. Witty 3-D platformer has some surprisingly
grim plot elements, but its heart and motives are in the right place. New
characters and mini-games keep the franchise fresh. Some holiday advice from
yours truly: Toss out those migraine-inducing 3-D glasses. You're welcome.

TAK: THE GREAT JUJU CHALLENGE (THQ; DS, GBA, GC, PS2, X; ***; E) -- Tak, a
shaman's apprentice, teams up with Lok, his tribe's bluff blowhard, in a
tournament to gain the favor of a goddess. There's no "i" in team, meaning these
two have to mesh their different styles to beat the Grammazons, Black Mist and
Jibba Jabbas in this predictable but pleasant platformer. It's just what you'd
expect -- lush scenery, plenty of jumping and maximum silliness.

TORK: PREHISTORIC PUNK (Ubisoft; X; ***; E) -- Tight, fun platformer that pits
the plucky Tork and his bone-busting bolos against the machinations of the man
who kidnapped his father. Tork is a shapeshifter who can turn into a yeti, an
armadillo or a squirrel if he gets mad enough in this pleasant detour into
prehistory. Hop over lava rivers and dodge avalanches as you collect crystals
and sidestep evil statues. It doesn't have the humor of a "Tak" game, but
soothing music provides a nice accompaniment to the tight levels. One star off
for the camera, which doesn't rotate and leads to many deadly missteps.

WORMS 4 MAYHEM (Majesco; PC, X; **; T) -- Talk about a niche audience. If you've
ever wanted to play as a worm who wears tams or sports an afro and wields a
variety of Looney Tunes weapons, you've come to the right place. That's right,
you take control of a team of wriggling creatures who look more like finger
puppets than live bait in this turn-based game in which each side tries to blow
the other to kingdom come. Not worth what it costs, but fun in a sick sort of
way as a rental. Use baseball bats, banana bombs, air strikes, homing missiles,
exploding sheep and more to rid a variety of destructible environments of the
tiny terrors.

PUZZLES/STRATEGY

AGE OF EMPIRES III (Microsoft; PC; ***; T) -- Nice overhead graphics that depict
flying cannonballs, shimmering seas and crumbling masonry bring this real-time
strategy game to life. But combat seems to overshadow tactics as players race to
build armies big enough to beat the computer. A new wrinkle is the establishment
of a "home city" that players can use to send resources and troops to the
battlefield. The game's story line follows Scottish knight Morgan Black, who is
dispatched to the New World on a quest for a mythical treasure. The game's
artificial intelligence is not so great when it comes to directing units, sound
is spotty and the zoom function is worthless, making this title a solid but not
stellar RTS.

ANIMAL CROSSING: WILD WORLD (Nintendo; DS; ***; E) -- Quirky critters from a Top
Pick of 2002 form new communities so handheld players, too, can obsess over
building homes, forging friendships and exploring in real time. Use one screen
to make selections, send or access messages on the other and catch fish with the
DS stylus. Welcome friends to visit your 'burg or 'burb by way of your DS
wireless connection, but don't worry about intruders or thieves -- only invited
guests may stop by.

BLACK & WHITE 2 (EA; PC; ***; T) -- This clever "god game" is still all about
bringing up baby. As an omniscient deity who appears to your needy villagers as
a disembodied hand, you do many of your good works -- and bad -- through an
oversized animal on two legs. Choose from a cow, a gorilla, a lion or a wolf to
raise as the all-powerful pet that plays, poops and tries to please its master
by exercising its independence. With few notable changes over the original, we
see little need for old hands to shell out for this sequel unless you want more.
Newcomers should be prepared for an excellent game packed with various tasks and
quests, but one with a steep learning curve, lengthy tutorials, frustrating
camera controls and endless resource management.

EMPIRE EARTH II (Sierra; PC; ***1/2; T) -- Bigger is better, as this real-time
strategy sequel literally expands on the original by offering larger maps, more
units and more than a dozen civilizations. Although skimpy on the graphics, this
game gives players the thrill of taking your society from nomads to
nanotechnology.

LUMINES (Ubisoft; PSP; ****; E) -- Glowing puzzle package might present at first
as a "Tetris" rip-off for Sony's fledgling handheld system. So just try to quit
once you've started shuffling those frenetically falling blocks in this instant
classic. Even harder? Staying focused when background silhouettes begin to shift
and morph, turning the screen into a swirling kaleidoscope.

METAL GEAR ACID (Konami; PSP; ***1/2; M) -- We had mixed feelings about sardonic
commando Solid Snake's switch to turn-based card battling when he showed up on
PSP. But check out this handheld entry in the successful series if only to get a
gander at the most troublesome dolls since "Wait Until Dark." Strong story and
emphasis on strategy, along with a dollop of inside-baseball humor, keep "Acid"
from straying too far from "Metal Gear's" formula.

SID MEIER'S CIVILIZATION IV (2K Games; PC; ***1/2; E10+) -- A terrific strategy
game spanning the length of human civilization but one that moves at a slower
pace than "Empire Earth II" because of its turn-based nature. With no need for
resource gathering or building massive armies, fleets or firepower, players can
concentrate on settling their world instead of constantly worrying about the
enemy's next attack. However, those differences sanitized our gaming experience
a bit. We missed the sounds of picks and saws, and yearned for guiding our fleet
of galleons to war.

TRACE MEMORY (Nintendo; DS; ***; T) -- Gamin-faced orphan Ashley Robbins is
plagued with sinister dreams about her slain parents in this rare, intriguing
title aimed at girls. Then on her 14th birthday, Ashley discovers that her
scientist father is likely still alive. Now she must travel to creepy Blood
Island to sort out why her parents disappeared and what happened to their memory
experiments. We'd be wondering why they never bothered to show up for a decade's
worth of soccer games.

WE KATAMARI (Namco; PS2; ***1/2; E) -- Flying fruit, airborne pandas and an
egotistical king who's wiped out the cosmos on a whim. Confused so far? Nah,
anyone can roll a ball, which is all this bizarre but charming title requires.
Form ever-larger balls of all kinds of objects to be used to replace the planets
and stars. Avoid bugs, keys, clothes pins and everyday hazards that threaten to
dismember your unwieldy sphere. Don't even try to make sense of the soundtrack,
which mingles the King's scratchy squeaks, finger-popping swing tunes and
vaguely Elizabethan chants. Just try the game. Really.

RACING

187 RIDE OR DIE (Ubisoft; X, PS2; **; M) -- We call it "187 Ride or Cry." This
arcade racer that spits out swear words as much as an Escalade guzzles gas
follows Buck, a thug who works for crime boss Dupree. He represents through his
car, racing against other bad guys. Not content to just drive well, Buck pulls
out the big guns and tries to blow away his competition. Bling, bling, blah,
blah.

CRASH TAG TEAM RACING (Vivendi Universal; PS2, X, GC; ***; E) -- Crash racing
karts into each other on the track and what do you get? Not a heap of wheels and
bolts, but some of the wackiest, armed and dangerous vehicles you've never
imagined. Crash meanders through an amusement park, gathering gems and coins,
spinning over platforms and jumping behind the wheel to race in some
attractions. Whimsical touches: cranky ninja penguins and an announcer who
channels Howard Cosell.

FLATOUT (Vivendi Universal; PC, PS2, X; **; T) -- Drivers who scream as they're
ejected through their windshields are the gruesome high point to this thoroughly
pedestrian racer. Wreck, race and wreck again through 36 tracks in five
washed-out environments that offer nothing we haven't seen before.

JAK X: COMBAT RACING (Sony; PS2; ***; T) -- Yet another former platformer
evolves into a combat clash, this time set in a race-or-die demolition derby. A
Jabba the Hut doppelganger tricks Jak and Daxter into racing by poisoning them
and withholding the antidote. Back story doesn't amount to much, but racy
chatter in this "Mad Mex" cousin warrants keeping it out of earshot of the
under-12 set.

MARIO KART DS (Nintendo; DS; ***1/2; E) -- Old pals at the wheel, vibrant new
and revamped tracks from past "Mario Kart" games and a shot at beating DS owners
all over the world should appeal to tykes and 'tweens. Silly LOL visuals are
reminiscent of old N64 title, but this "Mario Kart" also makes use of Nintendo's
new easy-to-use wireless connector. Share your game with up to seven other DS
players, or challenge other players in huge online events. No Wi-Fi at home?
Good chance the nearest Golden Arches is one of 6,000 that now are Wi-Fi enabled
and Mario-friendly.

NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTED (EA Games; PS2, X360, X, GC, PC, PSP, DS, GBA; ***;
T) -- Edge to the top of the Blacklist by conquering the dodgy underground world
of street racing while avoiding cops who itch to take you in. Build up your rap
sheet by outrunning the pesky police in wicked urban pursuits. As you'd expect
from this racing franchise, custom-car features offer myriad options to jazz up
the inside and outside of your ride. Steering is blessedly improved from last
year's touchy "Underground," where we spent way too much time careening from
side to side before crashing.

ROLE-PLAYING GAMES

DUNGEON SIEGE II (Microsoft; PC; ***1/2; T) -- Return to the land of Aranna
wielding swords and spells as you turn against your onetime boss, the evil
Valdis, in this sequel to 2002's top RPG. Freeze the action and zoom in to see
lightning bolts and fireballs in mid-air as they target your foes. Rotate the
camera for a top-down view to better plan your attack. There's little not to
love in this terrific dungeon crawler.

JADE EMPIRE (Microsoft; X; ***; M) -- BioWare, the group that created the
outstanding "Baldur's Gate" series of fantasy role-playing games, dreamed up
this Asian-inspired martial arts game that's part RPG, part action/adventure.
But compared to BioWare's other fare, this offering just doesn't cut the sushi.
You begin as an orphan at a martial-arts school, and you quickly learn your
destiny and the fate of the world are intertwined. It's fun, fast and
philosophical, but not as deep or satisfying as the developer's former
sword-and-sorcery work.

KINGDOM OF PARADISE (Sony; PSP; ***; T) -- Challenge the formidable Kirin clan
as Shinbu, a warrior who overcomes his pariah past with martial-arts prowess.
Revel in the vast choice of combat moves, sharp cinematics and convincing
scenery. But those pluses don't overcome truly dopey dialogue. Any illusion of
living in feudal Japan shatters when Shinbu starts uttering "ain't," "betcha"
and too much current-day jargon.

THE LORD OF THE RINGS: TACTICS (EA Games; PSP; ***1/2 stars; T) -- Battle with
classic turn-based gameplay to complete your quest across Middle-earth. Revisit
sites from LOTR lore while leading The Fellowship or the Minions of Mordor.
Graphics are quite good for a handheld, and you'll appreciate the use of film
clips and the detail that distinguishes tiny faces of Gandalf, Aragorn, Frodo
and the Balrog.

LOST IN BLUE (Konami; DS; ***; E) -- Rub sticks until fire blossoms. Collect
coconuts or construct rude tools to hunt and fish. Spit out that nasty seaweed
-- it won't nourish you, no matter how desperately hungry you are after being
shipwrecked on a nameless dot of rock. Travel the island as a boy or girl, both
of whom need courage, stamina and smarts to figure out how to stay alive out in
the blue.

MARIO & LUIGI: PARTNERS IN TIME (Nintendo; DS; ***; E) -- Our plumbers plunge
through a hole in time to help their younger, droller selves restore peace to
the Mushroom Kingdom. "Partners" makes good use of the DS's screens, plunking a
useful map on top and unspooling the action on the bottom.

SHOOTERS

AREA-51 (Midway; X, PS2, PC; *1/2; M) -- Ugly to its core, this dull, dreary
shooter pits a government special operative against a rampant infection that has
mutated the human inhabitants of the Area 51 facility. David Duchovny of
"X-Files" fame serves up the vocals. His monotone reflects the one-note style of
this forgettable flop that should be buried in the New Mexico desert.

CABELA'S OUTDOOR ADVENTURES (Activision; PS2; ***; T) -- Outdoors giant Cabela's
kicks off its intended franchise by plopping its deer hunter in the rolling
hills of ... our own back yard of Washington County. Join an ongoing hunt in
open season or plan your own woodsy foray with a guide. Love it or hate it,
depending on your views on real-life hunting and fishing. But from a strict
gameplay standpoint, we admire the emphasis on following safety rules but hate
the weird way our hunter's torso seems to lurch and swivel before his legs start
walking.

DOOM 3 (Activision; X, PC; ****; M) -- From the visuals to the pacing to the
music to the fear factor, a near-perfect shooter in every regard. A scientific
outpost on Mars becomes a portal to hell when experiments in teleportation go
awry. You're a marine for the Union Aerospace Corp. who penetrates the gory
secrets of the blood-spattered facility until you reach the final confrontation
in hell itself. For a first-person shooter boasting marvelous munitions, the
game also offers humor and humanity in the form of e-mails, videos and audio
logs you scoop up on the way. Not for the faint of heart but a must-have for
most. Debuting in 2005 for Xbox, it would've made our Top Picks had it not
appeared last year on PC.

DOOM 3: RESURRECTION OF EVIL (Microsoft; PC, X; ***; M) -- It's back to Mars two
years after the events of "Doom 3," and clearly the Marines of the future have
never heard the expression "Once bitten, twice shy." Responding to a beacon as
part of a research team, you plunge into the depths of the Red Planet only to
encounter hordes of chilling hellspawn. Dr. Betruger has plans for you! Anyone
yearning for a continuation of the original with a few new weapons tossed in
can't afford to miss this disturbing sequel.

FAR CRY: INSTINCTS (Ubisoft; X; **; M) -- Our cry: Keep a far distance from this
garish, dull shooter. As Jack Carver, a dive boat captain chaperoning a
photographer in the Pacific, you suddenly fall under assault by a helicopter
gunship that blows your ride to smithereens. From there, the chase is on as a
South African mercenary comes after you with everything he's got. As you run for
survival, you pick up weapons and superpowers and a bad case of been here-done
that. Don't say we didn't warn you.

GUN (Activision; GC, PC, PS2, X360, X; ***; M) -- This cinematic take on the
Wild West marries the gunslingers of yesteryear with a bit of the free-roaming
element of today's Grand Theft Auto. A solid shooter thanks to decent voice
acting, the best horseback riding we've seen and a distinctive visual style. But
the game mechanics can't match the designers' ambitions, leaving you with an
arcade-style shoot-'em-up that doesn't completely satisfy. PETA supporters
beware, buffalo and wolves get trampled beneath your mount's hooves. Don't miss
the Kris Kristofferson vocals as a grizzled old cowpoke.

INFECTED (Majesco; PSP; ***; M) -- Don't be fooled when you spot Santa Claus
roaming through this zombie shooter. He's seeking little tykes, 'tis true, but
he plans to gobble them up with his figgy pudding. As Officer Stevens of New
York's Bio Squad, you track virus-laden zombies through Central Park, Times
Square, Chinatown and the subway system. "Infected" is a dark parody of old
zombie films, and its mock newscasts can make you chuckle. But it's jammed with
profanity, gore and bloodshed and is completely unsuitable for children.

PARIAH (Groove Games; X, PC; **; M) -- Derivative at best, this standard sci-fi
shooter puts you in the shoes of Dr. Jack Mason as he escorts an infected,
cryogenically frozen prisoner aboard a spaceship. The ship is shot down on
Earth, the prisoner thaws and doc gets a nasty case of the virus. So what? We
didn't care after a while, and neither will you. Go play "Halo" for the
thousandth time.

QUAKE 4 (Activision; PC; ***1/2; M) -- It's "Doom" deja vu, not that we're
complaining. Id Software, designer of "Doom 3," goes to work in the latest
"Quake" title. It looks, feels and plays like its shooter cousin, but the
graphics aren't quite as crisp. No PDAs, videos or complex machinery here, but
there are vehicles you can take for a spin. As a spaceborne marine and member of
the elite Rhino Squad, you and your mates invade the evil alien world Stroggos
with big guns and bad attitudes. Featuring frenetic frag action below ground and
planetside, "Quake 4" is a must for fans of "Doom 3" or any other offworld
first-person shooters.

SERIOUS SAM II (2K Games; PC, X; **1/2; M) -- A tongue-in-cheek first-person
shooter that thrusts musclebound Sam Stone into a quest to save the universe by
retrieving pieces of a broken medallion. His goal: to defeat the evil Mental.
Silliness abounds in the cartoonish environments that are painted from a palette
of vivid colors. Sam is equipped with quite the arsenal, which he unhesitatingly
unleashes on swarms of oddball foes. The offbeat sense of humor didn't tickle
our funnybone. Recommended only for fans of the original.

STAR WARS: BATTLEFRONT II (LucasArts; PS2; X; PC; ***1/2; T) -- Sprawling sequel
sends you onto the field of combat in the role of Luke, Han, Leia or other
characters from the galactic saga. Join the troops or build your own fleet, then
swarm in noisy, deadly engagements over Endor, Hoth and Tatooine. Online play
furthers the sensation of piloting your fighter into the midst of space
skirmishes to decide the fates of the Empire and Republic.

SPORTS

BLITZ: THE LEAGUE (Midway; PS2, X; ***; M) -- Hear us, parents: Profanity is
found in both music and trash-talking audio, and gameplay is closer to violence
than football. The Main Menu provides a harbinger, with its portrait of a locker
room with a large amount of blood on the floor. Then there's the segment where a
gruesomely injured combatant gets Juiced by a spinal injection and returns to
play. Makes you feel all warm and fuzzy, huh?

FIFA SOCCER 06/FIFA SOCCER 06 ROAD TO 2006 FIFA WORLD CUP (EA Sports; PS2, X360,
X, PC, PSP, DS; ***1/2; E) --The crowd appears a bit stiff, but each match
otherwise appears as polished as a live-TV broadcast in this game. The bottom of
the screen contains a colorful and easy-to-read graphic where the players are on
the pitch. Twenty-one leagues, 10,000 players, new tackling and dribbling and
Manager mode all make this the virtual standard in the sport the rest of the
world calls football. World Cup version is among first titles for X 360.

GRETZKY NHL06 (Sony; PS2, PSP; ***; E) -- My, how the Wayne Gretzky behind the
bench looks like he's put on a few pounds. But on the ice, he's trim and tall,
towering over every other player (he's 5-10, not 6-10). Yes, the Great One can
join your team, if you amass the correct points. Play here also is a bit
illogical, again rosters are outdated, and for some reason there are hardly any
players on the benches. For those young NHLers who were exiled during the
lockout, you can still play in the AHL in this game.

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 2K5 WORLD SERIES EDITION (2KSports; PS2, X; ***; E) --
Two-disc package -- the other disc is a DVD of "greatest moments" in Series
history, most of them Dodgers moments -- actually was based on play through
mid-August and released in mid-October. Pennant Fever Mode is designed to favor
2005's hot teams, but our virtual season ended with the Yankees winning the
World Series in five games over Philadelphia, which didn't even make the real
playoffs. Weirder still, the Pirates updated roster included Chris Duffy and
Zach Duke, but also long-gone pitcher Todd Ritchie and three fictional left
fielders: Vladimir Norton, Thurman Hurt and Chris DeBenedetti.

NBA LIVE 06 (EA Sports; PS2, X360, X, PC, PSP, GC; ***1/2; E) -- If you or your
resident gamer is handy with multiple buttons, then dunk away. This edition's
updated Freestyle Superstars mode, which announcer Marv Albert says will allow
you to "express your reality," turns you into a High-Flyer, Playmaker,
Sharpshooter or Stopper. Retro NBA Live 95 is here, too (sooo last decade), but
overall this game is still a step ahead of "NBA 2K6," which has a shade better
gameplay but loses points for going commercial (the insert-car-brand-here
matchup of the game).

NBA 06 FEATURING THE LIFE, VOL. 1 (Sony; PS2, PSP; **1/2; E) -- This is an
intriguing idea, wrapping sports inside the theme of a movie that takes you, as
a prospect, through the draft process while giving you a game tutorial. It's a
cool look, and NBA gameplay itself is neat, even down to the on-court audio
("I'm open, man"), but it's also slow to load and the movie is ploddddddding.
Give the makers a couple of years to fine tune it, and "The Life" could be a
champion.

NCAA MARCH MADNESS 06 (EA Sports; PS2, X; ***, E) -- Like NHL 06, this game
includes the old-school NCAA video mode; as omnipresent announcer Dick Vitale
would say, "You've come a long way, bay-bee." This glossy game -- which provides
details down to the reflections in the polished hardwood court -- added a
two-stick defensive lockdown mode. Relive great hoop moments from the past, like
the '79 title game between Magic Johnson and Larry Bird. In our simulated
season, mighty Connecticut started 3-6 and West Virginia -- playing a schedule
that wasn't close to reality -- moved up the polls with victories, including a
110-106 triumph at Pitt.

NHL06 (EA Sports; PS2, X360, X, GC, PC; **1/2; E) -- It gets *1/2 for looks, and
* for including the NHL Hockey '94 game in its modes -- man, does that sucker
look like virtual cave drawings now (back when there were Winnipeg Jets). Back
to the future: Rosters were quickly outdated, the Penguins' ranks including
Sergei Gonchar and Andre Roy, but not Ziggy Palffy, John LeClair, Jocelyn
Thibault and Sidney Crosby. Play is illogical, players (and pucks) hard to
control, and there are no offsides or icing. Sticks cut through players,
although luckily nobody gets hurt.

NHL 2K6 (2K Sports; PS2, X360, X; ***; E) -- Here's a game for you budding
Scotty Bowman geniuses: full of complexity, nuance and intricate control
movements. Play your goalie with the puck, without the puck, while holding the
puck. You can fight -- yep, that's what hockey's all about -- in the classic,
intermediate and advanced categories. Power-play and penalty-kill
formations/systems, forecheck, backcheck, breakout -- it's all here. It has the
second-best looking action, behind Gretzky, and you can easily add free agents.

SSX ON TOUR (EA SPORTS; PS2, X, GC, PSP; ***1/2; T) -- Rougher and ruder than
its older brothers, new addition to the "SSX" family dispatches you to the
performing circuit to flaunt skiing or boarding skills. Polish tricks, perform
mini-missions and earn money, medals and fame when you've picked up the mountain
masters' moves. New courses and tricks, but why no online competition?

TIGER WOODS PGA TOUR 06 (EA Sports; PS2, X360, X, PC, PSP; ****; E) -- It's
amazing how a game so big and sprawling -- after all, they are in real life
lengthening courses to combat Tiger -- can translate so well to this small
screen. Tiger looks realistic, courses look lush, and our strokes look
positively dreadful. The analog putting update doesn't help us duffers, but you
can tell this game could become addictive.

TONY HAWK'S AMERICAN WASTELAND (Activision; PS2, X360, X, GC; ***; T) -- Chase
your Dogtown dreams, help to re-create the best-ever skate park and win the
approval of Tony himself. Hone your skating and BMX skills as you explore L.A.,
complete missions and align yourself with other skaters to restore the trashed
park. Load times have been shaved, but could that be why "Wasteland" feels so
short?

TOP SPIN (2K Sports; PS2, X, PC; **1/2 stars; E) -- Use the EyeToy camera and
you can play the pros: Roger Federer, Carlos Moya, Maria Sharapova and Venus
(but not Serena) Williams. Gameplay isn't as advanced as other sports titles,
but it looks crisp and professional. The old tennis player of the house found
the controls difficult, which explains him winning one point in three games.

SUPERHEROES

BATMAN BEGINS (EA Games; PS2, X, GC, GBA; ***; T) -- Engaging stealth tie-in to
summer blockbuster draws from film cut scenes and plot to good effect but also
stands on its own. Film stars loan voices and faces, and excellent sound
throughout brings added realism. Too bad the Batmobile turned out to be more
bummer than Hummer.

THE INCREDIBLE HULK: ULTIMATE DESTRUCTION (Sierra; X, PS2; GC; ***; T) -- What
the shark is to killing, the Incredible Hulk is to destroying: perfect. You'll
hoot and howl as old Jade Jaws unleashes his array of patented moves, from sonic
claps to mile-high leaps, as he skillfully obliterates literally everything in
sight. Buildings, tanks, helicopters, puny humans -- nothing is sacred. One of
our favorite superhero releases in years, though the graphics are rather basic
and the gameplay is one-dimensional. If you love the idea of running up
buildings, leaping across streets and then pounding the daylights out of
everything you meet, you should buy this title. Hulk smash!

MARVEL NEMESIS: RISE OF THE IMPERFECTS (EA Games; PS2, X, GC, PSP, DS; **1/2
stars; T) -- Ah, the satisfaction of stepping into the shoes of The Thing and
tossing cars, buses and other superheroes to smash destructible environments all
over the place. Comic-book caper looks and feels like the real deal. But the
glee it delivers is tempered by too much clipping, repetitive levels and a
tedious single-player mode.

THE PUNISHER (THQ; X, PS2, PC; **; M) -- Frank Castle, aka The Punisher, is the
dark underbelly of the Marvel Comics universe. He's bad, he's brooding and he's
got a big skull on his chest. Castle uses guns, fists and even electric drills
in endless interrogation sequences as he takes on the mob in this violent
third-person shooter. No one makes it out alive, and neither will you if you
play until the end.

ULTIMATE SPIDER-MAN (Activision; X, PS2, GC; **1/2; T) -- Webhead's back, but
it's a younger, cooler Peter Parker who inhabits the spider suit. Based on
Marvel Comics' Ultimate line, which tweaks comics continuity to present
variations on venerable characters, this game pits Spidey against arch-nemesis
Venom, a humanoid whose head is one big jaw. Friends and foes from the Marvel
universe make guest appearances as you swing and clamber through the cel-shaded
graphics of a virtual New York City. Repetition and dull attacks drag this down,
but the upside is getting to play as both the wall-crawler and Venom.

X-MEN LEGENDS II: RISE OF APOCALYPSE (Activision; X, PS2, GC, PC; **1/2; T) --
Patrick Stewart's silky smooth voice-acting aside, this sequel based on the
top-selling Marvel Comics mutant superheroes left our genes feeling faded. There
are DNA-fueled superpowers galore, as the X-Men and the Brotherhood of Evil
Mutants -- 16 in all -- split up in teams of four to fight the ancient scourge
known as Apocalpyse. But the only superpower that the look, plot and play of
this title evoked in us was a super yawn.

SURVIVAL/HORROR

CASTLEVANIA: CURSE OF DARKNESS (Konami; PS2; **1/2; M) -- Venerable vampire
franchise slips a bit with the introduction of a new hero, Hector, whose loss of
his lover sours him against former mentor Dracula. Confusing plot and repetitive
levels disappoint, and we're still trying to figure out exactly what constitutes
an "innocent devil."

CASTLEVANIA: DAWN OF SORROW (Konami; DS; ***1/2; T) -- Handheld version picks up
after 2003's "Aria of Sorrow," once again pitting Soma Cruz against Drac and his
cult. Sketch magic seals on the DS's touch screen to overpower enemies or employ
its wireless connection to trade captured souls with other players.

COLD FEAR (Ubisoft; X, PS2, PC; **1/2; M) -- A better camera and more save
points would have done wonders for this clever horror game set on a whaler amid
an Arctic storm. As the boat sloshes from side to side, the angry sea spewing
over the gunwales, your Coast Guard hero squares off against suspicious Russian
sailors and an alien species that has overrun the ship. The environments feel
authentic -- cold, wet and wind-whipped. Don't forget to climb to the crow's
nest for a great view. An offbeat and intriguing entry into the annals of horror
games, but one not worth buying.

DARKWATCH (Capcom; X, PS2; **1/2; M) -- Cowboys and the undead are a goofier
combination than Felix and Oscar, but it works in this quirky Western shooter
set in the 1800s. Gunslinger and outlaw Jericho Cross picks the wrong train to
rob and unleashes the evil Lazarus Malkoth. Cross begins to turn into a vampire,
but he gets help from a secret society known as the Darkwatch. Inventive enemies
and tons of guns make the game modestly enjoyable. For gun-slingers looking for
a twist.

EVIL DEAD: REGENERATION (THQ; X, PS2, PC; ***; M) -- If you loved the "Evil
Dead" movies with slapstick anti-hero actor Bruce Campbell, you'll love this
humorous horror tale. Campbell's one-armed character "Ash" and his fistful of
boomstick (a trusty shotgun) team up with a pint-sized, foul-mouthed, undead
know-it-all named Sam to battle evil Deadites. The blood flows freely and so do
the one-liners. Join us!

THE SUFFERING: TIES THAT BIND (Midway; X, PS2; PC; **1/2; M) -- He's mad, he's
bad and he's back in Baltimore. Say hello to Torque, an ex-con who can turn into
a monster when he gets ticked off enough. And, boy, is that often. Gory to the
max, this sequel follows Torque on a quest to uncover the machinations of the
man who set him up and caused his family's murder. Gratuitous violence rules as
players maneuver through squalid settings. Basically a rehash of the original.

WAR GAMES

BATTLEFIELD 2/BATTLEFIELD 2: MODERN COMBAT (EA Games; PS2, X, PC; ***1/2; T) --
Terrific follow-up to last year's "Battlefield 1942" shifts the field to
modern-day Kazakhistan in single-player campaigns or online contests for up to
24 soldiers. Combat zones are gigantic, graphics and sound are stellar and
players can switch seamlessly between onscreen characters. Propaganda may
influence the outcome of this new world war, so think fast and stay sharp in
this thoroughly absorbing venture. PC version is best, but console versions are
well worth the time.

BROTHERS IN ARMS: ROAD TO HILL 30 (Ubisoft; X, PS2, PC; ***1/2; M) -- Cinematic,
dramatic and rat-a-tat-tatic, this solid World War II game takes shooter tactics
to a new level. Players can freeze the action and tilt the camera to plan how to
flank and suppress entrenched German troops. While an interesting departure from
most shooters, the strategy is hardly necessary since common sense will usually
do the trick. That said, you'll grow fond of Sgt. Matt Baker and his buddies
thanks to the top-shelf voice acting and gripping story line. History buffs and
war gamers can't go wrong.

CLOSE COMBAT: FIRST TO FIGHT (2K Games; X, PC; ***; T) -- Excellent visuals but
spotty sound serve as counterpoints to this generally solid squad-based war game
that follows a four-man Marine squadron through 2006 Beirut. Authentic tactics
form the mainstay of this urban-combat game, but wooden human animations and
repetitive tactics whittled down our rating.

CONFLICT GLOBAL TERROR (2K Games; PC, PS2, X; **1/2; M) -- It's squad-based
combat as an elite unit is ambushed upon dropping into a hot zone. Help them
fight their way out of a prison compound in the jungle as they take on tanks and
tons of well-armed captors. Missions take you around the globe, from Colombia to
South Korea to Kashmir. We found our squad's AI erratic and the controls
burdensome; forget about issuing the delayed orders. Limited save points vexed
us. Levels are good and big, the environments are fun and the armaments are
plentiful.

DELTA FORCE: BLACK HAWK DOWN (Novalogic; PS2, X; **; T) -- Unremarkable shooter
based on U.S. action in Somalia in 1993. Our advice: Rent the gripping movie of
the same name, based on the book detailing the botched American effort to
capture a warlord in Mogadishu.

HEROES OF THE PACIFIC (Ubisoft; PC, PS2, X; ***; T) -- Every year brings a
flight sim, and 2005's solid entry takes place in the Pacific Theater during
World War II. As Lt. William Crowe, your brother is killed in the attack on
Pearl Harbor and you have one big axe to grind. Take to the skies in one of 36
aircraft to strafe, dive-bomb and torpedo enemy aces and warships into oblivion.
History buffs will thrill to 26 missions and dogfights in skies dark with yawing
fighters. We loved the human element, vintage comic-book look and variety.
Hardcore pilots will be bored, but average Joes will appreciate the easy
controls.

SNIPER ELITE (Namco; PS2, X; ***; M) -- At first we groaned. A sniper game? How
boring. Then we played. And we were impressed. Tense sniper action is the
hallmark of this tale that takes place at the end of World War II in a
devastated Berlin. As an elite American sniper who speaks fluent German, you go
deep behind enemy lines to prevent Stalin from retrieving Germany's A-bomb
secrets. Crawl and stake out the high ground as you use your rifle to pick off
enemies from afar. Adjust for gravity, wind and your breathing before squeezing
the trigger. Pistols, machine guns and grenades are also included to fight back
if the enemy gets the drop on you. Patience is a must as you play through 28
excellent missions. Repetitive strategy, a balky camera and mediocre graphics
detract, but the feeling of being on your own in a war-torn city outweighs the
bad.

SOCOM 3: U.S. NAVY SEALS (Sony; PS2; ***1/2; M) -- Ominous news reports set the
stage effectively for covert missions that only our squad of stealthy heroes can
pull off. Drivable vehicles are a hoot, the corner radar meter is helpful and
combat scenes convey the chaotic, claustrophobic sense and sounds of danger in a
congested unfamiliar city. Gripping online play is the strong suit here and
supports up to 32 players, but don't forget the headset.

SOCOM: FIRETEAM BRAVO (Sony; PSP; ***1/2; T) -- The screen is smaller and your
two-man squad is 50 percent smaller, but this handheld version still handles
like a SOCOM shooter. You and your SEAL partner play favorite missions or take
on enemies in online play. Or connect by USB cable with a PS2, then swap
information and objectives that can alter outcomes in "SOCOM 3" and vice versa.

TOM CLANCY'S GHOST RECON 2: SUMMIT STRIKE (Ubisoft; X; **1/2; T) -- Of all the
Ghost Recon titles, we liked this one the best, but that's not saying much.
Levels are varied as you hunt down a terrorist madman, but they're so large that
too much time is spent huffing and puffing. Running your squad is easy, although
the overly simplistic commands sometimes frustrate. Not the best war game, but
not the worst either.

TOM CLANCY'S RAINBOW SIX: LOCKDOWN (Ubisoft; GC, PS2, X; **1/2; M) -- Domingo
"Ding" Chavez leads his squad of black ops soldiers against terrorists who seize
a deadly virus during an attempted coup in South Africa. The easy control scheme
is nice, but mediocre graphics, horrible enemy AI and a lack of tension deaden
the impact. Sure, you can order your team to toss flash-bang grenades into dark
rooms before storming in with your gun chattering away. But things feel
dangerously routine after no time at all.

CHILDREN/FAMILIES

BRATZ: ROCK ANGELZ (THQ; PS2, GC, GBA; *1/2; E) -- Ugh, ugh, ugh. Surely there
must be a better concept for a game aimed at 'tween girls than a
smoothie-swilling, clothes-swapping jaunt to the mall? We hate the shallow
messages flashed by these fashion-doll heroines who come off as, well, brats.
Even the loading screens gush, "It takes time to look this good."

CHICKEN LITTLE (Buena Vista Games; PS2,X,GC,GBA, PC; ***; E) -- You gotta love a
plucky little chick who squawks "Yee-Haw!" each time his attempts to fly send
him plummeting to Earth. Clever film adaptation shifts levels with "hatching"
screens and measures spent lives in a carton of diminishing eggs. Plenty of
instructions and slickly integrated movie scenes make this a perfect outing for
small fry.

THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE (Buena Vista
Games; PS2. X, GC, PC, DS, GBA; ***1/2; E) -- Companion to fantasy film and
much-beloved book creates believable incarnations of the Pevensie children and
sustains suspense in their battle against the White Witch. Gameplay is simple
enough for young players to pick up without frustration, although those
Ankleslicers and other minions might scare them. Thanks to characters with
discernible personalities and skills, "Chronicles" is layered enough to hold the
attention of older sibs as well.

HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE (EA Games; PS2, X, GC, PC, PSP, DS, GBA;
***; E10+) -- Cast spells with Hermione and Ron to shove aside fallen trees, do
away with heavy obstacles or deposit those miserable snapping dogs in the
nearest rocky ravine. Console versions replicate film action, although some
dialogue is flat and repetitive. But the first glimpse of Voldemort's face in
the steel gray storm clouds is chilling. Handheld versions are pared-down but
serviceable and offer a welcome array of language choices, including U.S.
English or "real" English.

KIM POSSIBLE: KIMMUNICATOR (Buena Vista Games; DS, GBA; ***; E) -- Bratz, listen
up: Here's a young heroine who's worth emulating. Disney Channel's cheeky
crime-busting cheerleader stands up to evil Drakken to rescue a kidnapped male
pal. DS version lets her use the touch screen to communicate, manipulate locks
and operate handy gadgets. We could do without that weird naked mole rat, TV
sidekick or no. But rah-rah for gutsy Kim.

MADAGASCAR (Activision; PS2, X, GC, PC, DS, GBA; ***; console/PC versions E10+,
handheld versions E) -- Sweet-natured spin-off from the animated film gives zoo
fugitives just enough bite -- oh, those defecating pigeons! -- to keep them from
inducing tooth decay. Easy gameplay and jelly bean-hued settings should please
little gamers and their parents, too.

MARIO PARTY 7 (Nintendo; GC; ***; E) -- Plug in the voice-activated microphone
and cruise around the world with Mario and his fellow passengers. But not all
goes as planned -- does it ever when Mario steps out of the house? -- and he and
Luigi, Peach and other pals must work their way through about a gazillion games
and challenges. Less than a year has passed since "Mario Party 6" hit stores, so
you may wonder how fresh it seems. But fear not -- expansive new game boards and
plenty of ever-sillier contests will keep them from nodding off at holiday
sleepovers.

TIM BURTON'S THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE CHRISTMAS: OOGIE'S REVENGE (Buena Vista Games;
PS2, X; **1/2; E) -- Captures the look and atmosphere of original stop-action
film and borrows liberally from its soundtrack. But unless you're among the
youngest of gamers, we suspect you'll find that Jack doesn't have all that much
to do in his quest to remain big man in Halloween Town.

SHREK SUPERSLAM (Activision; PS2, X, GC, PC, DS, GBA; ***; E) -- Ah, how it does
one's heart and funnybone good to watch the Gingerbread Man beating Puss in
Boots with a ham. Deranged moments of that ilk pack "SuperSlam," which borrows
Nintendo's "Super Smash Brothers" concept and repopulates the melee with the
green ogre, Princess Fiona and fairy-tale friends.

SPYRO SHADOW LEGACY (Vivendi Universal; DS; **1/2; E) -- Spyro the Dragon lacks
personality, and he's too hard to see in this ho-hum sequel. This RPG for little
people is cute and harmless, but the plot is ordinary and Spyro is just too tiny
for his powers to create much of a stir.

ZATHURA (2K Games; PS2, X; **1/2; E10+) -- Based on the new movie, "Zathura"
goes up against some stiff competition for kids' gaming dollars: Harry Potter.
We give the edge to the Boy Who Lived. Bickering brothers Danny and Walter turn
to each other for support when they become stranded in outer space, courtesy of
a mysterious game discovered in a basement. Play as either sibling or a robot in
this combination of platforming and shooting that winds through 15 levels.
Nothing stellar, but youngsters will approve.

GADGETS

THE APPRENTICE/WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE (Senario; ***1/2; E) --
Self-contained consoles plug directly into your TV's AV jacks, turning your
living room into the set of popular TV games. Easy to operate and easy to
delight a holiday crowd of relatives with interactive diversions that will have
them clamoring to answer questions and vying for fantasy millions or The
Donald's favor.

DANCE DANCE REVOLUTION (Konami; PS2, X, GC; ***; E) -- Seems like there's a
pop-fueled version of the interactive dance game to suit all abilities and
tastes. "DDR Ultramix" for Xbox gets you shaking alone or with other online and
offers new freestyle mode that eliminates on-screen arrows in favor of your
intuitive moves. "DDR Mario Mix" for GameCube, which comes with its own
well-constructed dance mat, tosses in a story mode and visual jokes more likely
to appeal to kids. "DDR Revolution Extreme 2" for PS2 also builds in online play
and uses EyeToy plug-in camera to put your moves on screen. As if stomping
around on those floor mats didn't inspire enough initial self-consciousness.

DANCE MATS -- Worn out your first, flimsy version? There are plenty of
replacements available and for all prices. But we like Gamesis' two-piece
version, with its snap-together foam layer to cushion impact when plugged into a
PS2, Xbox or PC. Mastiff offers a choreographer-designed pad with additional
buttons to encourage more natural movement with its spirited "Pump It Up:
Exceed" dance package. (Both around $50.)

EYETOY: KINETIC (Sony; PS2; ***1/2; E) -- Why didn't they think of this sooner?
Sure, you can work up a sweat with "DDR," but we don't know too many folks over
18 who don't feel silly doing it. A video personal trainer, "Kinetic" uses the
plug-in "EyeToy" camera to show your moves on TV, then provides feedback as you
huff through cardio, martial arts and toning exercises. We thought we would
collapse and die from this workout -- until we discovered that our wretched
teenage offspring had secretly adjusted our profile, directing "Kinetic" to work
us as if we were 4 feet, 8 inches tall and weighed 475 pounds. Wait till he gets
pummeled with our "Kinetic-toned" muscles.

EYETOY: PLAY/OPERATION SPY/THE SIMS 2 (Sony; PS2; ***; E10+) -- Kids, too, get
more arm-waving, grin-inducing offerings for the plug-in camera that turns them
into TV stars. Strut your air guitar moves, give Emeril a run for his money as
you chop and dice as "Mr. Chef" or try other new games in "Play." Test your
potential for secret-agent success and trap sneaky sibs who try to penetrate the
sanctity of your room, with "Operation Spy." Or plaster your face onto a
character in the enhanced version of "Sims 2."

GIZMONDO (Tiger Telematics; $229 and up; *) -- Others have tried and, until Sony
rolled out its powerful PSP last spring, others have mostly failed to challenge
Nintendo's longtime dominance in the handheld gaming market. Add Gizmondo to
that list, despite its attractive black and silver oval design, built-in camera
and other features. Things aren't going well when the first step --installation
of the SD memory card -- must be repeated several times because the device won't
interface with it. After we checked out Gizmondo's 14 accompanying titles -- the
double entendre-titled "Pocket Ping Pong" being the most dismal -- we were sorry
that it had.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG/ Cindi Lash can be reached at clash@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1973./ Jonathan D. Silver can be reached at jsilver@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1962.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland
PHOTO: "Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas: Oogie's Revenge"
PHOTO: 50 CENT: BULLETPROOF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              206 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POLITICAL THRILLER'S THREADS CROSS THE WORLD IN A SHARP 'SYRIANA'

BYLINE: Barbara Vancheri, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 672 words


At times, it seems that a ticket for "Syriana" should come with a cheat sheet
and a tiny flashlight. That way you could consult your scorecard to see who Tim
Blake Nelson or Robert Foxworth plays, and what the difference is between the
Texas oil companies called Killen and Connex.

"Syriana" is a densely written, intelligent, complex political thriller set
against the backdrop of the global oil industry. That tent is big enough to
accommodate Texas oilmen, CIA agents past and present, Washington lawyers,
energy analysts, one emir, a pair of princes, migrant workers from Pakistan and
assorted family members and others.

Stephen Gaghan, who won an Academy Award for his adapted screenplay of
"Traffic," here tackles both the writing and directing. He takes "Traffic" and
raises the ante, or so it seems, with four story lines going at once and some of
the dot-connecting left to the moviegoer.

In other words: Don't arrive late, don't duck out for an extended visit to the
concession counter and don't think you'll be able to text-message and watch at
the same time.

The faces in the far-flung strands include: CIA agent Bob Barnes (George
Clooney), who assassinates arms dealers in Tehran but is nagged by the
disappearance of a Stinger missile; ambitious attorney Bennett Holiday (Jeffrey
Wright), navigating the shark-infested waters of an oil merger; energy analyst
Bryan Woodman (Matt Damon), living with his wife and two young sons in Geneva;
and an open-minded prince (Alexander Siddig) whose relationships with his emir
father, callow younger brother and fuel-thirsty Americans and Chinese send
ripples far and wide.

Gaghan throws a net over the globe and shows us the connections from there to
here. Watching "Syriana" is like peering at the world through binoculars atop an
observation deck and every now and then, pausing to zoom in and watch the family
drama (much of it concerning fathers and sons) unfold.

A CIA agent's son pleads for a normal senior year of high school and calls his
parents "professional liars." A father defies his hotshot son's orders not to
smoke in his house. Migrants who lose their jobs in the Persian Gulf oil fields
take divergent paths, one leading to possible sacrifice and suicide.

The big speech of the movie is, not surprisingly, about corruption, and it's
delivered by a Texas oilman played by Tim Blake Nelson, one of Clooney's
co-stars in "O Brother, Where Art Thou?"

"We have laws against it precisely so we can get away with it. Corruption is our
protection. Corruption keeps us safe and warm. Corruption is why you and I are
prancing around in here instead of fighting over scraps of meat out in the
street. Corruption ... is why we win."

Washington wisdom is much in evidence, as when an assistant attorney general
suggests there's no way a small Texas oil company could have swung a deal
without paying someone off. And, in a savvy observation about the nation's
capital: "In this town, you're innocent until you're investigated."

This is the movie, by the way, where Clooney was injured during a torture scene
which is brutal but blessedly brief. He and Damon stand out in an excellent
ensemble, which includes Oscar winners and other notables in smaller roles.
William Hurt, for instance, plays a retired CIA agent, while Chris Cooper is the
owner of Killen oil company and Amanda Peet is Damon's wife.

The drug wars of "Traffic," directed by Steven Soderbergh, seemed much more
manageable. But Gaghan pulls off an ending in which someone literally has a
finger on the trigger, and every second or serendipitous move has life-or-death
implications.

In a world where remakes, TV adaptations and video games are clogging the
theaters, "Syriana" is smart, thought-provoking and, at times, confusing. Still,
it's better to be challenged about important subjects than insulted about
unimportant ones.

And "Syriana" squarely falls into that first category.

"SYRIANA"

* Critic's Call: Three Stars

* Rating: R for violence and language

* Starring: George Clooney, Matt Damon

* Director: Stephen Gaghan

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Movies are rated on a scale from one (bomb) to four (classic) stars./
Post-Gazette movie editor Barbara Vancheri can be reached at
bvancheri@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1632.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Clooney is a CIA agent in the political thriller
"Syriana."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              216 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 25, 2005 Friday SOONER EDITION
                              Correction Appended

KENNY B'S JOINS LIST OF EXTINCT EATERIES;
ANOTHER DOWNTOWN RESTAURANT CLOSES ITS DOORS

BYLINE: Elwin Green, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-15

LENGTH: 759 words


A Downtown diner where Jimmy Buffett cooked and Bernadette Peters danced has
closed its doors.

Kenny B.'s Eatery, billed as Pittsburgh's only Cuban restaurant, served its last
meal yesterday after 7 1/2 years at 123 Sixth Ave.

Its location in the cultural district made Kenny B's a choice hangout for
celebrities on tour. Buffet found his way there for the first time in 1998.

"One Sunday morning he just wanted pancakes and ham, and [the Doubletree Hotel ]
only had the breakfast buffet," owner Kenny B. Myers, 50, said. "They sent him
down here."

Buffett enjoyed the diner so much that he asked Myers if he could shoot part of
his tour video footage there. Myers agreed, and the following day he and Buffett
were side by side in the kitchen, hamming it up for the camera.

Buffett has returned to Kenny B's during every Pittsburgh visit ever since,
Myers said.

It won't be there when Buffett plays a sold-out concert at PNC Park in June.
Because of a dispute with his landlord, Myers is moving on. Kenny B's was the
first restaurant he owned, and he said it would be his last.

Before buying the restaurant in September 1997, Myers worked as a chef at
Rich's, Susie's and the Pittsburgh Steak Co. -- all restaurants that have come
and gone in the two-block strip of Sixth Avenue between Fort Duquesne Boulevard
and Liberty Avenue. Upon closing, he'll continue cooking, now as a chef at the
Renaissance Hotel next door.

"I just can't get off this street," he said cheerfully.

"When I lock the doors for the last time, all the aggravation will stay in the
restaurant," Myers said. "The good times are what will stay with us."

The closing of Kenny B's is only the latest in a string of changes that have
made the Downtown restaurant scene resemble a game of musical chairs in recent
months.

Two weeks ago, Cafe Euro opened on the first floor of the U.S. Steel Tower,
where Nick and Tony's Chophouse closed in September after giving its staff 24
hours' notice. In December, Piccolo Piccolo closed so that owner Frank Sacco
could devote his full attention to O'Leary's in One Oxford Centre -- replacing a
Dingbat's that also closed in September. And Cleopatra's, at 900 Penn Ave., came
and went so quickly that many people never knew it was there.

John Barsotti, owner of the Common Pleas restaurant Downtown, and current
chairman of the Western Pennsylvania Restaurant Association, recited reasons
behind the apparent difficulties -- first among them, the inherent risk of the
restaurant business.

"The industry has a fairly high failure rate in the first two years," he said.

But the other reasons are more Pittsburgh-specific: a shrinking Downtown
population, the perception that Downtown is not safe, the effect of the parking
tax and other business taxes, Barsotti said.

"I think the climate is anti-business, and it impacts everybody a little bit.
Those are not restaurant issues; they're business community issues," Barsotti
said.

Mary Ellen Solomon, spokesperson for the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership, viewed
the churning among Downtown restaurants differently.

"As restaurants do close here, the vacancies seem to turn over very quickly,"
rather than remaining vacant for long periods of time, she said.

She also pointed out that several newer restaurants, such as Sonoma Grill and
August Henry's, both on Penn Avenue in the Cultural District, appear to be doing
very well.

The area attracts its share of celebrities. One day, actress Bernadette Peters
showed up with a friend for lunch at Kenny B's. Myers' wife, Susana Maria, 51,
thought, "This woman looks very familiar to me." Susana engaged Peters in casual
conversation, mentioned that she was Cuban, and within minutes they were dancing
to the Cuban music that was playing.

The next day, Peters returned with more friends from the theater, and Susana
Maria learned her identity.

Regular patrons say they prized the restaurant as much for its atmosphere as for
its food -- an atmosphere established the day it opened its doors.

One of the first items of decor was a 11/2-foot-tall ceramic pig in a chef's
uniform that Myers' mother gave him when he graduated from the Pennsylvania
Culinary Institute in 1991.

The pig caught the fancy of customers, who began showering Myers with pigs,
sending them from as far away as Puerto Rico. At one point, the wall was lined
with shelves of papier-mache, coal and ceramic pigs, all contributed by
customers.

"I wanted a place where people could come in, sit down and relax," Myers said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Elwin Green can be reached at egreen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1969.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2005

CORRECTION:
The story yesterday about the closing of Kenny B's Eatery incorrectly reported
that the Pittsburgh Steak Co. was located on Sixth Avenue, Downtown. It is on
Carson Street on the South Side. In the same story, the name of Frank Sacco,
owner of O'Leary's Restaurant at One Oxford Centre, was misspelled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Gary Geyer talks about his
twice-a-day trips to Kenny B's restaurant since it opened on Sixth Street,
Downtown. Geyer said Kenny B's was the 'Cheers' of Pittsburgh," referring to the
Boston pub that was the subject of a long-running sitcom.

 PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Kenny B. Myer gets a skillet ready for an
omlette yesterday at "Kenny B's," Downtown. The restaurant opened in 1997.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              217 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 27, 2005 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

LOSE THOSE BLUES, PITTSBURGH

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-2

LENGTH: 974 words


Please, let's concentrate on our region's strengths. I moved from Arizona to
Pittsburgh almost five years ago to lead the Pittsburgh Technology Council and
was amazed by the overall quality of life and ample business opportunities in
the region.

I have been perplexed at the persistent negative attitude that hovers over this
wonderful region. Headlines bemoan a city in shambles, our youth fleeing and
business floundering.

Pittsburgh and the region suffer from a bad self-image and low self-esteem. It's
a self-fulfilling prophecy when we succumb to the negative hype.

We have transformed from a hub of heavy industry to a nimble, tech-intensive
city with Fortune 500 clout. Our wonderful assets include exciting businesses,
natural resources and tightly woven communities. Pittsburgh is a better place to
live and work than many know.

Pittsburgh is home to one of the nation's largest and oldest regional technology
trade associations -- the Pittsburgh Technology Council, which is at the
forefront of representing an established and growing technology industry. The
technology industry that the Pittsburgh Technology Council represents is diverse
-- software, hardware, telecommunications, life sciences and advanced
manufacturing.

The council found there were 7,690 technology firms tallied in 2003,
representing more than 10.3 percent of companies in the region. These firms
employ nearly 216,000, or 17.3 percent of the area's work force.

The region is being recognized as a center in cybersecurity, data storage,
electro-optics, nanotechnology and microelectro-mechanical systems, robotics,
supercomputing, system-on-a-chip and tissue engineering.

Carnegie Mellon, Pitt, Penn State and approximately 30 other highly respected
post-secondary schools are here. Our universities are a strong magnet for
attracting bright minds from around the globe and have created the feedstock for
entrepreneurs and technology start-ups and a highly educated and skilled work
force. Pittsburgh ranks 12th nationally for population ages 25-34 with a
graduate or professional degree and 15th nationally for those 25-34 with a
bachelor's degree or higher.

The Greater Oakland Keystone Innovation Zone, launched this year, will
accelerate economic growth and promote collaboration among academia, local
economic developers, local government and businesses.

Thriving life-sciences commercial ventures range from medical devices to tissue
engineering and biomedical informatics. Pittsburgh is a recognized leader in
transplants, cancer care and women's health. The University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center's ample research sets the stage for the industry.

The Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse is growing the industry through its
incubator facilities for start-ups, investment and financial programs and
industry promotion.

Pittsburgh is still headquarters for seven Fortune 500 companies, including
Alcoa, Heinz, Mellon Financial Corp., PNC Financial Services Group, PPG, U.S.
Steel and Wesco International. And it's home to some 370 foreign-based
companies, such as Bayer and Mitsubishi Electric Power Products, that are major
employers.

Financial institutions, including Mellon, Citizens, PNC, Dollar, National City
and others, manage $1 trillion in assets.

More than 120,000 regional workers are engaged in the manufacture of steel,
components, food processing, industrial equipment and other materials. A
Deloitte report on manufacturing in Pennsylvania says manufacturing is still
southwestern Pennsylvania's No. 1 industry, churning out $11 billion annually,
or 12.8 percent of gross regional output.

Pittsburgh is a great place to live, with all of its natural amenities, quiet
neighborhoods and cultural assets. We have miles of riverfront and trails,
countless parks, 184 golf courses, dozens of ski resorts within a half-day's
drive and seven major theaters in the cultural district.

Our low cost of living makes all of this affordable. According to the Pittsburgh
Regional Alliance, "Employees who earn $48,000 in Pittsburgh would need $133,086
in New York City to have a comparable standard of living and buying power."

Forbes magazine included Pittsburgh in its 2004 list of "Bohemian Bargains" --
cities in the 150,000 to 750,000 population range with lively downtowns and
reasonable costs of living.

We are ranked among the world's cleanest and most crime-free cities. We are on
the forefront of green building (environmentally sensitive) practices -- witness
the David L. Lawrence Convention Center and PNC Bank's Firstside Center,
buildings among world leaders.

New business and shopping at the Waterfront in Homestead, the Pittsburgh
Technology Center and the Southside Works are on reclaimed brownfields.
Corporate headquarters are being built for Equitable Resources and Del Monte. An
18-story apartment building is being erected Downtown. Old industrial and
warehouse spaces are being converted into cutting-edge office space and high-end
housing. Major events such as Major League Baseball's 2006 All-Star Game, the
Bassmaster Classic, the U.S. Open at Oakmont and the Senior PGA Championship are
coming to the region.

People are beginning to notice. Men's Journal magazine just released its "50
Best Places to Live" 2005 Annual Report, ranking Pittsburgh 34th in the
"sexiest, healthiest, most fun towns in the U.S.A."

Pittsburgh isn't perfect but is a great place to work and raise a family.

Our challenges include the city's ongoing financial troubles and a
less-than-friendly business climate. But our problems are not unique and can be
solved if we work together.

We should change our negative attitudes and recognize that Pittsburgh and our
region are hidden treasures. With enthusiasm and optimism, we should be proud of
Pittsburgh!

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Steven G. Zylstra is president and chief executive officer of the Pittsburgh
Technology Council.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Pittsburgh has a lot to be proud of
when it comes to quality of life and business opportunities, says Steven G.
Zylstra of the Pittsburgh Technology Council. This view of the city is from the
Spring Hill neighborhood on the North Side.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              220 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 3, 2005 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

MIAMI HERALD;
FLORIDA IS EMERGING AS THE STATE OF THINGS TO COME. HOW A SOUTHERN STATE BECAME
MIDDLE AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.F-7 my point

LENGTH: 971 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Eight decades ago, this state was the site of the first great modern retirement
real-estate boom -- followed swiftly by the first great modern real estate bust.
Five years ago, it was the venue for the most contentious presidential election
struggle in more than a century. This spring, Pinellas Park was the focus of a
drama over the fate of a brain-damaged woman who became an international symbol.

Florida is dripping with the imprints of the past -- the voyages of Ponce de
Leon, the first explorer for the source of sunny youth; the daring vision of
Henry Flagler, who established the railway from Jacksonville to Key West and
thus tied Florida together; the astronaut dreamers of Cape Canaveral, who in the
silver suits of Project Mercury reached into the heavens and into humankind's
oldest yearnings.

But this spring, with attention riveted on the hospice where Terri Schiavo
slipped toward death, Florida may have symbolically replaced California as an
important cultural indicator. It may be that Florida, rather than California, is
the place where the future is best viewed.

For this is now a state where many of the social, political, economic and
cultural trends that soon will reshape the country are arriving first. It is the
sandbar on which the waves of the future crash.

There is no small amount of irony in this. Only two generations ago, Florida was
a sleepy rural outpost, home mostly to orange groves and cattle herds and a
special brand of sun-bleached, tobacco-stained drifter. Transformed by air
travel and air conditioning, Florida swiftly became America's America, the place
people went to from somewhere else. By the end of the 20th century its lure was
international, so much so that now, according to the Census Bureau, 36 percent
of Florida's growth can be attributed to immigration from abroad.

In the early 21st century, Florida has become a colorful mix of people and
peoples who are wading warily into the future.

Which is why it may be no coincidence that the Schiavo tragedy, a modern mix of
the most incendiary health, religious, political and family issues, was played
out here. Trends in medical technology and in religious politics -- two growth
industries in the nation but especially in Florida -- converged this spring on
Pinellas Park. The result was a cultural clash unlike any America ever has seen,
but surely one that, with heightened passions and instant electronic news, will
be replicated elsewhere before long.

Florida was, in the memory of a majority of Americans, a place where nothing
much happened at all, which was one of the main sources of its appeal. It was a
getaway with stunning beaches, flamboyant buffet tables and a climate whose main
attraction was that in winter it didn't look at all like Boston, Pittsburgh,
Detroit, Chicago or Philadelphia. It was someplace else, but it was also
nowhere.

Then, as an affluent society became an aging society, the place became overrun
with opulent hotels and trailer parks alike, followed by the real-estate rondo
of the condo. But Florida wasn't destined to be only a retirement haven. Both
the cause and the beneficiary of the turn from a manufacturing economy to a
service economy, Florida's economy diversified -- and so did its outlook.

Eventually the state became an engine of growth of its own, nearly tripling in
population since 1970. Raging past Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania, it
became the nation's fourth-largest state; by the next census it almost certainly
will surpass New York and rank third. In the last four years, Orange County has
grown 13.1 percent; overall it went from a population of 470,000 in 1980 to well
over a million. The fastest rate of homebuilding in the history of the state of
Florida is occurring right this instant; housing starts increased 19.7 percent
last year and the rate this year is already higher than that.

All of this growth is causing churn in communities and, more important, in the
very nature of community. Florida is becoming more like the nation even as the
nation is becoming more like Florida, an inevitable result when 89.5 percent of
the state's growth is due to migration, not births and deaths.

A quarter-century ago the Democrats outnumbered Republicans in Florida by more
than two-to-one. (The governor was Bob Graham, a Democrat, and the two senators
in Washington were Lawton Chiles and Richard Stone, both Democrats.) Today the
Democratic advantage has dropped from 36 percentage points to only 4 percentage
points. (The governor, Jeb Bush, is a Republican, and one of the senators, Mel
Martinez, is a Republican. Martinez was one of the principal figures in the
Capitol Hill battle over the Schiavo case.) One statistic shows the change in
the political dynamic: Since 1980, the Democrats have added 810,694 voters to
Florida's rolls, which ordinarily would be a remarkable achievement. But the
Republicans have added more than 2.1 million in the same period.

This is a different place than it was; any state that grows by about 800 people
a day almost has to be. But in some ways, Florida is the place the rest of the
country is becoming. The overtime election in 2000 and the Schiavo dispute are
huge landmarks in the nation's history. The overtime election stands as a symbol
of national political contention, the Schiavo case stands as a symbol of the
national clash of values.

But in some ways it is the smaller landmarks that are more telling, their effect
more enduring. Consider this one: In only five years, for the first time ever,
there will be more Floridians between the ages 45 and 64 than between the ages
25 and 44. And the percentage of Floridians who will be in the prime labor-force
group (those between the ages of 25 and 59) will be only about 45 percent. In
Florida, the future is now.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890).

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              228 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       June 6, 2005 Monday REGION EDITION

COURT PLANNING;
DARFUR INQUIRY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 576 words


THE HAGUE, Netherlands -- The International Criminal Court will launch a formal
investigation into allegations of war crimes in Sudan's troubled Darfur region,
officials familiar with the case said yesterday.

The court has been analyzing the situation in Darfur since the United Nations
referred to it allegations of rape, murder and plunder in April, following a
Security Council vote. Dozens of court officials have begun preparing for the
investigation, the largest and most important to be handled by the fledgling
body since it was established in July 2002.

Prosecutors were to announce the decision to move forward in Darfur on Monday
and Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo will brief the U.N. about his plans
later this month in New York, the officials said, adding that they could not
comment officially until the investigation had been formally announced by the
court.

The vast western Sudanese region of Darfur is the scene of one of the world's
worst humanitarian crises. An estimated 180,000 people have died -- many from
hunger and disease -- and about 2 million others have been displaced since the
conflict began in February 2003.

Mayors target environment

SAN FRANCISCO -- Mayors from around the world yesterday signed an international
treaty calling for increased use of public transportation and drastic cuts to
the amount of trash sent to landfills.

The signing of the "Urban Environmental Accords" capped the United Nations World
Environment Day Conference in San Francisco. The nonbinding accords list 21
specific actions that can make cities greener.

San Francisco was the first U.S. city to host the annual conference. Much of the
conference focused on global warming and what mayors can do to curb emissions of
"greenhouse gases" such as carbon dioxide that trap heat in the Earth's
atmosphere.

Mayors participating in yesterday's ceremony came from Zurich, Switzerland;
Istanbul, Turkey; Melbourne, Australia; Seattle and dozens of other cities.

Passport checks scrapped

GENEVA -- Independent-minded Swiss voters gave the shaken European Union a vote
of confidence yesterday, approving participation in an EU passport-free zone
even though Switzerland has never joined the 25-nation bloc.

Same-sex couples also were granted more rights in the two-issue referendum,
marking the first time the issue has been put to a national vote in Europe.

Signaling Swiss desire for closer integration with the EU, about 55 percent of
voters, or 1.47 million people, supported joining Europe's passport-free
"Schengen" zone by 2007.

The result goes against the prevailing mood in the EU, reeling from recent
rejections by French and Dutch voters of a proposed constitution for the bloc.

Alpine tunnel shut

MODANE, France -- An eight-mile Alpine tunnel linking France and Italy will
remain shut for no more than a year, Italy's transport minister said yesterday,
while workers clear out debris one day after trucks caught fire inside, killing
two drivers.

No structural damage was found inside the Frejus tunnel, Italian Transport
Minister Pietro Lunardi said.

The Frejus tunnel is a major thoroughfare linking the French city of Lyon with
Turin, Italy, accounting for four-fifths of commercial roadway traffic between
the countries.

Most of the truck traffic -- about 3,800 trucks per day on average -- likely
would be rerouted through the Mont Blanc tunnel, requiring a 124-mile detour.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              229 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       June 6, 2005 Monday SOONER EDITION

COURT PLANNING DARFUR INQUIRY

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-3 WORLD BRIEFS

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Netherlands


The International Criminal Court will launch a formal investigation into
allegations of war crimes in Sudan's troubled Darfur region, officials familiar
with the case said yesterday.

The court has been analyzing the situation in Darfur since the United Nations
referred to it allegations of rape, murder and plunder in April, following a
Security Council vote. Dozens of court officials have begun preparing for the
investigation, the largest and most important to be handled by the fledgling
body since it was established in July 2002.

Prosecutors were to announce the decision to move forward in Darfur on Monday
and Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo will brief the U.N. about his plans
later this month in New York, the officials said, adding that they could not
comment officially until the investigation had been formally announced by the
court.

The vast western Sudanese region of Darfur is the scene of one of the world's
worst humanitarian crises. An estimated 180,000 people have died -- many from
hunger and disease -- and about 2 million others have been displaced since the
conflict began in February 2003.


Mayors target environment

SAN FRANCISCO -- Mayors from around the world yesterday signed an international
treaty calling for increased use of public transportation and drastic cuts to
the amount of trash sent to landfills.

The signing of the "Urban Environmental Accords" capped the United Nations World
Environment Day Conference in San Francisco. The nonbinding accords list 21
specific actions that can make cities greener.

San Francisco was the first U.S. city to host the annual conference. Much of the
conference focused on global warming and what mayors can do to curb emissions of
"greenhouse gases" such as carbon dioxide that trap heat in the Earth's
atmosphere.

Mayors participating in yesterday's ceremony came from Zurich, Switzerland;
Istanbul, Turkey; Melbourne, Australia; Seattle and dozens of other cities.


Passport checks scrapped

GENEVA -- Independent-minded Swiss voters gave the shaken European Union a vote
of confidence yesterday, approving participation in an EU passport-free zone
even though Switzerland has never joined the 25-nation bloc.

Same-sex couples also were granted more rights in the two-issue referendum,
marking the first time the issue has been put to a national vote in Europe.

Signaling Swiss desire for closer integration with the EU, about 55 percent of
voters, or 1.47 million people, supported joining Europe's passport-free
"Schengen" zone by 2007.

The result goes against the prevailing mood in the EU, reeling from recent
rejections by French and Dutch voters of a proposed constitution for the bloc.


Alpine tunnel shut

MODANE, France -- An eight-mile Alpine tunnel linking France and Italy will
remain shut for no more than a year, Italy's transport minister said yesterday,
while workers clear out debris one day after trucks caught fire inside, killing
two drivers.

No structural damage was found inside the Frejus tunnel, Italian Transport
Minister Pietro Lunardi said.

The Frejus tunnel is a major thoroughfare linking the French city of Lyon with
Turin, Italy, accounting for four-fifths of commercial roadway traffic between
the countries.

Most of the truck traffic -- about 3,800 trucks per day on average -- likely
would be rerouted through the Mont Blanc tunnel, requiring a 124-mile detour.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 28, 2005 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

'A FRIEND IN PENNSYLVANIA'?;
NATION'S 2ND-WORST CORPORATE NET INCOME TAX MUST BE CUT TO BOOST BUSINESS, JOBS;

MARTIN G. MCGUINN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-2 THE PRIVATE SECTOR

LENGTH: 1129 words


According to the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan taxpayer education organization,
Pennsylvania now has the second-highest corporate net income tax rate in the
country, behind only Iowa. Two years ago, we were third, but North Dakota has
since lowered its corporate tax rate.

Pennsylvania is No. 5 on another list, and this rating is even worse news.
Pennsylvania is fifth from the bottom among states in job creation over the past
15 years. All but one of our neighboring states grew faster, and several grew at
rates 50 percent to 100 percent greater than Pennsylvania.

Our low ranking on job growth means we're doing a bad job of providing
opportunities for our children and grandchildren to create a future in
Pennsylvania.

There is a direct correlation between a poor ranking on taxes and a poor ranking
on job creation.  Employers see Pennsylvania's ranking on taxes worsen and get
the message that the state is becoming less business-friendly instead of more
competitive. When business leaders consider locating or expanding their
operations in Pennsylvania, they opt all too often to take these job-creating
projects elsewhere because our state business taxes have resulted in an
environment that works against business and, ultimately, the state economy.

Earlier this year, Chief Executive magazine asked almost 500 corporate leaders
which states they thought were the most business-friendly, and they rated
Pennsylvania one of the 10 worst. And every one of our adjacent competitor
states except New York was rated better than Pennsylvania.

As a result, everyday decisions are made at companies big and small to cross
Pennsylvania off their list of places to invest in facilities and jobs. Our
regional and state economic development efforts are working very hard to grow
our economy, but such negative rankings as these force them to fight an uphill
battle to attract and retain jobs.

Some may see Pennsylvania's high taxes on employers as a convenient or easy way
to tap business profits to pay for state services. But the fact is that a tax on
employers also is a tax on jobs. And, as any economist will tell you, the more
you tax prosperity, the less of it you will have in the end.

When Pennsylvania's corporate net income tax was raised by almost 50 percent in
1991, job creation in the state virtually dried up. Conversely, every time the
corporate net income tax was cut during the last 30 years, job creation in
Pennsylvania soared.

An analysis by the Allegheny Conference on Community Development estimates that
the state could have added 300,000 more jobs over the past 15 years had we
maintained a more competitive climate for job creation. And that means families
across the state and more of our young people entering the work force could stay
here instead of leaving for greener economic pastures.

Gov. Ed Rendell, many legislators and economic development groups all over the
commonwealth agree that the taxes on the companies that provide jobs in this
state need to be reduced.  We know there's a problem, and we know the solution.
We need to take action without further delay.

Fortunately, the growing national economy means that Pennsylvania and other
states are collecting hundreds of millions of dollars more in tax revenue this
year than had been predicted. Other states are using this opportunity to rework
their tax structures to ensure that their jobs and economies keep growing.
Pennsylvania must do the same, or we will continue to fall further behind our
competitors.

Pennsylvania should cut its corporate net income tax rate from the current
second-highest-in-the-nation 9.99 percent to a more competitive rate no higher
than 8.5 percent. That's where the rate was 15 years ago -- the only time in the
past 30 years when the state created jobs at the same rate as the rest of the
nation.

If phased in over three years, reducing this tax on Pennsylvania jobs will cost
less than $60 million next year. That's less than 15 percent of this year's
projected budget surplus.  Both a greater reduction and a more rapid
implementation would be preferable, but these minimal steps are necessary to
restore our ability to compete now. If more can be done, now or as we realize
the benefits of these changes in the years to come, we could move further up the
list of places considered business-friendly and good for both growth and new
business creation.

Making the challenge of attracting and retaining businesses even more difficult
is the fact that Pennsylvania is one of only a few states to impose a capital
stock and franchise tax in addition to the corporate net income tax. Most states
levy one or the other but not both. Most manufacturing businesses pay the
capital stock and franchise tax on a portion of their operations, and business
service and other nonmanufacturing businesses are heavily burdened by it. The
Pennsylvania Legislature has recognized this tax as a major obstacle to
competitiveness in the past and is currently phasing out the tax by 1 mill per
year until it is completely eliminated in 2011. The state must see this phaseout
through.

Pennsylvania also is one of only three states that limit the ability of
companies to use past losses to offset current profits in calculating their tax
liability. This inhibits job creation at technology start-up companies and at
many large, cyclical industrial companies that are some of our state's largest
employers. New Jersey, our competitor to the east, is dropping the provision. By
next year, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire will be the only holdouts on a clear
national trend.

This isn't about taxes or making businesses more profitable; it's about freeing
up the revenue that Pennsylvania businesses generate for further investment in
jobs for Pennsylvanians. Put simply, if state business taxes are lowered, jobs
will be created. Citizens need to let the governor and their legislators know
how important it is to start solving the problem this summer, before any more
job creation opportunities slip away. To learn more, I encourage you to visit
www.CompetePA.com, a Web site dedicated to informing Pennsylvanians of the facts
about this critical issue.

Cutting the corporate net income tax now will send a powerful message to the
rest of the country that Pennsylvania is changing for the better. And with
employers across the country expanding again, we can't afford to wait until next
year to make this message heard. Using a small amount of the state's surplus for
this is a good investment in Pennsylvania's future.

Let's stop being No. 2 and letting the rest of the country pass us by. Let's
make Pennsylvania more competitive for job creation and keep our talented people
here.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Martin G. McGuinn, of Shadyside, is chairman of the Allegheny Conference on
Community Development and chairman and chief executive officer of Mellon
Financial Corp.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazette:

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       July 1, 2005 Friday SOONER EDITION

'DEGRASSI' COVERS REAL, VALUABLE LESSONS

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-5 TUNED IN

LENGTH: 1072 words


Sometimes the buzz can be deafening and you just have to sit up and pay
attention. Such is the case with the teen drama "Degrassi: The Next Generation,"
which begins its summer season tonight at 8.

A spin-off from the late 1980s show "Degrassi Junior High" that aired in America
on PBS, "Degrassi: The Next Generation" has been winning accolades in seemingly
every recent issue of Entertainment Weekly, and the show is in the running for a
Television Critics Association for best children's program.

Currently in its fourth season, "Degrassi" begins a summer run of episodes,
tackling a topic that makes clear that this is a Canadian import, not an
American show. The subject: teens and oral sex. One character even uses a
certain two-word colloquialism for oral sex. That's not something an American
show would dare attempt, and this new series could never air on PBS in the
current conservative climate.

But "Degrassi" isn't tackling this subject for the sake of sensationalism. It's
a real issue that real teens are confronting, whether their parents, who grew up
in a time when it wasn't so commonplace, like it or not.

Emma (Miriam McDonald) has been down in the dumps since a school shooting and
she turns to a bad-boy for solace, joining him, unwittingly, inside a van for
the sole purpose of oral sex. She flees the first time. But when she realizes
the popular kids are engaging in the same activity, she goes back to meet him
again.

"Degrassi" airs on The N, the night-time version of Noggin (it's analogous to
Nick at Nite in prime time on Nickelodeon). Locally on cable, The N/Noggin is
available on Comcast's Channel 131, Adelphia's Channel 148 and Armstrong's
Channel 400. On satellite, The N can be found on DirecTV's Channel 298 and Dish
Network's Channel 169.

"Degrassi" brings to mind the old "ABC Afterschool Specials" as it tackles
social issues. Plus, the kids are too realistic-looking and too diverse to be
part of the "Beverly Hills, 90210" and WB crowds. The acting is a little stilted
at times, but "Degrassi" deals with issues forthrightly and shows the
consequences of impulsive, health endangering actions. For parents: A discussion
guide is available at http://discussions.the-n.com.

The N premieres a new show tonight at 9 following "Degrassi," "Instant Star,"
from some of the producers of "Degrassi."

"Instant Star" is intended more as pure entertainment and doesn't offer
pro-social messages quite as emphatically. Jude Harrison (Alexz Johnson) wins an
"American Idol"-type singing competition and finds herself propelled into
super-stardom.

The 15-year-old finds her priorities shifting, and her grades in school take a
beating as she teams with a former teen heartthrob (think: a recovering member
of Backstreet Boys), who wants to produce Jude's new album.

If anything, "Instant Star" doesn't go far enough in depicting how crazy life
becomes for a teen singing sensation (I can't imagine any of the "Idol" winners
returning to the classroom after winning that contest). But the series does
offer drama aplenty as Jude works with Lil' Tommy Q (Tim Rozon), much to the
dismay of best friend and biggest supporter Jamie (Kristopher Turner). At the
same time, older sister Sadie (Laura Vadervoort) is jealous and her parents are
arguing more frequently.

"Instant Star" is a fine tween show, but it's neither as gripping nor as
worthwhile as "Degrassi."

Local weather on cable

WPXI's new Weather Plus channel offers forecasts on a 15-minute loop with
current conditions on the left of the screen and five-day forecasts for local
communities at the bottom. Do viewers really need to know the temperature
variations between Butler, Morgantown and Indiana? Probably not, but there it is
for those who really care.

The middle of the screen shows commercials, public service announcements and
national weather forecasts and includes regular glimpses at live local radar and
taped forecasts from Channel 11 meteorologists.

Oddly, as Steve Teeling was giving the forecast on WPXI at 6:17 one night last
week, Krista Villarreal was giving the forecast on Weather Plus, which means it
must have been taped around the time of the noon news, near the end of
Villarreal's shift. Most days, the forecast won't change much in that time, but
for days when there is severe weather, a six-hour-old forecast might not be too
useful.

WPXI news director Corrie Harding said the goal of the channel "is to provide
up-to-the-second weather information 24 hours a day, 7 days a week," and when
severe weather warrants, the meteorologist on duty for Channel 11 will offer
updates on Weather Plus.

On Tuesday evening when a severe storm warning banner was at the bottom of the
screen on WPXI, I didn't see that warning on Weather Plus. Harding said there
should have been a warning graphic on consistently, and he said if it wasn't, it
will be there in the future.

Channel surfing

CBS begins production on a "Walker, Texas Ranger" TV movie July 20 in Dallas
with stars Chuck Norris, Sheree Wilson and Judson Mills on board to reprise
their roles. ... The Pax Network, carried locally on some cable systems, has
changed its named to "i," effective today and will henceforth provide "an
independent broadcast platform for producers and syndicators who desire to reach
a national audience." ... The cult Fox series "Profit" will be out on DVD Aug.
9. ... NBC has changed the title of its fall drama about aliens living
underwater on Earth from "Fathom" to "Surface." It's not to be confused with
ABC's "Invasion" or CBS's "Threshold," also about aliens living underwater on
Earth. ... FX is developing a weekly series based on the big-screen movie
"Crash" with star Don Cheadle expected to reprise his role. ... ABC will air
"Live 8: A Worldwide Concert Event Presented by Nokia" 8 to 10 p.m. tomorrow.
... Kaley Cuoco ("8 Simple Rules") will join the cast of "Charmed" this fall as
a young witch under the tutelage of the series regulars. ... TNT has renewed its
summer hit, "The Closer," for a second season of 15 episodes. ... Actor Ian Holm
will play Pope John Paul II in a four-hour CBS miniseries about the late
pontiff's life.

/ TV Q&A

This week's TV Q&A responds to questions about possibly pregnant anchors on
WTAE, ABC's "Eyes" and Rick Schroder's show on Lifetime. You can read the
online-only Q&A at www.post-gazette.com/tv.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
TV editor Rob Owen can be reached at rowen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2582.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Epitome Pictures, Inc.: Miriam McDonald is Emma and Mike Lobel
is Jay in "Degrassi: The Next Generation." A summer run of episodes of the teen
drama begins tonight on The N.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 15, 2005 Monday SOONER EDITION

FANTASTIC VOYAGE;
TAKE A TRIP AROUND THE SOLAR SYSTEM WITH A BRAND NEW GUIDE

BYLINE: Alana Semuels, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-6

LENGTH: 815 words


Are you getting sick of Earth and all its petty little squabbles? Maybe you're
thinking it's time to find a new planet upon which you and your progeny can
frolic free of polluted lakes and hazy air?

You should check out Io. It's one of Jupiter's moons, where there are volcanoes
more active than Mount St. Helens. Or look to Saturn's moon Enceladus, where a
sea of water might exist below a giant sheet of ice. And there's always the old
standby of Mars, hot interplanetary real estate where there once was water and
could still be some forms of life.

Pittsburgh native William K. Hartmann wants to be your real estate agent. In his
new book, "The Grand Tour: A Traveler's Guide to the Solar System," co-authored
with longtime collaborator Ron Miller, the astronomer paints a picture of the
planets and moons that are our neighbors, sharing recent discoveries and
historical stories. It's part glossy travel book, part history lesson, part
encyclopedia that covers more than the nine planets. In fact, if there's one
thing we learn from Hartmann's book, it's that the old mnemonic to remember the
planets' order, My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nine Pancakes, is
outdated -- for today's solar system is a virtual alphabet of planets, moons,
satellites and activity.

Hartmann grew up in New Kensington, where he first watched the stars through a
homemade telescope in his back yard. He went on to Penn State, and left there in
1961 for graduate school in Arizona, where he still resides.

It was the right time to be delving deep into outer space. In 1957, the first
satellite orbited the Earth, followed closely by the first dog in space. Then
Yuri Gagarin went to space in 1961, and man landed on the moon in 1969 (unless,
of course, you believe the conspiracy theories that argue otherwise).

Hartmann was involved in some of these early expeditions, including a moon
mapping project to draw the dark side of the moon, and a planning team for the
first Mars mission in 1971. But since the early days of planetary studies,
astronomers like Hartmann have discovered other fascinating facts about the
solar system, which he documents in his book.

For instance: the greenhouse effect on Venus has been trapping infrared
radiation in the atmosphere for millions of years, which might be a useful
warning about how planetary gases operate. And Europa, a satellite of Jupiter
that is almost 800 million kilometers from the sun, is warmed by gravity and has
a giant ice ocean.

He talks about recent discoveries, too. American rovers on Mars discovered
sedimentary rocks last year, which are different from the volcanic lava
previously found there. This indicates that Mars had lakes or seas, and that
early Mars was similar to early Earth, Hartmann said. If early Mars and early
Earth were the same, and if life started here, he wonders, did it start there?

"If we find fossils of bacteria, we're not alone in the universe," he said. "But
if no life ever started there, that's pretty profound, too."

He speculates that we will know if there was life on Mars by the year 2020.

But Hartmann doesn't study space just for the sake of doing so.

"We see that petroleum reserves are running out, but solar energy is flowing
through space," he said. NASA is building solar panels to harness some of that
energy, and Hartmann said that alternative energy sources like those will be
essential in the future.

To those who say that we should be spending our money down here on Earth rather
than out in space, Hartmann argues that it will be important to think in the
long-term about finding ways to conserve our planet by looking at others. He
sometimes worries that the anti-science fundamentalists in our country and
around the world are endangering the future of space exploration and thus of our
own planet.

But practical stuff aside, part of Hartmann still likes to mull over the "big
picture" questions that space study raises. He can't wait to find out if we're
alone in the universe and how humans came to be here on Earth.

Early in his career, Hartmann thought about becoming an astronaut, but decided
that his skills and talents could be better served on the ground, by helping
plan missions for others and showing Earthlings about the giant galaxy in space.

Now that he has an asteroid named after him (No. 3341), has written numerous
books about space and evolved into a space artist as well, he's pretty sure he
made the right decision. His form of space travel works well for him too.

"I travel to other planets," he said, "only in my imagination."

%% * * * %%

The Carnegie Science Center's Buhl Planetarium will host William K. Hartmann for
a lecture and book signing Wednesday at 7 p.m. Tickets are $25 and include a
copy of "The Grand Tour: A Traveler's Guide to the Solar System." For more
information, call 412-237-3400.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Alana Semuels can be reached at asemuels@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1928.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The dark ring in the foreground surrounds the central mountain
peak of the 81-mile crater Herschel on Saturn's moon Mimas. This is among the
images in "The Grand Tour: A Traveler's Guide to the Solar System" by William K.
Hartmann and Ron Miller.
/ PHOTOWilliam K. Hartmann

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              244 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 9, 2005 Friday SOONER EDITION

TEXANS MOSTLY HOPEFUL ABOUT FUTURE

BYLINE: MONICA HAYNES, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-9

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Residents of this city are taking the sudden influx of 200,000 hurricane
evacuees in stride, and expressing optimism about the future for their new
neighbors from New Orleans.

At the Tel-Wink Restaurant, south of Houston, waitress Erika Toungate said if
the New Orleans transplants can make it here, "more power to 'em."

"I feel bad for them; they have no place," she said. "I hope they find some
place. They're lost and the government ain't doing a damned thing to help."

Resident Ernest Evans said evacuees might find Houston better than their former
home.

"First of all, Louisiana is typically known for its poor education, so a good
point I would think is that some of these kids will be exposed to a different
education system," said Evans, 41. "I think they'll be exposed to a more
advanced curriculum than what they're used to."

He said some evacuees could use the opportunity of a fresh start to turn their
lives around.

But the divergent cultures of the two cities will make for necessary adjustments
on both sides, he said.

"Houstonians are typically nonsocial people," Evans said, except when they're
involved in an organized event. "New Orleans people know they have to cater to
tourists. Our city is not one that has made a habit of catering to tourists."

But the city has opened its arms and rightly so, said resident Vincent Morrison.

"These folks are Americans. You can't turn them away," said Morrison, a Harris
County veterans service officer who lives in the Meyerland section.

Morrison has encountered military and nonmilitary people from New Orleans. The
military will determine who stays in Houston and who is assigned elsewhere, he
said.

Displaced military personnel who are here now are receiving money from the
military for food and housing, he said. But those benefits will be cut by 60
percent at the end of 30 days. It is within that time frame that the military
will decide where its New Orleans personnel will go.

Of the nonmilitary folks from New Orleans, Morrison said, "A lot of them I've
met are looking for jobs. They want to work."

That's fine with Marylynn Harris, who lives about 15 miles outside the city
limits. But she worries about the impact on Houston's financial future.

"It's admirable that we have taken in the evacuees," she said. "My concern is
just long-term, for those that remain here, will they contribute to the economic
climate?"

Darrell Darling said the federal and state government will bring jobs to the
Houston area because of the evacuees and that's a good thing.

"And if the [New Orleans] people don't want to stay, the people here can take
over the jobs," said Darling, a substance abuse counselor who resides in
Houston's 3rd Ward.

"It'll be a change in attitude for everybody overall," he said. "You have a
different culture coming. Everybody will be trying to learn from each other."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Monica Haynes can be reached at mhaynes@post-gazette.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave Einsel/Getty Images: An evacuee student peeks out of her
bus as she arrives at Douglass Elementary School yesterday in Houston. About 175
students are registered at Douglass which was closed for budgetary reasons, but
the Houston Independence School District reopened the facility for children of
evacuees from Hurricane Katrina.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              247 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 2, 2005 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

SHINE A LIGHT;
THE WORLD CAN MANAGE, BUT NOT CURE, POVERTY, SAYS DOUGLAS MACKINNON. BUT LET'S
BE HONEST ABOUT SOME OF ITS CATALYSTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.J-1

LENGTH: 739 words


According to some of the newspapers in New York, Sept. 14 seemed to be poverty
awareness day in that city, the United States and around the world. Lip service
was given to those less fortunate simply because 170 heads of state were meeting
at the United Nations.

In flipping through the papers, I noticed stories on minorities and the poor in
New Orleans; a full-page ad by the Millennium Campaign suggesting that "World
Leaders Won't Keep Their Promise to End Poverty by 2015"; a headline that read,
"U.N. Adopts Modest Goals on Reforms and Poverty"; a full-page ad by the U.N.
World Food Programme (and paid for by Citigroup Corporate and Investment
Banking) that asked, "Who eats first? One billion of us eat too much. While
every year, 6 million children die quietly of hunger"; and a full-page ad from
Starbucks that reminded us that 45 million Americans have no health insurance.
That, plus the fact that former President Bill Clinton hosted the first "Clinton
Global Initiative," which focused on poverty, climate change and other worldwide
issues, made for an exciting day on the never-ending war on poverty.

Sadly, for those who suffer and die in abject poverty -- be they in this
country, Africa, the Middle East, South America or anywhere else -- since Sept.
14 the world has turned on its axis a number of times, and the subject has faded
back into the white noise it has always been.

The road to hell is indeed paved with good intentions. Anyone who tries to bring
attention to poverty, hunger and a growing lack of health insurance, needs to be
commended. That said, if we discount experience and honesty in the debate on
these issues, then we dishonor those who suffer by the millions.

As I looked at these pointed ads and stories, I wondered how many of those
behind them have lived in real poverty, gone days without food and had to choose
between health insurance and paying the rent? My guess would be a minute
percentage. Most surely don't have a clue.

Does having lived in that desperate and unpredictable world make a difference in
how one sees solutions? I believe so. For better or worse, I come from that
world. I grew up on welfare and was homeless a number of times as a child.
Poverty has never been an academic exercise for me.

My opinion may not matter. But I maintain that the opinion of those who struggle
every day just to feed themselves and survive, does matter. It's critically
important to the debate. What place do they have at the table when world
leaders, corporate executives and academics meet to decide their fate?

Experience matters and so does honesty. Disgustingly, with regard to New Orleans
and the hundreds of thousands affected by Hurricane Katrina, some political
"leaders" tried to cite "racism" as the reason the federal government did not
initially rush to the aid of the city. They bring shame to themselves with such
comments. Poverty, not racism, doomed many in the Gulf Coast to the force of the
hurricane and its aftermath. Instead of pointing fingers, maybe these "leaders"
might want to ask themselves how they can better educate their communities, cut
down on unwed-mother births and have the fathers accept responsibility for their
children.

As for the Millennium Campaign's desire to end world hunger by 2015 by promoting
a white wrist band and trying to embarrass world leaders, maybe they need to let
a little honesty infiltrate their boilerplate rhetoric as well. Poverty is not
going to end by 2015. Poverty will never end, and we all need to accept that.

Can we manage poverty? Sure. But again, that means being honest about some of
the catalysts of poverty. Take for instance, the outright corruption of some of
the governments that house the world's poorest people. Heads of those
governments in attendance at the United Nations. It's not that the United States
and other governments don't give generously to these governments, it's just that
when they do, often times, what is given, is stolen.

What about the United Nations itself? Can it really get the help to those most
in need as advertised? The "Oil for Food" program which the United Nations ran,
in which potentially billions of dollars were stolen, would seem to indicate
that they should be the last organization to criticize a government or group for
not doing enough.

Poverty. For a few days in New York poverty mattered. Then the world turned.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Douglas MacKinnon was press secretary to former Sen. Bob Dole. He is also a
former White House and Pentagon official and an author (dmackinnon@ sandw.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osodi/Associated Press: Lagos, Nigeria.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              251 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 20, 2005 Thursday SOONER EDITION

SOUTHWEST A RARE BIRD IN INDUSTRY;
LOW-COST CARRIER REPORTS PROFIT WHILE OTHER AIRLINES DIVE INTO THE RED

BYLINE: David Koenig, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-14

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


The divide between the airline industry's winners and losers was on stark
display yesterday as Southwest Airlines reported a fourth- quarter profit
despite high fuel prices and low fares, while American Airlines and Northwest
Airlines lost more than $800 million.

Still, there is evidence that the chasm separating the haves and some of the
have-nots narrowed in 2004 and that business will again be tough for all
carriers in 2005. Investors sent shares of all airline stocks lower in a sign
that they don't see a quick end to the industry's turbulence.

Airline executives were cautious to grim in describing their outlook. Gerard
Arpey, chairman and chief executive officer of American's parent company, AMR
Corp., called the fourth quarter "a disappointing end to a very difficult year,"
even though 2004 was American's best performance in four years, thanks in part
to significant cost cutting over that period.

For Southwest, 2004 was its second-smallest profit in eight years, a sign of
just how difficult business conditions were for the fuel-intensive industry.

There was no brave talk of an imminent turnaround in the industry's fortunes.
"Our outlook for 2005 doesn't look a whole lot brighter," Arpey said.

Analysts expect more heavy losses this year. Ray Neidl, an analyst with Calyon
Securities, predicted U.S. carriers would lose $1.9 billion in 2005, a big
improvement from 2004, though his estimate assumes oil prices drop significantly
from current levels.

The only bright spot, Neidl said, is that some big carriers are cutting back
U.S. capacity, "but it's not going to be enough to lift [ticket] prices."

With little hope of raising fares significantly -- Delta Air Lines touched off a
new round of fare cuts this month -- and no control over fuel prices, carriers
say they are left with one option: cutting costs.

Northwest, which had its worst performance ever in 2004, may have to seek more
than the $950 million in annual labor cuts that it is already demanding from
workers, said Chief Executive Officer Doug Steenland.

American has already announced it would defer delivery of 54 of 56 jets from
Boeing Co., postponing $1.4 billion in spending through 2007.

AMR said it spent $477 million more on fuel in the fourth quarter than it would
have if fuel had remained at 2003 prices. Overall, AMR's fourth-quarter costs
jumped 6 percent -- wiping out a 3.4 percent increase in revenue.

Dallas-based Southwest insulated itself from high fuel prices by locking in
lower prices years ago -- a gamble that could have backfired if prices fell.
Southwest estimated that it saved $174 million with this maneuver but still saw
fuel costs rise 20 percent per gallon.

Jamie Baker, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, said he expects fourth-quarter losses
from JetBlue Airways and AirTran Airways, low-cost carriers that aren't as
well-insulated as Southwest from costly fuel.

Southwest earned $56 million, or 7 cents per share, in the fourth quarter, down
from $66 million a year earlier and less than the 8 cents per share predicted by
analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. Revenue rose 9 percent, to $1.66
billion, still slightly below analysts' estimate of $1.68 billion.

For all of 2004, Southwest earned $313 million on revenue of $6.53 billion.

AMR lost $387 million or $2.40 per share on revenue of $4.54 billion in the
fourth quarter, vs. a loss of $111 million, or 70 cents per share, a year
earlier. Northwest lost $420 million, or $4.84 per share in the fourth quarter,
compared to a profit of $363 million, or $3.60 per share, a year earlier.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Widman/Associated Press: Southwest Airlines jets are seen
in front of a taxiing Delta jet at Philadelphia International Airport. Southwest
reported a fourth-quarter profit yesterday, while American Airlines and
Northwest Airlines had more than $800 million in losses.

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              255 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 23, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

IN EUROPE, REACTION IS SURPRISE, SKEPTICISM

BYLINE: RICHARD BERNSTEIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: MAINZ, Germany


Europeans watching President Bush's trip are clearly glad to see an American
president once thought hostile showing a friendlier, conciliatory side. Still,
most of the news commentary following Bush's "new era" speech Monday night in
Brussels, Belgium, was heavily tinged with skepticism about whether the changed
tone of U.S. pronouncements will be followed by practical trans-Atlantic
cooperation.

"The more the governments talk about a new beginning, the less one wants to
believe it," the German business paper Handelsblatt said in an editorial today.
"The trans-Atlantic partnership would be better off if it did not just talk up
common values, but set out a common strategy. But a grand design is as far away
as it was a year ago."

In a similar vein, the conservative French paper Le Figaro allowed, "The change
in tone is spectacular." Bush, the paper continued, "has suddenly discovered
that Europe exists. If he took four years to do so, let us recognize the blame
falls on us Europeans, for a great part. And haven't the Europeans taken four
years to accept that Bush is the elected president of the U.S.?"

But, the paper said, simply the fact that everybody wants the trans-Atlantic
relationship to improve does not guarantee that it will. "After his re-election,
George W. Bush has understood the urgency in establishing a normal climate in
trans-Atlantic relations," the paper said. "This is the reason for his trip.
Does he really need Europe? Despite his repeated assurances, it is not certain."

Much of the commentary following the speech provided a sort of laundry list of
global trouble spots where Europe's generally more multilateral, diplomatic
approach to problem-solving might in the future cause further trans-Atlantic
rifts. The Iran issue was probably the most frequently mentioned, with Europeans
criticizing the United States for failing to give its full backing to the
European diplomatic initiative aimed at persuading Tehran not to develop nuclear
weapons.

Behind the concern over specific issues is a deeper skepticism about Bush's
motives. Essentially, commentators were asking after the speech in Brussels
whether Bush's call for a "new era" in trans-Atlantic affairs signals a sincere
willingness to listen to Europe, or whether the American president is just
giving Europeans a chance, finally, to agree with the United States.

"In his speech on Monday in Brussels, he used the word "alliance" 12 times to
describe the American-European relationship," the German weekly Der Spiegel
commented in its on-line edition. "Europeans are lapping up the new openness,
but also wondering just what is behind it and what exactly the world's most
powerful man expects from them in return."

Some commentators indicated that, with the perceived success of the Iraqi
elections, Bush has greater credibility in Europe than he did before --
especially in his main argument that Iraq is a success in the making, not the
unmitigated disaster that most Europeans have believed it to be until recently.

"The president, with his second mandate and the success of the Iraqi elections,
is stronger than before, while the Europe that opposed him is weak, having made
too many errors," the Italian daily Corriere della Sera wrote in a front-page
editorial. "Statements like, 'You can't export democracy through war,' are no
longer fashionable."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              260 of 282 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 25, 2005 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

ARE THE DOLLAR'S GAINS HERE TO STAY?

BYLINE: Rachel Beck, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-7

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


It may be too soon to call the dollar's recent rise a full-fledged turnaround.
And there may be some in corporate America who are just fine with that.

After being beaten and battered for the last few years, the greenback appears to
be emerging from its funk by making significant gains in recent months against
the currencies of major trading partners.

That's surely a positive development if you consider what it could do for the
economy, and how it would cut travel costs for anyone venturing abroad. But is
this good news all around? It may depend who you ask.

There weren't expectations for this kind of turn in the dollar this year. The
U.S. currency had been stuck in a downward slide, and it didn't look likely that
there was much out there to get it off that course.

It's most recent sell-off began last May and extended through the end of last
year, with the greenback losing about 12 percent of its value against a
trade-weighted basket of other currencies, according to the Federal Reserve.

That's why its recent moves have been so surprising. The dollar has surged about
8 percent this year against the euro, the currency used by 12 European nations,
and is now trading near a seven-month high. It has tallied similar gains against
the British pound, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, too.

Many things are feeding this bounce. Most importantly, the U.S. economic climate
looks better to investors than what is going on elsewhere in the world. Job
growth appears to be healthy, as does consumer spending. The economy, while not
racing ahead, is accelerating at an acceptable pace.

Also fueling the dollar's climb is the Fed's raising of interest rates eight
times since June, which make short-term dollar-denominated investments more
attractive, and speculation that China will take its time in delinking its
currency from the dollar, despite pressures from the United States. Commodity
prices also have slumped recently, and they often have an inverse relationship
to the dollar.

"There has been this sort of parachute for the dollar seen recently," said David
Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., "and that has
largely come from the compelling economic story that we have here."

Should the dollar continue its upward climb, it could knock down oil prices and
the cost of other imported goods. And that could keep inflationary pressures in
check because domestic producers would have less need to raise prices to
maintain their competitive position in the marketplace, said Wells Fargo senior
economist Scott Anderson. If all that happened, it could give a nice jolt to the
economy.

But the big unknown is whether this trend in the dollar has staying power. The
way Gilmore explained it, the recent about face in the dollar's direction
signifies that sentiment in the market was "less bearish, as opposed to
bullish."

By that he means there still are major obstacles standing in the way of a
long-term dollar rally. Topping that list: the supersized U.S. trade and
current-account deficits, which could eventually scare off foreigners who think
investing here would be too risky.

While no one expects a foreign exodus to happen, it still would be troubling if
the huge deficits spur some investors to look elsewhere to put their money.
After all, foreigners own about 48 percent of Treasurys and 25 percent of U.S.
corporate debt, according to The Bond Market Association.

Still, not everyone would complain if the dollar reversed its current course.
Weakness in the dollar has aided U.S. exporters, such as heavy equipment
manufacturer Caterpillar Inc., cosmetics giant Revlon Inc. and appliance maker
Whirlpool Corp., whose products have been cheaper overseas compared with those
items manufactured in local foreign markets.

U.S. companies that do business abroad also benefit from a falling dollar. They
eventually have to convert the money they make abroad back to dollars when
calculating earnings, so when foreign currencies are strong, offshore profits
count for more than they otherwise would.

It's also important to note that while a strong dollar has historically helped
stocks by driving up foreign demand, that hasn't been the case in recent years.

While investors talk of dollar depreciation as a negative development, it turns
out that the best legs up in the stock market in 2003 and 2004 happened during
times of steep dollar declines.

Of course, it is too soon to tell if the dollar's recent upward trend is here to
stay. And no doubt, where market players want the dollar to go will depend
largely on what they could gain from its next move.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: By AP; Telerate: (DOLLAR'S MOMENTUM)

                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              272 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 26, 2005 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

HOME OF 'LORDS OF DOGTOWN' TURNS 100

BYLINE: Daisy Nguyen, The Associated Press

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. F-4

LENGTH: 3121 words


In various incarnations, Venice has been called the Coney Island of the Pacific,
ghetto by the sea, and -- in a new movie about a group of trailblazing
skateboarders -- Dogtown.

The movie "Lords of Dogtown" tells the true story of local teens whose daring
moves revolutionized skateboarding in the 1970s. But the gritty Venice you see
on screen is nothing like Venice today.

This famed seaside community west of central Los Angeles -- also known for
Muscle Beach and a bodybuilding culture popularized by former resident Arnold
Schwarzenegger -- marks its centennial this year.

And as the celebration gets under way this summer, local history buffs are
looking back much farther than the 1970s -- to the original vision of Abbot
Kinney, the developer who founded "Venice-of-America" a century ago as a resort
town modeled after the legendary Italian city.

"To us, it's Greenwich Village west," said Todd Von Hoffman, who came from New
York in the 1980s. "When you're in Venice, you have this amazing sense of place,
whereas the rest of Los Angeles is vast and overwhelming."

Many people who live in L.A.'s coastal neighborhoods like to boast that they
seldom venture east of the 405 Freeway -- a symbolic dividing line a few miles
inland that separates their world from the rest of the city.

But residents of offbeat Venice draw the line even closer to the coast, saying
they're "always west of Lincoln" Boulevard, within a mile or so of the Pacific
Ocean. Some proudly wear T-shirts bearing the acronym "AWOL."

With its entertaining beach boardwalk and labyrinth of canals and walkways
connecting lushly landscaped homes, Venice is one of the most
pedestrian-friendly districts of Los Angeles. A visitor can spend an entire
weekend on the go without needing a car.

Residents of the community of 40,000 people range from low-income families to
bourgeois bohemians. The most famous denizens include actors Dennis Hopper and
Anjelica Huston, and her husband, sculptor Robert Graham.

Throughout the year, special walking tours offer looks into artists' studios and
notable homes and gardens -- many of them on the canals.

Most tours end with a street festival and food fair, featuring cuisine from
local restaurants.

In September, a music, food and art festival along hip Abbot Kinney Boulevard
offers a chance to bask in the sun and enjoy the waning days of summer.

The events will put Venice on display. But it's the canals and sidewalks that
tell the colorful history of the funky beach community founded by Kinney, an
asthmatic who left his family's tobacco business on the East Coast for the
milder climate of Southern California.

He hired workers to dig 16 miles of canals along the salty marshland, imported
gondolas and commissioned architects to design a business district resembling
the famed San Marco square.

Kinney formally introduced Venice-of-America on July 4, 1905. Critics dubbed the
project "Kinney's Folly," but beachgoers immediately flocked there to swim or
stroll on amusement piers called "The Coney Island of the Pacific."

Camel rides, beauty contests and outlandish stunts drew people to the shore and
created a circus atmosphere that remains a part of Venice today.

Kinney died in 1920 at age 70. A month later, a fire destroyed a pier and much
of the local economy. By the mid-1920s, Venice could no longer support itself as
an independent city and was annexed to Los Angeles.

It fell into disrepair and many of the whimsical canals were drained and filled
to accommodate an increasing number of motorists.

In the 1950s, beatniks were drawn by its low rents and reputation as a haven for
artists. Hippies followed in the next decade and settled in the area's Craftsman
cottages. The 1970s saw the rise of skateboarders and bodybuilders, while the
1980s and early 1990s brought gang violence to some streets.

But a real estate boom in recent years has resulted in gentrification.

Today, massive million-dollar homes stand next to quirky bungalows -- a mix of
styles reflecting the changes the community has seen over the years.

IF YOU GO

Venice, Calif.

* INFORMATION: 1-310-967-5170; www.venicecentennial.com or
www.veniceofamerica.org.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Reed Saxon/Associated Press: A cyclist pedals down the bike path
adjacent to the boardwalk in the Venice Beach area of Los Angeles.
PHOTO: Ric Francis/Associated Press: Sasha Laing, left, and her daughter Mira,
7, take a boat ride down the Venice canals in Los Angeles. With its beach
boardwalk and labyrinth of canals and walkways offering glimpses into lushly
landscaped homes, Venice is one of the most pedestrian-friendly sections of Los
Angeles. A visitor can spend an entire weekend here without needing a car.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CHECHENS VOTE FOR NEW PARLIAMENT, BUT RIGHTS GROUPS DECRY ELECTION

BYLINE: Chicago Tribune

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 662 words


MOSCOW -- The Russian republic of Chechnya elected a new parliament yesterday, a
vote viewed by the Kremlin as a political milestone but decried by human-rights
activists as illegitimate in the midst of a guerrilla war and reports of police
abductions and torture of innocent civilians.

The election of the North Caucasus republic's 61-seat assembly marks the final
step in the Kremlin's plan to bring peace to Chechnya, where separatist fighters
have been battling Moscow for the province's independence since 1994.

That plan eschewed negotiations with separatist rebels and instead called for a
three-tiered political process aimed at giving the mountain province a degree of
autonomy from Moscow. The plan included the establishment of a new constitution
-- approved by voters in 2003 -- and the election of a president last year,
followed by a national vote to create a parliament.

However, human-rights groups that have been monitoring Moscow's handling of the
Chechen conflict for years argue that the province's persistent climate of fear
casts doubt on any attempt to hold elections in Chechnya.

Concerned about the potential for violence during the vote, authorities deployed
24,000 Russian and local police and troops at the province's 430 polling
stations. As of last night, there were no major reports of violence.

The Kremlin's United Russia party was expected to dominate the contest, though
other major Russian political parties, including the nationalist Rodina group
and liberal parties Yabloko and the Union of Right Forces, also fielded
candidates. Final results were not expected until today. More than 350
candidates were vying for 58 of the 61 assembly seats.

Ruling party takes Senate

By The Associated Press

HARARE, Zimbabwe -- Zimbabwe's ruling party cemented its grip on power
yesterday, sweeping an overwhelming majority of seats in a new Senate amid
bitter and potentially irreconcilable divisions in the main opposition group.

Partial results from Saturday's vote gave President Robert Mugabe's ruling
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front at least 49 of 66 seats in the
Senate.

Voting was marked by a record-low turnout blamed on voter apathy and the main
opposition leader's call for a boycott.

Independent monitors predicted a turnout of between 15 percent and 20 percent of
eligible voters, the lowest in any national election since Zimbabwe won
independence in 1980.

The election campaign left the main opposition Movement for Democratic Change
bitterly split, threatening to destroy the only group to have seriously
challenged Mr. Mugabe's increasingly autocratic 25-year rule.

Voters preserve abortion

By The Associated Press

VADUZ, Liechtenstein -- Voters in this tiny Alpine principality yesterday
soundly rejected an initiative that critics said would have prevented abortion,
birth control, assisted suicide and living wills.

Less than 20 percent of voters cast ballots in favor of the constitutional
amendment, supported by the country's Roman Catholic archbishop, seeking to
protect human life from "conception to natural death."

Instead, nearly 80 percent ratified a government counterproposal, which legal
experts say brings the country's legal framework for issues such as abortion and
birth control in line with European standards.

Presidential election

By The Associated Press

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -- Honduran voters choosing a president yesterday were
split between a leftist-turned-conservative who promises to wipe out violent
crime with the death penalty and a rival who vows to eliminate widespread
corruption.

Polls showed a tight race between Porfirio Lobo Sosa of the governing National
Party and the Liberal Party candidate Manuel Zelaya.

The country's nearly 4 million voters also were electing a vice president, 128
congressional representatives, 298 mayors and 2,000 city councilors. Yesterday's
vote is the seventh in the Central American nation of 7 million since 1981, when
it abandoned more than two decades of military rule.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              281 of 282 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WE NEED THIS MEASURE TO ENCOURAGE BUSINESS INVESTMENT

BYLINE: F. MICHAEL LANGLEY Chief Executive Officer Allegheny Conference on
Community Development Downtown

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 296 words


The Dec. 8 editorial ("Taxing Issue: The Right Cut at the Wrong Time") got it
half right. House Bill 515 does in fact identify the right first priorities for
improving our business tax competitiveness. But it's not the wrong time for the
governor to endorse these cuts -- it is never a bad time to make Pennsylvania a
more competitive place to do business.

The governor makes hard choices every day as to how to spend revenue from
Pennsylvania taxpayers. With HB 515, he has a golden opportunity to send a
strong message that Pennsylvania businesses should have a fair playing field
with other states, encouraging businesses to invest in Pennsylvania jobs and
facilities.

The state can afford these changes. Revenue collections from corporate taxes in
the last five months alone are above budget by more than the first year's cost
of this bill. And the bill does not take effect until January 2007.

Finally, the editorial said the cuts should be done as part of the soon-to-begin
budget process. Well, we have tried that route, and it did not prove successful.
In fact, the strong CompetePA Coalition arose out of the frustration that
occurred during the 2005 budget process, when business tax competitiveness was
not part of the debate. The coalition worked to get business tax improvements
past the House and Senate with bipartisan support and to the governor's desk to
be signed.

This was not a political ploy, but in fact has been a proactive effort receiving
overwhelming support from tens of thousands of organizations and businesses
across Pennsylvania -- small and large businesses, manufacturing and biotech --
all yearning for progress in Pennsylvania so we can grow and prosper.

F. MICHAEL LANGLEY

Chief Executive Officer

Allegheny Conference on Community Development

Downtown

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.
