
                              13 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 15, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

WINTER ARTS PREVIEW

BYLINE: ADRIAN MCCOY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1643 words


Rx for Cabin Fever: Put down that snow shovel and take one of the following
outings as needed until better weather comes along.

Bask under the palms and spring flowers while a calypso band plays at Phipps
Conservatory's Tropical Sundays. Or take an armchair trip to distant lands with
the Carnegie Science Center's "The Greatest Places" Omnimax film or to distant
galaxies at the Science Center's Buhl Observatory Saturday skywatching event.

And it's looking a little like Jurassic Park at the Carnegie Museum of Natural
History these days, with the daily strobe show that lights up the dinosaurs,
along with an awesome roaring soundtrack. Visit the newly renovated Pittsburgh
Children's Museum, where kids can enjoy the redesigned Kids' Climber and new
Flying Machine and Ups and Downs exhibits.

Visit exotic places at the Pittsburgh Zoo's Don Pablo's Movie Matinees. A visit
to your four-legged friends at the zoo and winged pals at the National Aviary is
always a welcome escape this time of year. Or check out what's new for 1999 in
the way of cars, RVs and boats at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center.

CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Exhibits:Hidden Treasures of the Collection" consists of significant items from
the museum collections on temporary display, such as a fragment of armor plate
from the Merrimack, rare fossilized dinosaur skin and the largest plant seed
(ongoing).

"Lapidary Art" is the fifth exhibit of gemstone art (through May 2).

"Dinosaur Hall Light/Sound Show" features strobe lighting and sound effects that
bring dinosaurs to "life" (ongoing).

Special events:Saving the Family Treasures" is a fair that shows how to preserve
and protect heirlooms such as books, photographs, newspapers, old documents and
glass (Feb. 27).

Carnegie Lectures on Global Environmental ChangeSeries of lectures sponsored by
Carnegie Mellon University and the Museum of Natural History. Topics include:
Polar Crocodiles: A 56-Million-Year Perspective in Global Warming and Cooling
(Feb. 8); Climate Change Impacts and the Policy Imperative (March 8); Simulating
Climate at Extremely High Resolution: The Next Big Step in Understanding (April
12); Forecast Cloudy: The Limits of Global Warming Models (May 10). To register:
412-622-3288.

4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 412-622-3131.

CARNEGIE SCIENCE CENTER

Exhibits:Square Wheels" allows kids to learn basic science and mechanics in this
exhibit of gears, gyros, weights, wheels and pulleys (Feb. 5-June 20).

Rangos Omnimax Theater:The Greatest Places" showcases seven of the world's
natural wonders, including the Tibetan plateau, Greenland, the desert and the
rain forest (through May 13); "Thrill Ride" simulates the amusement ride
experience (through Sept. 6); "Mysteries of Egypt" is a look at pyramids, tomb
paintings and Egyptian history (May 14-Oct. 14).

Henry Buhl, Jr. Planetarium:The Search for Life in the Universe" is a scientific
look at the search for intelligent life (through Dec. 31); "Stars Over
Pittsburgh" lets you see planets, constellations and stars visible in this area
(Fridays).

Henry Buhl, Jr. Observatory:Sky watching on Saturdays when skies are clear.

Special Events: PirateFest (Jan. 23-24); National Engineers Week (Feb. 26-27);
60th Pittsburgh Regional Science and Engineering Fair (March 12); Science Fair
Exhibition Display - Prize-winning exhibits from the Science and Engineering
Fair (March 13-27); Earth Day Celebration (April 22); National Science and
Technology Week (April 25-May 1); National Astronomy Day (May 22).

One Allegheny Ave., North Side. 412-237-3400.

PHIPPS CONSERVATORY

1999 Orchid Exhibit:Orchids through the Ages is a look at growing orchids,
increasing interest in orchids, ways of judging and the origins of orchids (Jan.
16-March 7).

Vanilla Festival:Vanilla comes from orchids, and this exhibit features vanilla
tasting and kids' activities (Jan. 23-24).

Celebration of Black History Month:Focus on plants native to Africa and special
programming (Feb. 1-28).

Tropical Sundays:Calypso music from 1 to 3 p.m. among the palms (Feb. 7, 14, 21,
28).

Valentine's Day:Evening entertainment, dessert and coffee (Feb. 13, 14).

1999 Spring Flower Show:(March 13- April 11).

Planning a Butterfly Garden:Spring exhibit shows how to create a butterfly
habitat in the garden (April 17-May 30).

Butterfly Forest:Hundreds of butterflies will hatch and fly in the
Conservatory's Stove Room (April 17-Oct. 15).

Bonsai Weekend:Demonstrations, classes and bonsai critiques, plus a look at
bonsai plants under cultivation at Phipps (May 1-2).

Mother's Day Weekend Plant Sale(May 8-9).

Mother's Day at Phipps(May 9).

Schenley Park. 412-622-6914.

PITTSBURGH CHILDREN' S MUSEUM

Wild About Plants:Traveling exhibit developed by the Brooklyn Children's Museum
and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden teaches how people and plants are interdependent
through a series of interactive displays (through April 30).

Jack and the Talkback Beanstalk:Children's musical performed by Theater in the
Attic (Jan. 16).

"Jambo!":A collection of stories by Bob Gore about African ancestry in honor of
Martin Luther King Jr. Day (Jan. 18).

National Public Science Day:Students from Homewood Montessori and Dickson
Intermediate will show Web sites they've created (Jan. 21).

Winter Olympics:Six events include the Snowman Button Toss and Winter Clothes
Warm-Up (Jan. 30-31).

Hartman Brothers:Humorous retelling of ancient myths (Feb. 27).

Crosslight Productions:Jim Walker and Jeff Eddings show kids how to use their
imaginations and not become TV couch potatoes (March 13).

North Pittsburgh Philharmonic:Musical instrument demonstrations (March 20).

Allegheny Center, North Side. 412-322-5059., PITTSBURGH ZOO

Don Pablo's Movie Matinees: Saturday nature movie series in the Education
Complex Lecture Hall at 1 p.m.: "Swinging Africa" (Jan. 16), "Zoo Crew" (Feb.
13) and "Tropical Rainforest" (Feb. 27).

Animal Attractions:Nature program for adults explores animal mating behav iors.
Brunch included. $ 12/members, $ 15/non-members (Feb. 14). Reservations
required: 412-365-2532.

Zoo Camp(March 10).

Earth Day Celebration:Activities throughout the day (April 24).

Adopt An Animal Day(May 8).

One Hill Road, Highland Park. 412-665-3639.

NATIONAL AVIARY

Talking Circle:Native American tribute teaches new appreciation of birds (Jan.
16).

Squawk in the Name of Love:Learn about bird courtship (Feb. 13).

Breakfast with the Birds:(8 a.m. Feb. 13, April 3, May 9) Call Ext. 207 for
reservations.

Great Expectations:Members of youth organizations admitted free (March 20).

Birds of the Bible:Free program and tour. Call Ext. 208 for reservations. (March
25-28).

Nest Fest:Learn about bird nesting behaviors, plus egg hunt (April 3).

Week of the Child:Stories and songs (April 5-9).

Audubon's Birthday:Free tours at noon, 1 and 2 p.m. (April 26).

Mother's Day Tours:Moms admitted free when accompanied by loved one (May 9).

Pet Parrot Day:Parrot experts, veterinarians and trainers will talk about
parrots (May 16).

 Ridge Avenue and Arch Street, North Side. 412-323-7235.

BEECHWOOD FARMS NATURE RESERVE

Programs: How animals adapt to life under the snow (Jan. 17); How to attract
winter resident birds (Jan. 19); Naturalist David Rohm explains how to identify
animal tracks and tracking techniques (Jan. 23); Amateur Astronomers Association
of Pittsburgh will set up telescopes to view highlights of the winter sky (Jan.
23); Learn about groundhogs and hike to hibernation sites (Jan. 30); Backyard
Bird Count (Feb. 19-22); Program on ecology and conservation of bluebirds, plus
building bird boxes to take home (Pre-registration required, March 6); Program
on snakes and turtles by Vance Dunbar of the Fish and Boat Commission (March
26); Planet Party (April 24).

Hikes:Experience the beauty of nature in winter and early spring with these
naturalist-guided hikes through Beechwood trails (Feb. 20, March 13, April 3);
Owl Prowl for screech owls (Feb. 6); Snowwalkers trail hike at Todd Sanctuary
(Feb. 27).

Audubon Monthly Lectures:Heart's Content - Lecture and photographs by Chuck
Tague of the Nature Observer News, who has been studying this stand of old
growth forest for over a decade (Jan. 27); Rare Birds of Pennsylvania and the
Presque Isle Waterbird Count - Talk by Jerry McWilliams, author of several bird
books (March 24); Fledglings - Children's program for 3- to 5-year-olds: Tracks:
Clues that Tell a Tale (Feb. 13, 24) and My Spring Robin (March 24, 27, 30).

614 Dorseyville Road, Fox Chapel. 412-963-6100.

DAVID L. LAWRENCE CONVENTION CENTER

Special events:Pittsburgh Recreational Vehicle Show (through Jan. 17); 1999
Pittsburgh Boat Show (Jan. 22-24, 29-31); Custom Car Show (Feb. 5-7); 1999
Pittsburgh Automobile Show (Feb. 12-21); Technical Job Fair (Feb. 25, May 11);
National College Fair-Pittsburgh (Feb. 25-26); Pennsylvania West Soccer
Association (March 6-7); Pittsburgh Spring Home and Garden Show (March 12-21);
Western Pennsylvania Kennel Association Dog Show (April 2-4).

1001 Penn Ave., Downtown. 412-565-6000. , OTHER EVENTS

International Children's Festival International roster of children's performers,
Earth Links fabric installation, children's activities and more. West Park and
Allegheny Center, North Side. (May 19-23). 412-321-5520.

Grease on IceBroadway smash on ice featuring Nancy Kerrigan. Civic Arena. (Jan.
22-23). 412-323-1919.

World Wrestling FederationCivic Arena. (Jan. 30). 412-323-1919.

Rugrats LiveBenedum Center. (Feb. 2-7). 412-323-1919.

U.S. Hot Rod Grand Slam Monster JamCivic Arena. (Feb. 12-13). 412-323-1919.

Discover Card Stars on IceCivic Arena. (Feb. 21). 412-323-1919.

Champions on IceCivic Arena (April 21). 412-323-1919.

WEEKEND MAG Places

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Gary Guydosh: Paperwhite narcissus grow at the feet of a;
statue in Phipps Conservatory, Oakland.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              14 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 3, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

BELIEVE THE SCIENTIST

BYLINE: ADRIAN L. MELOTT, SHADYSIDE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-2, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 678 words


On Sept. 26 you had two pieces about weather in the Forum section. David Laskin
concentrates on the fact that our recent weather may not actually be unusual in
its severity, or if it is, this may not be at all related to global warming
("Land of the Free, Home of the Bad Weather").

He's careful not to claim global warming is nonexistent, but the effect of his
commentary is to calm people down and get them to quit worrying about weather
problems being related to human actions. While his most recent book is a history
of American weather ("Braving the Elements"), David Laskin is a journalist who
has written on many different topics.

Daniel Lashof, on the other hand, describes the likely effect of global warming,
which includes more severe weather ("Man-Made Dark Clouds Ahead"). While not
claiming a causal relationship to this year's weather, he points out that
climate models predict this kind of thing to intensify. Daniel Lashof has a
bachelor's degree in physics and mathematics from Harvard University and a Ph.D.
from the Energy and Resources Group at the University of California at Berkeley.

I am visiting here from Kansas. One of the problems we've had is that the
population has decided that televangelists, newspaper columnists, a philosopher
and a veterinarian are to be trusted more for their knowledge of evolution than
biologists and geologists. Part of the reason for this is related to the habit
of the news media to provide "balance": two spokespeople on every issue,
regardless of what the balance of evidence is as seen by experts and regardless
of the qualifications of the two speakers.

There is a broad scientific consensus that the climate will warm, and that there
will be some negative impact from this. How much, how fast, cannot be known with
any certainty. It is a breach of the public trust to give the idea that there is
serious disagreement about this.

pg99 0092 991003 N S 9910040228 00002260 IT N

In the Sept. 26 Forum, you presented two commentaries about the extensive damage
caused by recent severe weather: "Land of the Free, Home of Bad Weather" and
"Man-Made Dark Clouds Ahead." Both writers agree that the cost of severe weather
has increased enormously in recent years, due in large part to the increasing
at-risk population. In this regard I note that the U.S. population is projected
to increase by about 120 million (to 394 million) by the year 2050.

It appears that without some massive societal changes, the cost of damage from
severe weather is likely to increase enormously in the years to come.

What concerns me even more is that even without increases in the severity of
flood and drought occurrences, supplying this increased population with water
for household, agriculture and industry use could become a major problem. I
consider it dangerous to continue "business as usual" with regard to our water
resources.

I propose that we consider using a major part of the hoped-for government
revenue surplus to fund a massive effort to assure the future water supply of
this country. This effort could include improved flood control and water
storage, long-distance irrigation systems, large-scale desalination, accelerated
installation of water-conserving devices and implementation of water-conserving
agriculture.

I think we need to realize that without a reliable water supply, the good
accomplished by all of the other uses suggested for the budget surplus could be
undermined by a variety of factors resulting from severe water shortages. These
factors include higher costs for food and energy and increased reliance on
foreign food suppliers with all of the attending vulnerabilities.

Finally I note that state Rep. Camille George, D-Houtzdale, has introduced
H2000, a package of legislative proposals to protect, enhance and distribute our
water resources into the next century. We can start by supporting this proposal.

Editor's note: The writer is professor of physics and astronomy at the
University of Kansas and is a visiting professor at Carnegie Mellon University.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              19 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 26, 1999, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

A CROSSROADS IN NURSING;
THE PROFESSION IS UNDER PRESSURES FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE NEVER DREAMED OF. A NEW;
AWARD HONORS ITS MEMBERS FOR DEDICATION UNDER DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES.

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER SNOWBECK, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 2166 words


Hospital nurses are stressed out. Staffing levels are down. Patients are sicker
than ever.

Some duties once performed by registered nurses have been handed off to lesser
trained nursing assistants.

And there's a sense that business ethics have replaced compassion as the driving
spirit in hospitals.

The frustration with it all explains why Ellen Rudy, dean of the University of
Pittsburgh School of Nursing, established the Cameos of Caring Awards this year
to raise morale and to recognize the outstanding care nurses provide patients.

What's clear is that nursing isn't what it used to be.

A response to these changes is nurses' growing interest in unions to improve
working conditions.

A Penn State University researcher documented the trend in a study published in
April, and since then organizers at Allegheny General Hospital have cleared the
way for nurses to vote next month on establishing a union. An affirmative vote
would place Allegheny General alongside UPMC Beaver Valley, UPMC McKeesport,
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic and several outlying hospitals where
nurses have already unionized.

"It used to be you had time to talk to your patient, teach your patient, talk to
your families. You could do what they call bed-side nursing. It's not so any
more," said Scheryl Lawnizak, a registered nurse from Elizabeth Township who
works in the cardiac care unit at UPMC McKeesport.

"It used to be that this was a hospital and those were patients, but now this is
a business and those are clients." * * *

Rudy has been a nurse for 35 years, but much of her career recently has been in
teaching, administration and research. In 1998 she took a two-month sabbatical
to work with emergency room nurses at UPMC Presbyterian, and saw first-hand how
nursing had changed.

Nurses were making quick decisions about drawing blood, making orders and
assessing how sick patients were - all before calling on doctors. Physicians and
nurses collaborated well in the emergency room, but nurses left at the end of
the day feeling unappreciated and powerless.

She knew from working with her students that nurses were caring for sicker
patients; the school used to train all students at UPMC Presbyterian, but now
Presby cases are too complex for even sophomores.

Rudy saw other reasons why many felt demoralized. With patients being discharged
from hospitals so quickly, nurses didn't have time to educate them about their
diseases. And with all the technology and paperwork that's now involved, they
weren't spending much time at patients' bedsides.

"I thought to myself, I'm pumping out nurses into a health care system that eats
them up," Rudy said. "I decided I needed to get outside of Pitt and do something
for the bedside nurses."

She developed the Cameos of Caring Awards, in which 20 hospitals in Western
Pennsylvania each selected an outstanding nurse from their staffs.

The winners will be honored Thursday at the Pittsburgh Marriott City Center
Hotel. Rudy hopes to make the recognition an annual event.

Rudy believes changes need to be made from the top down at hospitals.

But she doesn't believe unions are the answer. "I could cry when nurses
unionize," she said. "The long-term ramifications are that you pit nurses
against nurses."

An organizing drive is clearly a flag that nobody paid attention to nurses -
nobody listened," she said. * * *

The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care reports a drop in the number of
hospital-based registered nurses per 1,000 residents - both in Pittsburgh and
across the country - between 1993 and 1996, the most recent year for which
results are available. The rate of registered nurses dropped from 4.5 per 1,000
population in 1993 to 4.1 per 1,000 in 1996.

Compared with the national average, staffing levels in Pittsburgh hospitals are
quite high. The rate of registered nurses employed in acute care hospitals per
1,000 residents in 1993 was 3.5; it dropped to 3.3 by 1996.

But the decline doesn't mean hospitals are skimping on care, said Cindy Roth,
vice president of patient care services at the South Hills Health System, based
in Jefferson Hills. Shrinking nursing staffs correlate to a decline in the
number of staffed beds in hospitals.

Roth has been a nurse for 20 years and agrees that nursing - like all of health
care - has drastically changed in that time because of cuts in the money
government and private health insurance programs pay hospitals for services.
Similarly, much of the increase in paperwork has been driven by outside
regulators, she said.

Rother contends that a lot of the changes have been for the better, as health
care providers including nurses do their jobs more efficiently.

In her work overseeing nurses in the South Hills Health System, Roth said she
puts as many nurses as possible in the role of caregivers rather than
administrators. Some nursing duties have been handed off to nurse aides, but the
aides are properly trained and the delegation allows nurses more time to teach
patients and consult with physicians, Roth said.

She acknowledged that few are thrilled with the changes.

"I'm hearing greater levels of frustration from everyone in health care," Roth
said. "People, in general, don't like change."

Successful unions convince nurses that by organizing they will have more control
over the changes. Paul Clark, associate professor of labor studies and
industrial relations at Penn State University, said discontent over the business
side of health care has created the opportunity for unions.

In a 1998 survey of 483 registered nurses in Pennsylvania hospitals, Clark found
that 60 percent of those involved in a merger and 57 percent involved in
restructuring reported a negative climate. Of those reporting a negative work
climate from both groups, 62 percent supported unionization.

The No. 1 reason that nurses gave for favoring a union was wanting more input in
patient care, followed by better job security, Clark said. Pay ranked eighth out
of eight possible reasons for doing so.

"Nurses have been reluctant to organize for professionalism reasons," he said.
"I think as times get tougher and tougher, professionalism is becoming less and
less of an issue."

Pittsburgh's urban hospitals for the most part have stayed free of nurse unions,
something of an anomaly given the city's strong labor heritage, Clark said. The
effort has been more successful in Western Pennsylvania's suburban and rural
hospitals.

PSEA Health Care - a division of the Pennsylvania State Education Association -
has won victories at Armstrong Hospital in Kittanning, Brownsville Hospital,
Indiana Hospital and Highlands Hospital in Connellsville, said Alf Nelson,
director of PSEA Health Care. Last week, nurses were voting to establish a union
at Uniontown Hospital, he said.

"What has happened with the turmoil within the health care industry, nurses are
saying ' I never thought I'd even think about unionization, but now there is
nothing else left - there is no other way for us to have meaningful input,' "
Nelson said. * * *

In California, which is at the forefront of managed care in hospitals, unions
have grown so popular that groups such as the California Nurses Association have
become powerful lobbying forces the state legislature.

CNA represents nurses at about 80 percent of the hospitals in the San Francisco
and Sacramento areas, said Chuck Idelson, CNA spokesman. The union is beginning
to win elections in southern California hospitals too, as are other nurse
organizing groups.

With backing by the unions, California this month became the first state to
require minimum nurse-to-patient staffing ratios throughout all hospital
departments. Hospitals opposed the measure, disputing nurses' claims that low
staffing levels had resulted in actual harm to patients. The ratios won't be in
place until 2002.

"California was sort of ground zero of the failed experiment of managed care so
the conditions are probably a little worse in California than in other states,"
Idelson said. "There's no question that we expect what has started in California
will be a prairie fire around the country." * * *

Last week, a copy of a Wall Street Journal article detailing the legislative
victory for the California nurses was sitting out for all to read in the trauma
unit at Allegheny General, the North Side hospital where local organizers are
fanning the flames.

Unionizing efforts at Allegheny General failed in 1996 and 1998, but a committee
of nurses filed a petition with the National Labor Relations Board in September
requesting a union representation election for 1,500 full-time and part-time
registered nurses. The nurses are working with 1999P, a health care unit of the
Service Employees International Union.

Marie Geubtner, a trauma nurse at the hospital, is the Cameos of Caring winner
from Allegheny General. She said the 1998 bankruptcy of Allegheny General's
parent foundation torpedoed morale in the hospital.

"We just felt so disappointed and angry because you didn't have a say so,"
Geubtner said. "We worked really hard to make Allegheny General a really good
hospital."

That reputation was tarnished as word spread that Allegheny Health, Education
and Research Foundation officials had misappropriated funds, lied about the
system's finances and failed to keep promises to employees.

When Geubtner goes to work, she screens out the disappointing distractions and
focuses on her work. But bottom-line concerns have affected how her unit works.
Trauma nurses used to work one-to-one with patients in the unit. Now, there's
one trauma nurse for every two or three patients.

Monday night last week, Geubtner started out with one patient, but as the night
wore on, she pitched in with two other patients in the unit.

"Health care has changed," she said. "Some of us old-timers talk about the good
old days, but it's never going to be like that again."

Elizabeth Ann Ivey, the Cameos of Caring award winner from UPMC McKeesport, is
frustrated with hospital changes, too.

In McKeesport, nurses are organized and Ivey credits her union for good
retirement benefits. She walked when the nurses went on strike in 1990.

"I said I'd never go on strike, but I got fired up - I felt like we were worth
more than we got paid," she said. "We were out for several weeks. It was one of
those things where you just didn't hear about nurses going on strike."

She has some ambivalence about being in a union. Like those not in unions,
nurses at McKeesport have struggled with staffing cuts. The number of nurses who
travel the hospital and specialize in establishing IV lines has been slashed,
Ivey said, and the demands for overtime work tax her and her colleagues in the
cardiac care unit.

But she says there's no denying that many nurses see unions as at least muting
the impact of all the changes taking place in hospitals.

"Sometimes in the middle of the night we've had calls about unionizing from
nurses at city hospitals," Ivey said. "I don't know. At least with a union you
have some leverage."

What makes a nurse?

Nurses are playing a growing role in the delivery of primary care. Here are the
main levels of nursing:

* Registered nurse

Registered nurses (RN) typically have four-year college degrees or the
equivalent, and clinical training. Duties involve educating and counseling
patients, monitoring medication, wound care and executing medical regimens
prescribed by physicians and other specialities.

* Licensed practical nurse

Licensed practical nurses (LPN) perform a variety of care duties in caring for
the patient selected nursing acts in the care of the ill, injured, or infirmed
under the direction of an RN, doctor or dentist. licensed professional nurse,
licensed physician, or licensed dentist. The LPN participates in the planning,
implementation, and evaluation of nursing care in settings where nursing takes
place. Typical training for an LPN involves one year of course work and clinical
training.

* Nurse practitioners

Nurse practitioners (NPs) are registered nurses with who have earned master's
degrees or completed other graduate work. Many specialize is certain areas, in
areas such as pediatrics or family care. Today, almost all nurse practitioners
are prepared in university settings that offer a master's degree at completion
of their training program. Nurse practitioner education includes comprehensive
physical assessment, diagnostic reasoning and management of patient problems.
Nurse practitioners are responsible for performing physical examinations,
ordering diagnostic studies, interpreting the results and initiateing treatment
of many patient conditions. problems These nurses are pushing the general
assembly Legislature to give them the power to write prescriptions for patients
- a freedom nurse practitioners enjoy to varying degrees in 46 states, but not
Pennsylvania.

Source: University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4), Photo: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Cameos of Caring winner
Elizabeth; Ann Ivey works in the Cardiac Care Unit at UPMC McKeesport. She
returned to; nursing after another career - raising a family.; Photo: Martha
Rial/Post-Gazette: Nurse educator Brenadette Bryant leads a; discussion on a
topic of vital interest for nurses today: Managing conflict; and stress. Bryant,
a Cameos of Caring winner, was joined by nurse Lorenda; Porter, right, and
others at the Mercy Hospital Hospital session.; Photo: PAM PANCHAK/POST-GAZETTE:
MARY GEUBTNER TENDS TO A PATIENT IN HER UNIT; AT ALLEGHENY GENERAL HOSPITAL.
NURSES - AND OTHER EMPLOYEES - GOT AN EXTRA; HELPING OF STRESS THERE DURING THE
BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS OF THE PARENT; COMPANY, ALLEGHENY HEALTH, EDUCATION AND
RESEARCH FOUNDATION.; Photo: TONY TYE/POST-GAZETTE: DANIEL SHEARN, A NURSE IN
THE MEDICAL INTENSIVE; CARE UNIT AT UPMC MONTEFIORE, IS ONE OF FOUR SIBLINGS WHO
HAVE MADE A CAREER; IN NURSING.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              20 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 30, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

COULD POLLUTION CUTS SPEED GLOBAL WARMING?

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As America cleans its air dramatically, it will pay a price in noticeably higher
temperatures, according to a report released yesterday.

The United States and other nations have cut sulfur dioxide pollution, which
causes health problems and acid rain. But the same sulfur reflects the sun's
heat and slows warming, climate scientists said.

So removing the sulfur from the air is expected to raise global temperatures in
the next 100 years a degree above predictions made only four years ago, said the
new study by Tom Wigley, a senior scientist at the National Center for
Atmospheric Research in Colorado.

"If we save the world from acid rain ... we might exacerbate the global warming
problem," Wigley said.

And the United States will get hotter faster than the rest of the globe, Wigley
predicted.

Wigley said the size and northern location of the continent will contribute to
the extra warming.

In 1995, international scientists said the warmup rate would be between 1.5 and
7 degrees by the year 2100. With the reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions,
Wigley now predicts the warmup to be somewhere between 2.5 and 8 degrees by
2100.

The added warming will also increase a predicted rise in sea levels, Wigley
said. Instead of rising from 5 to 38 inches, the seas will rise 7 to 40 inches.

That extra 2 inches should have dramatic effects on coastal areas of the United
States, said Michael MacCracken, national assessment director for the U.S.
government's Global Change Research Program.

Wigley based his forecasts on unpublished research by scientists studying
emissions for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In 1992, scientists
thought sulfur emissions would double from 1990 to 2100, but those new studies
show the emissions dropping.

The sulfur particle issue represents a "moral paradox" because cleaning the air
in the short term is a priority, yet global warming is at a runaway pace, said
Princeton University atmospheric sciences professor Jerry Mahlman, who runs the
Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Lab for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.

Wigley's study is published by the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, a
nonprofit that tries to raise global warming issues. It was peer reviewed by top
climate scientists, including Mahlman and MacCracken, who said Wigley drew
proper conclusions.

But NASA Goddard Institute for Space Sciences director James Hansen, who helped
prove the world was warming, cautioned that determining how sulfur, clouds and
other variables will factor into climate change was too complicated to predict
outcomes confidently.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              22 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 6, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

THE NEW TOP MAN;
FIVE POLITICAL LEADERS DEBATE THE NEW GOVERNMENT AND THE REGION'S FUTURE

BYLINE: DOUGLAS HEUCK, POST-GAZETTE BENCHMARKS EDITOR

SECTION: TABS, Pg. H-3

LENGTH: 8652 words



The five participants' introductory comments to the following disscusion appear
next to their photos on this and the next two pages.

Today's Round Table Discussion looks at this region's economic and political
prospects in the context of the creation of the new post of Allegheny County
executive.  Participating are: Bob Cranmer, Allegheny County commissioner; Tom
Murphy, Pittsburgh mayor; Jim Roddey, Republican nominee for county executive;
Dr. Cyril H. Wecht, Democratic nominee for county executive; and state Sen, Jack
Wagner, D-Beechview.

Q: In your opening remarks, you voiced dissatisfaction with local marketing
efforts. Why does government need a private consortium to do its marketing?

Murphy: When the Working Together Consortium, or whatever it is, was started,
the county and the city felt that it was an effort to pull together
organizations that historically did market the region. Penn's Southwest, God
bless them, I don't know what they did for 20 years. Time passed them by maybe
10 years ago. So, we believed that the efforts on the part of the private-sector
organizations to come together was something we ought to be part of. Little did
we know four years ago that it would take four years and still ... When I call
on a company in San Diego, I don't have a sales tool to hand them. I mean,
that's embarrassing. If I had known what I know now four years ago, I would have
suggested the county and the city begin their own marketing program, skip the
private organizations and withdraw our money and use it ourselves. But at that
time, everybody and their brother and sister were involved in putting this whole
effort together, and it was very hard not to want to be part of it.

Cranmer: It came about because the government wasn't doing anything. Now it's
just the opposite. We're getting everything done, and they are really just
floundering around.

Roddey: It has less to do with whether it's public or private. It's where the
talent is. If you've got the talent in the county to do the marketing, then you
can do it. If you don't, then you are going to have to go outside to have it
done.

Murphy: I don't think we have the talent. I don't think the Pittsburgh Regional
Alliance (PRA) has the talent. It's a question of hiring it. The issue is, who
would hire it?

Q: As the only one who is not in the government, do you (Roddey) share the same
view that the governmental bodies have outstripped the private ones and that the
private sector is a drag on things?

Roddey: Not completely. I think that the joint economic development department
of the county and the city is a success. That's the bright spot. I think the
concept of the PRA is the right concept, but I haven't seen the execution there.
I have seen more execution in the joint economic development (of city and
county).

Cranmer: We are reviewing the funding right now of several of those
organizations.

Wagner: There is a big piece of state funding in the PRA and in the whole
marketing effort that they are initiating. But the PRA and the whole marketing
effort needs to be guided truly by the people sitting at this table. They need
to be on the board. They need to be deciding where and how the money is being
spent and have input with the private sector. I have attended meetings for the
PRA, but they selectively invite me. I am not sure who is on the board. I am not
sure who is making the decisions. I don't know what their marketing strategy is.
Are they, with the $ 23 million they are going to spend in the next 5 years,
hiring a relocation consultant - one of the top companies in the country - to
give input into that strategy? I am not sure.

Roddey: It needs people who know marketing.

Cranmer: US Airways is a case in point. One of our largest employers and we've
been dealing very aggressively with them over the past two years. All the
meetings, negotiations, and trips. The PRA really hasn't had anything to do with
it at all.

Regarding the airport, we need an airport authority. The other counties, in
concept, understand, but they are not ready yet. We have to get our act together
in Allegheny County where we can provide the leadership. When we first talked
about the airport authority, I called the chairman of the board of Beaver and
Washington counties and said, "How would you like to be part of an airport
authority where we all three together run all the airports?"

They wanted to run our airports, but they wanted to keep their airports. I said,
"No, it doesn't work that way." "Well, we don't know if we can do it, then." So,
you can see, they are not really there yet.

Q: What relationship going forward should the city and county have on economic
development matters, given that, with a single executive, it perhaps would be
easier to mesh activities?

Roddey: There is no question that cooperation has begun and it needs to be
enhanced. The more we work together, the more we are going to be able to
accomplish. However, we need to be very careful that the city doesn't drive the
agenda for the entire county. I am not saying that it does right now, but there
is a feeling as I go out all across the county, that every -thing is being
concentrated in the Golden Triangle.

Murphy: Everybody in the neighborhoods in Pittsburgh believes that, too.

Roddey: We have to involve the councils of governments. They and the people in
the suburbs need to feel that they are part of what's going on. So the county
has to keep a firm hand with the city in this. We have got to spread it around.
Just as we can't be parochial about companies . If we can get a big company to
come to Westmoreland or Washington coun -ties, that's a win for all of us. I
understand that doesn't help our tax base, but indirectly it will help us. And,
we have got to stop competing with each other.

Wagner: There are about 45 urban cores in the country. They are not really
increasing in numbers. Pittsburgh is doing a good job maintaining its core. But
really, the job development is going on in edge cities. They are popping up
around us, in Cranberry. The airport is a magnificent opportunity. That is where
the job development is. Certainly Monroeville has been an edge city. That's
where the focus needs to be, with a minor degree of public investment, to get
large amounts of private investment. And we can't be parochial about it. There
needs to be an emphasis on new job development where companies want to be.

Murphy: Let me just disagree with Jack for a moment, because, ironically, I am
having conversations with three companies right now out by the airport. One who
moved out there three years ago that is looking to move back to the city because
they are having great difficulties recruiting employees. I believe we are
beginning to succeed in this region and I think has a lot to do with
cooperation. We need to think about how to build on that momentum, and the
biggest drag on that is going to be our inability to supply a qualified
workforce. I can give you any number of examples. PNC and Mellon were two that
gave a lot of thought about whether to build these operations centers they are
building here because they are concerned about their ability to get qualified
employees.

Roddey: A big part of that is transportation.

Wagner: A huge part of it.

Murphy: If you are out by the airport, you are limited to really one area of the
region's population to get workers. When I stand up and say we have more jobs in
Pittsburgh now than people looking for those jobs, nobody believes it, but it's
true.

Q: Dr. Wecht, what are your thoughts on this relationship moving forward with
the new county regime and the city government?

Wecht: I have lived in this community my entire life, and I have been a city
dweller. But I have been, governmentally, both within the parameters of my own
party as well as in the positions of governmental activity, a functionary of the
county. And I have enjoyed a good working relationship with people in the 129
other municipalities. It is a matter of perception and attitude more than
reality. I don't think that there is a dichotomy between approaching the
economic growth and development objectives we all essentially agree on.

I do believe that it is extremely important for us to reach out to these other
counties and to persuade them that we are not looking to incorporate them into
becoming a part of Allegheny County or subjugate them. I think that can be done,
frankly, largely on a personal basis. If you know and work with these people,
then I think you have an open door to begin with and you can pursue it. Quite
similarly, within our own county, you can disabuse people in these 129
municipalities of the idea that Pittsburgh wants to control you. Metropolitanism
is the great bugaboo. But we are not talking about their local autonomy with
their local police force, rules and codes of conduct. That's what they are
really concerned with. And so as far as where places are to be found for either
expanding operations or new businesses and industries, it will not make a
difference in my mind whether it is within the confines geographically of
Pittsburgh or whether it is going to be somewhere else. Different organizations
have different needs. Some need access to the water. Some want to have proximity
to the airport. Some want to be in the more rustic, tranquil environment of the
distant North Hills area. So you tailor it and you pattern it.

Pittsburgh, obviously by virtue of its size and as home to our major cultural
and academic institutions, is the principal area in the county. There is no
question. But it does not have to be looked upon as a competitor. Similarly,
neither do the other six counties or 13 counties, if you look at it on a broader
basis.

I don't wish to turn this into a debate, but I have some very strong
disagreements with some ideas that Bob Cranmer set forth in his introductory
comments about this total divorce of government and politics. I will comment,
however, on one thing, because I think for me to remain silent might be
misconstrued. Speaking for the Democratic party, if I may, the idea of telling
2,600 committee women and committee men that they cannot have a job in Allegheny
County, to me, is totally unacceptable. And I would feel the same way about
Republican committee members. That somebody who is interested and active in
government, therefore cannot have a job in government? I think you have to have
ethical concerns and so on and if there are problems, that becomes then another
matter.

Cranmer: Cyril, you didn't answer his question. Though you went on for 10
minutes, I didn't get an answer. Are you going to continue the joint economic or
ganization between the county and the city as it now exists?

Wecht: Bob, with all due respect, I think Mr. Craig or Mr. Heuck will decide
whether or not I've answered their question. Or the readers of their newspapers
will decide whether I' ve answered their question.

Cranmer: You can just say yes or no.

Q: You (Wecht) have some reservations about an airport authority. Bob suggested
making the airport one of the first regional institutions. The answer from the
other counties was "as long as we can keep our airports we will share yours with
you."

We have an initiative right now where we are trying to get a $ 600 million
facility US Airways to retain thousands of jobs. One of the things that has been
floated is that maybe Allegheny County can' t bear the whole bill. If the
mechanism to let the airport really take off was to create some new structure,
whether it is an authority or not, governed by more than one county, the airport
would no longer be the property of only Allegheny County, but also Beaver and
Washington counties. Does this have any resonance with you, even though
politically it is very difficult?

Wecht: My answer to that is simply this: This is the first time I have ever
heard, whether someone is expressly stating it or implying it, that because of
some reticence on the part of Beaver and Washington, whatever inadequacies,
procrastination or dilatory efforts there have been in fully exploiting this
wonderful facility is attributable to the inability or the refusal of the
counties to join in some collaborative effort with us. I must tell you that I
have not heard that before. And while I certainly accept Bob Cranmer's statement
that he did speak with them, I am not prepared to accept it as the final word.

Others can enter into these discussions, too. Cooperation and involvement by
these other counties in whatever fashion - financial input for the construction
of the new US Airways hangar or any other efforts in matters related to the
functions of the airport - I do not believe that they are all dependent upon the
establishment of an airport authority. And that without that, you can not reach
out to these other counties. I do not accept that premise. So, my answer is that
I will work very arduously and assiduously with those other counties, and I
believe I have a good chance of being successful.

I don't want to make any statements that sound megalomaniacal or make guarantees
for the future. But I know a lot of these people personally, and I've worked
with them. Much of human discourse has to do with personal relationships. There
is a lot that can be accomplished, and I think I am going to have some open
doors.

Q: Are we much too timid about metropolitanism? Disassociate the political
necessity of getting elected with the theory. If we weren' t scared to death of
the word metropolitanism or multi-county operations, wouldn't we like to do it?

Murphy: There are two things that have happened in recent years that address
what you are talking about. The is the creation of the Regional Asset District
(RAD). I would be curious, with the two candidates, how strongly they feel about
the RAD because I believe that has been the single most important thing we have
done. What it did is it gave institutions that were dying on the vine the
ability to flourish. Look at the zoo, Phipps Conservatory, the aviary, a lot of
the arts institutions - they are flourishing. It gave us the ability to move
forward with the stadiums and the convention center. Forget for a moment that
half the money is going to reduce taxes, which no one seems to pay much
attention to. That is an example where this community went beyond its normal way
of thinking and created an institution that has done, in any measure, a tangible
thing.

The second is what Bob has alluded to. For the first time, the city and the
county are doing joint economic development. We talk virtually every day. We
probably meet two or three times a week. When I say "we," Mike (Dawida) is
included in this. We wouldn' t have seen these ballparks and this convention
center. We had a meeting earlier this morning about the Penguins, and we believe
we can get that resolved. So you have two very clear and classic institutional
changes that are making a difference. I think is a challenge for us. Are we
prepared to do that? I would like to put these two guys on the spot about the
RAD.

Wagner: Well, it's not going to happen. We are not going to lose the RAD.

Roddey: I have never even indicated that I would do anything other than support
the RAD. The RAD is very important. You look at the zoo today. It is operated 10
times better than it was under the city. You look at Phipps. There is no
comparison between a city operation and a private operation. $ 65 million of the
RAD, I think, last year, went to the municipalities to do exactly what you said
- to reduce their tax load and support their programs. We shouldn' t forget that
about $ 28 million is collected from outside this county.

Wecht: I am 100 percent in favor of the RAD. There is just no question. That is
not even to me a debatable subject. With regard to Tom' s second reference,
months ago, I did what has been done and, I believe properly, by government. I
met with Roger Marino. I met with Mario Lemeiux and his attorneys. I met with
the SMG people because I felt that was the thing to do. I had no power but I was
interested, wanted to learn and, frankly, look very seriously into the idea
after the primary of stepping forward, with Judge Markovitz's approval - a
former Duquesne law student of mine - to offer myself. But it has been moving,
and I am not looking to politicize. I think that it is going in the right
direction. I am all in favor of keeping the Penguins here. What is happening is
what should happen. The parties are getting together, and Marino and Lemeiux are
hugging and kissing. And that' s necessary and desirable. And a strong friend
and supporter who I think is a brilliant bankruptcy attorney also is playing a
major role here as a party of record and offering something new.

So, yeah, what do I think? I think this should be done. This is a role
government should play, as a catalyst. However Tom did it and others, it is
moving in the right direction and it looks like it is going to work. And I am
delighted with that.

Q: You (Roddey) didn't have a chance to answer the question about the airport as
not only an authority but a multi-county authority. Is that an idea whose time
has come?

Roddey: Oh, I think it would enhance the authority, no question.

Q: Would it be politically impossible?

Roddey: No. With time, it could be done. I think my record of working with
people is pretty good, and it could be the centerpiece of regional cooperation.
It could be the first real thing we could point to that would say, yes, we are
cooperating as a region. And it is our most important economic asset. Six years
have gone by since that airport was built, and I don't mean to get into campaign
rhetoric, but after six years, we don't have a lot to show for it in terms of
development. I understand that ground is broken now on a new hotel. But it is as
if we didn' t know that we would need a new hotel when the thing was built. Why
we didn't build a hotel at the same time we built the airport is beyond me. Why
haven't we been able to get the old airport torn down?

Cranmer: Come on, Jim. You know why we haven't been able to. Don't say, six
years. You know very well that we have been fighting diligently with the FAA. We
finally got approval. I take offense because we have been the guys who got this
happening. It is coming down as we speak.

Wagner: I really think our problem quite often is that we get caught up in the
details, as we are here. Authority or not authority. Tearing down a building,
how long it takes.

Q: We' re not going to let you get away with that. You are looking at $ 600
million. That is a lot of detail. You are asking these guys to pay for it. Where
is the $ 600 million coming from in Washington and Beaver counties? How are you
going to get the money from them?

Wagner: If we get caught up in those details right now, at a very important
time, the project may never happen and US Airways may go south. So I am not
going to permit us to get caught up in those details right now.

Cranmer: If we don't put in an authority, they will go south.

Wagner: The most important thing that has happened in this region in the last 20
years is the airport. We have to put the resources out there, particularly
roads, coming from all directions, to enhance its potential.

Cranmer: Let me throw out the hard and cold fact, because I got this message
last week from US Airways - the second largest employer: They are scared to
death right now. With the outcome of the election, with the statements of Dr.
Wecht, that he is against an authority. They want an authority. Every major
metropolitan area where there is an authority is working well. What they see is
the prospect of the return of the empire, the old ways come back with all those
machinations.

Wagner: I know Dr. Wecht fairly well, and I know Jim Roddey fairly well. And I
think that Dr. Wecht, if he sees that is what needs to be done, he is going to
do it to retain those jobs.

Wecht: I want to make clear is that the deciding vote for the new airport came
from Cyril Wecht, OK? That is a matter of history, OK? So, let' s just have that
on the record. Make it very, very clear as to what took place in the old days.
While Tom Foerster does not need me to be his champion and I am not interested
in assuming that role, either, I think that some of the comments have been
rather unfair to a lot of the things that were accomplished. There were a lot of
things that I wasn't happy with that others have a right to criticize. But
talking about the old business and so on - and Mr. Roddey can speak for himself
- yes, I was commissioner for four years. And I was away for awhile. Yes, Mr.
Roddey was not in government. Mr. Roddey assumed many roles voluntarily, which
he did not have to assume. He was not ashamed or embarrassed to be involved in
those past administrations, either. So I just don't want to allow the comments
to go that everything prior to 3 1/2 years ago was just an incredible mess, and
in the last 3 1/2 years we have had an era of enlightenment, the Renaissance.

Murphy: Having been in the Legislature for a number of years, the difference
between the legislative and the executive position is seen when Jack says he
doesn' t want to worry about the details and how you pay for it.

Wagner: I didn't say how you pay for it. I'm tired of us saying we're going to
eliminate municipalities in this region. Then go out there and get a vote from
Clairton. Let' s stop arguing about issues that make no sense.

Murphy: You and I agree on that, but the real issue that we face is that we have
probably a 20-to 30-year deficit on infrastructure to be a competitive city. If
you go to other cities, you see significantly more investment in infrastructure.
Our subway system is a joke. When somebody says to me, "Do you have a subway
system?" I'm embarrassed to say we do, right? It's five blocks long. It' s a
great system. It runs well. But the fact of the matter is that we, as a region,
have never been able to figure out how to build a real system to the major
employment centers. It' s ridiculous. The ability of this region to come
together around a consensus and how you pay for it is a big challenge that we
face. We have watched time and again, shooting ourselves in the feet, because we
can' t define an agenda that moves us forward in a big picture way.

Q: In that regard, you're saying that the regional delegation is moving in 25
different directions. How is the new executive going to fit into the new
delegation?

Wecht: It' s extremely important. Look to Philadelphia. There are no more
internecine battles in any community. But boy when it comes to doing something
for Philadelphia, they line up. Even the Dems and Republicans. They do it.

Harkening back to the days when Ed Zemprelli and Gene Scanlon were powers in the
Senate and Leroy Irvis and Jim Mandarino were powers in the House, they were
able to accomplish things. And that has not taken place since then. The
legislative body has to be molded together into a strong force.

Southwestern Pennsylvania can have as much impact if not more than southeastern
Pennsylvania. I want to make sure we have our place at the table and our fair
share of the stew. We have to think of ourselves as southwestern Pennsylvania,
not just Pittsburgh or even just Allegheny County.

Roddey: I would not disagree with any of that. But there's a fairly important
element called the administration and the leadership - the governor' s office
and the present majority. I have a very, very good relationship with them. I
agree with Cyril. We have got to work with our delegation much better than we
have. And we've got to do it as a region. I' m not going to be an executive who
goes to somebody else's delegation. I want those county commissioners in the
other counties to bring their delegations together. You need to work through
them or else they're not going to feel they're a real part of the region.

Wagner: It's people-to-people relationships. And that has to be nurtured. That
takes time, and confidence levels have to be built. As you go to higher levels
of government, you really don' t need the lower levels of government to survive
politically. But the lower levels of government rely more on the assistance from
higher levels. Therefore there' s a great need for the city and the county to
communicate with the higher levels on an ongoing basis.

Roddey: Not just when you have a crisis.

Wagner: It needs to continually be nurtured. It is seldom, if ever, that we all
sit down and talk. This is enjoyable right here.

Q: Why is that?

Wagner: I don't think it's initiated enough by people at any of those levels.
We're all to blame: the city, county, state and feds. People should say, "I' ll
invite my colleagues, you get yours, you get council, you get commissioners,
maybe some key people in the municipalities, and let's get together for dinner
and talk about the issues."

The Institute of Politics (at the University of Pittsburgh) is trying to do
that. Participation is not good. But when we get together, we seem to appreciate
and understand each others problems more so and begin to create some
commonality.

Q: One of the things we see continually, when there's an issue that's going to
go to Harrisburg for some action is that the legislative delegation says "They
never talk to us until they come up and they want something." Is it your
impression that you're out there in Harrisburg and nobody does talk to you?

Wagner: Generally, yes. but it's also my responsibility to stay in touch with
the county's issues and the city's issues. And I try to do that. Tom and I call
each other.

Q: Did you feel isolated when you were a legislator?

Murphy: When I was a legislator, the mayors - it was Caliguiri and Sophie -
communicated with us once or twice a year in a semi-formal, ritualistic kind of
way. And I' ve probably done the same thing. For us, in the city, we get nothing
from the state in terms of revenue for our operating budget. Other than some
money for roads.

Roddey: When you needed them big time, though, it would have been helpful to
have that relationship.

Murphy: On the stadium stuff, we made a big effort. We had meetings once a
month, maybe every other week - briefings for the Legislature. At the end of the
day, I would say it made no difference. People were where they were.

Wagner: I think it made a difference.

Murphy: Some of the biggest critics, John Maher and people like that, still
complained that we didn't give them enough information. And half the time, they
never came to the meetings.

Wagner: I think it made a difference because, number one, you educate. And as
you educate, there are a number of people there that you have the potential to
influence. As you educate the delegation, the delegation can begin to work
within itself and feed each other information, and politically twist arms.

Wecht: It would be my intention definitely to have a minimum - aside from on
critical matters - of quarterly meetings, probably a luncheon or dinner buffet
with the legislative body, Democrats and Republicans. And I would have separate
meetings with the Democrats, of course. It has to be done. When I was chairman
of the party, I would have a little luncheon. Sit around and talk. It's
wonderful. It really works. We're kind of a small community. We're not Chicago
or New York. We have opportunities that those places just don' t have. The need
to work together can flow from improved and enhanced personal relationships.
Jack Wagner said that what we're doing here is so nice. Why don't we do it more
often? That's right.

Roddey: The key is communication. You have to have a relationship before you
have a problem. I' m not sure I would agree with everything that Cyril said
about meeting just with Democrats or myself just with Republicans. The executive
probably doesn't want to do that. The executive probably wants to meet with all
the delegation all the time. And not let it become partisan, because you need
all of those votes.

Q: People say this is going to be the third-most powerful position in the state,
behind the governor and, perhaps erroneously, the mayor of Philadelphia. For the
past several years, the mayor has been the chief representative of this area.
How is that going to work in terms of the mayor and county executive? And how
will it work, on a personal basis, working together to represent the area?

Murphy: That remains to be seen.

Roddey: I' m not hung up on whether I rank one, two or three. This is not about
power. This is about being frustrated after living here for over 20 years and
putting a lot into the community. And feeling that this is a great opportunity
for our community, with a single executive, to really do the kinds of things
that we should do. Take advantage of the resources we have. To really become
competitive with the rest of the country, for the first time. I look forward to
working with the mayor. The mayor and I are friends. We've worked together
before. He appointed me to the Alcosan board. And we're still friends, despite
that.

Murphy: I have viewed this as a potentially much more powerful position. But
where there are other county executives, Mayors seem to get more publicity. From
my point of view, this county executive is the more powerful person. The city is
part of the county. Contrary to what Jack said, it's all in the details of how
we work together.

I would say this regardless of whether these two guys were here. When Jim was
Chairman of the Port Authority, it was probably one of the best levels of
communication we had with the Legislature, as we tried to do some changes. When
Cyril was the executive of the Democratic party, he had regular luncheons with
the legislators, and I found them very helpful.

One of the dilemmas we face in how you communicate with legislators is the issue
of people talking to you guys. And how difficult it is to do business in the
public sector, when you' re trying to do something that will take risk. Or if
it's dealing with a private company - Heinz for example - who wants to keep
private what they're doing. You're writing news every day, and you' re looking
at the world as a snapshot. Most of the deals we're working on, whether it's
building ballparks, dealing with the Penguins, or dealing with Heinz locating
their corporate headquarters here, is really a video shot.

What we have found - often to our chagrin - is that when we go meet with a group
of legislators, or in my case, city council, they talk. And so at some point,
you say "Screw it." You keep putting your neck out on the line. Out of 10 deals
you're having a discussion on, only one's going to hit. And so if you're
reporting all 10, and you're failing on nine, you look pretty silly. And that' s
really difficult.

Once you bring other politicians in, it's public. You have to have some level of
privacy and trust.

Wagner: First thing is, you never say publicly "Legislators don't read their
bills."

Wecht: The power will emanate from the way in which you function and not because
you have this particular position. Whatever faults I may have had last year I
was egotistical, this year I have no faults at all - nobody's ever accused me of
pettiness.

As I've had a news conference on a case that involved the district attorney's
office, I' ve involved the district attorney. If I have a case with the homicide
detectives of the city, they sit with me. If there's anything on the city and
county level, it would be my pleasure to involve and invite Tom Murphy. I don' t
have a problem in getting in front of the television cameras or newspaper
reporters. And maybe because of that, I don't worry about it. I know I'll get my
fair share of ink and video time. I' ve had relationships with Tom Murphy going
back to when he was a North Side activist. Like two intelligent people, we've
worked together. We've had differences of opinions, but we've always been good
friends. I don' t perceive this as any kind of a problem.

Wagner: One of the great challenges for the executive is the ability to
communicate with county commissioners, especially the chairpersons. And to be
actively involved in the organizations that exist. The Southwestern Pennsylvania
Regional Planing Commission - now the Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission - has
taken on more of an economic development arm. It, in my opinion, has never done
the job it should do in terms of transportation. There really isn' t a plan for
transportation in this region. It's holding us back immensely. Transportation
needs to move to the forefront of economic development issues because they're
tied directly together.

Roddey: Every time we use the word communication, we always envision speaking or
writing or presenting. By definition, 50 percent of communication is listening.
And we really have to start listening to the people in the region. They're not
going to cooperate if they feel this is an Allegheny County agenda. They will
only cooperate if they feel this is a regional agenda, and that they have a real
place at the table.

Cranmer: We're at a momentous time in the county. A lot of progress has been
made. Ground has been broken for cooperation between the city and county. It' s
important as we move forward that we remember why we started this process, why
we needed a county executive and a professional management.

We have to focus on economic development. That's why we started. We have to
remember how the county government is to be organized. How it's to be run. That
we don' t throw back to the way things used to be. We need to make sure that the
county executive becomes the leader that that position is designed to be and
that the cooperation with the city continues.

Roddey: It's not often that a community has an opportunity to shape its
government. Home rule gives us that opportunity. It's rare.

This is really about leadership. It's about seizing the opportunity that we have
with home rule. We're at a crossroads in this community. We have some good
things happening. We' ve made some progress. But are we going to continue it?
Are we going to have a plan? Are we going to understand how to market this area?
Are we going to bring everybody on board? Are we going to build consensus?

This election is about change. You talk to people in the county, and not a lot
of them feel good about the direction of the county. But I think we have this
opportunity. We need to make sure that everyone shares that vision, that
everyone understands the plan. And we need to execute.

Wecht: The perception is out there we're losing our young people because we don'
t have the jobs. We need more people to be trained and trained well. I would
like to expand, develop and improve the community colleges, which is a marvelous
vehicle for us. As well as reaching into the colleges and universities that do
exist.

Is it true that we're losing our young people? I think we are, although I don't
have statistical evidence. I want to continue something I've been doing. I' ve
been on every college campus many times in the past six months. I've been in
elementary schools and high schools. I want to expand that.

Why can't we have the Pittsburgh Symphony, for example, do something for young
adults? We could take our cultural institutions and get financing from the big
money people in the community to support this for the young people.

Murphy: I think we' ve been through a 30-year struggle in this region, with the
steel industry going down. Only in the last several years have I seen reason for
more optimism, that we are beginning to turn the corner. You can see it with the
construction and the new startups. And this election, particularly, is critical
because it comes at a moment when there is some momentum that' s beginning. Like
a bear waking up, people are beginning to move.

A lot depends on the quality of the campaign - whether you want to continue to
say how terrible things are in Allegheny County and that's why you need to elect
me leader - we can reinforce people's worst perceptions of this region.

The other challenge we have after the election is figuring out what the common
agenda is and building a relationship of trust to do that. I do believe that the
county executive and the Mayor are the two most important people who, first and
foremost, need to have that common agenda.

Certainly I would look to one of the two of you - because I think you'll do it
far better than I've been able - to bring in the legislative and congressional
delegation to broaden the number of people who want to invest in that agenda.

It is clear that we've been timid. We've not been bold enough. When we've been
bold and willing to take some risk - as Tom Foerster did with the leadership of
the airport and as we did with the Regional Asset District and Plan B - that we
can be successful.

That's the challenge that we have.

Whichever one of you wins will start with a clean slate to be able to do that.
If we can come to a common interest, I'll be the supporting actor in that. That
is the opportunity we have, to really be bold.

What I've seen is that everyone is so concerned about offending anybody that we
don' t ever do anything bold. That has held us back politically. We all tiptoe
around each other so you end up with no one willing to offend anybody. I don't
know if you have offend people as much as I do, but ...

Wagner: We have a magnificent opportunity going into a new millennium. And one
of these two gentlemen is going to lead that government.

This new form of government in its formative years is similar to a child being
born. And the stimuli that that child has in its first three or four years is
critical. It needs positive stimuli to move in the right direction. This
government needs to get off on the right foot, especially as it relates to
economic development.

We have to make sure that we capitalize on some of the opportunities we have. We
have to move more from campus to company in this region, with CMU and Pitt. The
McGowan Center at UPMC is a magnificent opportunity for us to be the leader in
artificial organ development in the world in this region. We have to capitalize
on our opportunities.

Dr. Cyril Wecht Allegheny County Coroner and Democratic nominee for Allegheny
County Executive

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS: While economic growth and development unquestionably is
the engine that drives everything we have been talking about, there are other
things, which, although indirectly, tangentially related, are not on all fours
with economic growth and development.

You can have a lot of economic growth and development but still not change the
image of Pittsburgh. Perception is extremely important and often supersedes
reality. It is sometimes analogous to making people understand that things which
they believe in or which they have read are fictional and not really
nonfiction.We have to do a lot of work internally with our own population to
disabuse them of some of the old notions and concepts of Pittsburgh. We have to
work tactfully, diplomatically but continuously to break down some of the
small-mindedness, the provincialism that permeates Pittsburgh.

While many of these attitudes are primarily responsible for the great advantages
that we boast of - the friendliness, neighborliness, ethnic enclaves,
disproportionately low crime rates - it is the combination of all those same
features, paradoxically, that leads us into hesitation, skepticism and
recalcitrance not to boldly move forward.

Everything is as if it is something new that has not been done in America. If we
talk about building a building or a road, nobody else has done this. In the
meantime, I can go to New York City and right in the heart of Manhattan, I walk
around and then come back six months later and there is a new, 70-story
skyscraper.

How do they do it?

And I dare say when Tom Murphy talks about many companies saying, "Oh,
Pittsburgh is not on our list" and so on, I'll bet if you were able to pin them
down, you would probably find that there is no real reason. It's not that we
don't like your climate, or we think your people are lousy, or we don't like
rivers, or we don't like hillsides.

It's not that.

They are thinking of Pittsburgh. We know when people come to Pittsburgh, they
say "Oh, this is Pittsburgh. Gee, I didn't really realize." They are expecting
soot and smog and filth. So, we have got to change that.

Just one more thing.Regarding the differentiation of the role of the county
executive from the role of the county manager: I have just always felt that I
have time to make minor decisions as well as major ones. It doesn't seem to take
away from my time and my thinking.

I am not about to turn over things to the county manager. The county manager is
going to work for me. Sure, I'm not going to deal with who gets hired or works
in the park or something like that. But I don't just see myself as an ambassador
of good will.

A reasonable governmental analogy is between a president and a prime minister of
a western democracy. A president is ceremonial and functional in those kinds of
things, and the prime minister deals with the government. I don't see myself as
the president, and my manager as being prime minister.

I expect to be the prime minister and the president. And the manager will be
working for me. The manager is going to be my key person, but he is not going to
be me in terms of things that count.

Jim Roddey Businessman, civic leader and Republican nominee for Allegheny County
Executive

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS: One of the reasons a lot of people like living in this
general area is that when the world comes to an end, they will have 10 more
years.

It has not always been an area that embraces change, and yet we really are going
to have to change perceptions both internally and externally.

I think it starts with a marketing program. Most successful marketing programs
start from within. We have to feel good about ourselves, but we do need to
change the perception that the rest of the world has about this region.

The Pittsburgh Regional Alliance and their program, I am not satisfied that they
have the right formula to do that. We need to be smart about our marketing.
Marketing isn't all advertising. It's taking an inventory of your resources. And
matching those resources with the needs of companies that are out there.

Perhaps people aren't going to move here from San Diego or Phoenix or Dallas.
But perhaps they will move here from Duluth, Minn., or Buffalo, where coming
here would be a significant improvement in quality of life for their employees
and a significant improvement in some of the strategic decisions they have to
make for their company's access to the marketplace, in terms of an airport.

We do have some marvelous resources. If you look at our financial institutions,
our colleges, universities, the health facilities, the cultural organizations,
the foundation community - we probably have better resources in some of those
areas than almost any of our peer group of cities.

We have got to start understanding that and acquainting companies and
individuals around the country with that.

That would be my primary job: economic development and being on the road and
going after companies. Unlike Cyril, I would see the relationship between the
manager and the executive as a classic business relationship of a chief
executive officer and a chief operating officer.

A chief operating officer will run the day-to-day business of the county. We
will have an agreement on important issues that would have to come to the
executive.

I am not satisfied that turning over county development and regional development
responsibilities to the Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission is necessarily the
right idea. I don't think they are equipped for that. They have been so oriented
to transportation over the years that if they are going to have that economic
responsibility, then perhaps we need to look at management and leadership of
that organization to make sure we have the right people working on regional
development.

The airport is key. I believe we should have an airport authority, and the board
should be as nonpolitical and as nonpartisan as it can be. If you talk to the
airlines, they will tell you that their success around the country in growing
their business has been through authorities.

We need some competition to US Airways, and I think an airport authority can do
that. I don't think it belongs as a part of the county's day-to-day operations.

The role of the county executive will be to work regionally, to work as a
marketer, to work as an ambassador, a salesman. To go out and call on companies
and to look at the overall policies of the county.

Tom Murphy Pittsburgh Mayor

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS: It's clear that we have not ever marketed ourselves very
well. The Pittsburgh Regional Alliance has spent the last three or four years
trying to figure out how to position themselves to do that. And I would say
right now with minimal, if any success. That is missing.

I think we have built the raw materials - the airport, the universities. I think
we have enough of a technology industry growing here that we have some
reputation.

I probably talk to a dozen companies a week, some here some not here, about
locating here. With the ones that are here, it's a matter of figuring out how to
accommodate them. With the ones that are not here, we're not on their list. They
would not even think of Pittsburgh.

You just had in your paper a small article about Dell computer making a decision
to locate a major facility in Nashville. Dell, in fact, was looking around for
three years. I didn't know that. I found that out shortly before they announced
it. Dell needed to be near an airport, because they fly out all the computers
they put together. That was 3,500 jobs. We probably would have been able to make
a shot at that.

Six weeks ago, we went out and bought our first home computer. We went to
Gateway in Ross. You go in and order what you want and they build your computer.
It gets to your house in two days, shipped by UPS. It comes from Sioux City,
South Dakota or Hampton, Va. I asked the salesman how do we get one of those
facilities in Pittsburgh? He gave me the name of the president. I called him up,
and he said "It's funny you mention it, we are outgrowing Hampton, and we are
looking around, and Pittsburgh is not on our list."

I spoke to the guy handling their real estate, and now they are considering
Pittsburgh. Those decisions are being made every day, and nobody is putting us
on the list. That's the biggest problem.

We need to solve it collectively. If Gateway comes, they are not coming to
Pittsburgh. They would be going out by the airport. To the extent that we in
this region compete with each other, we'll fritter away our opportunities.

The difficulty we face in the city is that if they go out to the airport, the
city doesn't benefit directly. Other communities, like Minneapolis, St. Paul
have attempted to address that through a tax-base sharing mechanism.

That would be sacrilegious for these guys (Roddey and Wecht) to talk about
publicly, but it is ultimately the bottom line. And we will be forced to
continually compete with each other if we don't address that issue.

Bob Cranmer Allegheny County commissioner, Republican

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS: In the past with development, the city was trudging along,
trying to be as successful as it could be. The county really didn't do anything.
It had its Planning Department. And the municipalities were all out there at
varying degrees of effectiveness, every one competing against each other.

And then you had the private sector from the standpoint of the Allegheny
Conference and Penn's Southwest and the Chamber and the World Trade Center, all
trying to do basically the same thing.

We had a meeting at the county where we had to begin to coalesce these different
groups, both public and private, into one coordinated effort.

We have been extremely successful from the public sector in merging the
operations of the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the county Economic
Development Department under Mulu Birru. It has succeeded beyond our wildest
dreams. We now have that one-stop shop.

What hasn't worked and what isn't working, surprisingly, is the private sector.
Take out the RIDC (Regional Industrial Development Corp.) because that is a
quasi private-public organization. And we do work well with them.

I don't really know what the Pittsburgh Regional Alliance does. I mean, they
have this marketing campaign that I've heard a lot about, but I really haven't
seen much. They are lagging far behind the progress we have made in putting that
deal-making mechanism together.

You have to have a good product, but you have to have a marketing department to
sell that product. Now we have a great product. We can compete with Charlotte or
Indianapolis. But we are not on anyone's radar screen. That's the problem - we
are still not marketed correctly or effectively.

The new county executive can help do that. He can be the ambassador to the
country and the world. He should focus a majority of his time on just that.

Now, the last thing in the world we need is another Tom Foerster-Harry Kramer
arrangement where the executive tries to run the government.

We have made tremendous strides in the last two years in professionalizing
county government, where we don't hire somebody's cousin to work out at the
airport. We hire people based on resumes. We have hiring structures in place.

We don't need to take a step back. The government should be placed under a
professional county manger, and that county manager should be given the
flexibility to run the government and to institute professional policies.

There should be a rule in the new government that not one county employee can be
an elected official from any municipality or a member of the Republican
committee or the Democratic committee.

Let the manager run the government and have the county exec as the ambassador
who pushes this development mechanism forward and pulls in the public and the
private sector to make it work.

We are at a real decision point here. Either we are going to continue forward in
a very positive manner or we are going to fall back into the 1970s, and
re-establish patronage and all the things that have kept this county down.

Jack Wagner Democratic Pennsylvania state senator

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS: With the onset of the single executive and the cooperation
that exists between the city and county, there is a magnificent opportunity for
us to take another step forward.

A whole lot of it depends on Allegheny County and whether the new form of
government gets off on the right foot. And it depends on whether the person in
that position, whether it's Jim or Cyril, truly embraces economic development,
really grabs it and tackles it and lives with it on a daily basis.

In order for that to happen, I think the person has to hire a real professional
in the manager position of Allegheny County, so that the executive is not
involved in the daily operations of county government.

The executive's role, as it relates to economic development, is to be involved
with the mayor on a daily basis, to be involved with the councils of government
throughout the county, and, more importantly, to truly reach out to the
surrounding counties and the county commissioners to create a bond and a working
relationship so that they can move this region ahead.

We need cooperation between the public sector at all levels with the private
sector.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5), PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Dr. Cyril Wecht; PHOTO: Jim
Roddey; PHOTO: Tom Murphy; PHOTO: Bob Cranmer; PHOTO: Jack Wagner

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              42 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 10, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SCIENTISTS SAY MARS ONCE HAD AN OCEAN, AND MAYBE LIFE, TOO

BYLINE: WILLIAM J. BROAD, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-15

LENGTH: 470 words


Scientists at Brown University said yesterday that they had found tantalizing
evidence that the northern lowlands of Mars once bore a wide ocean that, until
it dried up, had waves, hidden depths and long beaches.

The findings, reported in today's issue of the journal Science, were hailed for
making the best case yet for the existence of a sea on primordial Mars. Although
the findings bore no direct evidence of alien life on the planet, the large
amounts of water would indicate that life might once have thrived on the planet.

"I consider it proved in the way we understand that dinosaurs once walked on the
Earth," said Victor Baker, a planetary scientist at the University of Arizona,
who has long looked for signs of a vanished Martian sea that may have existed
more than a billion years ago.

The findings were made by a sixperson team at Brown led by James Head III, a
planetary geologist. The team examined six categories of evidence, all of which
turned out to support the ocean hypothesis. The data are from the Mars Global
Surveyor, which has been orbiting Mars for two years

The findings include hints of ancient shorelines and, parallel to them, curved
terraces suggesting the leveling action of waves and other ocean processes as
the Martian sea retreated. Another clue is that the area's central basin is
unusually flat and smooth, implying these features were made of thick
accumulations of bottom muds and sediments.

"It's compelling," Head said, adding that he was initially skeptical of the sea
hypothesis.

The history of water on Mars, he added, "is linked to questions about the
possibility of life there and changes in climate and things on Earth," like
long-term shifts in the weather.

Tim Parker, a planetary geologist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena,
Calif., who was an early Mars ocean theorizer, said the new evidence, already
widely discussed among scientists, was proving to be widely persuasive. "There's
always going to be skeptics," he said. "But most of the community is accepting
this as almost smoking-gun proof that there were oceans on Mars."

The new findings underscored the magnitude of the recent loss of the $ 165
million Mars Polar Lander, which disappeared Dec. 3 while attempting to land
near the Martian south pole to search for water. Editors at Science said the
loss of the spacecraft had no impact on the timing of the ancient-ocean paper.
In September yet another Mars craft, the Mars Climate Orbiter, vanished as it
approached the planet.

Mars today is an icy desert with dust storms and reddish dunes. While it also
bears thin, tattered clouds, the only place the red planet shows evidence of
water in any quantity is at its north and south poles, where there seems to be a
mix of carbon dioxide and water, like frozen seltzer.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              47 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 30, 1999, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

ROLIING, ROLLING, ROLLING;
ECONOMIC GROWTH ROSE, INFLATION FELL IN LATE '98

BYLINE: SYLVIA NASAR, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A year of pleasant surprises ended with the biggest one of all: a last-minute
burst of growth that surpassed even the most bullish predictions.

America's gross domestic product - the total of goods and services produced -
surged at a 5.6 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 1998. This marked
the fastest pace in two years and made 1998 the third consecutive year the
economy had expanded at a pace of nearly 4 percent. For all of 1998, the GDP
increased 3.9 percent.

Despite the go-go growth, inflation was somnolent. After running about 1 percent
earlier in the year, it slipped to eight-tenths of a percent - the lowest in 40
years.

"We keep getting stronger growth and less inflation pressure," said John
Williams, chief economist at Bankers Trust Corp. "At the moment there seems to
be nothing to get in the way."

As recently as October, the talk was about a possible recession. At that point,
financial markets were quaking, growth in many parts of the world was slowing or
nonexistent, and America's farm and energy industries were slumping.

But, at the same time, American corporations were pouring billions into new
technology, consumers were buying cars and other expensive products, and
exporters, who had been struggling all year as markets languished in Asia and
Latin America, saw their overseas sales snap back.

To be sure, some of last fall's strength reflected one-time events General
Motors Corp. catching up after its strike last summer, Boeing Co. making
year-end aircraft deliveries, construction crews taking advantage of
unseasonably warm weather - and most economists expect the latest figures to be
trimmed a bit when more data become available and the GDP report is revised next
month. But with sales soaring, inventories lean and no sign of inflation, there
seemed little question that the economy barreled into the new year with terrific
momentum.

"I don't see anything that could trigger recession in 1999," said William
Dunkelberg, chief economist at the National Federation for Independent Business,
who noted that business spending and hiring plans remained strong.

Christopher Low, the chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets, said,
"Typically, when we have inventories weaker than expected and demand stronger
than expected, that portends stronger growth down the road."

As usual, American consumers accounted for most of the growth last year.
Consumer spending rose at a strong 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter and 4.8
percent for the year, despite the fact that unseasonably warm temperatures meant
lower heating bills. Purchases of cars and big-ticket items for homes soared at
an annual rate of 21 percent.

Earlier this month, GM, Ford Motor Co. and other car makers reported that
December sales had run at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 17.3 million cars
and trucks a month, up 7 percent from a year earlier. New home construction rose
at a 10 percent annual rate. Consumers and home buyers have not spent this
freely since the early ' 80s, right after the deep recession of 1981-2.

There is no sign that they are flagging, either. Unemployment and interest rates
are at the lowest level in decades, after-tax income jumped 4 percent last year
after inflation, and a rebounding stock market is swelling household balance
sheets once more.

Such trends have consumers feeling good. The University of Michigan reported
yesterday that its consumer confidence index rose to a lofty 103.9 at the end of
January from 100.5 in December. Any reading over 100 is great news for
retailers.

Less expected was the big bounce back in business spending for new equipment,
especially computers and other high-tech products. Capital goods spending, which
had leveled out last summer, soared at a 21 percent annual rate as businesses,
which are facing the tightest labor market in a generation, scrambled to improve
efficiency and keep costs under control.

Meanwhile, businesses accumulated inventories at a slower rate than in the third
quarter as they struggled to keep up with sales, a favorable development
suggesting that they would not be cutting production in the months ahead to
liquidate excess stocks.

The drag from America's $ 263 billion trade deficit proved less potent than one
might expect. A rebound in exports nearly offset a surge in imports, making the
trade deficit no higher than it had been last summer. As a result, it subtracted
just 0.2 percent from growth in the quarter.

Even though the November trade deficit hit a new high in dollar terms, the
average for the fourth quarter turns out to have been no higher than in the
third.

In retrospect, it seems clear that the economy's surprising stamina particularly
the strength in consumer spending - reflects at least three developments that
very few forecasters could have predicted a year ago: a sharp decline in
inflation from 2 percent to 1 percent; another big runup, more than 25 percent,
in the stock market; and, finally, the Federal Reserve's willingness to reduce
interest rates last fall in response to global financial turmoil at a time the
domestic economy was showing few signs of slowing down. All three factors
bolstered income and spending power.

Investors agreed, sending stock and bond prices higher yesterday. The Dow Jones
industrial average rose 77.5 points, to 9,358.83, while the broader Standard &
Poor's 500-stock index hit a new high of 1,279.64 after climbing 14.27 points.

And President Clinton, speaking at a meeting of the nation's mayors, cited the
strong economy, noting that it continued to defy conventional economic wisdom
and that even his own advisers had once again proved too pessimistic.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette: Bill
McCormick, center, a sales; representative for Bowser Pontiac Oldsmobile Subaru
Isuzu Hyundai in Pleasant; Hills, closes a deal on a new Pontiac Grand Am
yesterday with Bob Wagner of; Hopewell. Stephanie Haboush, left, brought her
boss to the dealership to meet; McCormick. Not only are car sales up, but
customers are going full out for; options and financing.; INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC:
Associated Press: Rise in the gross domestic product.; Source: Department of
Commerce

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              48 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 11, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

WHAT SHOULD PITTSBURGH BE?

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 2241 words


Q: With the successes of the past year - changing Allegheny County government,
the stadiums and convention center, perhaps the Fifth and Forbes Downtown
development and the feeling that an entrepreneurial climate is beginning to bud
- are we again in a Renaissance period?

A : These watershed transitions are more clear with a little hindsight. To have
a Renaissance here, one of two things has to happen. Either you've got to have
tangible physical projects or accomplishments to point to. Or you need to have
some kind of overall transformation of the economy. Or both.

In Renaissance I, you had the redevelopment of Point State Park, the smoke
control, and the locks and dams on the rivers. In Baltimore, you had the
development along the Inner Harbor. We may be in the early stages of something
similar in Pittsburgh. The tangible manifestations are the Regional Assets
District, county home rule, and the stadiums, convention center and Downtown
retail plan.

On the economic transformation, you don't have 40 percent of your people working
in heavy manufacturing and then snap your fingers and fix that overnight. It's
amazing we've done as well as we have. It's entirely possible that over the next
five years, Pittsburgh could become a poster child for how an older industrial
economy remakes itself. We already are, in terms of environmental cleanup, clean
air and how you make your downtown look different. I don't think many places, if
any, have done the same kind of a transformation economically. And I think we're
still working on it.

Q:People in Pittsburgh now are so interested in job growth that if you switched
us with Phoenix - a booming city with relatively little culture people might say
"Great!" But longer term, what should Pittsburgh aspire to become, based on its
current strengths?

A :Pittsburgh is very much a European-style city, a pedestrian-oriented city.
It's a city with a Downtown and other commercial districts, like Oakland and the
East End, that very much work. And there are lots of nice neighborhoods. I'm
struck by the contrast between that and Atlanta, where you've got a more
automobile-oriented city. My 14-year-old son made the observation that in
Pittsburgh, he could walk from his house in Squirrel Hill up to the commercial
area and go to the movies. There's a connection there.

In Atlanta you can find a community that's just as nice as Squirrel Hill,
residentially, but there's no connection to the commercial. And as the
demographic patterns continue to change - older population, more people without
kids or empty nesters - you're going to see more of a premium placed on that
connection.

What should Pittsburgh aspire to be? Really, it gets down to your value system.
I'm struck by how the conversation in Atlanta is all about managing growth,
land-use issues, sprawl, traffic congestion. People ask "How much growth is
enough?"

In Pittsburgh, the conversation has been totally about jobs, jobs, jobs any kind
anywhere, we need 'em. We haven't yet seemingly crossed the threshold where we
don't need to worry about that. Actually, frankly, to some degree we have. The
restructuring has occurred to where things are now moving in the right
direction, but people don't feel that level of self confidence yet.

I feel that in the next 10 years, the conversation in Pittsburgh is going to
change to be about quality, not just quantity. What kind of community do we want
to have to preserve the character and quality of life we pride ourselves in?

One issue that's big in most places but almost non-existent here is mass
transportation. After the effort to build the light rail in the early ' 80s,
which was great, that whole conversation stopped. I mean, we're building a
busway to the airport. It's better than nothing. Maybe. It's sort of sad that a
major metropolitan area is connecting its airport and its major growth corridor
with its Downtown, using the most antiquated form of public transportation you
could think of .

The potential for connecting Downtown with Oakland and the north shore using
light rail is obviously the direction we ought to go in. It will spur the
renovation and improvement of all those areas, as well as keep a balance between
development and traffic congestion.

It's a commentary on Pittsburgh's inattention to mass transportation that these
maglev projects can get the kind of attention and visibility they do completely
outside the established structure for planning and operating transportation
systems. These maglev projects create confusion, potentially dissipate
resources, and lessen our chances of having a major, long-range, urban
transportation plan. Pittsburgh will wake up one day and see that it desperately
needs that plan.

Q: Do you think those kinds of issues, particularly land-use planing and
transportation, are more difficult here than they ought to be because of the
fractured nature of the municipal landscape?

A: It's a huge problem. One, the multiplicity of governments. Two, you have a
culture that has grown up in this area that is sort of fragmented and
non-cooperative in nature.

And because of the area's history and the emphasis on jobs, you've got laws and
regulations that are very weak. Pennsylvania has what is generally considered to
be one of the weakest, if not the weakest, state land-use planning regulatory
laws in the country. Look at Cranberry, where you have affluent, educated,
professional people spending probably an average of $ 500,000 to live there.
What I find hard to believe is why there's not more outrage when they have to
drive down to Route 19, which is their Downtown, and sit and wait in traffic
congestion just to go to their local Giant Eagle. It's crazy.

There's not a high level of enlightenment on these issues in Western
Pennsylvania. There is in the east. In Harrisburg, almost all the pressure on
environmental issues comes from the southeast.

Q: Due to this area's history and how badly degraded the environment used to be,
do you suppose people are simply less sensitive to some of those issues?

A: The accomplishments of cleaning up the air and water were considerable. And
the strip mines. Enormous. But the level we're talking about now in this
conversation is more subtle and sophisticated. It's aesthetics. And I agree. I
don't think people are as attuned to it in this area.

One of the most important programs in changing the way Pittsburgh looks is this
Western Pennsylvania Conservancy gardens program. Not just because it's built up
to a scale that's pretty substantial. But it also reminds people that, "Gee,
things can look different. We don't have to have this crappy intersection with a
bunch of old beer cans and paper sitting there. We can have a bed of flowers."

Q: How is the tech community progressing here?

A: I'd say there are four categories of American cities in high tech. First,
there's the Silicon Valley, which is probably not comparable to anywhere else in
the world in creation of companies and wealth.

Then you have another level of places that have become technology centers in
that they've developed or attracted large technology companies: Microsoft in
Seattle, Dell Computer in Austin, and various things in Boston. There may be one
or two other places.

Then at the third level are those places that have developed in a home-grown way
some substantial technology industry presence. I put Pittsburgh in that
category. You might also put Salt Lake City, Denver and New York City in that
category. Places that have some critical mass.

You've seen our study. We say there are 3,500 technology companies in this
region. Even if you want to argue the methodology and say a couple thousand it's
still a lot of companies who work in this field and employ a lot of people.

And then the fourth level is people who are just nowhere yet. And that's most of
the country. If you go to Cincinnati, Louisville, Cleveland, Kansas City, or St.
Louis - I'm not saying there aren't software firms there - but there ain't much.
And they pale compared to Pittsburgh.

We need to recognize that we've got something here, and all of it occurred in
the last 15 years. It occurred because you've got universities and this
engineering technical tradition. That's the bridge between the old and new
economy.

Q: What needs to happen to further this growth? What's detrimental to it?

A: Some of the things that have been considered detrimental aren't necessarily
relevant anymore. The union issue isn't relevant for high tech. These kinds of
companies don't tend to be unionized. Then you've got business taxes and
workers' compensation, which are big issues but not terribly relevant to smaller
companies. Very few technology entrepreneurs I talk to worry about that.

The three issues I think are most important are ideas, capital and people.
Ideas: Are there going to be enough people with ideas and new technology?
Hopefully groups like the Technology Council can influence this on the margins,
but in the end, either you have it or you don't.

The capital part is improving enormously. Five years ago, all you heard was
"There's not enough capital." I don't think that's true anymore. Anybody with a
reasonable idea can get financed. We're awash in capital nationally, and also in
Pittsburgh.

The people part is a problem. It is a problem everywhere, but particularly in
Pittsburgh as you try to bring people in.

Q: Has the perception of Pittsburgh changed much?

A: No. It remains outdated, and I think that's because relatively few people
pass through here. When they do, they come away with a different point of view.

Nothing has happened here to get the national attention. In Cleveland, there has
been a successful effort to change the national perception of it. Pittsburgh
needs to have something tangible happen. Like, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
locates in Pittsburgh. The second is if the overall economy transforms itself in
a way so The New York Times writes a piece about how Pittsburgh has outgrown the
Northeast in jobs by 10 percent and all of the new jobs were in high tech.

I'm glad we're spending the money on a marketing campaign. It has to continue.
But you have to have something to sell. The two stadiums and the convention
center will help, but it's not a unique differentiator any more. Other things
will have to come along to go with that. People will have to have the patience
to know that this is something that you have to do year in, year out, all the
time, if you want to succeed.

Q: What kinds of things do you see as necessary components of this continuing
effort to builld Pittsburgh into a great city?

A: I think it's very rare for a city to have a vision of where it wants to go,
whereby some critical mass of the citizenry comes together. But Atlanta is one
that did have a vision. Starting back in the ' 60s, the leadership decided that
Atlanta was going to become a big deal. They solved the race problem better than
any other Southern city did. They started to grow. And then they decided "We're
going to have the Olympics. Were not going to be a regional capital. We're going
to be a big deal." And that's kind of impressive.

In Pittsburgh, we're a long way from being able to articulate that. We're not
very evolved in that yet. The Working Together Consortium - without commenting
on its value - had a vision of creating 100,000 jobs. That's the old Pittsburgh
vision. I don't care what kind of jobs they are. We want 100,000. That's pretty
low on the food chain in terms of vision, but that's where we are.

What needs to change? Public leadership is one key. It's also very rare, when
you step back and study regions, cities, and states, when someone comes along
and is viewed as a strong, commanding public leader whom people respect and
revere.

In a recent study on the 50 greatest mayors of the 20th century, David Lawrence
ranked third. During the catastrophic early ' 80s Dick Caliguiri led Renaissance
II, which helped people get through that time. When you have that, it helps a
community tremendously and creates an umbrella under which progress can be made.

If you had a more stable, progressive public leadership situation, it would help
the private side of the partnership be more effective. The private side
functions best in a supportive role. The most disastrous way to do things was
the Renaissance Initiative, with the private people leading. Totally backward.
You want these private organizations to be invisible, but doing a lot of the
real work.

Finally, there continue to be structural and organizational problems in how the
private side is organized in economic development. The PRA, for all its
criticism, was absolutely a step in the right direction. As a coordinating
entity, it's a stone loser. Nobody can survive being the coordinator. You have
to have an operating role. The PRA has now moved into saying, "Our core mission
is marketing."

The core responsibilities of economic development in any community are working
with businesses, making loans, making real estate available, job training and so
on. However, those responsibilities remain divided not just among the private
and public sector, but among a number of private sector agencies.

But mainly what we don't have is that one strong public leader - the lead horse,
the straw that stirs the drink in a positive way. The new county executive could
become that person.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: After a career that has
included; stints with the Allegheny Conference on Community Development and the
Urban; Redevelopment Authority and as Pennsylvania Secretary of Commerce, Ray;
Christman is leaving to be president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              55 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 6, 1999, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

OUR RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY;
A CHILD OF WWI SURVEYS THE 20TH CENTURY: WHAT A LONG, STRANGE TRIP IT'S BEEN

BYLINE: GENE JANNUZI

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-11, FIRST PERSON

LENGTH: 947 words


We have seen it all, this 20th century, those of us who grew up in the Great
Depression of the 1930s and came of age during World War II.

If you were born when I was, during World War I, you have been given much to
remember; and no doubt you have much you would rather forget, now, as our
century and millennium show their terminal signs in a mix of the marvelous and
the tawdry.

Among the things my generation has witnessed are most of the scientific and
technological advances in the history of the human race.

My childhood was the days of the horse and buggy. We now build
computer-monitored cars efficient at 70 or 80 mph; we fly at twice the speed of
sound, orbit the Earth at 10 times that speed, and communicate and compute at
the speed of light. Reminds me of a limerick, origin unknown:

There was a young woman named Bright

Who could move at the speed of light;

And so one fine day

She flew far away,

And came back the previous night.

Through the years, those of our vintage have become used to the French phrase
fin de siecle," referring to the closing years of the 19th century. The literal
meaning of the phrase is "end of the century." But my American Heritage
Dictionary gives this meaning: "Of, or characteristic of, the last part of the
19th century, especially with reference to its artistic climate of effete
sophistication." Thus it has a connotation of decadence.

That period sometimes is called "The Gay Nineties," using that word "gay" in a
sense different from what it means today. Then it meant "lively," "exuberant."
In our own fin de siecle, the word "gay" has taken on a whole different meaning
- sexual practices that, for many in my generation, we consider to be deviant.

How will our fin de siecle be referred to by the people of the 21st century,
Anno Domini? Will we be thought of then, in 2020, say, or 2050, as effete or
decadent? Will we seem as naive and primitive to our great-great grandchildren
as our grandparents and great grandparents seem to us?

Even today, when I'm with high school kids, I feel quite ancient. They speak a
different language. Might as well be Swahili. But what can you expect from those
so young they don't believe there was a time when we had to get up and go across
the room to change channels on the TV? Mention "coal" and they say, "What's
coal?"

Until quite recently, our generation never really had a name. We were a bit
young for the "Lost Generation" of Ernest Hemingway and Scott Fitzgerald, so
named by Gertrude Stein. The "Beat Generation" seemed to be some other people,
dimly seen, but not us. We could never march under a banner as banal as "Baby
Boomer." Now Tom Brokaw in his new book and on TV calls us "The Greatest
Generation." It is all right for someone like Brokaw, a younger man, to bestow
on us that mantle, but I find it an embarrassment. Call us, maybe, "The Quiet
Generation."

If there must be a quest for identity I would rather recall, in a long glance
backward, the words of Franklin Roosevelt in his speech accepting the nomination
for a second term as president in June 1936:

"Of some generations much is asked. To other generations much is given. This
generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny."

And so we did. And we kept that rendezvous willingly, even eagerly, because
there was abroad in the world then an evil so monstrous, so heinous, that we
still struggle to understand it.

In my glance backward the watershed of World War II divides the 20th century
into the decades before the Roosevelt speech, and the tumble of decades after
World War II.

Before the "rendezvous with destiny" speech were the idyllic days of childhood:
school days; summer vacation days; swimming-in-the-river days; Fourths of July
and Christmases; days of party-line telephones and gaslight, of Castoria and cod
liver oil, of clothes-props and carpet-beaters and curtain-stretchers, of
Saturday movies and Victrolas and crystal radios and then real radios and KDKA.

All of that culminated in the years of the Great Depression, pushing uphill to
World War II. Then, after service in that war, the downhill rush of years, of
getting on with our lives, of surviving through Korea and Vietnam, Woodstock and
Watergate, the Cold War and nuclear energy and AIDS. And with all of that
illumined by television and accelerated by microchips, we now are thrust into
our own fin de siecle, trailing the impeachment of a president.

I doubt we will ever finish with the argument about whether the century, and the
millennium, ends on Dec. 31, 1999 or on Dec. 31, 2000. Let it be. Whichever you
favor, you cannot avoid recognition of the year 2000 as a Leap Year. Centesimal
years divisible by 400 are Leap Years, according to the World Almanac. Thus 2000
will be a Leap Year, but 1900 was not.

*

It is not with smugness, but with a touch of awe, that I observe that my
generation saw it all. Now, as the days grow short, we can look back on it all
and say, "Wow! What a ride!"

And in our own fin de siecle another French phrase comes to mind : "Plus ca
change, plus c'est la meme chose" (Alphonse Karr, 1808-1890): "The more things
change, the more they are the same."

Look at it another way. In that fine film "Casablanca," Rick tells his pianist,
Sam, never to play "that song" again in Rick's cafe. But Sam plays and sings:

You must remember this:

A kiss is still a kiss,

A sigh is just a sigh;

The fundamental things apply

As time goes by.

A happy 21st century, everyone, whenever it comes.

WEEKEND PERSPECTIVES Gene Jannuzi is retired president of Moltrup Steel in
Beaver Falls, where he lives, and a former Post-Gazette reporter.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 4, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

MEXICO SAYS 'ADIOS' TO SIESTA IN THE WORKPLACE

BYLINE: JENALIA MORENO, THE HOUSTON CHRONICLE

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Mexico's age-old custom of taking a siesta after a big lunch ended Thursday as
the government caught up with a fundamental shift that's been catching on for
decades in this society.

While the government is just now implementing the new work hours, most companies
in Mexico have long given their workers only a 60- to 90-minute lunch break.

The elimination of the siesta saves the government $ 192 million annually in
electric bills, just as Mexico is trying to privatize its electric industry.

The change also makes the government's work schedule more compatible with the
nation's biggest customer, the United States.

With the siesta, most business between Mexico and the United States came to a
halt at 2 p.m., when workers took their breaks.

Because few small businesses in Mexico have answering machines, U.S. business
people often would find themselves calling again and again until someone
answered.

But that's usually not until 5 p.m., when Americans end their work day.

Compatible offices hours are seen as a plus for trade. That's an important
consideration at a time when rising exports have kept the Mexican economy
growing while low oil prices have battered its oil industry.

The plan, announced last month, is not popular with the government's 1.5 million
workers.

Recognizing that, the government eased into the change by having the rule take
effect on Holy Thursday, when nearly all employees in Mexico have the day off.
Workers won't return to work until tomorrow, when the law finally will be felt.

For government officials, elimi nating siesta changes their entire work day.

Now, instead of a 12-hour day that often ended at 8 p.m. and included a two- to
three-hour lunch break, workers must take a one-hour lunch and leave work no
later than 6 p.m.

Most Mexicans deny that they actually sleep during their lunch breaks,
understanding that the image of taking a nap during a midday siesta is
considered lazy in the United States.

"The siesta is a Speedy Gonzalez myth," said Juan Manuel Solana, the consul of
economic affairs for the Consulate General of Mexico in Houston. "Siesta no
longer exists in the cities."

The hectic schedules of Mexico City's 25 million citizens, coupled with massive
traffic jams, gave people little time to squeeze a 30-minute nap into their two-
to three-hour lunch breaks.

"It was more fiction than reality," said Jorge Gonzalez, associate professor of
economics at Trinity University in San Antonio.

The siesta tradition began centuries ago because of Mexico's hot climate. It
continued because not all homes or buildings, especially in small villages, have
air conditioning today.

The catnap followed the biggest meal of the day, a leisurely lunch that often
includes soup, salad, main course, dessert and sometimes several alcoholic
drinks.

Lunches that could stretch into four hours became commonplace and most employees
returned to work after 5 p.m., if they returned.

Only about 5 percent of companies in Mexico City still take a siesta, said
Dolores Puron, the office manager for the state of Texas' office in Mexico City.

The siesta became a casualty of a modern, internationally oriented society; only
residents of small villages close shop during their siesta hours.

"It's hard to believe that here in Mexico City a company exists that gives
siesta," said Bernardo Garcia, director of Edelman Public Relations.

But as a former government employee, Garcia said he took two- to three-hour
lunches.

"I didn't have reason to return earlier," he said, because no one else was
working.

And while it may save the government millions, it could hurt the restaurant
industry because of the loss of the long midday meals now that government
workers only have an hour for lunch.

While Mexicans eliminate the siesta, sleep experts and companies in the United
States now encourage naps, especially during this week's National Sleep Week.

And while Mexican officials said the move would make workers more productive,
the National Sleep Foundation said the effects of sleep loss cost U.S. employers
$ 18 billion in lost productivity annually.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              59 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 22, 1999, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SIGNS OF CHANGING TIMES;
RIVERFRONT TRAIL MARKERS POINT THE WAY TO GREENER FUTURE

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1474 words


Iron and Steel Workers

The shift to mass production in the steel industry brought thousands of new
workers to Pittsburgh and forever changed the city. Between 1870 and 1900,
Pittsburgh's population quadrupled. Through Ellis Island and from across the
nation came the people who would forge Pittsburgh's famous work force.

Workers labored in 12-hour shifts for seven days a week, never seeing the light
of day. In overcrowded boardinghouses and shanties, landlords rented the same
rooms for two shifts. Typhoid fever and industrial accidents claimed hundreds of
lives.

Reform movements initiated by strong trade unions and civic leaders improved
work and living conditions.

The hills and valleys surrounding J&L became insulated neighborhoods where Old
World cultural traditions endured. Churches, clubs, and societies defined the
old ways of life, and Pittsburgh's ethnicneighborhoods remained stable during
decades of change in the 20th century.

Mayor Tom Murphy likes to tell the story about how, when he was a boy, his
mother warned him not to go down to Pittsburgh's dirty rivers. My, how things
change. Today, the mayor will unveil new signs, some directing bicyclists,
walkers, joggers and in-line skaters to the city's growing network of riverfront
trails, and other signs telling them where they are - historically speaking -
when they get there.

Thirteen of the interpretive signs, laminated in thick, hard plastic and
galvanized steel frames, have been posted at locations along the Three Rivers
Heritage Trail, which runs along the Allegheny, Monongahela and Ohio riverfronts
that Murphy's mom told him to avoid.

Also in place are signs in various city neighborhoods that direct trail users to
the pathways, and blue, football-shaped mileage markers on the trails.

Eight more interpretive signs, designed by the city and consultants Bally
Design, archaeologist Christine Davis and Bob Gangwere of Friends of the
Riverfront, will be in place by the end of August.

The historical markers use colorful drawings, old photographs and explanatory
text to depict Panther Hollow, Herr's Island, the Monongahela's first lock and
dam, and Allegheny City. Historical highlights include George Washington's many
visits to the region, early baseball at Exposition Park on the North Side,
contributions of iron and steel workers, and Jones & Laughlin's Eliza Furnace.

"It's bittersweet to see our industry gone and things change, but Pittsburgh has
been on the world's center stage twice, during the French and Indian War and the
Industrial Revolution," Murphy said. "We have a wonderful story to tell about
the city's past and want to make that history part of our city's future.

Not coincidentally, the city's near future includes a five-day stint as host of
the second International Trails & Greenways Conference, expected to attract
1,000 participants - many with bicycles - from 20 countries.

"We selected Pittsburgh as the site for the conference because the city is
re-creating itself on a foundation of trails and greenways," said David Burwell,
president of the 13-year-old, nonprofit Rails-to-Trails Conservancy. "The system
breathes life into the city, making Pittsburgh one of America's most livable
communities.

The conference, which begins tomorrow and runs through Saturday, features 60
seminars aimed at encouraging the use of trails and greenways to make
communities more livable. Among the speakers are U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency administrator Carol Browner on Friday.

On Saturday, U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater is
expected to announce the national list of "Millennium Trails," a collaboration
of the White House Millennium Council, the Department of Transportation and the
Rails-to-Trails Conservancy to recognize trails with historic or social
significance, and promote and stimulate the trails movement.

Local trail groups hope all or part of the 400-mile trail - actually a linkage
of at least five different trails - that starts at Pittsburgh's Point and
follows the Monongahela and Youghiogheny rivers to the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal
Tow Path and into Washington, D.C., makes the list.

Tom Sexton, director of the RTC's Pennsylvania field office, said the conference
is Pittsburgh's chance to rebut its image as a bad bicycling city.

"We will be showcasing Pittsburgh," Sexton said, "as an example to other older
industrial communities of a city that has begun to develop its greenways and
'blueways' along the rivers, and is using them to attract and hold on to young
people who are not only looking for good jobs but also for something to do after
5 p.m.

As recently as 1990, Bicycling Magazine ranked Pittsburgh among the three worst
cities in the nation because of its hills, bridges, climate, urban development
and policies. The Murphy administration hasn't flattened the hills, but its land
acquisitions and riverfront development policies - often without the help of
City Council - have given cyclists a much smoother ride.

Today the mayor announced the official opening of three new trail sections: the
Herr's Island pedestrian/bike bridge connecting the island to the North Side; a
half-mile extension of the Three Rivers Heritage Trail upriver from the South
Side Riverfront Park; and a 1.5-mile connecting trail through Panther Hollow to
the Eliza Furnace Trail. The latter, running south of Downtown along the Parkway
East, is named after a big blast furnace that once loomed over the site but is
popularly known as the "Jail Trail.

"Eight years ago I took a councilman out to what is now the Eliza Furnace Trail
and talked about buying the rail line, but no one was interested," Murphy said.
"It was real obvious to me the opportunities that property provided, but the
city was not in a mode to buy it.

He said the city almost lost the property to the state Department of
Transportation, which wanted it for a new highway ramp.

"If you want to do these types of projects, you've got to put your money where
your mouth is," Murphy said. "You need to be prepared and then get control of
the property.

Even then the battle isn't over. After the city bought the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad right-of-way, Murphy had to fight with the city Parking Authority to
keep one edge of the Second Avenue parking lot behind the County Jail for the
Eliza Furnace Trail.

"The authority said ' we'll lose money from the lost parking spaces,' but I
think we're probably making money because of all the people who are down there
to use the trail. It's just a way of thinking. Changing the way people think
about trails and how they use the city is happening, but slowly. Murphy said he
is disappointed that cyclists have been largely silent when it comes to lobbying
for new trails.

"It's starting, but I don't think it's taken off yet. There has not been a large
advocacy for trails. That makes it hard when new trails are proposed," said
Murphy. He is one of the co-founders of Friends of the Riverfront, among the
more active local trail development groups along with the Montour Trail Council
and the Allegheny Trail Alliance.

He said there was opposition to overcome in Robinson and Moon, for example, to
the Montour Trail, which has become very popular. He also sees "a sense of
ownership" developing among those using the Eliza Furnace Trail.

"We're on the threshold. We have a number of trails that are becoming more
visible with the number of people using them, and that creates its own momentum.

If he were on a bike it would be too early to coast, but much of the hard
pedaling is done. The top of the hill is in sight.

What: The second International Trails and Greenways Conference.

When: Tomorrow through Sunday.

Where: Westin William Penn, Downtown.

Who: The Rails-to-Trails Conservancy.

To Attend: Information about the 60 seminars, workshops and special events, and
fees, are available at the conference information desk in the Westin William
Penn or on the conservancy's Web site at http://www.railtrails.org.

Free to the public: Sixth Street Bridge Party featuring live music, food and
fireworks, 5:30 to 9 p.m. Friday, sponsored by the city and the Rails-to-Trails
Conservancy.

At a glance

What: The second International Trails & Greenways Conference.

When: Tomorrow through Sunday.

Where: Westin William Penn, Downtown.

Who: The Rails-to-Trails Conservancy.

To Attend: Information about the 60 seminars, workshops and special events, and
fees, are available at the conference information desk in the Westin William
Penn or on the conservancy's Web site at http://www.railtrails.org.

Free to the public: Sixth Street Bridge Party featuring live music, food and
fireworks, 5:30 to 9 p.m. Friday, sponsored by the city and the Rails-to-Trails
Conservancy.

THREE RIVERS HERITAGE TRAIL

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), MAP, PHOTO: (For two photos) Above, one of the interpretive
signs that has; been placed along the Three Rivers Heritage Trail. The sign
includes the text; inset about iron and steel workers, although the type style
has been changed; here for publication. Below, a portion of an interpretive sign
about Allegheny; City.; MAP: James Hilston/Post-Gazette: (New trails)

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              71 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 3, 1999, Wednesday, NORTH EDITION

DIVERSITY POLICY CRITICIZED FOR LANGUAGE

BYLINE: TAWANDA W. JOHNSON

SECTION: METRO, Pg. N-5

LENGTH: 498 words


North Allegheny's proposed diversity policy should be revised because the
language needs to be more warm and embracing, according to some community
members who attended meetings to help develop the document.

Joy Maxberry Woodruff, a McCandless resident and an NA parent, told the school
board last week that she thought the policy's language was "negative, legalistic
and reactionary."

Joy and Dwayne Woodruff, a former Pittsburgh Steelers cornerback, dealt with
racism in 1995 when a district assistant play director told their daughter
Jillian, now a Duke University student, that she didn't get a key role in
"Little Women" because the director wanted a "pure-looking cast."

The district apologized and instituted diversity training.

Despite that negative experience, Joy Woodruff said her daughter has flourished
at Duke, and that Jillian credited NA's "awesome extracurricular activities" and
"creative teachers" with much of her success.

To build on more success stories, Joy Woodruff said, "We must create a document
that lets all students, all faculty and all staff know that this is an
educational environment that seeks and strives to embrace and affirm the
diversity of its population."

The draft policy's objective states: "The district shall foster an educational
environment in which the diversity of the human population of the district is
acknowledged and in which each member of our educational community is encouraged
to show respect, tolerance and civility to every other member."

Genevieve Leib, a Marshall resident, said the policy should reflect that the
district wants a diverse faculty.

School director Robert Howard, who comprises the district's policy committee
with school director Christine Molnar, said there's always the "possibility of
revisions."

The board is scheduled to vote March 17 on the policy.

Woodruff said district officials should take a lesson from Sewickley Academy's
diversity statement.

It states: In order to prepare students for and enhance their appreciation and
understanding of the emerging social, cultural, political and economic patterns
in the United States and in the world, we are committed to purposefully creating
an academically challenging, diverse, multicultural and inclusive learning
community that:

* Remains deeply committed to providing and maintaining a challenging
educational program at every level of the school.

* Focuses on maximizing the potential of each individual student.

* Seeks to attract and retain broadly talented students, faculty and staff from
a variety of cultural, religious and economic backgrounds.

* Develops and supports a curriculum that prepares its students to effectively
participate in an inter dependent global community.

* Involves all constituents of Sewickley Academy in enhancing and deepening the
understanding of diversity as an asset that enriches the Sewickley Academy
community.

North Allegheny Tawanda W. Johnson is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 17, 1999, Monday, SOONER EDITION

RUBIN RESIGNS;
A CABINET MEMBER, FOR ONCE, QUITS UNDER BLUE SKIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 422 words


It often seems that midterm departures by presidents' Cabinet officials occur
under a cloud of scandal or failure. How refreshing to bid adieu to Treasury
Secretary Robert Rubin in a blue-sky climate of economic prosperity for which he
deserves much credit. Mr. Rubin resigned his post last week to return to New
York and be nearer his family.

Mr. Rubin became secretary of the treasury in 1995 following the resignation of
President Clinton's first appointee to that post, former Sen. Lloyd Bentsen.
Earlier he had served as head of the National Economic Policy Council, a post he
persuaded President Clinton to create.

Approval of Mr. Rubin and his policies is widespread inside and outside the
Beltway, across the political divide and among the Wall Street financiers from
which he came, leaving a successful career as an investment banker with Goldman
Sachs to answer Washington's call. Mr. Clinton praised Mr. Rubin's "cool head
and steady hand, his sharp mind and warm heart." In this case the valedictory
tribute was appropriate.

It's simplistic to attribute national economic prosperity completely to a
particular administration's policies.

Even so, Mr. Rubin deserves credit for his sage counsel to the president which,
together with Alan Greenspan's guidance at the Federal Reserve, has helped to
steer the U.S. economy clear of potential crisis.

The current economic nirvana of low unemployment and low inflation has been
attained by great strides in private-sector productivity. And part of that
success and its longevity is attributable to Mr. Rubin's focus on achieving a
balanced budget in Washington.

Extending the economic streak another nine months - breaking an all-time record
for U.S. economic expansions - and beyond now falls to Treasury
Secretary-designate Lawrence Summers, Mr. Rubin's deputy and another esteemed
economic mind. Mr. Summers, who must be confirmed by the Senate, has been
breaking bread weekly with Mr. Rubin and Mr. Greenspan, while designing U.S.
strategies to address global economic problems.

Mr. Summers' greatest challenge may be living up to the comparisons. He's had
experience, though. At family reunions he encounters an economist father, an
economist mother and two uncles who are Nobel laureates in economics, Paul
Samuelson and Kenneth Arrow.

His own strong credentials, as well as his pedigree, offer hope that Mr. Summers
can succeed in the footsteps of the man Mr. Greenspan proclaimed as "one of the
most effective" Treasury secretaries in history.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              76 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 6, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

CHINA FORECAST: CHILLY, BUT NOT COLD;
ANXIETY AND BAD VIBES ABOUND, BUT THE U.S. RELATIONSHIP WITH CHINA IS CEMENTED;
BY TRADE

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C-3, WHITE HOUSE WATCH

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It's amazing that less than a year ago President Clinton, accompanied by a huge
entourage (and a lot of us reporters in tow who'd also been to China with former
President George Bush), was raising a glass of liquor to Chinese President Jiang
Zemin at a sumptuous feast in Beijing and borrowing an old Chinese proverb.

"Be not afraid of going slowly. Be only afraid of standing still," Clinton said.

He was talking about the U.S.-Chinese relationship, desperately eager to make a
"new" and much warmer relationship with China a hallmark of his presidency. At a
press conference in Hong Kong, Clinton predicted that he would see a democratic
China in his lifetime.

As Yogi Berra would say, it's deja vu all over again.

China's repressive, anti-democratic, one-child-per-couple,
lock-dissidents-in-jail approach to governing continues. So do U.S. efforts to
mollify Chinese leaders.

Clinton is once again urging normal trade status (formerly known as
"most-favored-nation" status) with China despite the Cox report, which details
incredible ineptitude in the nation's spy defenses and a determined, very "ept"
Chinese spy effort that gained them access to top U.S. nuclear secrets. So, too,
did Bush - despite the Tiananmen Square massacre 10 years ago plead with
Congress to continue normal trade status

When China's premier, Zhu Rongji, was at the White House in April, he told
Clinton that it was imperative that China get into the World Trade Organization.
Clinton waffled, saying at first that the time was not right and then, after Zhu
left the White House, telephoning him to say he'd do what he could.

So once again we're in for a massive, sustained, exhausting, pointless debate in
Congress, that great deliberative body, over whether the United States should
grant China normal trade status.

The rhetoric will be impassioned. The arguments on both sides will be carefully
thought out. The personalities involved will plead either for keeping America's
commitment to human rights on one hand or being realistic in a global economy.

In the end, Congress will not vote to take away normal trade relations.

Clinton's policy, which was also Bush's policy, will stay in place.

The reason, not surprisingly, is money. Despite the huge trade deficit in its
favor but with one-fifth of the world's population, China constitutes an
enormous potential market for American goods and American agriculture. As
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman says, China cannot feed itself; the American
farmer is in trouble because of buying at retail and selling at wholesale, and,
without Chinese mouths to feed, America takes it in the solar plexus.

And the truth is that American consumers are in love with cheap Chinese goods.

The real embarrassment about the spying scandal is not that China spied (the
United States spies on everybody, including her allies), but that America's
counterespionage has been so woefully inadequate.

But inopportune as it was, China's spying is not going to lead to a U.S.-Sino
Cold War or a break in U.S.-Sino relations because it would be bad for China and
bad for the United States - not that wisdom often enters into diplomatic
relations.

When Clinton traveled for nine tension- free, Monica-free, almost magical days
through China last year, he was awed by China's vast size, its potential for
wealth and the energy and charm of her people. But he made one major,
overarching miscalculation. He underestimated Chinese nationalism, which is
growing, not diminishing. And the anger in China against U.S. dominance in the
world is not abating and must be a worry to future U.S. leaders.

But no U.S. officials and even relatively few members of Congress seriously want
disengagement with China, despite the hot rhetoric. What they do want is to vent
their anger against China, which does very stupid things in a very stupid way,
and at the same time speak to the folks back home. Only 38 percent of Americans
have a favorable opinion of China, according to a new Gallup Poll. That's only 4
percent higher than after the students were slain at Tiananmen.

China's entry into the World Trade Organization will be delayed but not blocked.
China-bashing will be popular, especially among GOP presidential candidates, but
it will have the impact of young children flailing ineffectually at a pinata.

Relations between the United States and China will not be warm any time soon,
although there is no need to brace for the chill of a true Cold War.

But it was 10 years between Bush's trip and Clinton's trip, and it will be some
time before another U.S. president toasts a Chinese leader in Beijing.

Ann McFeatters is the Washington bureau chief for the Post-Gazette and The Blade
of Toledo, Ohio. Her e-mail address is amcfeatters@nationalpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              80 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  July 8, 1999, Thursday, 31REGION 20 EDITION

LOTS OF PEOPLE SAY THEY DON'T LIKE TO COOK BECAUSE

SECTION: FOOD, Pg. X-4

LENGTH: 813 words


Lots of people say they don't like to cook because handling and touching food is
icky. Raw chicken is clammy. Smearing baking pans with oil is messy. Stuffing a
turkey is gross.

Right. But if you want to learn to cook and to be a good cook at that, you have
be on an intimate relationship with food. Touch, feel, press, squeeze, pinch,
rub and massage. You have to handle it.

Many Asian and Arab cultures eat with either chopsticks or the fingers. We
Americans, saddled with our numerous metal eating utensils, are a distinct
global minority.

So your mother told you it's bad manners to eat with your fingers. Sometimes it
is. The rule of thumb, in formal settings, is to use utensils for most every
thing. For instance, it would be bad manners to glom onto a pork chop with both
fists at a formal dinner when the hostess has laid out fine linens and
silverware. Most meals taken at better restaurants fall into the same category.

In less formal settings, it's OK to eat some things with your fingers, and it is
not, repeat not, bad manners to just pick up. Think about it. Most of our
favorite foods are hand held: burgers, fries, wings, popcorn, bagels, doughnuts,
pizza, fried chicken, cookies, tortillas, eggrolls, barbecued ribs and corn on
the cob.

Anybody who can't or won't pick up a grilled lamb chop and gnaw the bone is
standing a bit too high on ceremony and is immediately suspect as a person who
avoids contact with food.

If you are a little uptight on the subject, try a couple of simple detox
exercises in the kitchen. Use fingers instead of tools.

The solo cook has a distinct advantage here. Nobody's looking.

Start with simple steps. Squeeze lemons and oranges by hand. Roast peppers and
rub off the skins. Toss salad with your hands.

Make bread and enjoy feeling the dough yield under the pressure of your palms.

Using the hands and fingers is not only convenient and informal, it's sensual.
Point is, if you don't handle food, you won't understand it and cooking will
always be something that somebody else does for you.

There are lots of foods that we eat in public that are perfectly fine to eat
with fingers. Here's a list and some of the etiquette rules that go along with
them.

* Asparagus - This is finger food. Pick up the spears unless the stalks are limp
or really long, but avoid throwing your head back and looking like a trained
seal. If you feel more comfortable using a knife and fork, do so. Either way is
correct.

* Artichokes - There's no other way. Pull off the leaves with the fingers,
scraping the meaty end of the leaves upside down through your teeth. Discard the
leaf onto your plate. Never attempt to eat the whole leaves unless you want to
OD on fiber. When you get to the artichoke heart, cut it with your knife and
fork.

* Bacon - If it's limp, use a fork. But if it's dry and crisp, use your fingers.

* French fries - When served with a Big Mac, fries are universally eaten with
the fingers. When eaten with steak or other foods requiring a knife and fork,
cut fries into reasonable lengths and eat with a fork.

* Pastries - At a breakfast meeting, use the tongs provided (maybe) to get the
pastry onto your plate. If the boss is watching, cut the pastry in half or
quarters and eat with a fork. If it's not too sticky, fingers are OK.

* Shrimp - If it still has a tail, either pick it up with your fingers or use a
knife and fork. If it has no tail, spear it with a fork. It's OK to eat shrimp
cocktail with the fingers.

* Raw veggies or chips and dip - Fingers, of course, but no double dipping or
you look like George on "Seinfeld" reruns.

* Olives - When the late Henry Morgan was asked if olives should be eaten with
the fingers, he replied: "No, the fingers should be eaten separately." Whatever.

Finger-lickin' Asian Chicken Wing Sauce

Grill or broil chicken wings. To make 4 servings, buy 12 whole chicken wings
(about 2 1/ 2 pounds) and hack into sections, discarding the wing tip. For
classic Buffalo wings, dip the wings into a mixture of melted butter and hot
sauce, as hot as you can stand it.

For variety, try this Asian dipping sauce. Hoisin sauce is to Asia as ketchup is
to the United States.

2 tablespoons hoisin sauce

1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar

1 teaspoon sesame oil

1 tablespoon soy sauce

2 tablespoons water

1 tablespoon vegetable oil

2-inch piece fresh ginger, minced (about 2 tablespoons)

2 medium garlic cloves, minced

2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro leaves

Mix hoisin sauce, rice vinegar, sesame oil, soy sauce and water in a small bowl;
set aside.

Heat vegetable oil in a small saucepan over medium heat.

Saute ginger and garlic until fragrant but not browned, about 30 seconds. Stir
in hoisin mixture and cook until flavors meld, about 2 to 3 minutes.

Off heat, stir in cilantro. Serve warm or at room temperature.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 26, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

PADDLING ACROSS TIME

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1710 words

DATELINE: WATERFORD, Pa.


On French Creek in mid-December, the water temperature is 35 degrees, the wind
chill whistles single digits and George Washington is roaming this wintry
watershed as he did in December 1753.

Aboard canoes re-creating his 70-mile paddle down the icy creek he named,
re-enactors can almost hear the wooden teeth chatter.

Though dead 200 years this month, Washington was brought back to life by the
French Creek Project for a chilly weeklong re-enactment highlighting not only
that historic canoe trip but also the still remarkable ecology of the stream on
which he traveled.

"We did this to emphasize that French Creek is still a Colonial-era stream,"
said Brian Hill, director of the French Creek Project, which began working with
local communities, farmers and residents five years ago to highlight the creek's
ecological value. "With regard to its aquatic and biological diversity, it's
much the same as when Washington visited 246 years ago. In addition to being
cold again in December, French Creek's shallow riffles and green pools remain
home to 66 species of fish, 25 kinds of freshwater mussels, 58 insect genera and
10 algae.

Included in those numbers are a full complement of game fish - bass, perch,
trout, pickerel, walleye - and such relatively exotic species as the mountain
brook lamprey, northern hog suckers and longnose gar. Also on the species roster
are northern riffleshell and clubshell mussels, both federally listed endangered
species, and longhead and sand darters, small minnow-like fish on Pennsylvania's
endangered list.

Biologists say the creek has "global significance," because it is one of the
only refuges for such species diversity in the upper Allegheny River system.

"This re-enactment,"

Hill said, "allows us to emphasize our major message - that this is a unique
stream system with a diversity that has real value today, just as it did then.

The on-water festivities begin on historically accurate Dec. 16, with a photo-op
for television cameras. Professional re-enactor Bryan Simpers, as the
21-year-old Maj. Washington, and Fred Threfall, portraying his guide,
Christopher Gist, climb into a canoe paddled out onto white-capped Lake LeBoeuf
by Bud Luce, owner of French Creek Canoe and Kayak.

Wind is cutting in hard off the lake as Simpers, 31, of Virginia Beach, Va.,
attired in period tricorn hat, knickers and long woolen stockings, displays a
cat's affinity for the water with none of its agility. Threfall, 50, who does
Colonial-era re-enactment work during the summer at Fort Necessity, is in
Colonial leggings, boots and wool cap. Both look cold. Neither appears to be
re-enacting.

After just 10 minutes on the water, Simpers' Washington and Threfall's Gist are
brought back to shore and set off to begin four days of talks in elementary
schools about their historic journey.

Retracing the canoe route starts in earnest on the nearby creek, where glaze ice
as thick as window panes sparkles along the grassy brown banks as four Old Town
canoes slip into the swirling brown water.

Washington also took four canoes, but his were birch bark, not fiberglass.
Obviously, this re-enactment will embrace some modern updates. That extends to
the clothing worn by the paddlers. Several have wriggled into rubbery wet suits.
Polar fleece, Thinsulate and Gore-tex, are layered over lots of wool.

Other liberties are taken with the overnight arrangements. While Washington
camped streamside every night, the re-enactors will do so only once.

Following Friday's float, a handful of hearties will set up a tent at the French
Creek Project's Outdoor Learning Center west of Meadville. The 170-acre
creekside plot is a former state Superfund site.

"It's something we wanted to do once,"

Hill said. "But we also figure that if motels had existed in Washington's time
he would have used them. So our motto there is: If George could have, he would
have."

The creek is running 3 to 4 feet higher than normal summer flow because of
recent rainstorms. At places it is over its banks and through trees. Safety is a
major concern, because any dunking in the frigid water could result in a flash
frozen paddler.

"My biggest concern is that someone might fall in the water and have some
injuries or some problems with that," said Luce, the designated leader of the
expedition. "We're prepared the whole way down with support vehicles traveling
along the creek and keeping the canoes in sight in case anything happens. Water
level was also a concern.

"It dropped the day before we started, and that made it a much better float,"

Luce said. "When the water's going down it's much safer because there's no
floating debris. But there are no mishaps, and the canoeists paddle through a
series of s-curves described by Washington as a "dead zone."

The creek passes through state game lands and a wildlife refuge where teeth
marks on tree trunks are evidence of beavers. The canoeists see what could be an
otter, an animal not known to swim in that section of the creek, but is more
likely a muskrat. Deer run as the canoes float by.

Hill, between Christmas carols, says the creek hasn't escaped all change from
Colonial times.

"We're seeing a different forest than Washington would have viewed from his
canoe," he said "Then it was a hemlock and hardwood-dominated climax forest. Now
it is younger. There's not much hemlock. Young silver maples, oaks and sycamores
border the creek now. In places, they hang over the creek, creating "sweepers,"
or have fallen in, creating "strainers."

The canoeists give both configurations a wide berth.

*

Washington was a 21-year-old major when sent by Virginia Gov. Robert Dinwiddie
to Fort LeBoeuf, on the site of present-day Waterford.

His two-month mission from Williamsburg, Va., took him on a route across the
Allegheny River at the aptly-named Washington's Landing and included a visit to
the French Fort Duquesne on what is now the Point in Pittsburgh. He traveled by
horseback through deepening snows, arriving at Fort LeBoeuf in mid-December to
deliver an eviction letter to the French commander from Dinwiddie.

After gathering strategic information about French intentions in the Americas -
he saw them building an armada of canoes -

Washington borrowed four of those canoes and began the return trip Dec. 16,
floating down partially frozen French Creek, on a ride described in his journal
as "tedious and fatiguing. His subsequent report to the governor alerted the
British and Americans to French plans to control the Ohio and Mississippi rivers
and led in short order to the French and Indian War.

Simpers and Threfall deliver that history in costume and period language to more
than 1,600 elementary school pupils at 22 schools, and more than 300 adults at
evening receptions in Cambridge Springs and Franklin.

"This kind of thing keeps history alive,"

Threfall said. "Rather than just another chapter in a book, the students get
some hands-on material that gives them some impressions of 18th century life.

"I don't know if this makes it easier for them, but they do seem to get a better
idea of what it's all about. *

The final day of the canoe trip begins in Utica, Venango County, on the coldest
morning yet. As paddlers drive into the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy access
area, the car radio dispenses the information that despite a wind chill of zero,
this is technically the last day of fall.

Four canoes and a kayak push off. There are warnings from Hill that this final
10-mile section of creek has more drop and therefore more fast water.

A crowd of fourth-graders gathers on the metal grate Utica bridge with
Washington and Gist to wave and watch the canoeists pass underneath.

Paddles and the sides of the canoes are already icing up.

As the canoes make their way through riffles and pools, people pop out of cabins
and wave from the banks of the creek. Some snap photographs.

One woman had been waiting for an hour and had started a roaring fire to keep
warm.

"French Creek is a jewel of a stream," says Davitt Woodwell, director of
Pittsburgh's new Riverlife Task Force and a paddler for all six days on the
creek. "People make great use of it - cottages, fishing, paddling - and the
communities along French Creek have come to understand the importance of it to
the region and have really started to take care of it. Around Sugarcreek, the
convoy of canoes bounces through some rapids and a couple of standing waves that
sprayed water into the boats. The water froze quickly on pants, seats and the
bottom of the boats.

Just under the Route 322 bridge in Franklin, the canoes pull in to pick up
Washington and Gist for the final mile of the trip. Around a bend in the creek,
150 sixth-graders, their teachers and a handful of local politicians were
waiting in Riverfront Park, where the creek joins the Allegheny River.

It is four days before Christmas. Snow flurries, a cold sun peaks out of gray
clouds, hot chocolate steams from plastic foam cups. Several bundled pupils hold
a 4foot-long computer printout in gloved hands that reads in foot-tall script,
"We hold these truths ... ."

As the canoes carrying Washington and Gist nose onto the bank under a young
stand of silver maples, the pupils cheer.

Elise Frey, a home-schooled 9year-old from Franklin, is shivering despite the
hot chocolate, but happy she came to see Washington and Gist.

"We've studied about this and it was really great to see," she said. "But I
wouldn't want to be in a canoe, especially if it tipped. After disembarking,
again shakily, and addressing the crowd, aristocratic, apple-cheeked Simpers
said his week on the watershed allowed the people he met to identify with
Washington and their historical and cultural roots.

"There are lots of parts of American history that people don't know or don't
care about," he said.

"But history is not just dusty books or pieces of paper in a library. It's where
they live now, its something that still affects them to this day.

"I mean, if it wasn't for Washington and Gist and the events subsequent to their
expedition, this part of America might be speaking French. Not that that would
necessarily be a bad thing, but it certainly would be different."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3, Photo: Annie O' Neill/Post-Gazette photos: Professional
re-enactor; Bryan Simpers, from Virginia, portrays a young George Washington
crossing the; French Creek in Waterford, Pa., as part of a weeklong
re-enactment; highlighting the historic canoe trip.; Photo: Mary Homza of
Pittsburgh played the wife of a French Marine re-enactor; for the day.; Photo:
French Marine re-enactors demonstrate the use of guns at the campsite.; Map:
French Creek Project; Ted Crow/Post-Gazette: (Colonial era creek)

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              90 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 30, 1999, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

VOLUNTEERS FIND THEY GET A LOT OUT OF GIVING

BYLINE: ERVIN DYER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1964 words


This year, Johnnie Mae Middleton has the littlest of angels to thank for her
Christmas gifts: The 26 children she helps in the Head Start program at Belmar
Elementary School in Homewood. Since January, Middleton has volunteered at the
school, handing out lunches, comfort and grandmotherly hugs.

For Middleton, 74, who began 1999 grieving the death of a brother, volunteering
has gotten her as much as she's given.

"Working with children keeps your mind young," she said. "If I didn't have the
kids or go to the school, it would be pitiful for me. Even my doctor told me he
has seen an improvement in my attitude. Middleton, who lives in Wilkinsburg,
gets up at 6 a.m. to get to Belmar by 8:30 a.m and works there for five hours.
The steady exercise has boosted her mental state and eased her mild arthritis,
too, she said.

Middleton is one of six volunteers the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette has followed this
year to chronicle the spirit of altruism that motivates them - and so many
others.

This is the last time we'll check in with them.

Others who've been on the charitable frontlines in 1999 are: Charlene Cotton,
with Big Brothers/Big Sisters; Sean Gibson and Sean McCaskill, two fraternity
brothers who started a Little League team; and Adrienne Little and Kristy
Grecni, both connected with Pittsburgh Cares, but each following different paths
to volunteering.

Middleton's spirit of determination speaks for them all.

At Belmar, Middleton was resolute in her determination that she could make a
difference. Her hand-holding and quiet whispers of encouragement helped to calm
the children and get them prepared for their lessons.

"My gift," she said, "is handing out love and warmth. Everybody needs love.
That's true even for people who give it, said Abe Wandersman, a professor at the
University of South Carolina, who's studied the psychology of volunteerism. He
believes that Middleton's determination, combined with her emotional
interactions, probably elevated her health and state of mind. She's a
picture-perfect model of the good that comes from reaching out, especially
during the holidays, he said, which tend to heighten the experience.

"At this time of year, people who contribute to community can genuinely feel
like they're doing their part," said Wandersman.

It hasn't always been easy. The six volunteers have had to balance their
goodwill with reality. In the past 12 months there have been health problems,
familyparent commitments and a friendly venture split in two.

But there also have been new friends, changed lives and positive growth.

No one experience is going to be like another, said Susan Ellis, of
Philadelphia, an expert on volunteer management.

Each volunteer reached out into a society much more complicated than 20 years
ago, she said, adding: "And the rewards and expectations of volunteering have
grown just as complex. Still, Middleton was able to boast of her new
experiences.

As a Foster Grandparent, sponsored locally by the American Red Cross, Middleton
participated in once-a-month self-improvement classes the focused on health,
speech and literacy.

She was also introduced to new friends. Middleton would catch a bus into town -
also a first - for her meetings and would stick around to have lunch and window
shop Downtown with new acquaintances.

"It's all been a blessing," she said.

According to volunteer experts, there are plenty of others who are caught up in
the glow. They estimate that 93 million adults give an average of 4.2 hours a
week of their time or talent to charitable or community groups.

Different paths

Two of those are Sean Gibson and Sean McCaskill. Growing up in public housing,
they saw the hard-knocks life of the projects but weren't dispirited by it.

This past summer, they pieced together the Josh Gibson Little League to soften
the blow of inner-city living for other youngsters.

The league was named for Sean Gibson's great-grandfather, Josh Gibson the
legendary slugger in the Negro National League, the alliance of all-black teams
that thrived during the segregation of baseball.

The two men dared to bring history, tradition and hope to dozens of boys and
girls from the city's public housing developments.

The league drew varying degrees of community support and was profiled in the
Post-Gazette, but the partnership between Gibson and McCaskill did not last
beyond the season.

Each remains committed to their community - and to Little League - but will do
it a little differently from now on.

Gibson, 31, will work with the Pittsburgh Housing Authority, which will provide
coaches, transportation assistance and uniforms for next season's teams that
will come from the city's eight public housing developments. Besides baseball,
the program will also focus on tutoring and life skills lessons.

Gibson, who remained mostly in the background this year, will take a higher
profile in building the league next year.

As the teams regroup, he said, "We're still going to need volunteers as back-up
coaches. Especially parents to work concession stands and fund-raising.
McCaskill is still working with Up Inc., a nonprofit group that draws black
professionals back to their old communities to plant the seeds for a better
tomorrow.

His league will remain a grass-roots one, depending on community volunteers to
coach, mentor and tutor the young people.

McCaskill will expand his outreach to include children 5 to 8 years old in the
summer and players will not be limited to joining teams in their neighborhood.

"I want to try and break down some of the rivalries that exist across town,"
said McCaskill, 30, of Wilkinsburg. "This is about togetherness. Each has
learned that working with volunteers is not easy.

Many signed up last year and made commitments, Gibson said, but did not honor
them.

"It was frustrating," he said. "You have to have patience to deal with that.
Many in the neighborhood buy into the do-good part of volunteering, Gibson
added, but following through and getting them to do the job was difficult.

"It's definitely something to take seriously.

Forever a friend

For volunteer Charlene Cotton, becoming a Big Sister has become a way of life.

Cotton, a customer care representative with Consolidated Natural Gas, said she's
seen too many "miracles" to turn back now.

For one, her little sister, Lanica, a sometime painfully introverted 14-year-old
is beginning to open up and trust the relationship.

After spending a recent weekend with Cotton, Lanica (Big Brothers/Big Sisters
prefers that children's last names not be used) was bold enough to tell Cotton
that she didn't care for an outing to a crafts fair.

"That's OK," said Cotton, "[Lanica] felt comfortable enough to express her
feelings. We're bonding, and that shows she's strong enough that if she doesn't
like something, she'll speak up. Slowly, through ice-skating, walking their dogs
and going to church, they have forged a relationship.

"It's not all been a wonderful world, it's been a great challenge," said Cotton,
who's been in plenty of one-sided conversations with Lanica. Early in their
relationship, she often wondered if she was making any difference at all.

But Cotton, who is single and lives in Penn Hills, where she cares for her
mother who suffers dementia, hasn't had to navigate it alone. She said the
advice and support from Big Brothers/Big Sisters are invaluable. "Their door is
open and they are willing to take the time to meet with you. The mentoring
organization provides a social worker, who makes periodic checks on the
relationships. In fact, Cotton's social worker suggested that Lanica keep a
journal as a way to communicate her feelings.

At year's end, Lanica has begun to initiate conversations and is more secure and
social, said Cotton. "Friends tell me she's grown a lot. And, so has Cotton.

Being with Lanica "requires a lot of giving of yourself and I'm more patient,"
she said, "and that hasn't been one of my attributes. Now that she's gotten to
know Lanica, Cotton says she's a friend forever.

Big Brothers/Big Sisters requires at least a year-long mentorship.

"I intend to work with her for as long as it takes,"

Cotton said. "I cannot see not being in her life."

Reaching out, reaching in

When going to volunteer, Kristy Grecni never leaves home without two things: an
open mind and a sense of hope.

Grecni, 26, of Blawnox, has spent the past year working with Pittsburgh Cares,
an organization that prides itself on offering flexible volunteer opportunities.
Through the group, Grecni has served food to homeless women and people affected
by HIV; spruced up trails at Frick Park and sorted medical supplies for Global
Links.

"I feel the time was well-spent," she said. "There was a huge sense of
accomplishment after completing a project and knowing that what I did was
completely appreciated."

Grecni prefers the hodgepodge of assignments and knowing that different people
can come together for a common goal. It's one of the ways the Ohio native gets
to meet new friends and get a feel for Pittsburgh.

Along the way, she learned a few homespun lessons in volunteering.

"It makes you open your eyes and makes you more accepting," she said. And, while
it's rewarding, don't mistake it for being effortless.

"It is easy to want to volunteer," she said, "but it does take effort to make
the step and sign up for a project. It is a commitment, but even a small one is
a rewarding one. Adrienne Little, 31, a full-time mother and wife in the North
Hills, also volunteered through Pittsburgh Cares.

She, however, concentrated on one effort and rolled up her sleeves for the Toy
Cleaning project at the Center for Creative Play. Located at Station Square, the
center is a toy and technology lending library for children, including those
with disabilities. Little liked the assignment - cleaning and disinfecting toys
and preparing the site for the next day's use - because her husband, Steven, and
daughters, Alexa and Caroline, could tag along and volunteering became a family
project.

"My children feel as though they are doing their part to help the world by
letting Mom help Pittsburgh Cares," she said. "Bless them, they have a lot of
confidence in me! But finding balance became the challenge for Little, who also
volunteered with her daughters' preschool and Girl Scout troops.

Her struggle, she said, was juggling family and volunteer projects and teaching
herself to put the brakes on some things.

In September, health problems forced her to resign from the board of directors
for Pittsburgh Cares and to relinquish her duties on the organization's public
relations committee. Little liked the position because she brought her marketing
and advertising skills to the table. However, it could be stressful because,
just like a job, it required that she attend a lot of meetings and work with
diverse groups of people all very passionate about the organization.

Though she had to reduce her volunteering, she plans to gradually move back into
it now that the health problems have been resolved.

And, Little remains proud of what she's accomplished.

In her board and committee work for Pittsburgh Cares, she helped the group
devise its first satisfaction survey of volunteers and to revise its strategic
plan. Even better, she was able to push a public relations effort that resulted
in more than 2,000 needy Pittsburghers getting warm coats for the winter.

For busy people who are thinking about volunteering, Little advises them to
"just go there and do it."

"We all have busy lives and hectic schedules," she said, "but you can do
something to make a difference with just a few hours a month. You simply need to
make the resolution to do it."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5, Photo: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette: Volunteer Sean McCaskill,
left,; gives instructions to Ricardo Briskey, 10, of the Hill District, and
Amir; Carter, 9, of Oakland, on the proper stance for a catcher.; Photo: Martha
Rial/Post-Gazette: Volunteer Adrienne Little, right, of Shaler; washes off a
toddler's walker, while Colleen Pegher, 6, of Greenfield takes a; spin while
playing at the Center for Creative Play at Station Square.; Photo: Matt
Freed/Post-Gazette: Charlene Cotton, left, puts the leash on Bo,; her chocolate
Labrador retriever, while Lanica Jones, 13, rests with her; Chihuahua. The two
are involved in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program.; Photo: Robert J.
Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: Volunteers of the year, from left,; Adrienne Little,
Charlene Cotton, Johnnie Mae Middleton, Sean Gibson and Sean; McCaskill.; Photo:
Volunteer of the year Kristy Grecni.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              94 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 19, 1999, Monday, SOONER EDITION

CONTINUED DROUGHT CALLED 'OFF THE SCALE'

BYLINE: JOSEPH B. VERRENGIA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 623 words


You know it's dry when Sunbelt retirees start watering the cactus.

When mountain lions emerge from the pinyon scrub of the Sonora Desert to lap
greedily from chlorinated swimming pools.

When a wall of wildfire 10 miles wide blackens a swath of Nebraska prairie as
big as Rhode Island, stampeding cattle and forcing the midnight evacuation of a
ranching town.

When Roman Catholic priests and Baptist preachers hold separate prayer vigils in
withered cotton fields and cracked, sage-choked reservoir basins, raising their
arms to beseech the same clear blue heavens for rain.

And this was supposed to be an easy year.

After all, the record El Nino of 1998 is long gone. However, scientists say 1999
is shaping up to be another year of unpredictable, destructive weather.

Portions of the South and Midwest are being strangled by a spotty, but
tenacious, drought that has been spreading for several months. In Texas, Gov.
George W. Bush has declared a state of emergency in 170 of the state's 254
counties.

Not to be outdone, his brother, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, declared a drought
emergency April 13 and ordered the National Guard to help with red-alert
wildfire conditions for the second consecutive year.

"It's all or nothing," said Mark Svoboda, a forecaster with the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Neb.

No one is certain how much worse it will get. It's been so dry that recent
blizzards and thunderstorms have not been enough to slake the drought in many
areas.

Long-range forecasts by several federal agencies agree that dryness could
persist throughout the Sunbelt and portions of the Midwest into the summer.

"When we get into a drought, we don't know how long it will last," said
climatologist Kelly Redmond of the Desert Research Institute of Reno, Nev. "You
can't predict some thing well if you don't know why it happens."

Part of the problem is the difficulty of analyzing what isn't happening in the
atmosphere.

Drought is the absence of storms, a lack of rainfall. A standard definition is a
30 percent drop in precipitation for three consecutive weeks.

Studies of climate trends spanning the past 10 centuries indicate that
immediately after El Nino episodes, North America has suffered cataclysmic
droughts that would make the Dust Bowl look lush.

We're overdue, scientists warn. And impacts could be worsened by record high
temperatures in the 1990s that some believe are the result of global warming
caused by human activities.

"We're heading into a very, very dangerous situation," said University of
Arizona tree ring expert Tom Swetnam. "It's really off the scale."

This year, climate experts blame conditions on the opposite of El Nino - La
Nina.

Both phenomena in the Pacific conspire with the atmosphere to disrupt storm
patterns around the globe. But La Nina is generated by cold water rather than
warm, and it occurs less frequently.

In 1997-98, El Nino nearly submerged southern California in storms and
mudslides, while delivering copious rains to Arizona that nourished the best
wildflower bloom in a generation. At the same time, Texas and Florida sizzled
with disastrous results.

When the record El Nino finally collapsed, the climate pendulum swung into a
cold-water La Nina.

Now the Southern states generally are drier than normal, especially Arizona and
New Mexico - no wildflowers this year.

But, to forecasters' consternation, Texas and Florida remain dangerously dry
again.

Conditions north of Interstate 80 couldn't be more different.

In Washington, Mount Baker is poised to break the all-time North American
snowfall record of 1,122 inches, or 93.5 feet of cumulative snow, that fell at
Mount Rainier during the winter of 1971-72.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP, MAP: Florida Division of Forestry; St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times
via; Associated Press: A state of drought

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              100 of 217 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 8, 1999 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FINGER FOODS AN INVITATION TO GET INTIMATE WITH YOUR DINNER

BYLINE: Marlene Parrish

SECTION: FOOD; COOKING FOR ONE; Pg. F-4

LENGTH: 794 words


Lots of people say they don't like to cook because handling and touching food is
icky. Raw chicken is clammy. Smearing baking pans with oil is messy. Stuffing a
turkey is gross.

Right. But if you want to learn to cook and to be a good cook at that, you have
be on an intimate relationship with food. Touch, feel, press, squeeze, pinch,
rub and massage. You have to handle it.

Many Asian and Arab cultures eat with either chopsticks or the fingers. We
Americans, saddled with our numerous metal eating utensils, are a distinct
global minority.

So your mother told you it's bad manners to eat with your fingers. Sometimes it
is. The rule of thumb, in formal settings, is to use utensils for most every
thing. For instance, it would be bad manners to glom onto a pork chop with both
fists at a formal dinner when the hostess has laid out fine linens and
silverware. Most meals taken at better restaurants fall into the same category.

In less formal settings, it's OK to eat some things with your fingers, and it is
not, repeat not, bad manners to just pick up. Think about it. Most of our
favorite foods are hand held: burgers, fries, wings, popcorn, bagels, doughnuts,
pizza, fried chicken, cookies, tortillas, eggrolls, barbecued ribs and corn on
the cob.

Anybody who can't or won't pick up a grilled lamb chop and gnaw the bone is
standing a bit too high on ceremony and is immediately suspect as a person who
avoids contact with food.

If you are a little uptight on the subject, try a couple of simple detox
exercises in the kitchen. Use fingers instead of tools.

The solo cook has a distinct advantage here. Nobody's looking.

Start with simple steps. Squeeze lemons and oranges by hand. Roast peppers and
rub off the skins. Toss salad with your hands.

Make bread and enjoy feeling the dough yield under the pressure of your palms.

Using the hands and fingers is not only convenient and informal, it's sensual.
Point is, if you don't handle food, you won't understand it and cooking will
always be something that somebody else does for you.

There are lots of foods that we eat in public that are perfectly fine to eat
with fingers. Here's a list and some of the etiquette rules that go along with
them.

* Asparagus - This is finger food. Pick up the spears unless the stalks are limp
or really long, but avoid throwing your head back and looking like a trained
seal. If you feel more comfortable using a knife and fork, do so. Either way is
correct.

* Artichokes - There's no other way. Pull off the leaves with the fingers,
scraping the meaty end of the leaves upside down through your teeth. Discard the
leaf onto your plate. Never attempt to eat the whole leaves unless you want to
OD on fiber. When you get to the artichoke heart, cut it with your knife and
fork.

* Bacon - If it's limp, use a fork. But if it's dry and crisp, use your fingers.

* French fries - When served with a Big Mac, fries are universally eaten with
the fingers. When eaten with steak or other foods requiring a knife and fork,
cut fries into reasonable lengths and eat with a fork.

* Pastries - At a breakfast meeting, use the tongs provided (maybe) to get the
pastry onto your plate. If the boss is watching, cut the pastry in half or
quarters and eat with a fork. If it's not too sticky, fingers are OK.

* Shrimp - If it still has a tail, either pick it up with your fingers or use a
knife and fork. If it has no tail, spear it with a fork. It's OK to eat shrimp
cocktail with the fingers.

* Raw veggies or chips and dip - Fingers, of course, but no double dipping or
you look like George on "Seinfeld" reruns.

* Olives - When the late Henry Morgan was asked if olives should be eaten with
the fingers, he replied: "No, the fingers should be eaten separately." Whatever.

Finger-lickin' Asian Chicken Wing Sauce

Grill or broil chicken wings. To make 4 servings, buy 12 whole chicken wings
(about 2 1/ 2 pounds) and hack into sections, discarding the wing tip. For
classic Buffalo wings, dip the wings into a mixture of melted butter and hot
sauce, as hot as you can stand it.

For variety, try this Asian dipping sauce. Hoisin sauce is to Asia as ketchup is
to the United States.

2 tablespoons hoisin sauce

1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar

1 teaspoon sesame oil

1 tablespoon soy sauce

2 tablespoons water

1 tablespoon vegetable oil

2-inch piece fresh ginger, minced (about 2 tablespoons)

2 medium garlic cloves, minced

2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro leaves

Mix hoisin sauce, rice vinegar, sesame oil, soy sauce and water in a small bowl;
set aside.

Heat vegetable oil in a small saucepan over medium heat.

Saute ginger and garlic until fragrant but not browned, about 30 seconds. Stir
in hoisin mixture and cook until flavors meld, about 2 to 3 minutes.

Off heat, stir in cilantro. Serve warm or at room temperature.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              106 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FREDERICK'S QUITTING SPURS BRAINSTORMING

BYLINE: MACKENZIE CARPENTER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 2553 words


Nontraditional.

That was the buzzword from some of the region's political, civic and business
leaders last week about what kind of superintendent should replace Pittsburgh
school chief Dale Frederick, who is packing his bags for Arizona.

As the city's Board of Education began its third search in 10 years for a new
school superintendent, speculation focused not so much on Frederick's early
departure, but on who would replace him, and how quickly. And this time, the
debate wasn't about whether an insider or an outsider was right for the job, or
a minority or female (or both), but whether an unorthodox choice someone from
outside the field of education, for example - might be necessary.

"I think Paul O' Neill should be the next superintendent," said Mayor Murphy,
referring to the Alcoa chairman, who is retiring and has been a longtime
proponent of education reform, both locally and nationally. A proven leader such
as O' Neill would be preferable to a cerebral educator, Murphy said.

"I am extraordinarily suspicious of educational ' experts' bearing solutions.
We're still digging out from what the experts did to this city 30 years ago," he
said, referring to the parade of curriculum reforms that were embraced and then
discarded by district educators.

Reached at his office, O' Neill had a quick reply to Murphy's suggestion:

"My wife would kill me."

But that exchange illustrated the thinking among many in the city's
establishment in the wake of Frederick's announcement that he was leaving to
take the top job in the 70,000-student Mesa, Ariz., school district after less
than two years here. Pittsburgh's school board must act quickly and spare no
expense to recruit a leader for a job of critical importance not just to parents
in Brookline, Beltzhoover or Shadyside, but for families in Bethel Park,
retirees in Turtle Creek or businesses in Moon.

"When you have a weak inner-city school system, it's a drag and a detriment to
the whole region," said Jane Burger, vice chair of the Working Together
Consortium, a collaboration of business, civic, education and community leaders
that is focused on job creation.

"If we don't educate every person to an adequately high standard, if we don't
ensure that the young person who graduates from Carrick or Peabody [high
schools] can read and write and go out and support a family, then we're not
going to have enough skilled workers to fill the jobs, and a large underemployed
population is going to be a problem for the whole region."

Learning curve

Just two weeks ago, Frederick called Duquesne University's President John Murray
to talk about one of his pet projects: the development of a "leadership
consortium" backed by the city's three major university presidents, that would
establish a resource center for the district's administrators and principals.

He gave no hint that he might not be around to see it through.

"I would characterize Dale as feeling the next five years are the most important
in the school district's history, which was why he was talking to the university
presidents. We saw him two days before the announcement May 10, when he knew he
was a finalist, but he seemed as focused and enthusiastic as ever," said Murray.

In fact, Frederick's phone call was one of many he made over the past year in an
apparent effort to make more of a connection with university, political and
community leaders, who had complained that he was all but invisible during his
first year on the job.

It's not clear exactly when Frederick decided to leave Pittsburgh. While always
publicly pronouncing support for "my board," his unhappiness during that first
year - when he was trying to fix an enormous financial deficit while juggling
the demands of a famously fractious board - was palpable. While declining to
criticize the board, he told the Post-Gazette a year ago he had had a difficult
time "working in a very dysfunctional system."

At that time, he also expressed skepticism about offers of help by some of the
city's power brokers, noting that Pittsburgh was "a very political place" and,
"I don't know all the players yet. I'm beginning to, but I also know that when
people say they'll help, their rhetoric and their actions don't always match."

But by last fall, that caution appeared to fall away. Besides increasing
personal contacts with various community leaders, Frederick appeared on
television public service announcements touting the district's strengths. While
some district administrators say Frederick never got a real grip on the school
system's vast bureaucracy, he got good marks for promoting an early literacy
program, for increasing support for teacher training and for re-establishing a
curriculum division whose leaders would focus on overhauling outdated
instructional programs and textbooks. The division had been cut during the
previous administration for budgetary reasons.

He also embraced a long-planned but cumbersome shift to a "standards based"
assessment system - where students are graded not just on standardized tests but
on how well they demonstrate proficiency in reading, writing and math. But many
teachers still expressed confusion about the standards, so he ordered aides to
come up with a concrete plan connecting them with what's taught in classrooms.
He also strongly backed the district's change to Everyday Math, a curriculum
designed at the University of Chicago that emphasizes "real world"
problem-solving instead of rote learning and drills.

And most importantly, his relations with the board appeared to improve. While
board members remain deeply divided - in December they publicly deadlocked for
hours while voting for a new president - Frederick appeared to be finding it
easier to focus on instructional issues than refereeing their disputes.

Onward and upward

Despite Frederick's increasing comfort level in his job, some leaders say they
don't want the next superintendent facing the same kind of steep learning curve.
One idea being floated last week was to select a local leader such as O' Neill,
or Murray - who is retiring from Duquesne in 2001 to serve in either an interim
or permanent capacity.

Such a choice would command instant respect and eliminate the need for an
extensive search.

"Dale Frederick had so many things to learn about Pittsburgh," said Allegheny
County Commissioner and county executive candidate Michael Dawida, who served on
a superintendent search committee in 1992. "I like the idea of someone who can
hit the ground running. I think it's important that we move rapidly and explore
beyond the norm to find someone decisive and dynamic."

Dawida cited the recent selection of Herb Elish to head the Carnegie Library.

"Elish was the former head of Weirton Steel Corp., and he brings business
principles to the thing," Dawida noted. "He's pulling together the library
people from all over and establishing fund-raising and advocacy groups. He's not
a librarian, but he can connect to the outside world, which is clearly needed."

Murray, Elish and O' Neill are all known in business parlance as "turnaround
artists," who specialize in taking over troubled institutions and reviving them.
But to do that in the public schools, the new superintendent needs strong and
vocal support from community leaders - and a clear consensus beforehand about
what they want the new school chief to accomplish, says O' Neill.

"It's time to stop arguing about things like vouchers and charter schools
they're not the damn subject. The subject is, how do we help children achieve?
If we could only get 300 community leaders into a ballroom Downtown and agree on
a plan, to make a declaration that we will never again allow 10-year-olds to
become 11-year-olds without the skills to become self-learners, to read, write
and compute.

"If you can articulate a goal that no one can argue with, it might be possible
to get people to stop" their bickering.

National models

So does Pittsburgh emulate Seattle's school district, which hired a retired
general and saw test scores go up; or San Diego, which recently named a former
U.S. attorney to manage its school system? There's at least one technical glitch
to overcome: Unlike Washington state, Pennsylvania requires its superintendents
to be certified in education.

Or does it go after an education "superstar," one of about a half-dozen names
that are always in play at any given moment in the competitive superintendent
market?

Such a person doesn't come cheap. Just last week, the Detroit school board
offered one candidate a $ 250,000 annual salary, a far cry from Pittsburgh's $
115,000. In fact, money was one factor cited in the board's refusal to go after
any national names while searching for a school leader in 1997.

But this time, local philanthropic organizations have indicated they'd be
willing to pick up the slack.

"I think if funding were necessary for such an important and critical position,
it could be procured with the private sector," said Murray.

Not only that, the business community would be willing to help in the search.

"I don't think it would take more than a telephone call from the school board to
get a number of people involved in this," Murray added.

It's not clear if that phone call will be coming. Late last week, board
President Ron Suber declined any comment, except to repeat earlier assertions
that the board was moving "aggressively" to find a replacement for Frederick.
And Gloria Frazier, a Florida-based management consultant who is helping the
board shape a search process, said the board's first priority was to find a
"high quality interim superintendent."

"They have not determined the actual process," said Frazier, who has
periodically advised the district and the board over the past decade. "There are
several different ways to do a national recruitment."

Most hope it won't be the same way it was done in 1992, when the board rejected
nationally known candidates recommended by a search committee in favor of deputy
superintendent Louise Brennen.

And in 1997, board members rejected suggestions that they aggressively recruit a
new leader, opting instead for an open application process that took not months,
but years to complete. Besides money, a resistance to choosing an outside
"expert" appeared to be a factor; one applicant's Harvard degree was openly
scorned by one member.

Then there's this question: Do high-priced superstars - whether from an
educational, corporate or even military background - deliver the goods?

It's not clear. Julius Becton, the former army general hired by the school
district in Washington, D.C., left after just 16 months on the job. But the late
John Stanford, Seattle's school chief and a retired military man, engaged the
community and raised overall achievement levels.

And David Hornbeck, a noted education reformer who was hired by Philadelphia in
1994 and encountered tremendous resistance from teachers' unions and other
community sectors, has just had his contract extended, and test scores are going
up.

But in most of those districts, the new leaders were granted almost unilateral
authority to make changes; in Chicago, that meant a dismantling of the school
board.

Pulling together

These kinds of transformations almost always occurred after a power struggle
between locally oriented groups "and big-business people that look outside and
nationally and internationally but with a civic concern for their city," noted
Lauren Resnick, an educator who founded the University of Pittsburgh's
nationally known Learning Research and Development Center.

In those cases, the big business groups won, but it's not clear that
Pittsburgh's business community is willing to take on that kind of battle, given
that this city's school board is fiercely protective of its political power. Its
nine elected members can rarely agree on anything except that they have the
authority and responsibility to pick the superintendent and set the school
district's policies. And a recent audit that suggested that the superintendent
have more power to hire and fire principals was flatly rejected by Suber.

"It would be highly improbable that the board can be trained to manage
differently at this time," said Ron Porter, an education consultant hired by the
board to manage the selection process last time. "Many of the members view their
responsibilities in a very traditional way, and suddenly breaking away from that
model would be a great challenge if not outright dangerous, because the district
has some well-documented dysfunctions that are woven throughout the system.
More to the point, Porter said, "For all of its faults, having school board
members who represent the interests of the constituents who elected them has
some merit. To presume that a single executive could adequately represent the
great diversity that exists in the city is a fallacy."

Whomever they choose, this time the school board - and the community - had
better get it right, some educators warn.

"It would be better to find the right person than to solve this in five weeks.
Pittsburgh schools could tip downward very badly in the next four or five
years," said Resnick.

"Or, given the strength of people inside the system - where there still are a
disproportionate number of excellent people - it could be a star on the national
horizon, because it is serving the city and the region well."

Frederick's decision to leave has clearly prompted some soul-searching among
city leaders.

"It's a disappointment," said Murphy. "I thought Dale had begun to make
improvements, given the historic difficulties the board has had in working
together.  "

Historically, too, relations between the school board and the city have been
less than amicable. Board members have frequently complained that they are the
last of the city's three taxing bodies to be notified about economic development
projects that include tax increment financing - often called TIFs - that allows
developers to defer payment of some property taxes for a period so that the
money can be used to pay off debt. The board is frequently asked to defer the
most tax revenue for such projects, and while members mostly comply, last year
they rejected a proposal for a "tax-free zone" at the former LTV coke plant site
in Hazelwood. That helped kill the project.

"There's been very little interaction between the board and the business
community or the city. It's hard to assess who's at fault, but maybe we haven't
volunteered enough," Murphy said. "Still, the board hasn't created that kind of
welcoming climate. The best we can be are cheerleaders, unless the board chooses
to invite us to participate more."

Will that happen?

"I think the school board will come through," Dawida said. "They're aware they
had a bad couple of years. They want to do the right thing. With good leadership
at the top, they will."

But, "This is a wake up call," he added - and not just for the board, but for
the region's leadership, both private and public, which in recent years might
not have paid as much attention to the fortunes of the city's public schools as
it should have.

"And if they don't do that," Dawida added, "the core of the community suffers
grievously - and everything fails."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Dale Frederick, guest of honor
at; the Rivers Club in 1997.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 August 28, 1999, Saturday, 31REGION 21 EDITION

THESE TIPS WILL HELP YOU SAVE SEEDS FOR NEXT YEAR

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. C-5

LENGTH: 475 words


rates the next year. They were all over 90 percent, and that's one of the things
that has hooked me on seed-saving.

For other vegetables and for flowers, use common sense when figuring out how to
save the seed. All plants make seeds, and it's a challenge to discover how and
when they are ready.

Remember to label the seed you collect; it all looks the same in the kitchen.

Once you've collected the seed, the most important thing is proper storage. I
store my seeds in air-tight mason jars. Seeds are living organisms - the cooler
and dryer they stay, the longer they remain viable.

Years ago, I bought a gallon container of silica gel at a craft store (it's also
used to dry flowers). I put a little in the bottom of each one of my seed jars,
and it sucks away any moisture that might be in there. The powder has colored
granules in it. When they change color, it indicates the gel has absorbed as
much moisture as it can. The gel can then be put in the oven and dried for
reuse.

Theoretically, your plants will change for the better over the years as they
adapt to your micro-climate. The key is to watch the plants for the traits that
should be preserved. Only save seeds from the strongest plants. It's a great
idea to keep records over the year to see how different plants perform from
germination to fruition.

Now that you have jars full of seed, you might want to trade some for something
you really want to grow or have never grown before.

Gardeners who trade are generally friendly and willing to help you build your
collection. Anything that is considered a heirloom variety will get you a
wonderful plethora of great seeds.

If you're interested in seed-trading, here's a great Web site from National
Gardening Magazine: http://www2.aaert.org/nga/swaps/seedswap.html.

There are lots of other seed swap sites out there; just use the search words
"seed swap."

If you would like some free tithonia seeds, send me a self-addressed, stamped,
business-size envelope. Tithonia or ' Mexican sunflower' grows 6 feet tall and
has 3-inch-wide orange blossoms. It grows in full sun to partial shade, and the
deer don't eat it - at least they don't eat mine.

I will fill orders for the first 100 letters I receive.

Send your SASE to: Douglass Oster, Kitchen Gardener, c/o Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15222

The Kitchen Gardener appears periodically throughout the vegetable growing
season. Douglass Oster discusses when and how to plant a variety of vegetables,
how to care for them and when to harvest to get the best yields. He will appear
today in the noon to 1 p.m. time slot on KDKA-TV's morning news program. To read
earlier columns and other garden features, visit PG Online Gardening at
www.post-gazette.com/zines. Oster can be reached by e-mail at
doster@@post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              114 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 9, 1999, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

WECHT, RODDEY RETREAD FAMILIAR GROUND IN LATEST DEBATE

BYLINE: JAMES O' TOOLE, POLITICS EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-8

LENGTH: 646 words


In their first debate of the general election campaign, the candidates for
county executive revisited issues that were central to their primary victories,
each bemoaning the lack of economic progress in the Pittsburgh region and
pledging to do more to create a hospitable environment for high tech businesses.

After an often testy summer in the executive campaign, the candidates appeared
on their best behavior yesterday, both looking tanned and relaxed and shaking
hands as the hour-long session, moderated by the League of Women Voters, wrapped
up at the Radisson Hotel in Green Tree. The emphasis on the high tech end of the
economy was in part a function of the audience, the Telecommunication Managers
Association, members of which asked repeated, and sometimes repetitive,
questions on how county government could improve the business climate.

Republican Jim Roddey said his own business background had made him sensitive to
the concerns of the audience.

"The people of this community want change," Roddey said. "They want business
principles in government."

He said he would do more to reach out to the private sector to right the
county's economic ills while claiming that his opponent, Democrat Cyril Wecht,
would embrace a dominant role for government.

Wecht rejected that characterization, saying that he would call on business,
academic and government leaders to work together to improve the county's
competitiveness.

"We must function in a fully collaborative fashion," Wecht said.

While both candidates sketched their economic development programs in the
broadest of strokes, Roddey offered more details on his plans for a new
administration while Wecht emphasized the general importance of strong
leadership.

"The role of government is to be a dynamic, vibrant force," Wecht said.
"Pittsburgh has not been the most favorable milieu to effect change ... but you
look at [Philadelphia Mayor Edward] Rendell and [New York Mayor Rudy] Giuliani
and see what a dynamic leader can do."

Roddey said county government could do more to attract venture capital to the
region and he said it could help set up mentoring programs to allow new
businesses and prospective employees to draw on the experiences of established
high technology firms.

He also said the new government could do a much better job marketing the region.
As one example, he noted that the region could do more to exploit the advantages
of its abundant water supply in a world where for businesses as well as
individuals, water is becoming an increasingly scarce and valuable commodity.

In response to one question, Roddey gave the most tepid of endorsements to the
marketing efforts of the Pittsburgh Regional Alliance.

"The Pittsburgh Regional Alliance plan is an adequate plan; I would not say it's
an outstanding plan," Roddey said. The total budget ... is less than Cochran
Pontiac has in a month. To think that that's going to do the job is real folly."

Repeating a proposal from his primary campaign, Wecht said he would help sell
the region to business and individuals across the nation by forming a corps of
"ambas sadors without portfolio," a group of leaders from various fields who
would travel the country talking up the advantages of Pittsburgh.

"I'm not seeking this job to be a caretaker; I'm certainly not going to be a
pallbearer," Wecht said. "We are going to move ahead."

Both candidates sharply criticized the county's property tax assessment system
and said they would move quickly to reform it.

Roddey said property taxes were taking too much of the burden for the region's
school systems and said consideration should be given to dealing with those
costs through sales and income taxes as well. Wecht said that the local property
tax burden could be eased if state government could be persuaded to raise its
proportion of school funding.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: MARTHA RIAL/POST-GAZETTE: A ROOM WITH TWO
VIEWS/REPUBLICAN; COUNTY EXECUTIVE CANDIDATE JIM RODDEY, LEFT, WAITS HIS TURN
WHILE HIS; DEMOCRATIC OPPONENT DR. CYRIL WECHT ANSWERS A QUESTION DURING A
DEBATE; SPONSORED BY THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN;
PENNSYLVANIA YESTERDAY AT THE RADISSON HOTEL IN GREEN TREE. ( PHOTO, PAGE; B-1)

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              116 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 September 22, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: RAY FITTIPALDO AND MIKE WHITE

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. D-2, HEADS UP

LENGTH: 778 words


ASHLEY KRAMER

Thomas Jefferson/Soccer

There is a public-service announcement featuring star athletes and performers
who encourage children to read a newspaper every day. Thomas Jefferson junior
Ashley Kramer has taken the campaign to heart. You might even find her reading
the sports section at one of her soccer games. Jaguars Coach Tim Antonelli did
last week.

Antonelli had taken Kramer out of a game with Derry in the second half after she
scored five goals. "I turned around, and there she was, reading the paper,"
Antonelli said.

"It was there, and I was bored," Kramer said.

Kramer did a little leisurely reading last week after scoring 12 goals in three
games. She scored five goals against Derry and Belle Vernon and two against
Elizabeth Forward. Kramer, who missed preseason camp with an ankle injury, is
among the WPIAL's leading scorers with 17 goals. But goal-scoring is only one
facet of her game.

"She scores so many goals, but she also has a lot of assists," Antonelli said.
"She is very generous with the ball. If she is marked, she can still be a
passer. She is going to do whatever it takes to win the game."

Kramer, a junior, is one of the most talented players in the WPIAL. She is being
recruited by North Carolina State, Clemson and Davidson.

"The best coaches and the best teams are in the South," Kramer said. "Plus, I
wouldn't mind the change in climate."

Kramer is a part of a talented junior class at Thomas Jefferson. Goalkeeper
Jamie Stich also is considered a Division I prospect.

Kramer, who maintains a 4.1 GPA, would like to study pre-veterinary science in
college.

DAVID MARKS

Riverside/Soccer

David Marks is Riverside High School's all-time goal-scorer with 80 career
goals. But Riverside Coach Csaba Feher has been impressed with Marks' ability to
change his game from goal-scorer to complete player the past two seasons.

"David was always a goal-scorer coming up through the youth league and as a
freshman and sophomore," Feher said. "But, by the time he was a sophomore,
everyone knew about him, and he was getting marked tightly. He was never
selfish, but he had to become more of a team player. He has shown tremendous
class and team play the past two seasons. He has figured out it is much more
effective setting up goals rather than trying to dribble through the whole
defense."

Riverside is the Post-Gazette's No. 3 team in Class AA. But soccer is not the
only sport Marks is playing this fall. He went out for the football team and is
the backup place-kicker behind fellow soccer player Evan Miller for the 3-0
Panthers.

Marks also has been the Panthers' point guard on the basketball team the past
two seasons, and he runs the hurdles and the 100- and 200-meter dashes for the
track team during the spring.

Marks, who has 14 goals this season, would like to play soccer in college.
Robert Morris, Gannon and Penn State-Behrend are among the schools that are
interested.

JESSICA MOYE

Blackhawk/Volleyball

Jessica Moye says one of the main reasons she likes volleyball is the team
aspect of the sport. That's funny because Moye is an individual standout.

Moye, a 5-foot-8 senior outside hitter and setter, is considered one of the top
players in the WPIAL. With Moye leading the way, Blackhawk was ranked No. 6 in
last week's WPIAL coaches' poll.

"She does just about everything for us. She pretty much can play any position,"
said Blackhawk Coach Scott Phillips. "She's a very intelligent player and
definitely the leader of our team. She's probably the hardest worker on our team
and kind of like our heart and soul. I hate telling you all these cliches, but
that's what she is - a cliche. I wish we had six or seven like her."

Moye and her family moved from the Riverside school district to Blackhawk when
Moye was in eighth grade, and she has been a three-year starter for Blackhawk.
She started playing the sport in ninth grade, only at the urging of her
brother's girlfriend.

"I kind of fell in love with it then," Jessica said.

Moye's older brother, Matt, was a starter on last year's Blackhawk basketball
team that won WPIAL and PIAA championships. He now plays baseball at Old
Dominion University. Her younger brother, Kyle, a sophomore, also plays
basketball and baseball at Blackhawk.

"My dad used to play baseball with my brothers a lot, and I just kind of ran
around and got in the way," Jessica said. "Then, I started playing sports in
junior high."

She also competes on Blackhawk's track team, has a 3.8 grade average and scored
1,240 on the SAT. She sometimes tutors students at a Blackhawk elementary
school.

KEEP AN EYE ON THESE ATHLETES

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3, PHOTO: (FOR THREE PHOTOS) (NO CAPTION)

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              122 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 31, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

DARLING, LET'S SPEND THE WEEKEND IN PITTSBURGH

BYLINE: DAN FITZPATRICK, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 2427 words


GET USED TO THE SOUND OF IT BECAUSE, BELIEVE IT OR NOT, WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA IS
DRAWING MORE AND MORE TOURISTS

When Wendy Buchen left San Francisco on a recent weekend getaway, she risked her
vacation plans on an unlikely destination spot.

She came to Pittsburgh.

The trip, though, exceeded her expectations.

"It is so beautiful," said Buchen, 69. "The trees and the colors and all that
are lovely. I was expecting it to be nice, but I certainly did not realize how
beautiful it is."

Joined by a group of high school friends, Buchen took a three-day tour of the
region that started with Fallingwater, the cantilevered home designed by Frank
Lloyd Wright, and ended with a brunch at a Shadyside bed and breakfast. In
between, she visited the Allegheny County Courthouse, ate at the Grand Concourse
Restaurant, rode the Duquesne Incline and visited the Andy Warhol Museum.

Pittsburgh "is much more of a tourist attraction than I realized," she said.

That Buchen would consider Pittsburgh as vacation spot is a huge step forward
for the local tourism industry. Potential visitors once avoided Pittsburgh at
all costs, put off by old images of soot, smoke and street lamps burning 24
hours a day. But that image is beginning to fade.

Now, Pittsburgh may be the hottest tourist draw in Pennsylvania.

Visitors to Allegheny County spent $ 2.17 billion in 1998, outpacing spending in
all other counties for the third year in a row. Taking second was Philadelphia
County, with $ 2.08 billion in spending. The statistics come from a statewide
travel analysis sponsored by the commonwealth and conducted by D.K. Shifflet &
Associates. The Virginia research firm arrived at its figures by examining hotel
sales tax receipts and surveying business and leisure travelers.

"That is good news, any way you slice it," said Joe McGrath, president of the
Greater Pittsburgh Convention & Visitors Bureau.

But how can this be?

The Philadelphia region, after all, is one of the largest in the U.S., with a
population of 3.7 million people. It has Independence Hall, the Philadelphia
Museum of Art and the home of Betsy Ross. It is the birthplace of the
Declaration of Independence. The cracked Liberty Bell, Philadelphia's most
popular attraction, draws 1.7 million people annually.

"I must say I was pleased and surprised," said Seddon Bennington, director of
the Carnegie Science Center. "I don't understand how Allegheny County could have
more visitors than counties in the east that have a great deal of population
around them."

Philadelphia tourism official Paula Butler does not dispute the state figures,
but "I don't know if you are comparing apples and apples," she said, noting that
Philadelphia County includes only the city of Philadelphia and that some of the
most popular spots are in the suburbs. One such attraction is Valley Forge,
scene of George Washington's winter encampment during the American Revolution.
Valley Forge is in Montgomery County, which ranked fourth in tourism spending
statewide.

After Allegheny, the next largest-spending county in southwestern Pennsylvania
is Westmoreland, at 19th in the state.

Measured as a region, Philadelphia prevails as the bigger draw. Still,
Philadelphia's tourism officials know Pittsburgh is gaining ground.

"Pittsburgh has been aggressive in pursuing tourism as a business and taking it
seriously," said Butler, spokeswoman for the Greater Philadelphia Tourism
Marketing Corp. "That is going to pay off."

It already has. Attendance is up at Pittsburgh's museums, amusement parks, boat
tours and zoo. At the Warhol, which bills itself as the largest museum in the
country devoted to one artist, attendance jumped 38 percent in 1998. More than
56 percent of its visitors came from outside Allegheny County.

The Carnegie Science Center attracted 44,500 more visitors than the year before
- a 7 percent increase. Kennywood, which claims the title of being the region's
most popular attraction, brought in 1.38 million visitors last year, according
to the trade journal Amusement Business. That number is up 6 percent from 1997.

Interest in the region's history appears to be climbing, too. At the Pittsburgh
History & Landmarks Foundation, officials led 26 tours of Downtown architecture
last year, up from six the year before. The Rivers of Steel Heritage tours,
which guide people past the region's old mill sites, also is having a record
year. It has led 632 tours so far in 1999, up from 97 in 1998 and 73 in 1997.

"There is a lot more tourism here than people realize," said Colleen Russell
Criste, spokeswoman for the Andy Warhol Museum.

"The work in bringing people here bit by bit has begun to pay off," said History
& Landmarks official Cathy Broucek. "It has become easier and easier."

 AN IMAGE TO OVERCOME

Ten years ago, when Broucek was marketing the shops and restaurants at Station
Square, the only way she got tourists to visit Pittsburgh was to offer them a
"mystery tour," with the final destination a surprise.

Pittsburgh has always been a hard sell.

To out-of-town travelers, a phrase that lingers is the description of Pittsburgh
as "Hell With the Lid Taken Off," coined by a Boston journalist in 1868. In
1904, journalist Lincoln Steffens included Pittsburgh in his 1904 book "Shame of
the Cities."

The bad press got worse, though.

Later in the century, journalist H.L. Mencken visited Pittsburgh and witnessed
"a scene so dreadfully hideous, so intolerably bleak and forlorn that it reduced
the whole aspiration of man to a macabre and depressing joke."

The smoke and the soot faded, but only now is the national press taking notice.

Consider the headline to a recent story in The New York Times: "Where Steel Was
King, a New Spirit Reigns." After touring Pittsburgh on his own, New York Times
writer R.W. Apple Jr. wrote, "Iron City, aka Steeltown U.S.A., is no more."

Pittsburgh, he wrote, "is alive and well and getting better."

Playing from strength As attracting visitors gets easier, Pittsburgh is getting
more sophisticated about wooing tourists, too.

The newest idea is to market the area's cultural hot spots to a specialized
group of older, college-educated people who like to travel on the weekend and
spend lots of money. These so-called "cultural tourists" spend $ 190 more per
trip than the average visitor, according to the Travel Industry of America, and
they represent a key audience for cities hoping to grow their tourism base.

To get the attention of such tourists, the Greater Pittsburgh Convention &
Visitors Bureau has opened an office of cultural tourism. It has raised $ 1.4
million for its first year. The bureau is still searching for a $ 75,000-a-year
cultural tourism director. In time, officials hope the office brings as much as
$ 10 million into the local economy and increases attendance at arts events by
150,000 a year.

To do that, the office needs to attract mass audiences with blockbuster-style
events. It also plans to go after niche markets, finding people who have an
interest in ballet, opera or theater.

One such niche is architecture.

Last spring, a group of architects and tourism experts tested Western
Pennsylvania's draw as an architectural landmark, mailing 10,000 tour packages
to people in six cities. The group priced the packages at $ 199. Fallingwater
and the Allegheny County Courthouse were among the main attractions.

Out of 10,000, though, only 10 people purchased the packages.

To some, the deal was too expensive, said Joyce Lee, who participated in the
group as a representative of the Convention & Visitors Bureau. Others did not
like the itinerary, describing it as too rigid.

But Bill Lafe, the consultant who launched the idea two and half years ago, does
not consider the test a failure. Instead, it taught him that the region needs to
adopt a different approach when wooing cultural tourists. "We found that there
is interest out there," he said. "There is a narrow but perceptible market for
this type of high-end tourism. We found that Pittsburgh has an amazing
architectural tradition. We have a product here that not many cities can match."

Lafe's group used $ 50,000 from a local foundation to conduct the first test. If
Lafe can raise more money, he wants to go after the same tourists through the
Internet, print media or television.

"If Pittsburgh is ever going to change its image, it is going to do so by
reaching out to an upscale group of people," he said.

Tourism and marketing Cities love tourists. While in Pittsburgh, they leave
money, pay taxes and need few public services in return. But tourism's
importance to southwestern Pennsylvania may be more symbolic than it is
financial.

A heightened tourist trade can change the way a region appears to the outside
world.

"It is a sampling device," said William Wolf, an associate with business
consulting firm McKinsey & Co. Wolf studied tourism as part of a McKinsey 1997
report that identified the region's strengths and weaknesses.

Some people still do not want to be in Pittsburgh because of the region's
outdated image. "You can't send a sample of Pittsburgh," said Wolf, saying that
bringing visitors to southwestern Pennsylvania "is the best way this region can
market itself."

Many of the new developments planned for Downtown and the North Side have
tourists in mind. One obvious attraction is the expansion and architectural
redesign of the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. A larger convention center
would join a new Downtown retailing district and new stadiums for the Pirates
and Steelers, all potentially linked by a light-rail connection to the North
Side.

Bringing more conventions to town is also a high priority. To that end, the
Convention & Visitors Bureau is creating a Pittsburgh-based trade show that
focuses on an aspect of the health care industry. Joe McGrath, president of the
bureau, plans to make an announcement about the show in the next month. It would
start in 2001 and repeat each year, with its proponents hoping to attract as
many as 200 exhibits and 1,500 people.

"We hope that it would grow," McGrath said.

Showcase attraction What Pittsburgh still lacks, though, is a major national
draw.

As the national competition for travelers grows more intense, cities are trying
to offer people an experience they can not find anywhere else. St. Louis, for
example, has the Gateway Arch. Detroit has the Henry Ford Museum. Seattle has
the Space Needle.

To stand out, some cities depend on their climate, history and architecture.

Other cities try to manufacture a draw, as Baltimore did with the InnerHarbor
Festival Marketplace and Cleveland did with the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

But creating a showcase attraction does not always work.

Take the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, which opened four years ago on the banks of
Lake Erie. Backed by $ 92 million in public bonds, the Hall debuted as
Cleveland's largest tourist attraction. It drew 1.1 million visitors in its
first year.

After that, though, the novelty faded and critics began to complain about the
museum's $ 15.95 admission price. Admissions dropped from 867,000 in 1996 to
615,000 in 1997 to 560,000 in 1998. During those years, the museum lost $ 1.37
million. In January, it hired its fifth director in four years.

Pittsburgh does not need such an attraction, Broucek said. "I believe that we
have the goods right now. It simply is a matter of packaging it and marketing
it."

But the idea persists.

Mayor Murphy wanted to put a Rock and Roll Hall of Fame-style attraction between
the two new North Shore stadiums. Ideas ranged from a Dinosaur Park to an aerial
tram to a Mister Rogers' Neighborhood theme park to an interactive,
technology-oriented museum that would focus on Pittsburgh's expertise in health
care, sports and robotics.

Whatever the choice, such a project needs to be carefully planned, Wolf said.
The cities that fail are those that build a showcase attraction without
connecting it to their history and strengths.

Also, it has to be able to attract local visitors consistently, Wolf said.

"If you told me we are going to have a Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Pittsburgh,
I would say what aspect of our local strengths makes me believe that investing a
great amount of funds makes sense?"

Boston did it right, Wolf said. Executing an idea first proposed by a local
newspaper columnist, city leaders painted a red line through 16 historical and
architectural spots highlighting Boston's role in the American Revolution. They
called it "The Freedom Trail." Upkeep on the trail is less than $ 1 million a
year, but together, the attractions draw more than 1.5 million visitors
annually.

But maybe Pittsburgh has a showcase-attraction-in-waiting.

"Our aspiration is to be that first-day attraction," said Bennington, director
of the Carnegie Science Center. From its home on the North Shore, the Science
Center is planning a $ 60 million expansion and architectural makeover that it
hopes will attract worldwide attention and raise its total attendance above 1
million.

"If it is distinctive and exciting enough, people will go out of their way to
put it on their travel plans," Bennington said. "Once they get here, they will
stay here."

The museum opened in 1991 with 700,000 visitors, but it dropped to 530,000 by
1994. A few popular exhibits boosted the numbers, though.

Last year's showing of an OmniMax movie about climbing Mt. Everest accounted for
38,000 new Science Center visitors, helping the museum increase attendance by 7
percent.

In the end, the museum hopes to draw people from Cleveland, Buffalo and western
New York.

Carla Doria, who lives in Maryland, visited the Science Center last month. The
Intel Corp. sales executive had never seen Pittsburgh or the Science Center.

When she thought of the city, "I thought of steel," she said. "I thought of
mining. I thought of a more established city."

But Western Pennsylvania is part of her sales territory so she had no choice but
to get to know it. With Intel paying the $ 10,000 tab, she agreed to rent the
museum for a day. On Sept. 22, she hosted a seminar and reception for 66 local
executives, all of whom received free wine, cheese and a private viewing of
"Everest" at the center's OmniMax Theater.

And her view of the region has come around.

"Once you get into Pittsburgh and you are there, it's probably one of the
coolest cities I get an opportunity to visit," Doria said. "I would take it any
day over Philadelphia."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette; PHOTO:

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 14, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

CAMPAIGN 2000 A CHARACTER TEST;
IMPEACHMENT WILL SHAPE WHITE HOUSE RUN

BYLINE: DAN BALZ, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hours after the Senate acquitted President Clinton, Democratic presidential
candidate Bill Bradley issued a statement saying it was time to "move past the
partisanship" of impeachment and begin to rebuild trust in the political system.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle, campaigning for the Republican presidential
nomination in New Hampshire, had a different take on the day's events. His
statement said: "The fight for our values begins today."

Those contrasting answers to the question of "what next" underscore precisely
what a scandal-weary public may fear most, that the impeachment battle that
ended in Congress on Friday will immediately shift to the arena of Campaign
2000.

There may be no escaping it. The reverberations from the year-long impeachment
drama will shape the coming campaign in ways both obvious and unpredictable. As
the Quayle and Bradley statements suggest, there will be intense com petition
among candidates and parties in the coming months to define the post-impeachment
environment to their advantage.

"Bill Clinton's departure from office in 2001 will be greeted by a palpable sigh
of relief," said Ross Baker of Rutgers University. "This has been a
white-knuckle presidency. The country's been put on the most challenging roller
coaster. I think people are disinclined to go through those scary gyrations
anymore. It will influence the kind of person we choose in 2000."

Virtually every candidate contemplating a presidential campaign will look in the
mirror this weekend and see a possible answer for what the country wants after
Clinton.

Vice President Al Gore will see an Eagle Scout - a candidate both loyal and
pure. Elizabeth Hanford Dole will see her gender as the perfect antidote to the
locker-room antics of the Clinton White House. Texas Gov. George W. Bush will
see an admittedly imperfect man who cleaned up his act and who governs in a
bipartisan spirit. Malcolm S. "Steve" Forbes will see a Washington outsider.

In the first hours after the Senate trial ended, strategists shaping battle
plans for 2000 were cautious in their assessments of how the process will affect
the campaign. But many of these strategists said that impeachment will shadow
the candidates and the parties throughout the next 21 months, and there were
some broad areas of agreement of where it would be felt most.

* Character, they said, will loom as a larger issue in the presidential campaign
of 2000 than it has since the post-Watergate election of 1976. But they said
voters may be more tolerant of human frailty now.

* Public revulsion toward the inside-the-Beltway spectacle of the past year
should enhance the appeal of candidates from outside of Washington. Disgust with
partisanship could reward those candidates who avoid negative attacks and focus
on the future.

* Impeachment will energize ideological activists in both parties, much the same
way abortion has for many years, and will intensify competition for control of
the House. Republicans face a difficult struggle to maintain their narrow
majority in that chamber.

History shows how quickly the political climate can change in a presidential
campaign cycle. The deep recession of 1982 that produced Democratic midterm
election victories gave way to "morning in America" in 1984 that re-elected
Ronald Reagan in a landslide. National pride over the Persian Gulf War victory
in 1991 gave way to national anxiety over the economy in 1992, and brought
Clinton to office.

Despite an extraordinary amount of activity by prospective presidential
candidates the past year, Campaign 2000 has not registered at all with the
public. That is about to change. And despite the American people's professed
weariness with the examination of politicians' personal lives, many strategists
anticipate that the hangover from impeachment will be even more scrutiny than
previously.

"Unfortunately this probably sets the stage for the most intensive, intrusive
review of candidates' private lives that we've ever seen," said Tom Rath, an
adviser to former Tennessee governor Lamar Alexander.

Republican pollster Whit Ayres said a recent survey he did among Iowa
Republicans showed that character was the most important factor likely to
influence their vote for president, while impeachment was well down the list.

A PRESIDENT DISGRACED/ A PRESIDENT ACQUITTED

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              128 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 21, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

THESE TOURS DESIGNED FOR THINKING TRAVELERS

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER REYNOLDS, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. E-7

LENGTH: 1547 words


Arctic birds, Japanese snow monkeys and a solar eclipse - this could be an
interesting year for you, if you take the right tour.

Ann Waigand, editor of the Educated Traveler newsletter, has compiled the
following list of the 10 "thinking tours" that she finds most intriguing, of
which many are sponsored by museums. Waigand's top 10 for 1999 follow, in
calendar order.

Note that prices are per person, based on double occupancy. Travelers should be
sure they understand which meals and excursions are included (and excluded) in
quoted prices. Solo travelers generally pair off or pay a "single supplement"
that can add anywhere from 10 percent to 50 percent to the cost. And in most
cases, tour operators reserve the right to change itineraries or personnel if
necessary.

Every year, Waigand lists hundreds of thinking trips in two directories, one for
museum-sponsored tours, the other for special-interest travel. The directories
are included in the annual cost of a subscription to the newsletter: $ 48 for
six issues. For more information: The Educated Traveler, Box 220822, Chantilly,
Va. 20153; 800-648-5168.

* Midway Atoll: Northwest Hawaiian Archipelago: April 10 to 18. Sponsored by
Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. Price: $ 2,464 per person,
including island-to-island air fares, accommodations and meals, excluding air
fare to and from Honolulu. For information, call 213-763-3350.

This isolated Pacific atoll, a former U.S. Navy base just recently made
accessible to tourists, offers rare opportunities for excellent bird-watching.
Participants will provide hands-on assistance with studies of nesting albatross
and seabirds. There is also the chance to see rare species, including Christmas
shearwaters and tropical terns. Snorkeling, swimming and delving into the area's
World War II history are also part of the itinerary. The museum's ornithology
collections manager, Kimball Garrett, will lead the group.

* Back-Roads Japan: May 31 to June 14, and Oct. 1 to 15. Sponsored by the
American Association for the Advancement of Science. Price: To be announced.
Information: 800-252-4910.

This trip, led by anthropologist Kevin Short and marine biologist Jack Moyer,
who has lived in Japan for decades, takes participants on walks through the
heart of the Japanese Alps (snow monkey sightings possible); to Miyake-jima
Island to visit the nature center; and into Tokyo and Kyoto for a look at
ancient temples and Zen gardens. Accommodations in some areas will be in
traditional Japanese inns. The October tour substitutes Yakushima Island for
Miyake-jima and also includes a hydrofoil visit to Tanegashima, the island from
which Japan launches its space flights.

* Kamchatka, Russia - A Bird's-Eye View: June 5 to 21. Sponsored by the Harvard
Museum of Natural History. Price: $ 7,550, including meals, excluding air fare
to and from Anchorage, Alaska. Information: 617-495-2463.

A rugged expedition led by one of the world's most celebrated birders,
naturalist Peter Alden, in tandem with Russian biologist Dr. Yevgeny Lobkov,
this tour explores an infrequently visited region of the Russian Far East. In
addition to studying the flora and fauna of the Kamchatka Oblast - everything
from grizzly bears and Steller's sea-eagles to northern humpback whales and
active volcanoes - this program includes a stay at the Kronotskiy State
Biosphere Reserve as well as frequent dips in geothermal heated pools.

* Ireland - Dublin to Bantry Bay: June 12 to 19, or Aug. 29 to Sept. 5.
Sponsored by Horizons: The New England Craft Program, based in Sunderland, Mass.
Price: $ 1,435, including tuition, room and board and field trips, excluding air
fare to and from Dublin and a lab fee for art supplies (generally less than $
100). Information: 413-665-0300.

Horizons has been sponsoring craft-related workshops and field trips for 20
years. This journey to a "non-touristy" Ireland combines in-depth excursions
with studio time and a series of hands-on visual arts classes for all skill
levels. Workshop choices include painting, photography, jewelry and
silversmithing. Lodging is in a bed-and-breakfast in the seaside town of
Kinsale.

* Lapland - Birding in Europe's Arctic Wilderness: June 19 to July 2. Sponsored
by the National Audubon Society. Price: $ 3,945, including meals, accommodations
and all excursions, excluding air fare to and from Helsinki; or $ 4,743
including air fare from New York to Helsinki. Information: 212-979-3066.

Lapland, considered Europe's last remaining wilderness, offers a small group
(only 20 participants) an up-close view of arctic wildlife including cranes, a
diverse owl population and puffins. You'll also visit a reindeer farm in the
village of Inari and learn about Lapp culture while dining in a traditional
"kota" (a tepee-like tent) on whitefish and cheese. This is an excellent time
for an arctic exploration: The sun never sets once you cross the Arctic Circle.

* Arctic Circumnavigation - A Journey Around the Top of the World: June 30 to
Sept. 1. Sponsored by The Explorers Club Travelers. Price: from $ 5,890 (when
sharing a three-person cabin during the High Arctic portion) to $ 50,650
(includes a corner suite for the entire sailing); cost of a two- person cabin
with private bath is $ 36,790 for the entire trip, or $ 8,250 to $ 11,990 for
one segment. Air fare to and from Oslo excluded. Information: 800-856-8951.

A 61-day sea journey (plus two hotel nights) that aims to take travelers on the
first circumnavigation of the Arctic aboard one of the world's most powerful
icebreakers, the 54-cabin Russian ship Kapitan Khlebnikov. Travelers fly into
Oslo and take a charter flight to the Norwegian archipelago of Spitsbergen,
which is the point of embarkation and disembarkation. Tour is joined by polar
explorer Don Walsh and Explorers Club president Alfred S. McLaren. The voyage is
broken into four parts: a 15-night voyage to Greenland; a 14-night High Arctic
segment; a 16-night northwest passage; and a 20-night northeast portion. So even
if you can't take two months' vacation, you can join a segment or two of the
trip. (Operators of this trip reserve the right to change itineraries for
weather or other reasons, so the historic "first" is not guaranteed.)

* Tuscan Summer for Families: July 9 to 20. Sponsored by Smithsonian Study
Tours. Price: $ 3,895 (adults), $ 3,395 (ages 13-18), $ 2,995 (ages 7-12),
including most meals, local transportation and all gratuities, excluding air
fare to Italy. Information: 202-357-4700.

Castello di Gargonza, an authentic 13th-century medieval village in the Tuscan
countryside - complete with stone walls, chapel, private gardens and swimming
pool - will host families for seven nights while they pursue cultural excursions
with local guides, hike in the countryside and savor Tuscan cuisine. Adults have
a separate lecture program with the study leader. Children have youth leaders
who organize soccer matches with local children and take the younger set out for
ice cream. The final three days are spent in Florence.

* Turkey - The Next Eclipse: Aug. 7 to 12. Sponsored by the Science Museum of
Minnesota. Price: $ 2,750, including meals and air fare from Minneapolis.
Optional extension adds $ 1,780. Information: 651-221-4513.

View the last solar eclipse of the 20th century, slated to cross Europe and the
Middle East on Aug. 11. The tour heads for a prime location near Malatya in
central Turkey. This spot was selected by the museum for its arid climate and
predictably dry summer weather - essential elements for optimal eclipse viewing,
which may include black disk, glowing corona and stars visible at midday.
Totality will last two minutes, 12 seconds. A visit to Istanbul is included, and
an optional extension offers a six-day wooden-ship cruise along the Turkish
coast.

* Coaching in Bavaria: Sept. 27/28 to Oct. 3. Sponsored by the National Trust
for Historic Preservation. Price: $ 3,260, including meals, excluding air fare
to and from Munich, Germany. Information: 800-227-1059 (tour operator Protravel
International) or 202-588-6300 (the National Trust).

This exploration of Bavaria is one portion of the National Trust's seven-part
Grand Tour series. It features transport by horse-drawn coach, with stops at a
number of King Ludwig's fairy-tale castles. The study leader is Grace Gary,
director of the Longue Vue historic estate in New Orleans and a specialist in
preservation and architectural history.

* The Great Builders - A Millennium Celebration of Timeless Architecture and Art
by Private Jet: Dec. 14 to Jan. 2, 2000. Sponsored by TCS Expeditions. Price: $
29,950, including all meals and most air fares, excluding flights to Hong Kong
and from Istanbul. Information: 800-727-7477.

A distinctly different way to celebrate the new millennium: If you can't decide
which culture gets the nod, try sampling an array of half a dozen. This journey
by private Boeing 757 jet takes you back through five millenniums, stopping at
artistic and architectural wonders of master builders. The journey starts in
Hong Kong before tracing history from Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar and India to
Egypt, Jordan and Turkey. New Year's celebrations culminate in Istanbul,
threshold of East and West.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 12, 1999, Monday, SOONER EDITION

GOP BITING BULLET ON MINIMUM WAGE

BYLINE: JANET HOOK, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A strange idea is creeping into Republican legislative plans for this spring and
summer, one that has long constituted rank heresy in the party: an increase in
the minimum wage.

Fearing that they are on the losing side of a powerful issue, key House
Republicans are softening their traditional opposition to a higher minimum wage
and may soon devise a proposal for an increase of their own.

The emerging GOP strategy represents a remarkable shift that could put more
money in the pockets of the United States' lowest-wage workers later this year.
To make that more palatable to the party's conservative core, GOP strategists
are considering linking any minimum-wage hike to tax cuts or other labor law
changes that would help small business.

The maneuvering does not signal a real change of heart about minimum-wage policy
itself, as the GOP is still dominated by conservatives who think such increases
hurt the economy. Instead, it reflects a growing recognition of a cold, hard
political reality: With their razor-thin House majority and a substantial number
of moderate Republicans favoring a minimum-wage hike, GOP leaders are largely
powerless to stop it.

By addressing the issue this year, key Republicans hope to keep Democrats from
using it as a campaign issue in 2000, especially against the many moderate
Republicans who fear that they lost significant support among labor constituents
for backing President Clinton's impeachment.

The shifting GOP position also reflects the changed climate for the recurring
minimum-wage debate: The economic boom has undercut the usual argument that such
increases cost jobs and feed inflation.

"I believe it is a foregone conclusion that some type of minimum-wage increase
bill will be approved in this session of Congress," said Rep. Jack Quinn,
R-N.Y., the leading GOP proponent of such a move. "Rather than fight the thing
and have Republicans being dragged kicking and screaming to a vote on the
minimum wage, I say to my party, ' Why not take the lead?' "

Clinton and congressional Democrats have proposed raising the minimum wage, now
$ 5.15 an hour, to $ 6.15 over two years. Quinn wants to raise it to $ 6.15 over
three years and to index it for inflation in the future.

It is not clear whether GOP leaders will respond with a bill generous enough to
win support from Democrats and GOP moderates. Regardless, the matter could come
before the full House before the end of the summer, said Michael Scanlon,
spokesman for House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas.

The debate begins in earnest soon after Congress returns this week. The House
Committee on Education and the Workforce will conduct a hearing on the issue
later this month that likely will showcase critics' arguments about problems
with raising the minimum wage, such as potential layoffs by businesses with
large numbers of minimum-wage employees.

What comes next is uncertain. But, as one Republican strategist close to the
House leadership put it, "I think they are preparing for pre-emptive surrender."

"The leadership is bright enough to realize we can't win by saying no," said
Patrick Murphy, a top aide to Rep. Cass Ballenger, R-N.C., a senior member of
the committee.

About 4.4 million workers are paid the federal minimum wage or less, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nine states have set a higher floor than the
federal one. But even in most of those states, employers would have to pay more
if Congress votes to increase the federal minimum to $ 6.15.

The last time Congress voted to raise the minimum wage was in 1996, when it
approved a two-step increase from $ 4.24 to $ 5.15 an hour. The last stage of
that hike took effect in September 1997, and Clinton and other Democrats are
saying that the time is ripe for another increase.

"Our country is prospering," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. "But millions
of the country's hardest workers are not sharing in that prosperity. The
take-home pay of a mother trying to raise two children on a minimum-wage job is
still almost $ 3,200 below the poverty line."

Critics argue that raising the minimum wage would hurt low-wage workers because
higher labor costs would slow job creation and make it harder for entry-level
workers to get their first jobs.

Concern runs highest among restaurant owners, who are the largest employers of
minimum-wage workers. Lee Culpepper, vice president for federal relations at the
National Restaurant Association, blames the last minimum-wage increase, in part,
for the decline in the number of jobs created by his industry (from 276,400 in
1995 to 110,000 in 1998). He also links the wage hike to continuing inflation in
menu prices at a time when general inflation rates have dropped.

The battle over the last increase was a prolonged, bitter one in which Democrats
scored election year points by portraying the GOP as mean-spirited foes of the
working poor.

Now, with Democrats spoiling for another fight, many Republicans want to avoid a
reprise of that public relations bruising.

Since becoming House speaker in January, J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., has
suggested, if grudgingly, that action on the minimum wage is unavoidable.

Even House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, a staunch free-market
conservative who pledged during the 1996 debate to oppose a minimum-wage
increase "with every fiber of my being," has softened his rhetoric. He recently
indicated that the leadership would take steps to accommodate Republicans
clamoring for a chance to go on record backing an increase this year.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 26, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

MULTI-PRONGED EFFORT SEEKS TO REDUCE MEDICAL-CARE ERRORS;
BIG BUSINESS, INSURERS, STATE REGULATORS AND THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PUT;
PRESSURE ON HOSPITALS PRONE TO MISTAKES

BYLINE: PETER T. KILBORN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-13

LENGTH: 1290 words


Spurred by an Institute of Medicine report last month, big employers, health
care organizations, state regulators and the federal government are stepping up
pressure to revamp a health care system that calls itself the best in the world,
yet hides and ignores mistakes that kill tens of thousands of patients a year.

Largely in response to the report, eight executives of some of the nation's
biggest companies, including General Motors and General Electric, disclosed last
week that they have formed an organization they call "The Leapfrog Group" to
encourage all employers to make safe medicine a top priority of the health
insurance they provide their workers, and to steer workers to hospitals that
make the fewest mistakes.

For the first time, too, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care
Organizations, the independent group in Chicago that accredits most of the
nation's hospitals, will begin making unannounced, random inspections in
January. For years, the commission has been accused of such close ties to the
industry that its inspections were little more than formalities that hospitals
could prepare for in advance.

Upon release of the report, entitled "To Err Is Human: Building a Better Health
System," the American Hospital Association and the Institute for Safe Medication
Practices, a nonprofit research group, announced a project to reduce the
incidence of errors arising from medication.

The government has responded with the same urgency. President Clinton seized
upon the report to order federal health agencies to reduce the number of errors
by 50 percent in five years. Three U.S. senators said they would schedule
hearings into medical errors early next year, and many state regulators say they
will step up efforts to detect and fix error-prone practices.

Taken together, the reactions to the report by the Institute of Medicine, a part
of the National Academy of Sciences, the nation's top scientific advisory group,
represent the most ambitious effort ever to confront mistakes in the nation's
hospitals.

"This is definitely the future," said Dr. Howard Koh, the public health
commissioner for Massachusetts. "It's a paradigm shift. We view this as a new
way of looking at adverse outcomes."

Instead of "singling out practitioners to blame," Koh said the industry could
develop safer ways to deliver care. As an example of the kind of systematic
planning that could help, he said intravenous solutions could be mixed in the
pharmacy by pharmacists, rather than be left to nurses on the hospital floor.

Specifically, the report suggested that medical errors kill 44,000 to 98,000
people a year. Though these numbers were previously known in the world of health
care, the report has had a galvanizing effect, because of the academy's prestige
and the professional expertise and nonpartisan credibility of the report's
authors, who include prominent physicians, hospital officials and executives of
health maintenance organizations.

The report called for sweeping changes in the health care system, including
mandatory disclosure of serious mistakes leading to death or injury, voluntary
disclosure of less serious mistakes and the five-year, 50-percent
error-reduction goal that the president promptly endorsed.

It urged Congress to create a National Center for Patient Safety to collect the
reports and identify the flaws in the system - like an emergency room doctor who
falls asleep on the job after working 48 hours straight saving lives - that, the
institute says, lead to most errors.

Regulators typically inspect hospitals no more than once a year and doctors'
offices hardly ever. The institute, in effect, urges continuous scrutiny and
reporting of flaws in patient care by everyone on the staff of a health care
facility.

With its emphasis on gathering information and using it to develop better
processes, said Dr. John R. Lumpkin, director of the Illinois Department of
Public Health, "We're talking about a traumatic transformation about how health
care is delivered."

But for all the momentum, patient advocates and some regulators warn that for
most hospitals and physicians a culture of defensiveness and secretiveness is
dug in deep, and will be difficult to change. They pointed out that for years,
some states, like New York, California, Colorado, Massachusetts and Florida,
have mandated hospital disclosure of serious mistakes and worked with health
care providers to identify the missteps leading to them. But little reduction in
the incidence of mistakes has resulted.

They also say that some doctors have their own wall of silence, not unlike that
of police officers, and are reluctant to report colleagues who make mistakes.

"You don't tell on each other," said Anna Polk, director of the Agency for
Health Care Administration in Florida.

Others said that the report does not go far enough in making demands on the
health care industry.

About 5 percent of patients who die in hospitals receive autopsies, compared
with more than 40 percent 30 years ago, so the doctor who signs a death
certificate can attribute the death to causes other than his or his colleague's
mistake.

Even if the disclosure rules described in the report become a reality, they will
be tough to enforce. Since early this year, for example, Colorado has been
listing unusual "occurrences" in hospitals without naming names or assigning
blame, on the Web page of the Department of Public Health and the Environment.
But nearly all of those listings, 44 pages of 300- and 400-word detailed
accounts, involve patient and staff behavior, like altercations and sexual
abuse.

For their part, physicians say they are too often blamed for mistakes that are
really systemic.

"We're talking about all American society," said Dr. Dennis S. O' Leary,
president of the commission that accredits hospitals and other health care
institutions. "We have a blameand-punishment society. When something goes wrong,
we want a hanging. That's not a climate that favors voluntary reporting of
anything."

Dr. Nancy W. Dickey, a Texas physician and recent president of the American
Medical Association, said that doctors endorsed much of the report and that
through its National Patient Safety Foundation, the association was encouraging
the kind of system analysis that the institute urged rather than looking for
culprits.

"But we have concerns about reporting mechanisms," Dickey said, "and would want
to see nonpunitive and confidentiality measures" included in any new system.

Still, she said, the reporting should be voluntary. "We are opposed to mandatory
reporting," she said.

In that respect, the association stands apart from nearly all the other medical
institutions that have responded to the the institute's report. The American
Hospital Association, often an AMA ally in opposing tighter government
regulation, supports mandatory disclosure of serious mistakes.

Beyond the efforts of regulators, big business may have tremendous influence on
whether or not the academy's suggestions are followed.

For a couple of years, health care executives of several major companies and
representatives of big California and Minnesota employers have been meeting to
explore ways of exploiting their clout as buyers of health services to improve
service.

Since the release of the Institute of Medicine's report, the Business
Roundtable, the organization of the chief executives of most of the nation's 100
biggest companies, has allocated funds for the group to open an office and hire
staff.

The leader of the Leapfrog group, Bruce Bradley, director of managed care plans
at General Motors, said the goal was to write "a common agenda to drive quality
improvement."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              133 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 7, 1999 Thursday SOONER EDITION

HOLLOW CHARACTERS POPULATE UNINSPIRED 'WASTELAND'

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 1035 words


ABC's "Wasteland" uses Smash Mouth's "All Star" as its theme song, but the
lyrics - "only shooting stars break the mold" - highlight the show's failings.

Kevin Williamson's "Wasteland" (9 tonight on WTAE) is no shooting star, and the
twentysomething drama mold remains firmly intact.

Williamson hit just the right note with "Dawson's Creek," but "Wasteland" is out
of tune. "Dawson's" was a personal story for Williamson, but "Wasteland" seems
to be more about replicating that success. It certainly doesn't have characters
you immediately want to cheer for. Instead it's a wasteland of beautiful people
with perfect teeth, each with their own hiccup of a problem.

Lead character Dawnie (Marisa Coughlan) remains a virgin at age 26 as she works
on her thesis (titled "Wasteland") about the second coming of age people
experience in their late 20s. Her theory has something to do with overcoming
fear and escaping a fantasy world.

"I am acutely self-aware to the point where I am clueless and slightly
suicidal," she tells her thesis adviser. It's unclear whether he regards this as
a threat or a promise.

Dawnie's race toward adulthood slows when she's confronted by Ty (Brad Rowe,
looking like a more clean-cut Brad Pitt), the college stud she dumped after he
slept with all her friends. She slaps him a couple times, but by the end of the
hour they re-enact sexy, shimmying moves from "Dirty Dancing."

The rest of the ensemble can be described in thumbnails because the characters
don't amount to much. There's Russell (Dan Montgomery), the closeted gay soap
star; Vandy (Eddie Mills), the wannabe singer; Jesse (Sasha Alexander), the
hard-bitten, chain-smoking PR wench; Sam (Rebecca Gayheart), the Southern belle
and Vince (Jeffrey D. Sams), her impatient boss.

Williamson fails to make the characters sympathetic, even Dawnie, who says, "I
want someone to brush my teeth with each night." That should make viewers sigh
(I would if Ally McBeal said it), but Coughlan is so beautiful the dialogue
can't be believed.

The only thing that rings true in "Wasteland" is Dawnie's thesis topic. But as a
contemporary of the characters on this show, I should want to hang out with
them, not read their fictitious theories.

Gayheart is a native of Pine Top, Ken., but the Southern accent she affects
sounds phony. Critics picked up on this when the pilot was first sent out in
June, so Williamson has added an exchange between Sam and her boss at the
Manhattan district attorney's office:

"Is that accent for real?" Vince asks.

"Is that a problem?" Sam replies.

"Only if you plan on keeping it," Vince says.

Maybe Sam's accent will disappear in future episodes, but it had better hurry.
"Wasteland" won't be around long. What a waste.


ON THE STREET: Once upon a time morning newscasts were light and fluffy. They
reported the news and weather, but there was also time for an in-studio
interview, light features and banter between the anchors that made them more
personable.

That was then, headlines-weather-traffic-headlines-weather-traffic is now.

That probably has something to do with the small crowd turnout for Channel 11's
morning newscast at One Mellon Bank Center this week.

The "Today" show attracts people (mostly New York City tourists) who consider
Katie Couric and Matt Lauer extended family, but the repetitive format of local
news keeps viewers from making a similar connection with Channel 11's Bob Bruce
and Newlin Archinal or any of the other morning news anchors.

They each try to inject a little of their personality into the morning shows
(Bruce's Monday morning movie reviews are a good example), but the format
doesn't allow for much.

Channel 11's willingness to alter the format this week - taking time for
interviews, focus stories and features - makes for a more personable news
program. For that reason alone Channel 11's experiment qualifies as a success.

Broadcast meteorologist Julie Bologna capably plays the Al Roker role,
interviewing passers-by, corralling Bubba from the B-94 morning show (a feat in
itself) and chatting via satellite with Roker.

Bologna has the right touch when interacting with the crowd (including all the
company representatives trying to get free commercials), although her laugh
sometimes reminds me of Cheri Oteri on the "Saturday Night Live" sketch "Morning
Latte."

Bruce and Archinal interviewed several folks earlier this week with varying
degrees of success. There was a suck-up interview with Mellon Bank's CEO Martin
McGuinn (Mellon hosted the show on its plaza) wherein the word "exciting" was
bandied about a little too freely. But Bruce's brief interview with the Schenley
High School choir director was a nice off-the-cuff chat, the kind of hometown
story ready-made for morning TV.

I wandered by the Channel 11 set Tuesday and was impressed to see Bruce and
Archinal reading the news without a TelePrompTer (I wouldn't have guessed that
watching at home). And there were more people watching the production off-camera
than viewers could see on TV.

The sparse turnout is nothing for Channel 11 to be embarrassed about - Downtown
Pittsburgh is not a tourist mecca like Rockefeller Plaza. Plus, it's 6 a.m.!

A live broadcast from the road is always a gimmick, but this week in Downtown
has brought new energy to Channel 11's morning news.


NEW HOST? PCNC is in talks to bring KDKA radio host Fred Honsberger back to the
cable channel, possibly in a new talk show (Lynn Cullen's spot is currently
available).

Honsberger said his bosses at KDKA radio and executives at PCNC are talking, but
"they haven't given me the details."

Honsberger did commentaries for PCNC earlier in the 1990s, but he said
executives at KDKA's sister television station got upset he was working for the
competition and he was forced to stop his PCNC work.

Evidently the climate has changed.

"We talked for a while about doing something more and his management could not
let him do it at that time," said PCNC station manager Mark Barash. "We're
talking now because hopefully there's a change in feeling."

Barash said some ideas for a Honsberger show have been discussed, but nothing's
definite.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Rob Owen can be reached at (412) 263-2582 or rowen@post-gazette.com. For more TV
news, go to www.post-gazette.com/tv.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN ABC'S "THE WASTELAND," BRAD ROWE CHANGES THE COURSE OF MARISA
COUGHLAN'S LIFE.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              143 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 24, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

IF FISH COULD SPEAK...

BYLINE: LARRY J.  SCHWEIGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1073 words


If we learn only one lesson from the famous conservationist Rachel Carson, it
should be to study wildlife for clues about the overall health of our world.

As early as 1950, Rachel Carson saw schools of fish all over the world moving
farther and farther into both polar regions and predicted, "now in our own
lifetime we are witnessing a startling alteration of climate..."

In 1962, she saw the Bald Eagle's eggshells thinning and warned us of the hidden
dangers of DDT and other persistent pesticides.

We, too, can learn a lot from fish and wildlife if we're willing to listen. They
are biological indicators of our stewardship performance.

In fact, there's a direct cause-and-effect relationship between the quality of
our stewardship and the fruitfulness of all living resources. Degrade our world
through pollution, habitat destruction or overharvesting, and the number and
diversity of native fish, wildlife and plant species goes down. Restore habitat,
eliminate pollution or better manage the harvest and the diversity of native
species and their relative abundance goes up.

In this way, fish and wildlife are amazingly accurate indicators of the
long-term health of the natural world.

Pittsburgh's three rivers now have a wonderful array of fish as a result of
massive pollution abatement over the past four decades. Because fish respond to
the collective treatment of our waterways, we can count the various elements of
natural diversity as a report card on environmental stewardship and say for
certain that the Pittsburgh area is doing a better job in caring for our rivers
and streams.

Unfortunately, the same thing cannot be said for all of the state's waterways.
There has been an alarming decline in the relative abundance and diversity of
fish in many waterways.

I wonder what Rachael Carson would say if she saw the results of a recent
Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission assessment. Under the law, the commission
is required to maintain the official list of fishes, reptiles, amphibians and
aquatic organisms that have so declined in distribution and abundance that
they're determined to be endangered, threatened or candidates for this
"challenged" list.

The proposed list represents almost 40 percent of Pennsylvania's native fishes.
Far too many of our state's fish are extinct, endangered or threatened.
Pennsylvania's disappearing fish are giving this generation an urgent warning.
We must listen. If we want to restore our fish populations, there are certain
steps we have to take:

* Properly fund resource protection: The research to produce the commission's
list was funded by voluntary contributions to the Wild Resources Conservation
Fund. More work needs to be done to understand the many threats and to take
appropriate steps to protect critical aquatic habitats. State agencies need more
than volunteer contributions to do the job. The governor and the state
Legislature must appropriate funds to advance this vital work.

* Protect critical aquatic habitat: Fish won't survive if their homes aren't
healthy. The commonwealth must develop a solid strategy to identify and protect
the most critical fish habitats - vital to the survival of identified species.
Habitat protection and restoration must be the focus of management and
protection for all species, not just for sport fish alone. We can continue to
build bridges, and dredge sand and gravel in navigational pools and channels,
but we must avoid harming critical aquatic habitats in the free-flowing sections
of our rivers.

* Create artificial "floods" downstream of dams to clean the spawning beds of
silt: Dams have tamed most of our once free-flowing rivers. Over time, the lack
of natural flooding has caused enormous accumulation of silt in critical
spawning areas. Steps must be taken to allow sufficient ice scouring of the
river to occur to clean the rocks and restore spawning beds. Federal experiments
in the West have demonstrated the value of purging rivers of silt.

* Expand the list to include more shellfish: Freshwater mussels don't have the
state's proper attention. They're highly sensitive barometers of aquatic
ecosystem health because of their sensitivity to localized habitat change. The
proposed fishery list should include additional mussels. At one time, there were
65 different mollusk species in Pennsylvania. Now, 18 are extinct here. Two are
listed as endangered, but 26 more ought to be added to the list as threatened.

* Focus on top priority aquatic sites: The French Creek watershed in the
northwestern part of the state maintains some of the healthiest populations of
some species of special concern in Pennsylvania, including 13 kinds of mussels
and 23 species of the fishes included on the proposed list. The Western
Pennsylvania Conservancy, the Pennsylvania Environmental Council and Allegheny
College have turned our attention to the French Creek watershed in an innovative
effort called The French Creek Project. Our goal is to foster conservation
through co operation by bringing together landowners, farmers, the business
community, local government officials, scientists, conservationists, sportsmen
and educators in an effort to preserve the exceptional quality of the watershed.

Likewise, Sideling Hill Creek in south-central Pennsylvania supports the most
diverse freshwater mussel fauna in the Potomac River watershed, including two
globally rare species. The conservancy's efforts there are to preserve the
ecological integrity of the watershed while supporting sustainable economic
activities. We are committed to working with local communities and landowners to
help maintain economic activities that operate within ecological limits.

Fish species found in just a few places or in critically low numbers could be
lost in the near future if we do not heed the warning signs. Thirteen species of
the fishes found in Pennsylvania are also imperiled nationally. That means that
Pennsylvania plays a critically important role in the conservation of many of
these species. In this case, acting locally means protecting globally. We must
act now to protect important fish and aquatic life.

We all contribute to the decline in water quality. Endangered and threatened
fish are sending us a strong warning. Let's learn from Rachel Carson and listen
to the signals the fish are sending us.

Larry J. Schweiger is the president of the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              146 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 29, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

NEW CORROBORATION FOR GLOBAL WARMING

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-6, NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


One of the world's major scientific organizations took a cautious step into the
global warming debate yesterday, and its entry promptly drew criticism.

A policy statement from the American Geophysical Union concluded that, despite
some uncertainties, evidence was growing that release of human-produced
chemicals into the air will change climate.

"It's a shame that this distinguished science organization has succumbed to
political correctness at the expense of scientific integrity," said Paul
Georgia, of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a public policy think tank.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              147 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 30, 1999, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

DEALING WITH DUMPING;
LAWS AGAINST BELOW-COST STEEL EXIST; ENFORCE THEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 513 words


The U.S. steel industry is under siege by imports pouring in from the distressed
economies in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. The United States is the
world's leader in promoting free trade, but it can't afford to stick by that
ideal while an industry is decimated.

The Post-Gazette, which traditionally has championed free trade, comes to this
conclusion reluctantly, but we believe the current crisis requires a different
response.  And it isn't fair trade when distant global changes ripple through
common markets spurring layoffs, plant closings and economic disruptions to
whole communities.

Such a case has arisen for the nation's steel industry as it struggles to
survive the steep decline in demand and plummeting prices precipitated by the
sudden global glut of steel.

The domestic industry, both managers and workers, are crying foul, accusing
foreign firms of dumping steel in American markets. U.S. trade laws define
dumping as when a foreign firm sells its product for less in the United States
than in its home country or, if prices are the same, at a price that is less
than the firm's cost of production. Evidence that U.S. firms have been hurt also
must be shown.

And such evidence is winning cases under U.S. trade laws. Japanese and other
foreign steel producers know that retaliation for dumping is part of U.S. trade
policy. Swift application of anti-dumping tariffs, within the letter of
international law, will shield U.S. steel companies, local plants, communities
and their neighbors from the vagaries of the current harsh economic climate.

Equally important is dealing out the right dose of retaliatory medicine. Foreign
producers, sensitive to incurring damaging trade actions from the U.S.
government, can be prodded to cut their exports with moderate measures; too
strong of a reaction and foreign countries will retaliate in kind.

The current U.S. policies and public posturing may be having the desired effect,
as preliminary import data for December show a significant decline in steel
imports, especially from the most egregious offenders. Adherence to current
policy and further close monitoring are warranted, however, to ensure that the
trend in steel imports continues to decline beyond one month.

There are risks to engaging the world in actions to protect the U.S. steel
industry. Economists generally unite on the idea that trade barriers hurt
overall economic output. Anti-dumping actions taken by the United States on
behalf of the steel industry will increase domestic steel prices, raising the
general price level for all goods and services.

Also, Asia's economic crisis has had its greatest impact on U.S. exports, not
imports. America's economically crippled trading partners can afford few U.S.
exports. Failing steel plants, unemployed workers and suffering communities
scattered throughout the world may bring their recession closer to our shores.

But for now, the risks seem manageable. Anti-dumping laws are on the books.
Their enforcement is under way. And the remedy may be taking hold.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              162 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 16, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

BUMPY ROADS GETTING SMOOTHER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 1868 words


The personalized letter came from Transportation Secretary Brad Mallory, on
official stationary topped by a raised gold-ink state seal - an invitation to
"participate in open dialogue with me and the deputy secretaries."

After saying OK, I'll be there, Mallory's office sent three pages of directions
to Harrisburg and two maps, maybe to test whether I and more than a dozen media
people who cover transportation regularly could follow directions as challenging
as a Fort Pitt Bridge detour.

For example, the directions from Interstate 81 read: "Travel four miles on Front
Street to the fourth light and take a left onto Market Street past the
Harrisburg Hilton (on left) another three lights to North 5th Street (light just
before going under the Railroad Bridge) and make a left turn onto North 5th
Street. Halfway along N. 5th Street, turn right into the parking garage. If that
garage is full, go around the block ..."

I ended up going around the block because Harrisburg's one-way streets can be
tricky. Even KDKA-TV problem-solver Wayne Van Dine had some trouble, but made it
in time for Wednesday's meeting on the ninth floor, reached by getting off the
elevator on the sixth floor, checking in, and then taking another elevator.

The directions noted that the PennDOT building is "the large rose-colored
building at the end of the street on the right side."

On this day, Mallory was looking through rose-colored glasses.

"We have the best cartographic [mapping] center in the country," he said. "We
have one of the best materials testing labs in the country. Our customer service
facility is state-of-the-art, and I'm not overstating the fact."

Then he reached the major announcement of Transportation Media Day:
Pennsylvania's interstates and expressways have improved to a point where
they're now as smooth as many others across the nation.

"Payback time," Mallory called it, "for the increased investment" in 40,000
miles of state-owned roads and 25,000 bridges, a politically correct way to
express how government is spending your money from the 3.5 cents-a-gallon fuel
tax hike and a 50 percent increase in vehicle registration and other fees
enacted by lawmakers almost two years ago at the behest of Gov. Ridge.

Mallory said a scientific measure used worldwide - the International Roughness
Index, or IRI - is at 96 inches a mile, the lowest ever since most of the
state's limited-access highways were built in the 1960s and early 1970s.

A laser mounted on a specialized van measures the vertical rise, fall and bumps
in roads while on-board computers calculate the roughness per mile in inches.
The lower the IRI number, the smoother the ride. An IRI of 96, PennDOT's average
reading statewide, means you literally bounce a total of 96 inches or eight feet
over a one-mile distance.

More than a decade ago, Pennsylvania's average IRI on interstate highways was
155, meaning Penn-DOT has removed the equivalent of nearly 5 feet of vertical
roughness per mile as the result of rebuilding and/or repaving the most
heavily-traveled roads.

A news release distributed at the session said the 96 IRI represents sufficient
improvements to match the "nationwide standard" for road smoothness, but PennDOT
in fact matches the national average, because a lot of other states do a lot
better, especially in dry and hot climates.

"That's true," Mallory acknowledged later, because the standard, if not the
objective, is to get as good as you can. "But we're not stopping here."

The IRI on I-70 has dropped from 117 to 89 over the past seven years, while the
IRI on I-79 has dropped from 153 to 90 over the same period. Once again, that's
an average.

Stretches of I-79 in Allegheny County push the high-tech measuring equipment to
the limit, such as a 189 IRI around Carnegie and a walloping 233 IRI north of
Glenfield and the Ohio River. "Anything over 200 makes people fighting mad, "
Mallory said, almost 250 percent worse than average and enough to jar your
molars, especially in a truck or stretch van.

Not only are those areas of I-79 and other rough sections to be addressed over
the next four years, but PennDOT hopes to reduce the statewide IRI by 5 inches a
year while the national average is expected to drop by 2 inches a year.

In other words, PennDOT is saying more coffee or soda may end up in your stomach
than on your clothes and car seat by 2003.

By then, we may be repairing repairs that will be 10 years old, because
Pennsylvania builds roads that don't last. We build an industry and pass taxes
that do.

* Kudos: To the Pennsylvania Turnpike for finally sweeping, cleaning and
line-striping most of the toll road before the summer vacation season gets under
way.

This heavily traveled highway, albeit old, finally approaches the standards of
tidiness that people paying a premium expect, and that leaves a better
impression about the only major highway many visitors will remember.

Last year, after the Post-Gazette reported that the turnpike wasn't planning to
sweep winter cinders and debris from the medial barrier until September,
turnpike executive director John Durbin and Commissioner James Dodaro of White
Oak vowed that critics would be able "to eat your lunch off the road." Now the
critics can eat their words.

Factoid: More than 750 people both construction workers and motorists die in
roadway work zone accidents each year, and about 12,000 people are injured,
according to the American Traffic Safety Services Association Inc.

Plate du jour: RAM TUFF, a Pennsylvania license plate on a Dodge Ram 4-by-4
pickup truck.

Interstate 279

Half of the Point State Park portal bridge leading from Fort Duquesne Bridge to
Fort Pitt Bridge and Parkway East closed. Primary detour for I-279 southbound
traffic toward Pittsburgh International Airport is via West End Bridge and Route
51 South. Fort Pitt Bridge and Fort Pitt Tunnel are not affected. Avoid weekday
rush hours. No problem getting to Three Rivers Stadium, but pay close attention
to signs when leaving. Eleven detours in effect. Visit project Web site at
www.penndotpgh.com

Interstate 376

PennDOT repairing concrete pavement in sections between Bates Street (Oakland)
and Churchill. Work zone changes weekly, but work takes place in off-peak hours,
from 10 p.m. Thursday to 6 a.m. Friday, and round-the-clock from 10 p.m. Friday
through 6 a.m. Monday. Events can alter schedule, but not this weekend, when
work is to last through tonight. Call toll-free number 1 (877) 777-8985, after
noon Monday, for weekly update.

Interstate 70

Two construction zones with single-lane restrictions in each direction: Three
miles between Exits 10 and 11 west of Bentleyville in Washington County,
resurfacing; and two miles between Exits 19 and 20 in the Belle Vernon area of
Westmoreland County, bridge and pavement repairs. Heavy truck traffic through
both job sites. In Belle Vernon area, traffic will be stopped in both directions
at times between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m. Tuesday while cranes lift bridge beams into
place.

Interstate 79

The good news: No construction work through Allegheny County. The bad news:
Single-lane restrictions south of Allegheny, from Houston to the Meadowlands, in
Washington County, and for five miles around the Washington-Greene county line.
To the north, traffic is crossed over to southbound side one lane each way for
resurfacing in Crawford County.

Turnpike

Six miles of original 160-mile section of turnpike being rebuilt around Laurel
Mountain, east of Donegal to the Westmoreland-Somerset county line. Two lanes
are open each direction, but can be slow-moving eastbound, where the "climbing
lane" for trucks is closed. Between Ohio line and Harrisburg, overpass work,
resurfacing, maintenance etc. going on. Expect anything on weekdays. Information
at 1 (800) 331-3414, or visit www.paturnpike.com.

Airport

If you're heading to Pittsburgh International Airport on I-79 through Washington
County or Route 51 through Jefferson Hills during busy traffic periods, allow
extra time for delays caused by single-lane restrictions. From I-279 passing
Downtown Pittsburgh, you'll have to use one of several detours since the I-279
portal bridge at Point State Park is closed in the direction of the airport.

Route 22 federal-state highway

PennDOT building a special split-level interchange at Route 66 interchange west
of Delmont. Slow-moving traffic on this busy east-west route through
Westmoreland County as result of temporary roads, temporary signals, single-lane
traffic in both directions. Visit Web site at www.route22.penndot.state.pa.us
for information on all Route 22 plans, and to view rendering of the new
interchange.

Route 60 state highway

PennDOT patching throughout much of southern Beaver County, working in zones in
Hopewell, Potter and Center townships. Look for single-lane restrictions.

Route 51 state highway

One-lane traffic in each direction through Jefferson Hills, where Pennsylvania
Turnpike is rebuilding this major route as part of an interchange for
Mon-Fayette Expressway. Daylight delays, although police are supposed to give
priority to north-south traffic. Three new surveillance cameras, showing updated
traffic conditions every minute, have gone on-line. Get there via
www.paturnpike.com and then click on ' 'construction/expansion," then "Rt. 51
construction," then "visual traffic report."

At south end of the Liberty Tunnel, PennDOT says part of the new interchange
will open by end of June, including overpass for through traffic. Visit at
www.libertytunnels.com.

Light-rail

Light-rail traffic restricted to a single track one direction at a time while
Port Authority replaces a section of track in Beechview, three miles south of
Downtown. Delays haven't been too bad. Still a good alternative to and from
Station Square and Golden Triangle.

Route 30 federal-state highway

Only one lane open each way over a two-mile stretch between Greensburg and
Mountain View. PennDOT rehabilitating this section of the gateway to Latrobe and
Laurel Highlands. Expect delays.

Route 19 federal-state highway

At the north end of the East Street Valley, vehicles restricted to one lane in
each direction for the last phase of repairs to Nelson Run Road Bridge, a
four-lane overpass connecting I-279 and McKnight Road (Route 19). Mc-

Knight north of there worse than the construction zone.

West Carson

West Carson street sign Traffic inbound beyond Corliss Tunnel is restricted to
one lane. The Port Authority closed the other inbound lane to build an
intersection for the Pittsburgh end of 5-mile West Busway.

Resources:

Post-Gazette Web site

www.post-gazette.com

Port Authority information

(412) 442-2000

Car-van pool information

(412) 471-POOL

Airport Corridor Transportation Assn.

(412) 788-1199

Pittsburgh Parking Authority

(412) 456-2770

Pennsylvania Turnpike

(800) 331-3414

Interstate Information Hotline

(888) 783-6783

PennDOT Pothole Hotline

(800) FIX-ROAD

GRATA'S GUIDE: GETTING AROUND Send your transportation questions, complaints and
suggestions to Joe Grata c/o The Post-Gazette or e-mail him at
jgrata@@post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART, CHART: (construction around the region)

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              168 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 19, 1999, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

LET RUSSIA HAVE ITS PRIDE BY ALLOWING A RUSSIAN SANCTUARY FOR SERBS IN KOSOVO

BYLINE: CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 813 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


I have never been accused of being a comm-symp or a Russophile, but anyone who
cares about the success of American foreign policy must believe that the
gratuitous humiliation of Russia is simply stupid. Publicly carving Kosovo into
five zones - American, French, British, German and Italian - leaving nothing to
Russia, qualifies as gratuitous humiliation.

It is pointless. This administration, in order not to offend Russia, has for
years refused to build a defense to protect American citizens from attack by
nuclear missiles - an issue of supreme importance for the United States. Yet
that same administration is willing to humiliate Russia by denying it control of
an inch of Kosovo, a place of zero strategic significance to the United States.

Why? Because the administra tion is afraid that any Russian strip under Russian
command will become a protectorate for Serbs, leading to a de facto partition of
Kosovo.

True enough. But is that outcome so unthinkable that we are willing to sacrifice
our already tenuous relations with Russia over it? Indeed, why is that outcome
bad at all?

Partition has brought stability and relative peace to places like Cyprus and
Bosnia. Sure, Bill Clinton waxes lyrical about the joys of multiethnic America
and how the Balkans ought to emulate our example. But this is pious naivete. It
took us, oh, 350 years - a good hundred of it after our civil war - to achieve
the kind of mutual recognition and equal treatment of groups that prevails in
America today.

Kosovo's civil war ended last week - if it ended at all. We expect people who
have just experienced massacre and expulsion and who are, as we speak,
discovering mass graves to start living together in peace?

If a Russian sector is permitted, things will take their natural course: the
Serb refugees now streaming out of their homes in Kosovo will have a place to go
to. And the ethnic Albanians in the rest of Kosovo will be left to build and
rule their land without needing an endless NATO occupation to ensure that they
do not do unto their minority Serbs what the Serbs did unto them.

It will be said that we are caving in to the Russians. Caving? The Russians are
prostrate. They couldn't protect the Serbs, they couldn't stop the war until we
were ready, they couldn't prevent the NATO occupation. A consolation prize of a
small strip near Serbia would help assuage the virulent Russian anti-Americanism
occasioned by the war - and cost us very little.

The Russian complaint is not illegitimate. We rightly forced NATO expansion on
them (we did, after all, win the Cold War) - but with the firm assurance that we
were doing nothing more than expanding a purely defensive alliance. The Kosovo
war and NATO's 50th anniversary Washington Summit Communique changed that. It
demonstrated that the current Western leadership sees NATO as a missionary force
with external ambitions extending into neighboring sovereign states.

That, and not sympathy for the devil, is what so disconcerted Russia - the
combination of NATO expansion and the NATO role change. In that climate, to
compound rising Russian anti-Americanism by denying them a sliver of Kosovo is
simple folly.

Let the Russians have a sector. It would be costless, indeed useful. It would
reassure them. It would allow for a Serb enclave. And most important, it would
ease the way for a final Kosovo settlement, the only possible settlement that
gives us an exit strategy: independence for Kosovo.

NATO says its objective is to retain Kosovo as part of Yugoslavia. This is
crazy. Kosovo is 90-plus percent Albanian. It now has a cocky and growing
guerrilla army fanning out daily into every region and committed to fighting for
independence. Is NATO, the acting authority in Kosovo, going to conduct a
counterinsurgency campaign to deny independence when the KLA decides to press
its case with arms?

The case for independence is not just practical but principled. If the
overwhelming Albanian majority wants self-determination, democratic principles -
wasn't that what we were told we were fighting for? - should allow them to have
what they want.

But they don't have to have every inch. There is nothing sacred about the
geographic boundaries of Kosovo. The best solution is partition. A small Russian
sector under independent command will allow that to happen without any
troublesome declarations. The Serbs will congregate in that sector; the rest of
Kosovo can claim independence; perhaps the Russian strip will eventually be
absorbed into Serbia itself.

It is a solution that offers stability and a measure of equity. It gives a bone
to the Russians and a clear principled exit for NATO.

Or shall we spend the next 50 years in Kosovo teaching Serbs and Albanians to
treat each other like Jeffersonians?

Charles Krauthammer is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              172 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 12, 1999, Monday, SOONER EDITION

AIRPORT AUTHORITY FLYING HIGH IN ALBANY

BYLINE: MARK BELKO, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2053 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Things are booming at the Albany International Airport.

Five years after an authority and its seven-member board took control from the
county, the airport is anything but the dilapidated eyesore that business,
political and civic leaders had bemoaned for years.

The old terminal is gone, replaced by a $ 72 million facility that opened in
June 1998. The airport dedicated a 60,000-square-foot, $ 11 million air cargo
center in November. There's also a new control tower and a 1,600-car parking
garage. The improvements were part of a $ 184 million redevelopment effort that
has transformed the airport from dump to civic jewel.

And for travelers, there's more competition.

In an airport long dominated by US Airways, the authority has enticed Delta
Express, US Airways' low-fare Metrojet service, and Hartford, Conn.-based
Shuttle America to the New York state capital, all within the last year.

Now the authority is building a two-gate, $ 6.2 million addition to its year-old
terminal in hopes of attracting the mother of all low-fare carriers, Southwest
Airlines.

To some, it's no coincidence that the airport's takeoff coincided with the
authority's creation.

"There's no question that we're better off today than we were before we created
the airport authority. It really has been a catalyst for redevelopment, which is
still ongoing," said county legislator Peter Crummey, Republican minority
leader.

Allegheny County Commissioners Mike Dawida and Bob Cranmer are counting on the
seven-member authority they created two weeks ago to help jump-start development
around Pittsburgh International Airport, where expansion has been slow to take
hold despite the midfield terminal opening in 1992.

They said the authority would help remove politics from the airport and create a
more business-like atmosphere for development. They said US Airways, the
airport's dominant carrier, liked the idea.

But unlike Albany, where there was a bipartisan push for change, the lame-duck
commissioners' proposal has come under fire.

District 2 County Council candidate Jeanne Brimmeier has said she plans to seek
an injunction to halt the authority. Another council candidate, District 1
Democratic nominee Louis Coccoli, an airport concessionaire, has urged executive
candidates James Roddey and Dr. Cyril H. Wecht to sue to block it. Wecht, the
Democratic nominee, opposes the authority; Republican Roddey supports it.

Concerns have been raised about the cost of the transfer, the future of the
county police at the airport and the loss of accountability in moving from a
county government-controlled airport to one operated by an authority.

Controller Frank Lucchino, who has vowed not to cooperate with the transfer,
said he no longer would have oversight of the airport under the authority.
Commissioners said they planned to give him two years of review powers.

Wecht wonders why there's such a rush to form an authority when the airport's
midfield terminal is widely regarded as one of the nation's best.

"I don't understand why we are having this debate at this point in time. How can
it be both ways? Either our airport is in shambles and we need an airport
authority to fix it before it falls apart or, as we have been hearing over the
last several years, our airport is among the busiest, cleanest and most
innovative in the country. Which scenario is reality?" he asked.

Critics also fear the transfer could cost county taxpayers millions of dollars.
They point to language in the draft transfer agreement that gives the authority
the ability to end county police services at the airport after two years.

Because police have a no-layoff clause, those 87 airport officers could go back
on the county payroll at a cost of $ 4 million a year. That presumes, of course,
the airport won't keep them - Aviation Director Kent George said he had every
intention of retaining them - and that the officers would be filling new
positions rather than vacancies caused by retirements or turnover.

"I see no reason not to retain the police officers," George said.

Solicitor Kerry Fraas said last week that the final transfer agreement "may or
may not contain" language allowing police to be discharged after two years.

In the year after its creation, the Albany Authority spent nearly $ 800,000 on
consultants, most of the money used to pay appraisers, lawyers and environmental
auditors to help effect the transfer, according to the Albany Times-Union.

Some say it was money well spent. At the time of the Albany Authority's
start-up, nobody, for instance, described the city's airport as one of the
nation's best.

John Egan, the authority's chief executive officer, called it a "decrepit,
broken-down airport" whose appearance had become so bad that many people worried
that it tarnished the city's image. The county, its executive and its 39-member
legislature had talked for years about making improvements but never were able
to get anything done.

Frustrations over the airport's condition and the county's inability to act
created the climate for the authority's formation. When the airlines balked at
working with county government on improvements, Crummey said, the authority was
born in 1994.

Two and a half years later, after a lengthy battle over its lease with the
county for airport land, the authority broke ground on the new terminal,
launching the redevelopment that produced the makeover.

"I think the authority came along at the right time, and the authority, in many
respects, made the moment," said Egan, former New York state transportation
secretary.

The authority is run by Egan and a seven-member board, four appointed by the
county legislature's majority leader and three by the county executive. No more
than four can be from the same political party.

In Allegheny County, all seven members were appointed by the commissioners to
staggered terms of up to five years. Beginning in January, the county executive
will have appointment power, with confirmation by the new County Council. There
are no curbs on party affiliation.

Unlike the Allegheny County authority, the Albany County and state comptrollers
have auditing powers, and the county legislature must authorize negotiated bond
sales.

Officials said two of the advantages of the new system were that it established
clear lines of authority for getting things done, and it allowed the airport to
move swiftly to pursue projects or opportunities without getting bogged down in
the politics or the bureaucracy of government.

"You don't see many four-minute miles in government," said authority board
member Thomas Hartnett, a lawyer and former state labor commissioner.

"We weren't subjected to the changing whims of politicians," said former board
Chairman Harry Robinson, an Albany bank president and CEO. "When you get a
legislature of 39 people, you're going to get people changing their mind from
the day before."

The authority continued with the terminal project without a commitment from US
Airways and now is building the two-gate addition without a formal commitment
from Southwest.

"If we don't win Southwest, we will win someone else," Egan said.

The Allegheny County transfer has raised concerns from opponents that the new
authority would become a "faceless, nonresponsive" entity, as Lucchino put it.
Crummey conceded that the county Legislature now has "very little oversight"
over the authority's operation, and Egan acknowledged that loss of
accountability can be a "legitimate concern."

"There's definitely the potential for people to be appointed who take the
position that the public be damned," said Tim Nichols, a former county
legislator. "They can nod their head yes all night long, and then turn around
and do the opposite."

But Nichols said he hadn't seen that happen, and Egan and others said the
authority had remained accountable, partly because of media scrutiny and the
quality of the people appointed to serve on the board. The current board
includes a priest as its chairman, three lawyers, a consultant, a certified
public accountant and the city treasurer.

"I think if, for some reason, you don't recruit the right staff, you can have
problems," Egan said. "You have to have people who have integrity, commitment to
the project. If you don't have that, you can have mischief," he said.

Robinson said there was also accountability in having the appointments made by
elected officials. If a board member is indifferent to the public or messing up,
people can also complain to the elected leaders.

"This stuff is done in a fishbowl," he said. "It's not done in the back rooms
anywhere."

Bob Simpson, a neighborhood activist who helped to lead a fight over late-night
airplane engine noise near the airport, said he initially was concerned about
the prospects of dealing with an authority. It was for naught. The authority has
been more responsive than the county and ended up solving the noise problem.

"As it turns out, the authority and the people involved were exceptionally
responsive. I can't tell you if that was an unusual circumstance and we were
just lucky," he said. "I'm not so sure it's the structure. It's the people who
run [the authority]."

Egan said the authority treated the airlines as a partner, but insisted they
were not the ones calling the shots, as some fear can happen because airport
budgets typically are funded by the facility's carriers.

"[The airlines' ] decisions are based first and foremost on putting people in
seats and having full planes. To a certain extent, they're going to call the
shots," Hartnett said. "But I think the authority has held its own."

Robinson said the authority initially went ahead with the terminal project
without a commitment from US Airways. By getting Shuttle America to offer $ 49
one-way service from Albany to Buffalo, it forced US Airways and others to lower
their fares, which once exceeded $ 500 round trip. The low-fare airlines also
have made flights more affordable to the traveling public at large, Egan said.

"I would say it's pretty much a balance," Egan said of the authority-airline
relationship. "We both need each other. If people walk in disappointed with the
airline, they're going to be disappointed with the terminal."

The Albany airport is much smaller than Pittsburgh's, with about 1.2 million
boardings a year compared with about 10 million. The Albany airport has 17
gates, including six outside for commuter flights, to Pittsburgh's 100.

Wecht and Lucchino saw little similarity between the two airports.

"Comparing Albany's airport to Pittsburgh International Airport is like
comparing hot dogs to prime rib," Wecht said.

"We built a $ 780 million terminal without an authority and improved runways
without an authority," Lucchino said. "Whatever you can do with an authority you
can do without an authority as long as you have the will to do it."

No one has to tell that to Jerry Orr. He is the director of the
Charlotte/Douglas International Airport in Charlotte, N.C. Charlotte is
considered a prime competitor for the proposed $ 604.5 million US Airways
maintenance center on the drawing boards at Pittsburgh International.

Charlotte/Douglas is a growing city-run airport. Since its present terminal was
built in 1982, the number of gates has increased from 35 to 64, Orr said. It
ranked 35th in the world last year in passengers (Pittsburgh was 40th) and
recently opened a $ 15 million pilot training center for US Airways.

US Airways points to Charlotte as an example of a well-run nonauthority airport.
Orr said it was no accident. He said he had the flexibility to run the airport
as he saw fit without political interference from city hall.

"We have a government that is very business-like and politicians who run the
city for the good of the citizens. I guess we're just blessed. Good, clean
government is something we're proud of," he said.

Orr won't allow himself to be drawn into the debate over the advantages of
airport authorities vs. government-run operations. In the end, he said, it may
boil down to "the attitude of the people who run the airport," not the
structure.

"You have to decide what you want to be in life, like anything else. We want
this airport to be the best there is," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              173 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 14, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

NEW TRAFFIC PATTERNS CALLED KEY TO E. LIBERTY REVITALIZATION

BYLINE: DIANA BLOCK, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 556 words


East Liberty may not look like an isolated island, but city traffic planners
think it's suffering from a moat effect, cut off from its surroundings by the
confusing and hard-to-navigate Penn Circle. New road plans are among several
developments they hope will bring people into the neighborhood.

Designers, traffic engineers and transportation specialists met yesterday to
talk about ways to redirect Penn Circle traffic, which would bring more people
into the business district and better connect the area to its neighbors.

"We want people to come into East Liberty, and into the community. And
currently, [Penn Circle] pulls people out of the central business area," said
Whitney Finnstrom, a community planner for East Liberty Development Inc.

The city began looking into ways to improve Penn Circle in January and is now
about 65 percent of the way toward making real changes, said Sidney Kaikai,
principal transportation planner for the city.

Trans Associates, Urban Design Associates, Karen Brean Associates and John J.
Clark and Associates have worked out eight traffic patterns that would bring
people into East Liberty rather than keeping them on the outskirts.

Their team will make a final recommendation after hearing what residents think
of the preliminary plans, some of which suggest two-way traffic on the circle
and bridges to adjacent neighborhoods.

"This is the phase of the study where everybody gets to look at all of the
alternatives" and recommend one of the plans to the city, Kaikai said.

The study will be finished in the fall and construction could begin as soon as
next spring, he said.

In the 1960s, East Liberty's thriving shops and businesses were stifled when the
heart of the district became a pedestrian mall. Traffic to the area dwindled and
businesses foundered when cars followed Penn Circle around rather than going
through the commercial district.

"What we want to do is make it normal again - restore access to pedestrians
[and] to cars," said Cynthia Jampole, project manager.

Roads aren't the only new plans laid in East Liberty. New stores, community
services, housing and arts facilities are all in the works. The new Home Depot
is expect ed to bring shoppers to the area, an investment which has many local
business leaders optimistic, said Rob Stephany, director of real estate
development for East Liberty Development Inc.

The headquarters for Big Brothers Big Sisters will open in September on Penn
Circle South, adding a newly refurbished building to the area and a stronger
presence of social services.

Housing developments such as New Pennley Place on Penn Avenue will offer more of
a neighborhood feeling, Stephany said, and there are plans to reopen the Regent
Theater on Penn Avenue.

"The climate in the neighborhood is substantially different than it was five
years ago," he said. "I think some of these developments have really put a
spirit of optimism in the air.

"Ultimately, it's the people in the neighborhood who are really going to
determine the success of East Liberty five years down the road. And I think
they're excited."

The city will hold an open meeting to discuss road plans at 7 p.m. tomorrow in
East Liberty Presbyterian Church. Residents are also welcome to attend an open
house at the Regent Theater at 5:30 tonight .

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              180 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 5, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

NEW MOTOWN CHIEF WANTS TO GET LABEL'S GROOVE BACK

BYLINE: PHYLLIS FURMAN, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. F-4

LENGTH: 1869 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Kedar Massenburg, the new president of famed music label Motown, is sitting in
his midtown office, an elegant suite once occupied by billionaire record mogul
David Geffen.

Wearing a gleaming diamond in his left ear, the 36-year-old hit maker who
sparked the explosive career of soul diva Erykah Badu hasn't forgotten his
tough, early days, being raised by a single, welfare-supported mother on Avenue
J in Flatbush, Brooklyn.

"I put myself through college and law school," Massenburg said proudly. "I
always had that drive to do better."

Massenburg will need that drive - and more - as he sets out to get Motown's
groove back.

Since the departure of founder Berry Gordy, who sold the company in 1988, the
rhythm-and-blues label that spawned megastars like Stevie Wonder, the Jackson 5,
the Supremes, the Temptations and Marvin Gaye has fallen on hard times. In
dustry watchers said a series of label chiefs - including prominent record
producer Andre Harrell - failed to keep up with shifting tastes.

Once the dominant force in American music, Motown lags far behind rap
powerhouses like Def Jam and Priority Records, and is barely visible on the pop
charts.

Enter Massenburg, an aggressive former music manager known for his crafty
marketing of alternative R&B singers, like Badu and soul crooner D' Angelo.

In January, Doug Morris, chairman of Universal Music, tapped Massenburg to
revamp 40-year-old Motown, which Universal took over as part of its huge
acquisition of music giant PolyGram.

Morris said he has no illusions about re-creating the classic Detroit label and
its distinctive sound.

"Motown can never be what it was when Berry Gordy was there," Morris said.
"Kedar will give it his own personality. The signature will be quality."

The first big test of Massenburg's reign will come Sept. 21 with the release of
R&B singer Brian McKnight's "Back at One," a followup to his multiplatinum album
"Anytime."

While Massenburg did not sign McKnight to Motown, he supervised the new album,
which Universal execs are counting on to be a major hit. "They've got a lot
riding on this," McKnight said.

The stakes will be even higher when Badu, the sultry songstress who set off a
fashion trend with her signature African headdress, releases her third album -
her first for Motown - this fall.

Badu, who followed Massenburg to Motown, set a high standard with her debut
release, the critically acclaimed "Baduizm," which shot to the top of the charts
in 1997, selling more than 2 million copies, followed soon after by another big
hit, "Erykah Badu Live."

"The challenge is to do better than ' Baduizm,' " Massenburg said.

If anyone can pull off the revival of Motown, industry insiders said, it is
Massenburg.

"Kedar has a keen sense of how to develop an artist - he works from the street
up," said Daniel Glass, the executive vice president of Artemis Records who
hired Massenburg when he was president at Universal Records.

Motown's new chief got his start in the business while still in college,
managing a rap act called Stetsasonic.

After attending law school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
he produced records for hot singers like Mary J. Blige before setting up an
artists' management firm he called Kedar Entertainment. With the backing of
Universal, Massenburg turned his company into a record label in 1995.

Along the way, as he worked with D' Angelo and Badu, Massenburg helped fuel a
revival of R&B music with a new kind of sound, which he dubbed neoclassic soul.
"It's more spiritual and New Age," Massenburg said. "It is respected by the
street."

Massenburg also proved to be a shrewd marketer.

When it came to launching an unknown like Badu, he played up the singer's
soulful image by sending radio stations and retailers a postcard picturing an
incense stick trailed by smoke spelling out Badu.

"It created a buzz throughout the industry," said Miles Marshall Lewis, music
editor at Vibe magazine.

Massenburg said he wants the new Motown to bridge the gap between cut ting-edge
artists like Badu and more mainstream acts like girl group 702, which has
recorded a hit single, "Where My Girls At?"

He also has high hopes for a 23-year-old songstress named Grenique and a
seductive male foursome called Profyle.

The new Motown chief, who has consulted Gordy, is also mining the legendary
label's heritage. He recently released "Marvin is 60," a tribute to Gaye, and
has brought singer Smokey Robinson back to the label after a long hiatus.

"He's blending the classic Motown with neoclassic soul," said Mel Lewinter,
chairman of Universal/Motown Records Group.

Massenburg sees his challenge in a broader sense, since "Motown is part of
American tradition. It's beyond overwhelming," he said.

Lately he's been fielding invitations from high places, including the White
House, to get involved in various projects or make appearances.

But for the most part, he's turning them down. "Let me put Motown on the map
first," Massenburg said. "Then call me back."

pg99 0016 990905 N S 9909030068 00006647 IT N

Katie Riggs, 13, is not allowed to wear mascara and isn't really going on dates,
but she doesn't think twice about sashaying through the mall with heaven forbid
- her bra straps exposed.

Grandma, cover your eyes: Bra straps are cool. The undergarment whose absence
once symbolized rebellion has returned in a most visible way.

After cropping up in New York and Los Angeles several years ago, the exposed
strap has become a national phenomenon among under-30 women, fashion experts
say. It's a look that young people variously praise as comfortable and feminine,
in-your-face cute and alluring.

"Even Mennonite girls are wearing it in church functions," sighs a disapproving
Andree Conrad, editor of Apparel Industry magazine.

Young women chortle when reminded that their mothers once took great pains,
occasionally rigging safety pins, to prevent the horrifying fashion faux pas of
an errant strap. "Why bother going to any length to obscure something everyone
knows?" they ask.

"Tank tops are being made smaller and the straps are made smaller and it's not
an issue to hide them," adds a manager at Victoria's Secret at Century III Mall
in West Mifflin. "They feel it's sexy to show a bra strap."

But experts who measure how fashion and values intersect find deeper meaning.

"Nothing is kept private," groused Linda Velez, a textile manufacturer and an
associate professor at New York's Parsons School of Design. "It reflects society
- no one has any reserve anymore. Reserve is not a word young people understand;
it's all about showing everything," she said.

"It's an extremely forthright generation that's willing to really expose itself.
And at the same time, it's an extremely demanding generation that requires
reconsideration of dress in bold ways," said Richard Martin, director of the
Costume Institute at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art, who has curated
several exhibits involving lingerie, including one called "Bare Witness: Dress
and Exposure."

The fad represents a sea change in women's perception of their bodies and their
willingness to accept casual comfort over style, pundits say. It also reflects a
society in which sexual images have become part of the cultural vernacular.

"A previous generation might have been embarrassed, but today having your bra
strap exposed is a badge, a sexual signal, that's flaunted," says fashion
historian Peter Dervis. "The sexual charge gets neutralized - we're immunized
because it's all around us. It's been sanitized so all-American teen-age girls
can wear this and parents are not going ballistic."

Katie Riggs, who lives near San Bernardino, Calif., has won that battle. Her
mother also gave in on allowing Katie to wear sparkles around her eyes and
wild-colored nail polish on her fingers, but enforces a no-mascara rule. When
Katie went to the mall recently, she wore a black tank top with white bra
straps, and painted her finger- nails aqua.

In another part of the mall, Mandy Tran, 23, wore a form-fitting red tank top
set off by white bra straps when she ran errands with a younger cousin.

"To me, it's normal," said Tran, a college graduate who has been accepted to
medical school.  Some stores promote the look in store catalogs and displays,
including Limited Express.

"I guess it's more or less something like body piercing," says Alli Boyd, the
22-year-old manager of Limited Express at South Hills Village who also sports
the look. "People are gonna have to get used to it. Some people are appalled by
seeing it. Some of the older clientele see it as not classy, but some of the
younger clientele see it as something new and exciting, hip. I think it's more
or less a major generation difference."

Every generation embraces a fashion for shock value. In the ' 60s, it was
tie-dye and construction boots and, for women, wearing no bra. At the 1968 Miss
America contest, protesters hurled bras, girdles and curlers into a trash can.

Lingerie reflects who we are and how we live, experts say. When women's
intellectual and social lives were restricted during the 1800s, their bodies
were also confined in corsets. When America throttled into the sexual
revolution, women shunned bras. To textile manufacturer Velez, exposed bra
straps mirror the sexual conservatism of an AIDS-conscious society.

"A lot of these girls would be mortified if a guy came on to them, but they are
showing this as a reference to underwear: You can peek but not touch," Velez
said. "It's sexually baiting but not in a conscious way. It's just naughty
enough to get away with."

Lingerie has transcended its role as the foundation of an outfit; it's part of
fashion itself. Transparent blouses abound. Slip dresses, which resemble a
garment worn under an outfit, are so commonplace that they're now office attire.
Men's low-cut jeans are designed to reveal the tops of their underwear.

To some observers, the road to the exposed strap was paved by Madonna, who went
on stage in a bustier, and by the scantily clothed models used to advertise
designer Calvin Klein's fashions.

"Somewhere along the way, somebody did this by design or by accident, and the
climate of our culture made it permissible," fashion historian Dervis said.

About the only rule of this style is picking the proper bra to expose. Many
women now have a wardrobe of bras for virtually every occasion: sports, evening,
school or work. The exposed strap is a slender, adjustable one with the telltale
metal clip. Some women try to coordinate so their straps match their shirts.
Others prefer more daring combinations of contrasting colors. Still others opt
for patterns and prints meant to complement their tops.

As a testament to their newfound popularity, faux bra straps are now worn as
headbands.

Tom Julian, a trend analyst for the New York-based advertising firm Fallon &
McElligott, says part of the exposed strap's appeal lies in the fact that
anybody can do it. "Young girls are all very body- conscious, but it doesn't
matter what shape their body is in for this."

Post-Gazette staff writer LaMont Jones contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: J. EMILIO FLORES/LOS ANGELES TIMES: YOUNG WOMEN BARING
BRA; STRAPS ARE A COMMON SIGHT FROM COAST TO COAST.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              183 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 19, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

A GRIM FLASHBACK FOR SERBS;
WAR VETERANS STRUGGLE TO COME TO TERMS WITH WHAT THEY SAW

BYLINE: PHILIP SMUCKER, SPECIAL TO THE POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia


Ivan, a Belgrade dissident who opposed the war but served in the Yugoslav army,
was shocked by what he heard fellow soldiers say in the forests of Kosovo as
NATO bombs shook the earth around them. They spoke about the smell of burning
Albanian corpses inside furnaces at the nearby Trepca mines: "They talked about
it like they enjoyed the idea."

Three months after the end of the war, Ivan is traumatized and still afraid of
falling bombs when he hears the sound of thunder. He would like psychiatric help
but there aren't any programs to help him.

Ivan's struggle is part of a bigger problem that Serbian society faces as it
owns up to its role in the Kosovo war. There are haunting questions to be
answered both by individuals and by the Belgrade regime that believes to this
day, like its NATO opponent, that it fought for a "just cause" in Kosovo.

How Serbia deals with its war experience is seen by many inside and outside the
country as key to whether the state will develop de mocratically.

For its part, government is not ignoring the soldiers who fought in Kosovo as it
was accused of doing to other veterans immediately after wars in Bosnia and
Croatia. The Yugoslav Army information center has published a new booklet
outlining the rights of wounded soldiers and the families of the dead. Pensions
for surviving families are about $ 180 a month, a good sum compared to the
average monthly salary of $ 50.

At the same time, the regime of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic is moving
ahead to prosecute draft evaders who refused to serve in Kosovo. Former Military
Supreme Court Judge Dr. Jovan Buturovic says that an estimated 23,000 cases, if
they come to trial, will deluge the court and prison system. "Most of the young
people who evaded conscription did so out of fear," he believes.

The judge, who was instrumental in trying to set up a war crimes court in
Yugoslavia in 1992, does not expect the current government will grant a general
amnesty to draft evaders because the political climate is not right.

For those like Ivan, 26, who went to war despite their own fears and objections,
there are now pressing personal and societal problems.

Ivan did what he could to avoid war. He led an independent student group in
meeting with fellow Albanian students in Kosovo. He also led Serbian student
demonstrations two years ago aimed at forcing the Milosevic to resign as
president.

But Ivan's fight for peace led nowhere, and he believes it may have moved his
name up the government draft list. "They wanted to use people like me, to change
our points of view about the war and persuade all the rest of the Serbs that the
Albanians were our enemies," he said.

Ivan joined a communications unit in the southern city of Uzice before moving
into Kosovo. He lived in a truck for three weeks in the forest. Each morning a
political commissar went over a list of NATO atrocities against the Serbian
people. "He always stared at me like he knew my past," said Ivan.

What was most disturbing to Ivan, a soft-spoken history student, was that his
fellow Serbs started to think favorably about the need to kill ethnic Albanians.

"Many in my unit had volunteered and said they were in Kosovo to defend the holy
land," he said. "One day some soldiers talked about how some friends of theirs
had smelled the burning flesh of Albanians in furnaces in the Trepca mines."

Ivan, who now is helping to organize anti-government student protests slated for
later this year, believes Serbian society is in worse shape than at any time
since the end of the war in Kosovo. To complicate peace efforts, Albanian
revenge attacks against Kosovo Serbs since the entry of NATO forces have enraged
some of Ivan's fellow students so much that they now want the Yugoslav army to
return to Kosovo.

Philip Smucker is a free-lance journalist who writes frequently for the
Post-Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              188 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 30, 1999, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

WHO GOT HERE FIRST? DEBATE IS REKINDLED

BYLINE: MICHAEL WOODS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 978 words


Here's the familiar story.

The first Americans walked into the New World from Siberia more than 13,000
years ago over an immense, grassy "land bridge" that spanned the Bering Sea
between Siberia and Alaska.

Those bands of Ice Age hunters migrated south, stalking herds of mastodon,
mammoth and giant bison. Their descendants gave rise to the American Indians and
to the Olmec, Maya, and other prehistoric civilizations in Mexico, Central
America and South America.

For almost a half-century, that tidy little picture of the peopling of the
Americas stood as scientific dogma. During the last few years, however, new
insights have forced scientists to reconsider the greatest mysteries of New
World archaeology: Who were the first Americans? When did they arrive? Where did
they come from?

About 800 experts on the peopling of the Americas gathered in Santa Fe, N.M.,
yesterday for a conference that will start to paint a new portrait of the first
American immigrants.

As alternatives to the Bering crossing, they will be considering such scenarios
as ancient mariners who may have sailed to the Americas 30,000 or 40,000 years
ago.

Not long ago, a scientist advancing such a theory "would have been hooted right
out of the lecture hall," said Dennis Stanford of the Smithsonian Institution.
But no one is quite so certain about the prehistory of America anymore.

"There is a tremendous amount of excitement in the field right now, and there
couldn't be a better time for a meeting of this kind," said Keith W. Kintigh,
president of the Society for American Archaeology.

"People realize that old ideas may no longer be valid," he said.

Archeologists also convened the conference amid growing concern about federal
and state laws that scientists say hinder their quest for knowledge about the
first Americans. They have complained, for instance, about how government
bureaucrats implement the 1990 Federal Native American Graves Protection and
Repatriation Act, or NAGPRA.

"Decisions by bureaucrats sometimes give American Indian tribes custody of
ancient human remains for reburial before scientists can conduct a thorough
study," explained Kintigh, an archeologist at Arizona State University in Tempe.

The conference's name, "Clovis and Beyond," comes from the ancient Clovis
people, who until a few years ago were regarded as the founding culture of the
New World. They were named for an excavation near Clovis, N.M., where
archeologists in 1932 dug up the first artifacts of these ancient Americans.

Archeologists later discovered the remains of Clovis settlements throughout
Canada and the United States, identified with the help of that culture's
trademark: a chipped stone spear point sharpened on both sides. These projectile
points had a striking central groove, or flute, that made it easier to attach
the point to the shaft of a spear.

The evidence was so strong that a consensus emerged that the Clovis people were
the first Americans and that they settled here about 12,000 years ago.

"The Clovis-first model effectively became both a scholarly position and ' holy
writ,' " said James M. Adovasio, director of Mercyhurst Archaeological Institute
in Erie. "To seriously suggest that there were a series of peopling events
before Clovis was therefore considered to be not only scientifically untenable,
but heresy too."

Now heresy may become the new holy writ, as evidence has emerged that pre-Clovis
immigrations may have occurred more than 30,000 years ago.

Adovasio's own discoveries during the 1970s at the Meadowcroft Rockshelter near
Avella helped cast doubt on the Clovis-first idea. Evidence indicates that
Meadowcroft, and several other sites, may have been inhabited thousands of years
before the Clovis "boundary."

Seeds of doubt germinated in the 1980s and early ' 90s, as an international team
of archeologists headed by Thomas D. Dillehay of the University of Kentucky
reported evidence of a major pre-Clovis settlement at Monte Verde in southern
Chile.

Stone tools and other artifacts at Monte Verde differed from those found at
Clovis excavations, indicating that these were people from a distinctly
different culture. Using radioactive carbon dating, archeologists concluded that
people lived at Monte Verde at least 1,000 years before the oldest known Clovis
settlements in North America.

Material from a second possible habitation site nearby suggested that Monte
Verde was occupied 25,000 to 42,000 years ago. The first scientific reports from
excavations at Monte Verde in the late 1970s were greeted with disbelief. But in
1997, Adovasio led an expert team that visited Monte Verde and validated the
findings.

"Monte Verde had a stunning effect," said Bradley Lepper, archeologist with the
Ohio Historical Society in Columbus. "It let the genie out of the bottle. Now it
is anybody's guess when the first people arrived in the New World, where they
arrived and how they got here."

Monte Verde created another dilemma for the Clovis-first hypothesis: Monte Verde
is almost 10,000 miles south of the land bridge.

The "bridge," 55 miles long and up to 1,000 miles wide, was sea floor exposed
when climatic change plunged Earth into an Ice Age. Sea levels dropped by about
300 feet because water was locked up in vast ice sheets up to two miles thick.
As the climate warmed, the ice sheets melted, raising ocean levels and
submerging the land bridge.

Scientists such as Johanna Nichols of the University of California at Berkeley
calculate that the migration from Alaska to southern Chile would have taken
thousands of years.

Yet the Monte Verde people already lived in Chile a millennium before the first
known Clovis settlements in North America.

Artifacts suggest that Monte Verde people were not new arrivals, noted David J.
Meltzer of Southern Methodist University in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Post-Gazette: Where did
the first Americans; come from.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              189 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 November 14, 1999, Sunday, 31REGION 25 EDITION

CRACKS EMERGE IN NATO AFTER KOSOVO CONFLICT

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS -


Cracks emerge in NATO after Kosovo conflict

By Douglas Hamilton

Reuters News ServiceReleased from the discipline, drive and coherence imposed by
the all-out conflict over Kosovo, Western allies are showing signs of division
as NATO's most momentous year draws to a close.

With a lame-duck president in the White House, key East-West treaties in doubt
and a resurgent Russian military immune to outside warnings against a Chechnya
showdown, fresh uncertainty obscures the signposts to the future.

Faster than most would have predicted, the sweet taste of victory over Kosovo
has turned sour, generating transatlantic recriminations and raising deeper
doubts about where the policy of humanitarian interventions will ultimately
lead.

A damning new report on Bosnia nails down in detail what many Balkan observers
long knew and even some ranking NATO insiders privately admit - the Dayton peace
process is failing and no end to the West's burdensome mission is in sight.

The ultimate status of Kosovo is a taboo question.

The allies are trying to minimize differences over how to deal with the key
issue of Serbia, but Europeans are irked by U.S. insistence that Belgrade remain
isolated until elections are held, and they may offer more bilateral help to the
Serbs.

"A lot of our partners think the time has come to lift [the flight ban or the
oil embargo] but we think that is premature," said a senior British diplomat
ahead of foreign ministerial talks in Brussels tomorrow.

Britain and the Netherlands support the U.S. position, he said, adding: "We're
in a minority but we are not alone."

Allies are also treading carefully around a larger issue.

American ambivalence towards creating a European security pillar alongside NATO
is once again growing acute, while France warns its partners to beware the
growing hegemony, unilateralism and isolationism of a "hyperpower"United States.

"In matters of transatlantic security, NATO should be the first and principal
means of collective response, and the European Union should undertake autonomous
missions only if NATO so delegates," says a resolution before the U.S. Senate.

The bipartisan bill says the EU must ensure its new role in security affairs
does not collide with NATO's primacy, does not promote a conflicting strategic
perspective, and does not diminish Europe's military contribution to NATO.

It also insists that improved European military capabilities, not institutions,
should have priority and that non-EU allies including Canada, the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Norway, Poland, Turkey and the United States "will
not be discriminated against."

A senior EU diplomat called the bill "an exaggerated response to a real
concern."

Washington's desire to develop an anti-missile defense has also provoked an
unwelcome if faint echo of the Cold War arms race in Moscow, with warnings that
U.S. violation of the ABM treaty could trigger a buildup of Russia's
anti-missile arsenal.

European powers fear that while the proposed missile defense is meant for "rogue
states" and terrorists, it could lead in time to the military decoupling of the
alliance.

That concern is rejected by senior U.S. military sources, who say NATO allies
would together develop a theater anti-missile shield for the benefit of Europe.

For all these reasons, new NATO Secretary General Lord George Robertson is
anxious to impress on European Union leaders that they must take extra care at
their Helsinki summit next month to reassure Washington the EU is not
anti-Atlantic.

Recent leadership changes have slowed the momentum of both organizations.
Robertson is still on his introductory rounds and the EU's new executive
Commission is only two months old.

While the political climate is evolving, it is not clear whether the basis on
which Western powers agreed to organize for the next century is affected.

Instead of improving quickly after the dust settled in Kosovo and Russian
peacekeeping troops deployed alongside alliance soliders, NATO's fragile
post-Cold War relationship with Moscow seems increasingly overshadowed by
suspicion.

The dialogue is very narrow and the Russian participants are not of the same
caliber as they were before the row over NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia, according
to NATO sources.

NATO is uncomfortable with the confrontational tone of a new Russian military
doctrine now being drafted, even as Moscow by its own admission is exceeding in
Chechnya the force limits set out by the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe
treaty.

"We are concerned that the draft moves away from the principle of cooperative
security, as it paints a darker, more confrontational picture of international
relations," Roberston wrote in a Russian newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              190 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 November 21, 1999, Sunday, 31REGION 25 EDITION

BETHLEHEM-CENTER SCHOOLS

SECTION: MISCELLANEOUS, Pg. W-9

LENGTH: 796 words


Bethlehem-Center Schools

Ex-manager blames board for resignationsBy Jim Smith

The former business manager at the Bethlehem-Center School District blamed an
overreaching and overbearing school board for his decision last month to leave
the district.

Leonard Corazzi, who served for six years as the district's business manager,
became at least the seventh administrator to leave the district in the past 16
months.

Corazzi, who quit his job at Beth-Center to accept the business manager post at
the Southeastern Greene School District, said the exodus of administrators at
Beth-Center is proof of the "terrible working conditions" in the district.

"I left because of the micromanagement of the school board. They try to get
involved in every little thing that goes on in the district. They try to manage
everything, even those things that they aren't trained for," he said.

Corazzi said the board has created a climate in which "all administrators are
afraid to make a decision" or risk criticism from the board. He pointed to the
board's well-publicized dispute with Superintendent Byron Phillips as evidence
of what he characterized as the board's practice of management by intimidation.

The board, citing Phillips' failure to fulfill his duties as chief administrator
in the district, suspended the superintendent Sept. 15 after eight months on the
job. The suspension came two weeks after directors said they found confidential
files on Phillips' office computer that included "derogatory" information about
district officials.

[The board] wanted to show everyone they were in control and they were going to
do whatever they wanted to do to maintain that control," Corazzi said.

He said the board's actions against Phillips and its "abuse" of administrators
have caused severe morale problems in the district.

"I was here for a little more than six years and it's a lot worse now than when
I first got here. I don't see the trend at Beth-Center changing any time soon,"
he said.

Director Mark Yakopovich, who lost his bid for re-election earlier this year,
was not surprised with Corazzi's decision to leave the district.

"When you lose all these administrators in a year and a half, that tells you
something. This board has gotten impossible to work with," he said.

Board President John Sloan admitted that problems have arisen between the board
and some administrators over the past months, but said those kinds of
disagreements occur in every district.

He said he believed the primary reason for so many administrators leaving the
district was because of money.

"People don't believe us, but the No. 1 factor for this has been money," Sloan
said. "Other districts have decided they're going to pay whatever they can for
superintendents, principals and business managers. We can't afford to do that.
We have to work within our budget."

He said the Southeastern Greene School District was able to lure Corazzi, whom
he described as "a very good business manager," from Beth-Center with an
attractive salary proposal.

"They made him an offer that we simply couldn't match," Sloan said. "I don't
blame him for leaving. The kind of money they gave him would be hard to pass
up."

Corazzi, who was earning $ 42,000 when he left Beth-Center, received a starting
salary of $ 53,000 when he began his duties Oct. 25 at Southeastern Greene.

"I admit part of my decision was money, but that maybe accounted for 25 percent
of my reason to leave Beth-Center," Corazzi said. "Most of it was because of the
working conditions.

"I got tired of approving an expenditure that wasn't on the agenda at one
meeting and [receiving criticism] from the board for it, and then at the next
meeting approving an expenditure that was on the agenda and being criticized for
it because the board thought it shouldn't be on the agenda because they said it
was an administrative matter."

He said the board must change or risk losing even more administrators.

"The board at Beth-Center has to decide if they want to keep being so demanding
or if they want to keep paying the lower money. They can't have both. No one's
going to take the kind of treatment from the board that they have to take and at
such low pay.

"The board's got to learn that if they want to keep people for what they pay
them, they're going to have to start treating them with dignity."

Meanwhile, the board recently named Betty Harbaugh, director of accounting at
Centerville Clinics, as the district's new business manager. She began her post
Nov. 15 at a salary of $ 32,000, Sloan said.

Harbaugh was hired under a six-month probationary period and her salary would
rise to $ 35,000 if she is retained after that time, Sloan said.

Jim Smith is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              192 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 1, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

TURNOUT SMALL FOR MUZZLELOADER FALL SEASON

BYLINE: MIKE SAJNA

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. C-10, OUTDOORS

LENGTH: 720 words


Although muzzleloader hunters have been campaigning for years for a fall season,
the turnout for Allegheny County's first special regulation antlerless deer
muzzleloader hunt Nov. 18-20 was far lighter than the Game Commission expected.

The hunt was authorized only for special regulation areas such as Allegheny
County and Bucks, Chester, Delaware and Montgomery counties in southeastern
Pennsylvania.

Allegheny County Wildlife Conservation Officers Rod Bimber and Dan Sitler said
the hunt went fairly well, with the largest turnout on Thursday. Numbers
declined on the weekend, especially Saturday when it was rainy.

"It was not the pressure that we expected," said Sitler, who checked only one
deer. "It was spotty. In some areas there were a few hunters, but in most of the
areas there was nobody. I expected us to have a lot more pressure, especially on
Saturday."

"We didn't see a lot of deer killed," Bimber said. "We checked four deer. To my
knowledge, we didn't have any bucks killed like we were afraid might happen
because of the questions we were getting. Everybody seemed to be pretty law
abiding with the exception of a few minor things."

Bimber and his deputies spent a large part of one day patrolling a particular
area because they were concerned about an albino buck lying next to the road. "I
was sure somebody was going to shoot him, but they didn't," he said.

Wildlife conservation officers were on the alert for buck hunters because the
commission's Southwest Region office had received several calls from hunters who
believed they could take either a doe or a buck during the antlerlessdeer-only
hunt. A few hunters also thought the season applied to the entire southwest
region, not just Allegheny County.

Bimber reported only four game law violations, including hunters jumping out of
a car and shooting from the road, shooting in a safety zone, shooting across a
roadway and failing to wear orange. Although fluorescent orange regulations have
been in effect for years, they still account for a major number of violations in
every hunting season.

"Archery season was a fiasco with the orange," Bimber said. "Guys didn't even
have it with them in the woods. They've heard the old story that you can't kill
anything wearing orange. Well, I've killed spring gobblers, fall gobblers while
I was wearing orange. As long as you're not moving you can do it."

As an indication of how the demographics of the state's deer herd has changed,
numerous hunters left the traditional deer counties of northern Pennsylvania to
hunt in Allegheny County.

"Overall, I think, it was pretty good. It went pretty well," Bimber said. "I was
a little disappointed at the pressure, but it wasn't bad."

"In the future, [the special season] might grow in popularity," Sitler added.
"This was the first year for it and guys might not have been as aware of it as
the could have been. Or they just didn't have the time to take off those days in
advance."

Fishing update

Steelhead fishing continues to be good in Lake Erie tributary streams, with fish
of 13 and 14 pounds "not uncommon," according to Erie County Waterways
Conservation Officer John Bowser. "In other years those were the exception."

The fishing has been so good this season, that more than 100 anglers could be
found fishing Walnut Creek on the opening day of buck season Monday. Among those
anglers was Vince Toth of Harrison City, who reported about 30 hook-ups.

Lures and baits that have been working include Green Woolly Buggers, sucker
spawn, skein, live minnows, black jigs tipped with maggots and Blood Dots.

"But the main key, is light line that becomes invisible," Bowser said. "Guys
come up with 30pound test, they're just wasting their time. Fourpound is
working, and they're even going down to 2-pound when the water's really clear.
Four is usually good enough, though."

Wetlands program

Maryann Borsick will present a program on wetlands, pollen and environmental
history at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Erie National Wildlife Refuge, Wood Duck Lane,
Guys Mills, Crawford County. The program will look at such things as how past
plant communities and environmental history can be identified by the pollen
record and how the pollen record can help researchers understand the effects of
global climate change.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 18, 1999, Monday, SOONER EDITION

BALTIMORE ZOO BREEDS SUCCESS;
PROGRAM PRODUCES PROLIFIC COLONY OF AFRICAN PENGUINS

BYLINE: MARY PEMBERTON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-13

LENGTH: 821 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE


The African penguins at the Baltimore Zoo look like proper, upstanding penguins,
but looks can be deceiving. What they know about sexual trickery could teach
soap opera stars a thing or two.

Take, for example, the adult female who has been reduced to hanging out with the
youngsters in the nursery instead of the other adults snuggled up to each other
in the nesting room.

"She's a bit of a home wrecker," said Steven J. Sarro, curator of birds,
pointing out the pretty black and white penguin taking a twirl around the kiddie
pool. "We have two out there that are nesting and she likes one of them."

The Baltimore Zoo's African penguins breeding program has resulted in the
largest and most prolific colony of African penguins in North America. Since the
zoo began breeding in 1967, almost 800 African penguins, also known as
black-footed penguins and the Jackass Penguin because they bray like donkeys,
have been produced. The zoo sells many of them to other zoos and aquariums to
pay for the breeding program.

The African penguin, distinguished by a black band across the upper chest, is
one of 17 species, stands 18 inches tall and weighs about eight pounds.

They used to live by the millions on the coastal islands of South Africa, but
now only about 140,000 exist, in large part because of oil spills and
overharvesting of fish the penguins rely on as a food source, Sarro said.

Unless conditions change, African penguins could be extinct in the wild in 40
years, said Sarro, who traveled to South Africa last year.

He told of visiting an island where 9,000 penguins once lived.

"We saw two," he said.

Three years ago, the American Zoo and Aquarium Association selected the
Baltimore Zoo to establish a species survival plan for the North American
population of African penguins. The goal of the program is to produce a stable,
genetically diverse population that can be acquired by zoos and aquariums
worldwide.

The plan's propagation group, which Sarro leads, includes a geneticist,
nutritionist and behaviorist, as well as members of other zoos who meet
regularly to share information.

The black-footed penguin was first mentioned in the journals of explorer Alvero
Vello in 1497. He wrote, "These are birds as big as ducks, but they cannot fly
because they have no feathers on their wings. These birds . . . bray like
asses."

Black-footed penguins became known as African penguins after 1758. The species,
one of several that live in temperate climates, is listed as vulnerable, but as
late as 1967, penguin eggs were served as a delicacy in South African
restaurants.

The zoo's 66 African penguins live in three rooms at the end of a long,
underground tunnel. One room contains 16 plastic dog crates that line the walls
and are used as nesting boxes. Couples have taken up occupancy in some of the
boxes.

"Normally, they are monogamous their whole lives," Sarro said. However, there
are exceptions.

' It is like a soap opera down here, I swear," said Sharon Overholser, the zoo's
senior keeper of birds, who keeps track of 666 African penguins in the studbook,
a registry of birds at 55 zoos and aquariums. "We used to have a female that
went around breaking up all the other pairs."

Nearly 70 percent of the penguins in the studbook at zoos and aquariums in the
United States and Canada can be traced to the Baltimore Zoo's penguins.

Members of the propagation group select pairs that are genetically valuable for
breeding and guard against inbreeding. In some cases, they will pair penguins
that don't have a natural attraction for each other because they are a good
genetic match.

Because male and female penguins are virtually identical, it frequently takes
blood tests to determine their sex.

African penguins take weeks, even months before they mate while the couple gets
to know each other.

"It is just like dating," Sarro said.

The female will lay two eggs about four days apart, the second as insurance. It
takes 38 days for the eggs to hatch.

In the wild, both parents would care and feed the young, but that isn't prudent
at the zoo because it places the young at risk of being picked on by other
penguins.

So the chicks are taken from their parents at three weeks and placed in
age-specific boxes in the nursery next to the kiddie pool where they will be
forced to learn to swim at about two months, after their down has turned to
feathers.

"They get swimming lessons. We toss them in and they learn to swim," Sarro said.
"They don't like it right away. They come around."

Between 12 and 16 weeks, the juveniles are introduced to the colony.

Sarro said each penguin has its own personality. One female hates squid until a
day or two before she's be ready to lay eggs, and then that's all she wants. A
male, named Jack, has a habit of pecking at shoes and pulling at coat hems.

"I'm crazy about them," Sarro said. "They just mess with you."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Greg Nelson/Associated Press: Above: Three sibling
African; penguin chicks wait to be fed at the Baltimore Zoo. The zoo's breeding
program; has resulted in the largest and most prolific colony of African
penguins in; North America.; PHOTO: Below: An adult African penguin at the
Baltimore Zoo.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              198 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 14, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

WARMTH OF CLINTON VISIT FADES TO FREEZE IN CHINA;
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS SAY POLITICAL FORCES IN BOTH COUNTRIESARE MORE INTENT;
ON CONFRONTATION THAN COOPERATION.

BYLINE: JANE PERLEZ, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1355 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Seven months after President Clinton's return from a picture-perfect trip to
China, the promise of a new era in Chinese-U.S. relations has faded, leaving the
administration grappling with an unexpected round of repression of human rights
in China and a mounting perception in Congress that Beijing is threatening Asian
security.

The high expectations set by Clinton in China have run up against a pessimistic
tone set by political forces in both countries that administration officials say
are more intent on confrontation than cooperation.

Instead of showing signs of progress in its policy of "constructive engagement"
with China, the administration is facing a squall of China-bashing in Congress.

Even U.S. business, a constituency that the administration's China policy has
particularly tried to assist and the loudest advocate of closer ties, is
complaining about Beijing's new restrictions on foreign investment.

Stung by a bipartisan congressional inquiry's findings that China stole
sensitive U.S. military technology, administration officials say they are warily
waiting for even more explosive details expected to be announced in March in a
declassified report by the congressmen who headed the inquiry.

And later this month, the Pentagon is expected to send to Congress its
long-delayed classified report on security questions in the Taiwan Strait, which
will describe a sharp increase in the number of missiles on the Chinese coast.

Officials and experts who have had sections of the report read to them said the
Pentagon would report that in the early 1990s, China had 60 missiles pointed at
Taiwan but that since 1995, that number has more than doubled. In three years
the Chinese are expected to have 800 missiles deployed on their side of the
strait.

That report, another administration official said, is sure to create "a new wave
of calls about the China threat."

In the face of these obstacles, the administration says its policy of
"constructive engagement" still holds.

In the next two months, in advance of a visit to Washington by Prime Minister
Zhu Rongji on April 8, the administration will be working hard to find some
issue on which the two countries can find common ground, most likely the
possibility of China's admission to the World Trade Organization.

Even that common ground may be elusive. As the Chinese economy suffers from
slower growth, rising unemployment and stalled economic reforms, the incentive
for the Chinese to make trade concessions so they can join the trade
organization has diminished, economists say.

"The administration thought after the Clinton trip that it had come to some
tolerable modus vivendi with China," said Jonathan B. Pollack, a defense
strategist at Rand Corp., who recently visited China. "But it doesn't run very
deep. There's a clear sense that the underpinnings are very fragile, and there's
a very clear potential for a real reversal in the relationship."

The most immediate thorn for the administration is how to deal with the
regression in China's human rights policies in the last two months.

Administration officials argue that they never expected continued improvement in
human rights after Clinton left China in July and that there is "no quick fix,"
as Harold Koh, the assistant secretary of state for human rights, said recently.

But the long prison sentences of 11 to 13 years imposed on three democracy
campaigners in December took officials here by surprise.

"Obviously, we are unhappy about the arrests and have said so publicly and, from
the president on down, privately," said Sandy Berger, the president's national
security adviser.

Traditionally, the clearest path for the administration to register its
objection to such a crackdown is to sponsor a resolution condemning China at the
annual meeting of the U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva.

That is an annual opportunity for countries to record their disquiet at China's
human rights policy in a forum that the Chinese authorities take seriously
despite its relative obscurity.

Last year, in the face of a seemingly improved human rights climate in China and
to the gratification of the Chinese government, the administration decided for
the first time since 1990 not to offer such a resolution.

But now, in what an official described as almost "insurmountable" pressure from
Congress, the administration is in the midst of a heated debate about whether to
reverse last year's course and condemn the Chinese for the crackdown. Such a
reversal could be embarrassing for Clinton, who at the end of his China trip
said, "China has the right leadership at the right time."

The White House was opposed to moving against the Chinese in Geneva,
administration officials said, but became alarmed when a moderate Republican,
Rep. Doug Bereuter of Nebraska, chairman of the International Relations
Subcommittee on Asia, said there would be an "explosion" in Congress if the
administration remained quiet at Geneva.

Berger said the White House was now considering what recommendation to make to
Clinton about the Geneva conference, which starts on March 22 and runs until
April 30. Inconveniently for the administration, Zhu's visit to Washington is
scheduled for the middle of the Geneva gathering.

On national security, the administration faces a confluence of issues that may
serve only to intensify the problems in the relationship with China.

At the top of the list is the administration's proposal, which the Chinese have
vehemently criticized, to push forward plans for developing a theater missile
defense system with Japan, South Korea and possibly Taiwan.

The system, which is still in the design stage, has been promoted with renewed
urgency by the administration since the surprise firing by North Korea of a
missile that flew over Japan and into the Pacific in August.

The administration says the system would protect Japan and South Korea from
North Korean missiles, but Taiwan's government has shown interest in being part
of the system, an interest the administration has not discouraged.

The Chinese have interpreted the recent push on the theater missile defense
system as hostile. A Pentagon official suggested that this was hardly
surprising, since the defense system hit them at the "heart of their military
posture."

The coming release of a Pentagon report on the system, requested last year by
Congress, is likely to intensify the debate.

During a visit to Washington last month, a senior Chinese arms control official,
Sha Zukang, warned the administration that pushing ahead with the missile
defense system would sink any chances of China's joining a major international
mechanism for controlling the spread of missile technology, the Missile
Technology Control Regime. Nations that belong to the regime are bound not to
export missile parts.

Sha made the warning at a conference at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, where Berger announced that Washington would like China to join the
control regime this year.

From the administration's point of view, the brightest picture for achieving
some progress with the Chinese in time for the prime minister's visit appears to
be paving the way for China's entry to the World Trade Organization.

Urging China to make concessions so it can join the world's premier trade body
has been the focus of Clinton's efforts in the last three years to open China
economically and politically.

But Western economists assert that this is one of the most inopportune times to
be moving China toward the trade group.

U.S. corporations complain that China, instead of easing market access, has been
tightening the rules for Western investors in the last few months, particularly
in telecommunications. And to belong to the trade organization, China would have
to make such fundamental changes as freeing up the distribution system of roads
and warehouses, which are now almost entirely in the hands of the army.

Berger said the administration wanted to persevere and that another delegation
of the U.S. trade representative's office would go to China soon.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   March 17, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

DO FEWER ATTACKS MEAN FEWER SHARKS?

BYLINE: JANE SUTTON, REUTERS NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Shark attacks on humans dropped worldwide in 1998 for the third straight year,
leaving scientists to puzzle whether overfishing, climate changes or other
factors figured in the decline.

Researchers for the International Shark Attack File at the University of Florida
in Gainesville logged 49 shark attacks on people last year. That was down from
57 in 1997 and was well below the all-time high of 72 in 1995, said a study
released yesterday.

File director George Burgess said that scientists suspected overfishing of
sharks could be a factor, but that the trend would have to continue several more
years before they knew for sure.

The drop could also be due to changing weather patterns or variations in
currents, which could affect the number of fish available for sharks to feed on
close to shore. There could also be fewer people in the water for sharks to bump
into.

"If there is a downturn in the economy, you're going to get [fewer] tourists
going to the beaches and therefore less time spent in the water," Burgess said.

More than half of last year's attacks, 25, occurred in North America, with 75
percent of those in Florida. There were 18 attacks in Africa, four in South
America, one in Australia and one in the South Pacific.

"The big news was that South Africa had more attacks than it has in many years,"
Burgess said.

South Africa had 17 shark attacks last year, compared to a yearly average of
five over the past decade. Burgess said there were no reports of unusual
oceanographic conditions, except for greater numbers of sardines, which could
attract more sharks.

Six of last year's shark attacks were fatal - two in Brazil and one each in
Florida, South Africa, Australia and Mozambique.

The Florida fatality was the state's first in a decade. It occurred on Nov. 21,
when a 6-foot tiger shark grabbed a 9-year-old boy off Vero Beach and pulled him
under. The boy was flailing to stay afloat in fairly deep water, which probably
attracted the shark, Burgess said.

"It's very unusual to have a fatal shark attack in Florida waters," Burgess
said. "Most of our cases involve hit-and-run attacks, in which the shark,
apparently mistaking a person for a fish, makes a quick grab, then apparently
realizing its error, lets go and swims away. The damage left to humans is
usually nothing more than a few scars."

Surfers were the most targeted recreational group worldwide, accounting for 69
percent of all 1998 shark attacks, Burgess said.

Surfers were frequent victims because their kicking and splashing at the water's
surface mimicked the activities of a mullet or some other food item of the
shark, he said.

The report can be found on Web site www.flmnh.ufl.edu/fish/research/

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 4, 1999, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

TRIAL COULD RAISE GAY AWARENESS;
MURDER OF MATTHEW SHEPARD, 21, HAS BECOME A SYMBOL OF VIOLENCE

BYLINE: JAMES BROOKE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: LARAMIE, Wyo.


At sunrise today, the Rev. Stephen M. Johnson and fellow worshippers will gather
for an Easter service on a bleak, windswept hill.

They will stand by a small cross of stones, a rough marker of the spot where
Matthew Shepard was beaten, robbed and left to die, lashed to wooden fence
poles.

In the six months since the fatal beating of Shepard, a gay 21-year-old college
student, the spot has become a pilgrimage site, as people bearing poems and
floral bouquets have worn deep ruts in a dirt track to the lonely section of
fence.

On Friday, as a chill wind blew, Johnson, a Unitarian minister, reflected: "I
have seen people come out here with a pocketknife and take a piece of the fence,
like a relic, like an icon. To have a piece of the experience here is powerful
to people."

On Wednesday, six months to the day after Shepard was beaten and abandoned,
these powerful emotions will be focused on the granite Albany County Courthouse,
where Russell A. Henderson, the first of two defendants, is to go on trial on
charges of first-degree murder, kidnapping and robbery.

In a separate trial in August, the other defendant, Aaron J. McKinney, is to
face trial on the same charges.

In death, Shepard, who was a boyish, slightly built freshman at the University
of Wyoming, became an overnight symbol of violence against gay people, inspiring
hundreds of vigils and rallies and countless discussions around the United
States and around the world.

Bracing for an enormous amount of news media interest in the trial, the
presiding state district judge, Jeffrey Donnell, has banned television cameras
and radio microphones from the courtroom, set up a special area for protesters,
tightened police security, and ordered that the jury be sequestered after
opening statements.

This tremendous interest has already become a theme of complaint for Wyatt
Skaggs, the court-appointed lawyer for Henderson, a 21-year-old who was working
as a roofer when he was arrested on Oct. 7.

In December, when Cal Rerucha, the Albany County attorney, announced that he
would seek the death penalty in both cases, Skaggs called the choice
"politically motivated," noting that this would be Wyoming's first capital
murder trial in 20 years.

Last week, the defense lawyer told prospective jurors, "We've got to begin by
disregarding the guilt thing, that we have to punish somebody to show the nation
we're not some dusty old cow town."

Skaggs added, "The press wants us to think that we are somehow responsible for
what went on Oct. 6."

Inside the courtroom, Skaggs indicated that he would fight for his client's
life, but would not dispute his presence at the fence. He conceded to juror
candidates that the police had recovered a jacket belonging to Henderson that
was spattered with Shepard's blood.

But the lawyer said that his client did not profit from the $ 20 robbery and did
not participate in the pistol-whipping of Shepard, who was 5 feet 2 inches tall
and weighed 105 pounds.

"Russell Henderson was a witness to the beating of Matthew Shepard," Skaggs
said.

As this university town of 30,000 people prepares for a trial that is expected
to last through April, gay organizers in Laramie and around the nation are
taking measure of the distance traveled since Shepard's death was on front pages
and magazine covers the world over.

On one level, many organizers are frustrated that widespread horror over the
murder never translated into political support for hate-crime bills around the
nation.

"There is a gap between rhetoric and what politicians are willing to do in terms
of public policy," said Kerry Lobel, executive director of the National Gay and
Lesbian Task Force, a gay rights group based in Washington. "Nearly everyone
expressed their condolences. But condolences in an environment of hatred and
homophobia is cheap talk."

Thirteen state legislatures are debating bills to raise penalties for crimes
motivated by antigay bias. But every hate-crime bill that went to a state
legislature for a vote this winter was defeated, including one in Wyoming.

Last November, less than one month after Shepard died in a hospital in Fort
Collins, Colo., voters there rejected adding "sexual orientation" to a city
antidiscrimination ordinance.

Valerie Baker-Easley, acting director of a local gay community center, said,
"The knife through the heart was having people vote the ordinance down as
soundly as they did, by a larger proportion than 10 years earlier."

Hoping to stir interest in federal hate-crime legislation, Judy Shepard,
Matthew's mother, addressed a news conference in Washington in late March.

"There is no guarantee that these laws will stop hate crimes from happening, but
they can reduce them," said Judy Shepard, who later traveled to Laramie for the
trial from her home in Saudi Arabia, where the family had moved for a job. "They
can help change the climate in this country, where some people feel it is OK to
target specific groups of people and get away with it."

Looking beyond the recent political defeats, many anti-violence organizers sense
that the impact of Shepard's death was more subtle. They say he gave a human
face to antigay violence.

"Matthew Shepard humanized gay people - he busted the stereotypes," said Brian
Levin, director of Stockton College's Center on Hate and Extremism in Pomona,
N.J. "Gays were no longer these leather-clad, flamboyantly dressed people from
San Francisco. It was the sweet kid next door."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Matthew Shepard

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 5, 1999, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

LIFE AFTER COPPER;
MINERS FACE MAJOR CHANGES AS INDUSTRY SHRINKS

BYLINE: JERRY NACHITGAL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: GLOBE, Ariz.


Carrie Schlink admits she feels a little uncomfortable sitting at a computer
wearing makeup and business attire as she trains for a new career as an office
assistant.

Schlink, 44, would much rather be working at her old job. For 11 years she
toiled at BHP Copper's Pinto Valley mine, manning massive hydraulic drills and
driving super-size dump trucks loaded with 200 tons of copper ore carved from
the 1,400-foot-deep open pit.

"I loved my job," says Schlink, a divorced mother of three who earned $ 16.80 an
hour and developed the bulging biceps of a weightlifter.

But when copper prices in February 1998 sank to depths not seen in years, BHP
Copper shut down most production at Pinto Valley. Schlink and 500 other miners
found themselves out of work.

"I was planning on retiring from that place," says Schlink, who earned $ 7.80 an
hour during a four-month federal job-training program that ended March 30. "I
and a lot of people weren't prepared for it."

At the start of the 20th century, copper was king in Arizona, with one of every
four workers employed in the mining trade. On the brink of a new millennium,
however, the industry is no longer the cornerstone of the state's so-called
"Five C's" economy - copper, cattle, cotton, citrus and climate.

From the advent of computerized equipment to new and cheaper methods of
extracting ore from rock, technological advances have pared the number of miners
needed to dig copper from Arizona's deserts to only about 12,000. The service
industry, Arizona's top industry, employs 634,000.

Thousands of miners and their families streamed out of once-thriving mining
towns like Globe, Miami, Bisbee, Jerome, Douglas, Morenci, Superior and Ajo in
the past 50 years as fickle copper prices, declining ore quality and other
factors led to mine closures or cutbacks.

Recent financial crises in Asia and Latin America have sapped demand for copper
- a key component of homes, automobiles and computers - and a worldwide glut of
the precious metal has sent prices reeling. A pound of copper, worth a record $
1.40 in June 1997, now fetches about half that.

Yet the industry is still far from dead.

Arizona produces two-thirds of the copper mined in this country, and production
from about a dozen open-pit and underground mines totaled a record 1.39 million
tons worth $ 3.1 billion in 1997.

Copper mining injected a record $ 10.4 billion into Arizona's economy in 1997,
one year before the bottom fell out on copper prices, according to the Western
Economic Analysis Center in Marana. Economic impact statistics for 1998 were not
available.

"Arizona has become more of an industrialized state," said Jim McBride, an
Arizona State University history professor who is an authority on Arizona
mining. "I'm sure there are some who say the ' C' for copper should be replaced
with ' C' for computer. But copper is still a major contributor to the economy
of Arizona."

Arizona was home to a couple dozen mining companies at the turn of the century.
Today there are four major players - Phoenix-based Phelps Dodge Corp., the
nation's largest copper mining company; Cyprus Climax Metals Co., based in
Tempe; San Francisco-based BHP Copper Inc., a division of an Australian company
which claims to be the world's largest non-governmental copper mining company.;
and Asarco Inc., based in New York City.

If ever there was a boom-and-bust industry, it's copper mining.

Arizona copper mines ran full tilt in the early 1920s as production of
automobiles, electric appliances and machinery soared, according to mining
analyst George F. Leaming.

Mines were idled and thousands of miners were out of work during the Depression,
but World War II created a huge de mand for copper, Leaming said.

The industry experienced scattered recessions in the late 1940s, then prospered
in the ' 50s and took off again during the Vietnam War era, he said.

The Copper Queen Mine in Bisbee, once the world's second-largest copper mine,
closed in 1975 because of declining prices. Copper suffered as inflation soared
during the early 1980s, but the industry prospered from 1986 until the Asian
financial crisis appeared in 1997, Leaming said.

Arizona's copper reserves are sufficient to allow ore to be mined far into the
next century, according to Chuck Shipley, presi dent of the Arizona Mining
Association.

And ore bodies that weren't economical to mine 10 to 15 years ago are so today
because of new technologies that make extracting ore cheaper and easier, said
BHP Copper spokesman Bill Norman.

The Carlotta Copper Co. has applied for federal permits to open the first new,
major copper mine in Arizona in 20 years at a site west of Miami. Carrie Schlink
is anxiously watching and waiting, hoping to one day trade her work suit for
miner's garb.

"I'm not done with mining," she said. "I know it better than anything else. I'm
more comfortable there."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Jack Smith/Associated Press: Carrie Schlink, 44, is
trying to; get used to business attire instead of a hardhat and work boots. She
had to; retrain for office work after she lost her job at BHP Copper's Pinto
Valley; mine when metal prices dropped. At BHP she handled massive hydraulic
drills; and drove super-size dump trucks.

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              206 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 14, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

LEGISLATORS UNITE, SELECT NEW ITALIAN;
BANKER AND POLITICIAN NAMED HEAD OF STATE IN RARE SHOW OF UNITY

BYLINE: ELLEN KNICKMEYER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: ROME


Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, an internationally respected banker-politician, won
Italy's presidency yesterday with broad support from both left and right,
leaving politicians themselves marveling at their rare show of unity.

Ciampi, who had been the treasury minister, won after a single round of voting -
only the third time that has happened in postwar Italy. To many, the easy win
suggested that the center-right and center-left were ready to work together on
reforming the nation's cumbersome political system.

"For once, politicians were able to reach accord on a name, giving the country a
strong sign of responsibility in a difficult moment," said center-right
opposition leader Silvio Berlusconi, whose support was crucial in the quick
decision.

Reforms - such as doing away with the awkward, indirect process of picking
presidents - could begin immediately, he said.

"In this climate, there's a chance to get reforms started again, without
opposition," said Romano Prodi, a former premier and now president of the
European Union's executive commission. "I believe that today we can start a new
period of important political collaboration."

Italy's presidency is largely a ceremonial post, but it does wield some
important powers. The president serves as a kind of referee in political crises
by deciding whether to dissolve parliament and call new elections, and by
designating candidates to form governments.

The post is chosen in a secret ballot in the two houses of Parliament and by
regional representatives. In the past, Italy's fractious political parties have
required as many as 23 rounds to agree on a candidate.

Ciampi made no immediate public comment, staying home during and after the vote
while congratulations poured in from leaders of political parties, industry and
labor.

A longtime central bank governor and political independent, Ciampi, 78, won
respect with his reputation as an economic straight arrow, single-mindedly
overseeing Italy's surprise qualification for the debut of Europe's common
currency, the euro.

"Diligence, accountability, discretion" are his main qualities, the Corriere
della Sera newspaper said before the vote. "Except for chocolate, he has no
known passions."

Ciampi submitted his resignation as treasury minister late yesterday. The
government nominated Giuliano Amato, a Socialist who led a 1992-93 austerity
government, to succeed him.

Ciampi had been treasury and budget minister since 1996. He served as Italy's
central bank governor in 1979-93 and was premier in 1993-94.

At least 674 votes - two-thirds of the eligible electors - were required for a
candidate to become the next head of state.

When the tally got near that number yesterday, most within the crowded Chamber
of Deputies broke into a standing ovation for Ciampi, who went on to garner 707
votes.

It took 10 days and 16 ballots in 1992 to elect the incumbent president, Oscar
Luigi Scalfaro, whose seven-year term expires in two weeks.

Yesterday's election by lawmakers might be the nation's last, with the
government and opposition pledging to work together to bring Italy more in line
with the rest of Western Europe, including direct election of the head of state
by citizens.

Last month, Italian reformers attempted in a referendum to change electoral law
and end decades of political instability.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 14, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SENATE GOP RECONSIDERS GUN CONTROL VOTES

BYLINE: FRANK BRUNI, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A day after Senate Republicans defeated a Democratic proposal to require
background checks on buyers at gun shows, they turned around yesterday and
advocated a measure of their own to do precisely that, a startling reversal that
reflected their skittishness about being portrayed as soft on guns.

In addition, a sizable majority of senators voted last night not only for a
Republican gun control measure to prohibit the sale of semiautomatic weapons to
children under 18, but also for a Democratic proposal to ban the importation of
high-capacity ammunition clips for those weapons. That Democratic proposal had
been defeated in the Senate last year.

These developments, a stark contrast to the Senate action on Wednesday, showed
that Republicans were indeed concerned that the school shooting in Littleton,
Colo., last month had altered public opinion and created fresh outrage among
many Americans about gun violence and the availability of firearms.

"I am proud to stand on the floor of the United States Senate and proclaim
myself a defender of the Second Amendment," said Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore.,
referring to the right to bear arms, which Republicans frequently invoke to
explain their opposition to more gun control.

But, Smith added, "I think it's possible to defend this constitu tional right
and also defend the kids in the school cafeteria." He said he would support
tighter restrictions on gun shows.

Smith was one of about a half-dozen Republicans who, after voting with the
Republican majority on Wednesday to oppose such restrictions, later expressed
concern to Republican leaders about a measure advocating voluntary background
checks at guns shows that they had helped to pass.

That measure, sponsored by Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, created and financed a
system that would allow - but not oblige - unlicensed sellers at gun shows to
conduct background checks on buyers. Under current law, only licensed dealers,
who represent about 60 percent of vendors at gun shows, have the ability and
obligation to perform that task.

In a surprising turn of events, Craig introduced a measure yesterday to make
those backgrounds checks mandatory, as the Democratic proposal would have. He
said it had been his intention all along, and that his first measure was merely
a necessary prelude to the second.

But he acknowledged that after Wednesday's votes, some of his Republican
colleagues had received angry calls from constituents and had indicated some
alarm about that. Democrats said that Republicans realized they had misjudged
the political climate, an assessment that some Republicans privately confirmed.

"Apparently, there was some reflection taking part in the Republican conference
last night, some second thoughts induced by an inner conscience or perhaps even
newspaper comments and editorials," said Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., who had
sponsored the Democratic measure on gun shows that was narrowly defeated
Wednesday.

Yesterday marked the second day in a row that a debate over gun control took
center stage in the Senate's consideration of a broader juvenile justice bill
whose fate has yet to be decided. The House has not yet taken up a similar bill.

The gun control measures were being offered as amendments to that bill, which
would create $ 1 billion in federal grants to toughen prosecution and punishment
of juvenile crime and, to a lesser extent, enhance programs to help troubled and
violent children.

None of the measures represented monumental changes in public policy. But the
full airing they were getting, and the Senate's approval of a few of them, would
probably not have occurred a year ago.

Still, Democrats charged that much of what Republicans were doing was mere
posturing and said that Craig's new gun show amendment, on which votes were
expected today, was not all that much improved.

Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., noted that it did not require unlicensed dealers
to maintain any record of their sales and said that would make it impossible for
anyone ever to monitor whether these vendors had conducted the requisite checks.

"That's a loophole you could drive a Mack truck through," Schumer said.

But Craig said that his amendment would mandate the presence at gun shows of a
"special registrant," licensed by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, to oversee the process.

It was expected that most, if not all, Republicans would vote for Craig's new
gun show amendment, even though all but Ohio's Mike DeWine and George Voinovich
and four other GOP colleagues had voted against Lautenberg's similar measure.

Republicans said they had been uncomfortable with a provision that was present
in Lautenberg's amendment - but is absent from Craig's - to keeps lists of all
gun purchases at gun shows.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              214 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                September 10, 1999, Friday, 31REGION 18 EDITION

SAN FRANCISCOIS ALWAYS A TREAT

BYLINE: ROBERT CROSS, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 2407 words


SAN FRANCISCO

' 'This is what we call a five-bridge day," Greg the shuttle bus driver said as
we tooled along the Embarcadero.He meant the clear skies that afternoon would
let people see the bridges that connect his city to the rest of North America.
Heavy rains and tree-toppling winds had subsided at last. San Francisco's
trademark fog was still on spring break. The sun was out, and I was on my way to
San Francisco International for the flight home. Just my luck.

"Yes, a five-bridge day," Greg said. "We have lots of those."

He meant days of unshrouded Golden Gate, of course, plus sightings of the Bay
Bridge to Oakland. And then there would also stand revealed the San Mateo
Bridge, the Richmond-San Rafael and the Carquinez. Or was Greg referring to the
Dumbarton Bridge? I count six.

Actually ,I did get a few six-bridge days during my 10-day visit, and they were
wonderful.

In a compact little city of 724,000 people, its features draped over 43 hills, I
never felt rushed. The next intriguing neighborhood was always just behind the
nearest wrinkle, or so it seemed. The must-sees were easy to see, especially on
those five- or six-bridge days: Cable cars, Coit Tower, that wacky Transamerica
Pyramid skyscraper, Union Square, Victorian houses and, of course, the Golden
Gate.

Soon after my arrival, I walked out of my Nob Hill hotel, the Renaissance
Stanford Court, into a district of noble residences and other prominent luxury
hotels: the Fairmont, Mark Hopkins, the Huntington. An ornate Edwardian manse
housing the Pacific-Union Club hints at how the neighborhood must have looked
when the railroad and mining nabobs who gave Nob Hill its name built their
hulking estates at the downtown pinnacle in the 19th century.

Leaning down extremely steep California Street, I made it to Chinatown within
minutes and found another world entirely - cluttered with shops and restaurants,
noisy with music and languages from the other side of the Pacific, aromatic with
the daily output of numberless Cantonese kitchens.

And coming out of that world, I stumbled into North Beach, where vestiges of
history cling like colorful lint. The Italian restaurants serve as a reminder
that North Beach was once an Italian enclave, the boyhood home of Joe DiMaggio,
a fisherman's son.

City Lights Bookstore, the neighboring Vesuvio Cafe and the tiny bar called
Specs across Columbus Avenue still evoke the Beats, the literary rebels of the
1950s. Down on Montgomery Street, at the base of Telegraph Hill, I found the
plain apartment house where Alan Ginsberg lived during the creation of his epic
"Howl." Plaques, street signs and long memories all over town recall writers who
took up residence or found San Francisco a wonderful subject: William Saroyan,
Jack London, Mark Twain, Dashiell Hammett, Ambrose Bierce, columnist Herb Caen,
to name a few.

Maybe Ginsberg or Bob Dylan, Jack Kerouac or Lawrence Ferlinghetti occupied the
table I chose that day on the terrace of Enrico's, Broadway near Kearny Street.
They probably didn't consume a sandwich filled with chicken-and-apple sausages,
but I did, and it was cool.

The Beats of North Beach probably had more tourists to amuse them. In the 1960s,
the surrounding nightclubs - the Condor, Big Al's, Off Broadway and many others
- featured strippers, while obnoxious doorway barkers touted the flesh inside
and the world's Mortimer Snerds lined up for a peek. A lot of that action is
gone. The Condor is a "sports bar" now with a bronze historic marker noting that
in the 1960s, on that very site, dancer Carol Doda pioneered the commercial
exploitation of silicone breast implants.

One little stroll, and the diversity of San Francisco starts slapping you
around, the playfulness tickles, the history keeps trying to explain it all.

With apologies to all the suited-up men and women who troop to work in the
canyons of the Financial District, San Francisco feels like a toy city. It has
all the right urban ambience, makes all the right moves, but its contributions
to the gross national product are a little hard to define.

The monumental structures and plazas around the domed and grandiose City Hall
suggest that highly serious business takes place here. There are NATO nations
whose public buildings exhibit far less pomp. Even so, Grayce Regan, a docent at
the Hall, cracked, "This city is based on tourism. Everything else moved to
Oakland."

Therefore, I took no factory tours, although I did spend an afternoon poking
around the handsome, brick, new-millennium-ready Levi's headquarters complex
down near the mostly empty piers. Again, I was struck by the city's compactness.
I could smell seafood cooking somewhere in nearby North Beach. As I wandered
around Levi's little complex, my mind began turning over slogans in an effort to
comprehend the city as plaything: A Town Built on Dungarees and Dungeness. The
Place Where Traders and Tourists Meet.

Nah.

What we have is a city built on a scale suited to those who live here, work in
it and come to visit. The Civic Center may puff out its chest, but the rest of
San Francisco clings to its history, its myriad lifestyles, its scenic perch
above the Bay and the liberal social outlook in such areas as the Castro and the
Haight. It started around 1849 as a supply depot and rest stop for the Gold
Rush. It had its days as a major seaport and railroad barony. After the
devastation of the 1906 earthquake, it revived with gusto and decorative flair.
After the earthquake of 1989, it rebuilt and proceeded with its role as ...
what?

If San Francisco has fallen behind when it comes to industrial and commercial
might, it deserves an A in Humanities.

It had some repressive governments, until it began to dawn on politicians that
people with alternative lifestyles had access to voting booths and lawyers. The
Castro District, for some years now a magnet for gays across the country, could
serve as a model urban neighborhood in many respects: clever and useful shops,
sophisticated entertainment, houses bright with paint and Victorian detailing.

But the progress came only after bouts with adversity, a process that never
seems to end, where big cities are concerned.

Chinese laborers and service providers proved useful during the Gold Rush and
construction of the transcontinental railroad, but soon immigration was
summarily cut off. San Francisco was the mustering point for the interment of
Japanese-Americans during World War II. The city built and launched much of the
seagoing might that fought in the Pacific Theater, and so its streets swarmed
with military personnel. Some of those would be mustered out because of their
sexual orientation, and many stayed in town, forming the nucleus of today's gay
community.

Then came the strange decades, the ' 60s, ' 70s and ' 80s: the 1967 Summer of
Love in Haight-Ashbury and Golden Gate Park, the grim drug aftermath, Charles
Manson, Patty Hearst, police raids on gay bars, the mass suicides of 900
followers of cult fanatic Jim Jones,the assassination by ex-supervisor Dan White
of Mayor George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk - the first openly gay city
official. There would be more: the riots that followed the verdict that gave
White a soft prison sentence, AIDS, the earthquake of 1989.

The city emerged from hard times no less attractive to those who might join the
burgeoning service and software economy. From far away, the enthusiasm would
bubble up in young people like Jill Bittner, the sister of a friend, who insists
- despite critics' reviews to the contrary - that Scoma's is the best seafood
restaurant in town.

We dined there one evening and shouted at one another over steaming shellfish
combos and the noise of a bustling Fisherman's Wharf institution. During her
three years in San Francisco since leaving tiny Tiskilwa, Ill., and making her
way as a computer artist, Bittner has not had time to sample all of the city's
fine restaurants, but Scoma's was more than adequate.

She rattled off a long list of her favorite things: a certain special Muir Woods
tour conducted by one Colin Sloan, the cable car museum, the view from the
revolving restaurant atop the downtown Hyatt, the Alcatraz tour, Pier 39, Levi's
Plaza.

"The thing I really like is the fresh air," she said. "I live on Bay Street,
which is one of the busiest streets in the city, and car fumes usually really
bother me. But you can always count on a nice, cool clean breeze coming off the
ocean. All of our pollution just blows on over to Oakland."

I asked Jill what it was that compelled her to leave the Midwest and settle in
the left-most portion of the Left Coast. "I've always had this thing about San
Francisco," she said. "I remember looking at the Rice-a-Roni commercials and
thinking, like, ' Oh, it's so great!' I just always knew I would end up here. It
really is a beautiful city. Pretty much anywhere you go, you can find something
that's pretty about it."

No, not always pretty. The downtown area, in and around palm-festooned Union
Square, is not lovely and precious. Better yet, it has managed to retain the
feel of downtowns the way they were before suburban malls and home shopping
networks.

One might get to the heart of it on one of the old-fashioned streetcars that
move up and down Market Street - beautiful, streamlined relics rescued from
other major cities and renovated to look like new.

The ride leads to a dense mixture of department stores, exquisite or offbeat
specialty shops, galleries one floor up, dark yet festive alleys lined with cafe
tables. Going downtown in San Francisco takes on an air of importance, just as
it did in the old days, before a lot of cities lost their central core.

Adjoining fringe areas, known as the Tenderloin, serve notice that a congenial
city with a mild climate will tend to draw the homeless, as well as others
skating on the edges of missed opportunity. Tenderloin boundaries seem to change
almost daily, as old flophouses or tenements become gentrified into fine hotels
or condominiums. When that happens, the surrounding properties tend to perk up
and take notice, while the Tenderloin pushes onto other streets that may have
lost their grip on gentility.

I stumbled into one up-and-coming just west of City Hall, an area rocked
mightily by the ' 89 quake. Hayes Street, formerly a shadowy and dangerous byway
huddled under freeway overpasses, was exposed to the open air when those
concrete overhangs collapsed. Now Hayes Valley is out of the dark and an
attractive strip of apartments, galleries, cafes - all of it verging on yes,
Jill - pretty. Going east, Hayes Street soon loses its charm as it heads past
Davies Symphony Hall to its intersection with Van Ness Avenue, the widest and
busiest street in town.

So, one Sunday afternoon, I headed west, past the open windows of a spinning
class with a disco beat and up to Alamo Square. The Victorian/Queen Anne
"cottages" facing the square from Steiner Street have become the architectural
poster children of a great city. The seven old houses, varied in color and
intricate in detail, stand near the top of a hill that descends abruptly toward
the Civic Center. Thus we have the classic "study in contrasts," as the
guidebooks would have it: grand old houses with a modern city skyline as
backdrop - pretty and gritty at the same time.

Other parts of town manage to be pretty without quite that much drama. Pacific
Heights, ritzy and "exclusive," decorates its Victorians with a subtle palette.
Around the Haight, Fillmore and Castro, the pretty homes present brash faces,
bright hues and sometimes outrageous color combinations. In the Marina District
and out toward the hilly western edges, the houses show pastel stucco facades,
Spanish tile and a cute uniformity as they march up the slopes for their
commanding view of everything.

In the Mission District, much more authentic Spanish architecture can be found
at Mission Dolores, one of a string of Spanish missions founded by Father
Junipero Serra. The mission building we see today was built in 1782 with the
labor of Ohlone Indians, the original settlers of San Francisco.

I missed my one chance to catch the tour of Alcatraz, a highly popular outing
that can sell out fast during the high tourist season. Instead, I took the Blue
& Gold ferry ($ 11 round trip) to Angel Island, a forested state park that also
has served as a prison of sorts. Between 1910 and 1940, in a small complex of
yellow wooden buildings near the shore, would-be immigrants mostly Chinese -
waited in crowded discomfort, sometimes as long as a year, to see if they would
be allowed to stay in this country.

The immigrant intake shifted to San Francisco in 1940, and, starting in 1942,
the buildings on Angel Island held Japanese and German prisoners of war. A model
dormitory, its bunks draped with laundry, its walls inscribed with the initials
and pleas and poetry of the detainees, hints at the conditions immigrants and
refugees found after reaching America.

It felt strange, even today, to hike on Angel Island and savor its beauty, feel
its mild microclimate and look out on the blue water of the Golden Gate and San
Pablo Bay, then contemplate how it must have felt to have that constitute your
entire world for months on end.

A simple black granite slab outside the camp - donated to the state in 1949 by
restaurateur Trader Vic Bergeron - serves as a memorial. A plaque translates the
Chinese characters inscribed upon it: "Leaving their homes and villages, they
crossed the ocean, only to endure confinement in these barracks. Conquering
frontiers and barriers, they pioneered a new life by the Golden Gate. Thousands
of Asian Immigrants passed through the Angel Island Immigration Station, 1910 to
1940. This monument is to commemorate the immigrants, their endurance,
perseverance and courage."

Beyond the granite slab, half a dozen people ate lunch or sunbathed, near kayaks
they had strewn along the beach. Turning my head slowly, I could make out two
bridges - Richmond-San Rafael and San Francisco-Oakland Bay.

Later, from the ferry, I could see the Golden Gate Bridge and the skyline of San
Francisco. Back in the 19th century days of placer-mine frenzy, the Chinese in
their homes and villages referred to California as Gum Saan, "Gold Mountain."
From the sea, it looks like a mountain worth the climb. And pretty. Very pretty.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
