
                               1 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 16, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGES COULD BE SUDDEN

BYLINE: WILLIAM K. STEVENS, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 824 words


In the debate over global warming, there has been a widespread assumption that
if humans are changing the earth's climate, the effects will be felt gradually
and smoothly, making it easier to adapt to the change.

But a growing accumulation of geological evidence is making it clearer that in
the past, the climate has undergone drastic changes in temperature and rainfall
patterns in the space of a human lifetime, in a decade or in even less time.

The implications for federal and international climate policy are enormous
because heat-trapping carbon dioxide produced by the burning of fossil fuels
such as coal and oil is steadily accumulating in the atmosphere and putting
increasing pressure on the climate system.

Many experts believe that late in the next century, concentrations of the gas
will be double their pre-industrial levels. If that happens, mainstream
scientists say, the average surface temperature of the globe will rise by 2 to 6
degrees Fahrenheit, compared with a rise of 5 to 9 degrees since the depths of
the last ice age. That much warming, the scientists say, would lead to rising
seas and more severe droughts, rainstorms, heat waves, and floods, as well as
broad shifts in climatic and agricultural zones that would benefit some regions
and harm others.

Could the pressure exerted on the climate system by carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases trip a trigger at some point, forcing these changes on humanity
suddenly rather than gradually?

Scientists do not know for sure, but the question gives them pause.

''The climate system is an angry beast and we are poking it with sticks,'' said
Wallace Broecker, of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, who
was one of the first to raise the alarm about abrupt climate change. ''We don't
know whether it's going to pay attention to the pokes. But if it does, it might
rise up and do something we don't like.''

In uncovering one of the latest pieces of evidence of abrupt climate change,
American scientists led by Jeffrey Severinghaus of the University of Rhode
Island examined climatic clues taken from corings of ancient ice in Greenland.

The Severinghaus team determined that when the world began its final ascent out
of the last ice age more than 11,000 years ago, temperatures in Greenland
initially spiked upward by about 9 to 18 degrees Fahrenheit - at least a third
of the total recovery to today's warmth - in probably less than a single decade.
They also found that the impact of the sudden warming had been felt at least
throughout the Northern Hemisphere.

That amount of heating, coming so quickly, is astounding, said Richard Alley of
Penn State University, a member of the study team. Another recent study, by
Peter deMenocal, a paleoclimatologist at Lamont-Doherty, examined clues in
Atlantic Ocean sediments off subtropical North Africa. He discovered that every
1,500 years or so since the end of the ice age, ocean temperatures there have
fluctuated widely and abruptly.

In a cold phase, they fell by 5 to 15 degrees, and seasonal rains on the
continent were severely curtailed - all within no more than 50 to 100 years, and
possibly less (the sediment analysis is not fine enough to tell). Then, in
another 1,500 years, the picture reversed just as abruptly, causing flooding
rains and creating widespread lakes in what is now the Sahara.

''The transitions are sharp,'' deMenocal said. ''Climate changes that we thought
should take thousands of years to happen occur within a generation or two'' at
most. The changes may have wreaked havoc on nascent civilizations in Africa and
the Middle East. ''It was certainly something that would have rocked somebody's
world,'' deMenocal said.

Until recently, scientists thought that the climate system responded to what
they call ''forcings'' - such as rising atmospheric concentrations of carbon
dioxide or stronger solar radiation - much as a stereo set does: turn up the
volume and the sound gets gradually louder. But now it is increasingly evident
that the system behaves, at least some of the time, more like an electrical
switch: increasing pressure has no effect (or a relatively small effect, in the
case of climate) until a certain threshold is reached, and then the switch
clicks, initiating a new state.

Kendrick Taylor, a paleoclimatologist at the Desert Research Institute of Nevada
at Reno, a division of the University of Nevada, says there is ''a growing
awareness'' that the question of climatic thresholds is serious. Taylor, like
Severinghaus, has also found that the warming in Greenland at the end of the ice
age was abrupt.

''If we find out that we're far away from one of these thresholds, we might be
able to change atmospheric carbon dioxide a lot and not have any impact,''
Taylor said. ''On the other hand, we may find we're very close to one of these
thresholds and that as a society it may behoove us to pay more attention.''

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               8 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 4, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

ANTARCTICA MELT SOUNDS ALARM FOR GEOLOGISTS

BYLINE: ROBERT S. BOYD, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: ORONO, Maine


Scientists who study the health of our planet are warning about the unstable
condition of Antarctica, which is shedding its icy mantle at a disturbing rate.

They say the shrinking of the enormous southern ice cap - half again as big as
the United States - could raise sea levels dramatically in coming centuries,
flooding coastal areas and significantly altering Earth's climate.

The peril is not immediate, scientists say, but it is serious enough to warrant
a major research effort. The first effects could be felt within our
grandchildren's lifetimes.

The latest observations from space satellites, ocean vessels and holes bored
into Antarctic ice were aired at an international conference of experts last
month at the University of Maine.

Their chief focus is the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, a mile-thick slab of partly
rotting ice stretching for more than 2,000 miles across the bottom of the South
Pacific.

Glacier expert Terence Hughes of the University of Maine called it the ''weak
underbelly'' of the continent.

''An ice sheet like the one over West Antarctica is a subject of much concern
today because of its possible instability and the effect a rapid disintegration
could have on global sea level,'' researcher Richard Hindmarsh of the British
Antarctic Survey noted.

An average of 212 square miles of West Antarctic ice tumbles into the sea each
year, according to Jane Ferrigno, a researcher at the U.S. Geological Survey in
Reston, Va. Over the last 20 years, that has been enough to make an ice cube
almost 600 miles on a side, she said.

The ice loss has speeded up in the last decade and might be an ''early warning
for imminent accelerated collapse of the ice sheet,'' Hughes said.

Scientists aren't sure what is causing the melting of the southern ice cap, but
they assume global warming - partly the result of human activity - bears some of
the responsibility.

Other factors are long-range ups and down in the world's temperature, related to
the fact that our planet wobbles on its axis, like a spinning top, as it
revolves around the sun, as well as to periodic changes in the radiation Earth
receives from the sun.

Antarctica is constantly gaining new ice as snow falls and freezes, and losing
it as glaciers slide toward the sea. Their slide accelerates when the glacier
bottom warms, melts and turns slippery.

West Antarctica has lost two-thirds of its mass since the last Ice Age, 18,000
years ago. After thousands of relatively warm years, punctuated by occasional
cold spells, the ice sheet is now ''just a remnant of its former self,'' said
Robert Bindschadler, a NASA glaciologist.

If the rest of West Antarctica's ice slipped into the ocean, it would raise
global sea levels by 20 feet, glaciologists say. If the entire continent lost
its ice - an awesome but unlikely catastrophe - there would be a 200-foot sea
rise that would drown most of Delaware, New Jersey, Florida and Louisiana and
swamp low-lying coastal areas from Maine to California and all over the world.

The most likely scenario, according to Michael Oppenheimer, a scientist with the
Environmental Defense Fund in New York City, is that the oceans will start
rising gradually about 100 years from now, leading to disintegration of the West
Antarctic Ice Sheet over the next 500 to 700 years. That's a long time to most
humans but the blink of an eye to a geologist.

Thomas Kellogg, a University of Maine glaciologist, said the evidence suggests
the ice cap could break up in what he called ''a frighteningly short interval
measured in hundreds, rather than thousands, of years.''

Abrupt changes, measured in years or decades, have occurred in the past.

''Disintegration can occur instantaneously,'' said Christine Hulbe, a
geophysicist at the University of Chicago. For instance, she noted that an area
known as the Larsen A Ice Shelf ''disintegrated and sailed off to sea'' in
January 1995, dumping hundreds of square miles of ice into the sea in the space
of a few days.

A target of special concern is the Pine Island Glacier, which drains a basin the
size of Florida and is sliding toward the ocean at 1.5 miles per year. One huge
chunk of the glacier, 100 miles wide and 30 miles long, broke off and
disappeared in 1990, Kellogg said.

Of Antarctica's 31 major glaciers, Pine Island is ''the most vulnerable to
climate change and a possible trigger to the disintegration of the West
Antarctic Ice Sheet,'' said Eric Rignot, an ice researcher at NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory. ''A change of half a degree in ocean temperature could
trigger a rapid retreat. It may continue until the entire ice shelf is gone.''

A nearby glacier called Thwaites is twice as big as Pine Island and moving even
faster, Rignot said.

Scientists attending the Maine conference agreed to develop a joint
British-American plan for an intensive investigation of the Pine Island and
Thwaites glaciers, starting in 2000.

To track ice movements, Antarctic specialists compare recently declassified
photographs taken by spy satellites in the 1960s to the latest radar images from
space satellites. They drill holes half a mile deep to collect ice cores which,
like tree rings, reveal what the continent was like 100,000 or more years ago.
Their new tools can detect changes as small as half an inch a year.

''We need to know the history of the ice sheet - how far it extended and receded
and under what environmental conditions - so we can better predict what may
happen in the future,'' said Mark Kurz, a researcher at the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institute in Massachusetts.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP, MAP: Knight-Ridder/Tribune: (Polar warm-up melting ice shelves)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              10 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 11, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

THIS YEAR MAY BE THE HOTTEST IN EARTH'S 120-YEAR WEATHER RECORD, BUT;
SCIENTISTS AND POLITICIANS CAN'T AGREE ON WHY.;
AS IT GETS HOTTER, SO DOES DEBATE

BYLINE: SCOTT ALLEN, THE BOSTON GLOBE

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 1181 words


Before the heat finally broke last week, temperatures had topped 100 degrees in
Texas for a withering 29 straight days, leaving more than 100 people dead. Only
weeks before, drought-fueled wildfires in Florida burned more than 750 square
miles and hundreds of buildings, the worst fires in 50 years.

New Englanders have felt the heat this year, too, getting an unprecedented break
from the usual winter cold. Boston residents traded snow shovels for T-shirts on
March 31 as the mercury reached a record 89 degrees. Overall, the Boston
region's temperatures for January through June were the warmest ever for that
period.

This year is shaping up as the hottest in the planet's 120-year weather record,
after a decade the National Center for Atmospheric Research believes was the
warmest in 600 years. Now, scientists and politicians are locked in an
increasingly hot debate over what, if anything, all the weird weather means.

While the massive El Nino disturbance in the Pacific Ocean gets much of the
blame for the various droughts, heat waves and floods this year, some leading
climate scientists and the Clinton administration suspect that we also may be
witnessing the onset of human-induced global warming.

''The hottest June on record. Withering heat in Texas and Florida. Cities that
are setting thousand-year records for high temperatures,'' mused Vice President
Al Gore last month. ''How much more proof do we need that global warming is
real?''

Some scientists chided Gore, saying he was jumping to conclusions. Though
surface temperatures have risen by 1 degree Fahrenheit since 1900 - and nine of
the 11 warmest years have come since 1986 - researchers are divided over how
much of the heat can be blamed on human releases of ''greenhouse gases'' from
tailpipes, power plants, and deforestation.

But Rob Quayle, chief of the federal Global Climate Lab in Asheville, N.C., said
the vice president may have a point. His agency expects even modest global
warming to be accompanied by a significant increase in severe weather and
temperature extremes, something that has happened in past warming trends.

Quayle, whose agency has the world's largest collection of weather data, said a
drought like the one in Texas becomes far more likely with just a small increase
in average temperatures. Global warming, he said, could turn it from ''a rare
once or twice in a lifetime event to every four years.''

Other researchers believe warmer air temperatures may have strengthened this
year's El Nino, a warming of the tropical Pacific Ocean that delivered the
warmest and wettest winter in U.S. weather history. The El Nino that finally
ended in May was one of the most potent on record. At least two climate models
suggest that is a reflection of global warming.

But other researchers believe that talk of global warming is premature at the
least, hogwash at worst. Scientific research into the way slight temperature
increases affect localized weather is still in its infancy, they point out, and
historical research has found only modest changes in weather patterns this
century.

Robert Balling, a climate researcher at Arizona State University who is
skeptical of global warming claims, said the weather today is no more extreme
than it ever was. It's just that politicians such as Gore have conditioned
people to see global warming in every hot spell, he said.

''There's nothing occurring right now which is even remotely out of the
ordinary,'' said Balling. ''I can find you every day of the year something
that's happening worldwide that is 'the worst in 100 years.'''

The controversy comes at a pivotal time in the broader debate over global
warming, as the Clinton administration attempts to sell a hostile Congress on an
international treaty to limit emissions of carbon dioxide, a ''greenhouse gas''
that tends to trap heat in the atmosphere. So far, President Clinton has had
little success, as some House members attempt to roll back programs to combat
global warming that are already in place.

''They say a beast when cornered becomes more violent, and I think legislators
who do the bidding of polluters become aggressive when cornered with the reality
that the pollution must be cleaned up,'' said Katie McGinty, White House adviser
on environmental issues.

Global warming skeptics are just as vitriolic, accusing the White House of
sensationalizing bad weather to advance their agenda. The conservative National
Review last week featured a likeness of a grim, black-suited Gore on its cover
under the headline ''Al Gore's Bogus Global Warming Crusade.''

But beyond the ideological sparring lies a profound question: Have humans
changed the very weather of the planet?

Scientists increasingly agree that carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases
from human activity have had at least some impact on the temperature. Though
high profile skeptics challenge the finding, the 2,500-scientist
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change may have come the closest to a
scientific consensus in 1995 with this statement:

''The balance of evidence suggests a discernible human influence on global
climate.''

Last year, officials at the National Climatic Data Center suggested that even
the modest amount of warming that has occurred to date could alter weather
patterns, increasing the ''frequency or severity of (weather) extremes.''

The center's senior scientist, Thomas R. Karl, explained to environmental
ministers from leading industrial nations in Miami that greenhouse gases prevent
warmth on the Earth's surface from dissipating into space - a phenomenon that
translates into higher temperatures, but also more evaporation of water, which
can mean drier conditions in some places and more storms elsewhere.

The number of storms with at least two inches of precipitation has increased
markedly in the United States in the last century, he said. ''It now seems
probable,'' he explained, according to Karl's notes posted on the Internet, that
''human beings have succeeded in achieving a momentous and unwanted
accomplishment: inadvertent alteration of the planet's climate.''

Subsequently, other climate modellers challenged Karl's finding, noting that the
U.S. Geological Survey has found no increase in flooding that would match a
supposed rise in rainfall. They also noted that the frequency of other extremes,
such as hurricanes and Midwestern heat waves, have either stayed the same or
decreased.

''We are not entering a world of increased variability, unpredictability, and
peril, but rather the opposite,'' Patrick Michaels, a global warming skeptic at
the University of Virginia and a senior fellow at the conservative Cato
Institute, told a congressional committee last month.

But the powerful El Nino that began in April 1997 has made many people wonder if
the weather has gone haywire. From the 10 inches of rain that hit Los Angeles in
one 24-hour stretch to the ice storms that paralyzed northern New England, to
the worst drought in Texas in 104 years, the weather of 1998 has seemed
downright bizarre.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              13 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 22, 1998, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

'MESSENGER OF HOPE';
CASTRO, CUBA GIVE A WARM WELCOME TO POPE AS HISTORIC PILGRIMAGE BEGINS

BYLINE: VICTOR L. SIMPSON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


Pope John Paul II, a ''messenger of truth and hope,'' began a historic
pilgrimage yesterday to Cuba, land of hardship, embattled faith and an aging,
struggling revolution.

President Fidel Castro, dressed in a double-breasted blue suit instead of his
usual fatigues, was among those waiting to greet John Paul as the 77-year-old
pope slowly climbed down from his plane after arriving at 4 p.m.

Four children, dressed in white, held up a box of Cuban soil so the pontiff
could continue his tradition of kissing the ground as he arrived.

''John Paul the Second! The whole world loves you!'' the crowd chanted.

For more than an hour, at the center of world attention in the televised airport
ceremony, the white-clad pope and the gray-bearded 71-year-old revolutionary
moved easily together. The Cuban leader aided the bent and ailing pontiff,
offering his hand at the pope's elbow.

Things may not be so solicitous when the two hold their substantive session
today.

Castro hopes the visit will gain stature for his revolution and support for an
end to the more than three-decade-old U.S. economic embargo. The Cuban church
hopes the visit will help it expand its influence.

In his airport remarks, the pope said he was praying that Cuba ''may offer to
everyone a climate of freedom, mutual trust, social justice and lasting peace.''
Castro said if there have been difficulties between the church and his
revolutionary government, ''the revolution is not to blame.''

The pontiff, starting a trip that has drawn more media attention than perhaps
any of his previous 80 journeys, reserved his most direct comments about Cuba
for a wide-ranging 20-minute meeting with reporters aboard the plane.

He indicated he would pull no punches about human rights and speak as openly in
Cuba as he did in Poland when it was still in communist hands.

The pope said he was ''not a prophet'' and so he could not say if the Cuba trip
would bring about the same democratic changes that followed his visits to
Poland.

He made clear he did not intend to shy away from one of the most delicate
subjects of the trip - the embargo that Washington has used to try to pressure
Castro into political change and which the Cuban leader blames for the island's
economic problems.

Asked what message he was bearing for the American people about the embargo, he
responded in English: ''To change, to change. It seems to me that in the United
States the papal visit is followed with deep interest. Perhaps . . . both Cuba
and the United States are looking for a better future.''

President Clinton, speaking in Washington, rebuffed the pope, making clear he
had no intention of scrapping a long-standing policy of keeping the embargo in
force until Cuba makes a significant shift toward Western-style democracy.

Standing at an airport lectern under a blazing sun, the pope celebrated this
''happy and long-awaited day'' and spoke out on the U.S.-Cuban standoff that has
long isolated this communist nation.

''May Cuba, with all its magnificent potential, open itself up to the world, and
may the world open itself up to Cuba,'' he declared.

And he firmly endorsed what he called the ''legitimate desires'' of the Roman
Catholic Church in Cuba - its quest for more privileges under Castro's
government.

''I wish to say with the same force as at the beginning of my pontificate: 'Do
not be afraid to open your hearts to Christ.' Allow him to come into your lives,
into your families, into society,'' he said.

Castro, in his address, denounced the U.S. embargo as ''genocide'' and sought to
identify his revolution's ideals with those of the church.

''Another country will not be found better disposed to understand your
felicitous idea . . . that the equitable distribution of wealth and solidarity
among men and peoples should be globalized,'' said Castro, one of the world's
last communist leaders.

The papal visit, long delayed and much anticipated, may help set a new course
for the Cuban church, if not for Cuba itself.

But no matter what else the pope's visit brings, Orquidea Mesa, one pious Havana
parishioner, said ''the pope will bless the people of Cuba'' - 11 million who
for four decades have suffered through one of the world's longest-running
political showdowns.

The Cuban government took extraordinary steps to make the pope's welcome a
memorable one.

Havana workers were given the afternoon off, on a sunny 80-degree day, and many
were bused to sites along the papal route. Thousands lined Havana's streets to
cheer as the popemobile moved by in John Paul's final public appearance of the
day.

For the pope's visit, Communist Party workers had joined church volunteers in
tacking the pope's portrait to palm trees, telephone poles and even the backs of
bicycle cabs. One was even spotted on the national Capitol, where Castro's
revolutionaries once declared Cuba an atheist nation.

Havana became a city of startling contrasts - starkest of all the scene at the
hallowed Plaza of the Revolution, where the papal route passed towering rival
images of Christ and of revolutionary hero Che Guevara.

''Jesus Christ, in you I trust,'' declares the one, ''Until victory, forever!''
the other.

The papal route also wound past signs of the economic decay omnipresent in
Havana - peeling pastel facades, crumbling roadways, fleets of bicycles and
decrepit sedans from the 1950s.

To many Cubans, who blame the U.S. trade embargo for shortages, the pope's visit
offers a glimmer of hope.

''I hope he makes an appeal for us against the U.S. embargo,'' said a postal
worker, Jorge Puig Lopez. ''That's the No. 1 thing.''

The pope had taken on the embargo aboard his plane, when reporters asked whether
he had a message for Washington regarding the sanctions. He replied, ''To
change, to change.''

The pope also said Castro's revolution has improved education and health in
Cuba, but needs to make ''progress in the order of human freedom.''

But those in the U.S. Cuban exile community who may hope the visit will
precipitate major political change here may be disappointed. The church and the
pope don't have the kind of influence in Cuba they exercised in the pontiff's
native Poland, where papal visits helped galvanize the movement that toppled
communism.

In fact, strengthening the Cuban church may be the most realistic goal of the
papal visit, first discussed by the Vatican and Havana in 1979 but long
postponed because of its political sensitivity.

THE POPE IN CUBA

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette: A young man holding the Cuban
flag; tries to get a closer look at Pope John Paul II during the pontiff's
arrival; at Jose Marti Airport in Havana.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              22 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 6, 1998, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

AGH'S PARENT FIRES CEO;
FOUNDATION'S MOVE COMES AMID TROUBLES IN PHILA. OPERATIONS

BYLINE: PAMELA GAYNOR, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1073 words


The president and chief executive officer of Allegheny General Hospital's parent
foundation was replaced yesterday, apparently pulled down by the financial
tremors shaking its Philadelphia operations and an undertow of discontent at
AGH.

Sherif Abdelhak, 52, president of the Allegheny Health Education and Research
Foundation since 1986 and architect of its massive Philadelphia expansion, has
been succeeded by Anthony M. Sanzo, 43, who has headed up the foundation's
Western Pennsylvania operations.

The change came after an AHERF board meeting yesterday morning.

A spokesman for the foundation, Tom Chakurda, skirted questions about the
reasons for the change, saying only that AHERF's board had deemed Sanzo ''best
suited'' to lead the organization ''as its agenda evolves.''

But Abdelhak's departure clearly comes amid a sea of troubles, including sharp
downgrades in the bond ratings of the foundation's hospitals and clamoring among
Allegheny General's medical staff for new leadership.

Rumors that Abdelhak would be deposed crested at the beginning of this week, but
have circulated for quite some time.

''There's been an undercurrent for months,'' said one high-ranking hospital
executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Neither Abdelhak nor AHERF's board chairman, William Snyder III, could be
reached for comment.

In a telephone interview, Sanzo downplayed AHERF's financial difficulties.

''From my perspective, we are financially healthy, but we also have some
challenges,'' he said. ''Our revenue base has declined.''

Others in the health care community, however, expressed deep concern about
AHERF's financial stability, saying Abdelhak's departure might indicate that the
problems were worse than was publicly understood, or that they were worsening.

AHERF's financial situation is clearly important to its employees, roughly 7,000
of whom work in the region. It is also important to bondholders, who hold in
excess of $ 1 billion in debt issued by the foundation's subsidiaries. And it
could be important to a major local health plan, Health America. AHERF assumed
responsibility early last year for seeing that the plan's 290,000 members in the
region received all the care they needed in return for fixed payments.

In addition to Allegheny General, AHERF's holdings here include Forbes Health
System and Canonsburg and Allegheny Valley Hospitals.

Although Sanzo said AHERF would post an overall loss for the fiscal year that
ends this month, he noted that it had posted a modest profit during the month of
April. AHERF lost $ 31.3 million in the fiscal year ended last June.

Sanzo said this region's operations were now posting a profit, but that the
Philadelphia properties continued to lose money.  Abdelhak said recently that
the Philadelphia losses had been staunched.

Sanzo, 43, said he planned additional cost-cutting measures in Philadelphia,
where AHERF will retain three hospitals and its schools of medicine and health
sciences. AHERF agreed in March to sell the bulk of its Philadelphia holdings to
Nashville-based Vanguard Health Systems Inc.

The deal is expected to raise AHERF about $ 400 million for the foundation.

Sanzo said the AHERF/Vanguard deal, which is subject to regulatory and court
approvals, was on track, though he acknowledged that he had no specific
contingency plan if it fell through.

Sanzo, who joined AHERF in 1986 and became president of AGH in 1988, said he was
optimistic about AHERF's future because of the talent its hospitals and
university boast.

Nevertheless, yesterday's management change only underscored the foundation's
financial difficulties.

Although Sanzo is thought of as a steady manager - and one driven less by ego
than Abdelhak - he will have his work cut out for him.

''This is a huge, huge move on their part,'' said Jeffrey Barg, publisher of the
trade newspaper Physician's News Digest. ''I'd have to believe there's got to be
a serious, serious problem there that has yet to be unearthed.''

In conversations with physicians in AHERF's hospitals, Barg said he'd found
''the level of hostility and distrust (toward management) amazing.''

Although no physicians contacted yesterday would comment publicly about the
management change, their rancor has been evident ever since AHERF's financial
troubles started to surface last fall.

As early as November, physicians here were beginning to criticize AHERF's
strategy and question whether AGH's future was being jeopardized to subsidize
the ailing Philadelphia operations.

Those early stirrings led to a groundswell that most suspect helped topple
Abdelhak.

''It probably had a great deal of influence,'' said William Hanna, a principal
with the Pilot Group, a health care consulting firm.

In two consecutive downgrades of AGH's bonds, Moody's, the bond rating agency,
said the Philadelphia expansion had taken a toll on AGH's finances. AGH had been
tapped for a $ 90 million loan for the eastern operations. And though most has
been repaid, Moody's said, AHERF's overall cash requirements in the first six
months of the year exceeded the cash its operations were producing by $ 96
million.

Yesterday, Moody's analyst Kevin Ramundo said the change of management at AHERF
''creates an uncertain atmosphere'' for bondholders.

'The question we'll be asking ourselves is, what does the resignation or removal
of Mr. Abdelhak do to the Vanguard transaction? Does it accelerate it? Does it
postpone it? Or does it call the agreement off?''

AHERF's Philadelphia buildup began with the acquisition of two medical schools -
the Medical College of Pennsylvania and Hahnemann - and their related hospitals
in the late 1980s. A handful of community hospitals and St. Christopher's for
Children followed.

Initially, analysts praised AHERF and Abdelhak for reducing costs. But
skepticism began growing in July 1996, when AHERF assumed control of the
Graduate Health System, a network of six hospitals. The move was seen as
overreaching in a climate of crimped hospital reimbursements.

The first public indication that the Graduate acquisition might be straining the
AHERF system came last fall when AHERF slashed its Philadelphia work force by 6
percent, or 1,200 jobs. At the time, AHERF cited declining reimbursements from
government and private insurers. Since then, credit rating agencies have
downgraded Graduate's bonds to junk status.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              24 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 20, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

WARMING SUSPECTED AS ICE SHELF BREAKS OFF

BYLINE: CURT SUPLEE, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 603 words


A section of an Antarctic ice shelf as big as the District of Columbia has
broken away from the continental ice mass, perhaps in response to decades of
gradual warming in the South Polar region.

The break occurred three weeks ago in a segment of the Antarctic Peninsula ice
cover known as Larsen B, which is about the size of Connecticut. The area, near
the southern tip of South America, is the northernmost of the many floating ice
shelves that are usually frozen tight to the continent.

The break may indicate a shaky prognosis for the entire Larsen B formation.
''This is the biggest ice shelf yet to be threatened,'' said Ted Scambos, whose
group at the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colo., detected the
fracture in satellite images.

''This may be the beginning of the end for the Larsen Ice Shelf,'' Scambos said,
and ''there may only be a few years left'' before the whole sheet disintegrates,
''or even as little as one more warm season'' - that is, next December, January
and February, when temperatures in the region are highest.

Bits and pieces of various Antarctic ice shelves have been cracking off for
decades as regional average temperatures have risen approximately 4.5 degrees
Fahrenheit since the 1940s. The current rupture, which dislodged an area of
about 75 square miles, is less than one-tenth the size of an iceberg that
snapped off the Larsen shelf in January 1995, noted Claire L. Parkinson, a
climatologist and ice expert at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt,
Md.

At 24 miles long by 3 miles wide, ''the new one is indeed large,'' she said,
''but by no means a record setter.'' Records show that since 1974, approximately
100 ice-shelf sections exceeding 15 miles in length have detached themselves
from the continental ice mass, which is anchored to rock. The largest known was
a piece from the Ross Ice Shelf due south of New Zealand, which measured 96 by
22 miles, Parkinson said.

In all, Scambos said, the amount of Antarctic ice shelf lost to break-off is
less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the total ice cover in the area. The
fragments do not contribute directly to sea-level rise, he added, because the
shelves by definition already are floating on the surface. The more-menacing
question, he said, is ''what happens to the glaciers behind the ice sheets.''

Scientists at the NSIDC, part of a joint project of the University of Colorado
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, routinely monitor the
ice shelves using time-sequence images from polar-orbiting NOAA satellites.

It is unknown whether global warming caused the new break or its predecessors.
It is possible, Parkinson said, ''that internal ice dynamics that is, the flow
of the ice caused over thousands of years - could be a more important factor
than (air temperature increases) over the past few decades.''

Whatever the cause, she said, ''the one thing that's kind of a relief is that
(the Larsen break) is not as closely tied to the rest of the western Antarctic
ice sheet'' as other adjacent formations. If it were, she said, ''that would
raise a huge concern that all of the west Antarctic ice might collapse.''

Scambos said there is no ''smoking gun'' evidence that this break or the
previous Larsen sheet breaks were caused by rising temperatures. But ''the
warming trend appears to be related to a reduction in sea ice,'' he said. In
addition, he said, ''ice shelves appear to be good bellwethers for climate
change since they respond to change within decades, rather than the . . .
centuries sometimes typical of other climate systems.''

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              25 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 3, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

CONSERVATION ISSUES RATE HIGH WITH PUBLIC

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 749 words


Pennsylvania's senators and congressmen, with few exceptions, fail to reflect
the public's conservationist and environmental concerns, according to a report
by the League of Conservation Voters.

The league's annual Environmental Scorecard shows that Pennsylvania's
congressional delegation voted for environmental measures 45 percent of the
time. That's about average for the nation, but much lower than the 74 percent
registered by other state delegations in the northeast region.

''It's not a pretty picture,'' said Marilyn Skolnick, vice chairwoman of the
Sierra Club Allegheny Group, one of 27 environmental groups that collaborated on
the report being released nationwide today.

The report scores senators on seven votes on environmental issues in 1997,
including public lands issues, logging road subsidies, mining subsidies,
creation of an interim nuclear waste dump in Nevada and President Clinton's
proposal to create an American Heritage Rivers Program.

Congressional ratings are based on 16 House votes, including proposals to weaken
the Endangered Species Act, continue grazing subsidies and impose a moratorium
on enforcement of new, tougher ozone controls.

The scorecard also notes that opinion polls show widespread public support on a
variety of environmental issues, from tougher clean air standards (62 percent)
to taking action against global warming (82 percent).

''The polls show that the public has strong support for clean air and climate
change initiatives,'' Skolnick said. ''In spite of this, the same
anti-environment congressional leaders continue to set the agenda, leaving the
environment far from protected, as seen by their votes.''

The highest environmental score among Pennsylvania's congressional delegation
was the 88 percent registered by Bill Coyne, D-Oakland. Other scores for local
congressmen include Mike Doyle, D-Swissvale, Frank Mascara, D-Charleroi, and
Phil English, R-Erie, all 44 percent; Ron Klink, D-Murrysville, and John Murtha,
D-Johnstown, 38 percent; and John Peterson, R-Venango, 6 percent.

Klink, who has actively opposed tighter ozone controls and reductions in
greenhouse gas emissions by the United States, said he wasn't surprised by his
scorecard rating.

But he said his score doesn't reflect his opposition to international treaties
that fail to take workers' conditions and environmental degradation into
account, or his efforts to secure almost $ 1 million in federal funding for
cleanups of Turtle Creek and the Beaver River.

''I'd like to have an 80 or 90 percent rating,'' he said, ''but the people doing
the scorecard don't take the jobs issue and the need to create a better business
climate into consideration.''

The scorecard shows Pennsylvania's Republican senators, Arlen Specter and Rick
Santorum, also had relatively low environmental voting records. Specter had a 43
percent rating, Santorum a 14 percent rating.

''People are more in favor of protecting the environment than the congressional
representatives and senators indicate by their voting records,'' said Ann
Schifferle, first vice president of the League of Women Voters of Greater
Pittsburgh.

She said the league is concerned that business interests intent on weakening the
Clean Air Act have undue influence on elected representatives.

In 1997, industries mounted a combined $ 38 million ad campaign opposing
initiatives on clean air and climate change.

After the campaign, polls showed 67 percent of Americans still supported the
tougher clean air standards on ozone and airborne particles, and 82 percent said
they believed it was important to take action to slow global warming.

''We don't want the votes for reauthorization of the Clean Air Act in 2000 to be
jeopardized by businesses that are not interested in maintaining the integrity
of the law,'' Schifferle said.

The scorecard shows pro-environment votes were cast by Senate Democrats 83
percent of the time, compared to 16 percent for Senate Republicans. House
Democrats cast pro-environment votes 69 percent of the time, compared to 27
percent for House Republicans.

Pennsylvania's pro-environment votes, 29 percent in the Senate and 45 percent in
the House, are lower than those by delegations from New York (58 percent Senate,
68 percent House), New Jersey (100 percent and 81 percent), Maryland (100
percent and 64 percent), West Virginia (64 percent and 52 percent), Delaware (
86 percent and 81 percent), and Ohio (65 percent and 43 percent).

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              27 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 8, 1998, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

CHANGE IN WEATHER;
DULL CALIFORNIA CLIMATE BRINGS A NEW APPRECIATION FOR PITTSBURGH'S SEASONS

BYLINE: CATHY KING

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. D-5, LIFE SUPPORT

LENGTH: 601 words


Every spring, I am reminded of the day I told a friend of mine that I was moving
back to Pittsburgh after years of living in Southern California. My friend was
born and raised in Pitts-burgh, but he had lived in California for 25 years. He
had a great job, a fine home, a good life. But after my announcement to him
stating that I was moving back to our hometown, he looked mo-mentarily wistful,
and I was surprised by his comment to me.

"I'm jealous," he said. "I mean, how can you love spring if you don't hate
winter?

Winter (and I use this word loosely) in Southern California is mild, to say the
least. A lightweight jacket is the extent of outerwear that is usually required
of a Southern California inhabitant, although 60-degree weather can cause some
Californians to bundle up as if the next ice age had come upon them. To those
transplants from "back east," however, with the exception for a few days of rain
here and there, the winter doesn't really feel all that different than spring.
Or fall. Or summer.

Now this type of climate undoubtedly appeals to many people, hence the enormous
population of the state of California. So per-haps I had endured one too many
Pittsburgh winters as a child, but after the initial excitement of living in Los
Angeles wore off, I began to find the weather rather, well, boring. Odd as it
may seem, I was somehow internally programmed to expect a change - any change -
in the weather. A good day of rain was a welcome occasion.

In the fall, we would watch football games on television when it would be 80
degrees from where we were sitting. The game would be played somewhere in the
Midwest where there was genuine "football weather." Even on television, I could
see and hear the chill in the air. And I would suddenly become very homesick.

Then inevitably, sometime in January or February, a big winter storm would hit
New York City or Washington, D.C. Videos of people snowed in, of snow blanketing
cities, of kids sledding and skiing in places that weren't meant to be sledded
or skied upon would be broadcast repeatedly across the airways. From the comfort
of sunny California, someone would invariably remark to me, "I'll bet you're
happy you don't live back there anymore.

"Yeah," I'd lie. But what I should have said was, "How can you love spring if
you don't hate winter?

Here in Pittsburgh, there is a tree in our front yard that, with questionable
accuracy, we have determined is some type of magno-lia tree. The tree is
blooming right now. The blossoms only last for a week or two. At least every
other year a late frost attacks and kills the tree's flowers before they have
all completely bloomed, and the flowers are reduced to sparse brown dead petals.
But during the very short time that this tree is in bloom, whether it is for one
week or 24 hours, the most beautiful pink flowers I have ever seen appear on its
branches.

Now if this tree bloomed all year long, I would no doubt appreci-ate the fact
that it is certainly a lovely sight to behold. But my breath would not be taken
away as it is every spring when that tree bursts into flowers after a long, gray
winter.

One day last spring, my daughter came into the house, excitedly yelling, "Mommy,
Mommy, the prettiest green plants are growing in Daddy's new grass! Come and
see!

If, after all of the snow, the ice, the cold, the sight of a few stray weeds
could give my child this much excitement, I know that my friend's words ring
true.

Spring is here, and we truly love it. The winter was worth it.

Cathy King is a free-lance writer in Upper St. Clair.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: Ted Crow/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 19, 1998, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

MIDDLE SCHOOL BACKPACKS FACE LOCKUP

BYLINE: CAROLE GILBERT BROWN, TRI-STATE SPORTS & NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-1

LENGTH: 839 words


Backpacks: they're handy, trendy and soon to be conspicuously absent from
classrooms at Chartiers Valley Middle School.

Principal Betsy Steiner told pupils, parents and guardians in an Aug. 4 letter
that the district's 744 middle school pupils may no longer carry backpacks
during the school day.

Instead, pupils must leave them in their lockers upon arrival and return to
their lockers at midday to trade morning books for afternoon ones.

The administrative action applies only to the middle school and has not been
approved by the school board.

Steiner's letter so dismayed C.J. Bingham, 13, of Scott, and a number of other
students that they are circulating petitions opposing the backpack edict. ''I
couldn't believe it,'' Bingham said. ''I feel like waving the Bill of Rights in
their faces.

''I think if they're going to do this, at least another locker break is needed.
If the backpacks are too heavy, that's not our fault. They give us too many
books.''

Most parents included in a random Post-Gazette survey commended the school for
taking a proactive approach to security. However, they're also worried the
limited use of backpacks could inconvenience and harm their children.

Among reasons Steiner listed for banning backpacks in classrooms are that some
are too heavy, some pose safety hazards when dropped in aisles and stairwells
and pupils adorn them with distracting keychains and toys.

Steiner also said students use them to conceal stolen library books or items
that do not belong in school and carelessly stuff papers into the backpacks.

Some parents and students believe the concealment issue was the impetus for the
new rule because two chemical spray incidents occurred last year at the middle
school.

The first one happened Feb. 19, when 38 students were transported to local
hospitals. No one was seriously injured. The perpetrator, suspected to be a high
school student, was never apprehended.

The second incident occurred May 11 and led to expulsion of two middle school
students after fellow students identified them. No one required hospital
treatment.

However, Steiner refused to say whether the two incidents generated the backpack
change. All she would say was, ''We want to provide as safe an atmosphere as
possible.''

She said the new rule was recommended last spring by faculty team leaders.

Steiner said elementary students are not covered by the rule because they have
big desks and remain mostly in one classroom. High school students are not
covered because they are bigger and more physically able to handle heavy
backpacks, she said.

''It's really sad in our society that we have to do this,'' said Gayle Yurchak
of Collier, the parent of a seventh-grade son. ''They're reacting not only to
what happened here, but what happened in the rest of the country.

''I understand the safety issue, but I had hoped they had a better answer.
Everyone gets punished for the actions of a few, and it's not fair. That may be
the way it is, but not at 12,'' added Dora Baraky of Scott, the parent of a
seventh-grade daughter.

Parents expressed concerns that the change would present organizational problems
for their children, who are still in transition from a cloistered elementary
school environment to a more independent climate that involves constantly
changing classrooms and numerous teachers.

Pointing to the fact that many students are used to housing all of their
school-day needs in their backpacks, parents fear misplaced homework and dropped
books, papers, pencils and calculators in the halls.

''They're taking away all of their tools,'' complained Baraky.

Leah Thomas of Heidelberg, the mother of an eighth-grade daughter, wondered what
students now will do with items like wet swimwear. She also thinks more locker
breaks will be needed.

Lindsay Scalise, 13, of Scott, also an eighth-grader, believes the new
regulation will not guarantee students' security as long as baggy clothes and
purses are still permitted. Students will be allowed to carry purses or small
pouches for pencils, calculators and personal items.

And eighth-grader Juline Beerhalter, 14, of Scott, who was eager to show off the
new $ 50 Jansport backpack she got for her birthday, refuted many of the stated
reasons for the change.

Juline said backpack adornments could be confiscated and students instructed to
hang the bags on the backs of their chairs. She also pointed out that carrying
loose items could be more cumbersome and the backpacks help to contain papers
that might otherwise be lost.

As for the argument that students can steal library books by concealing them in
backpacks, Juline noted that the library has an alarm system to detect such
theft.

Despite some community opposition, Steiner said she so far has received only
favorable response to the backpack cutback. However, she said school officials
will be flexible and open to suggestions.

''We know that this is a change and we will be very sensitive to that,'' she
said.

CHARTIERS VALLEY

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              37 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 24, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

LA NINA ENTRANCE COULD BE MENACING;
AS EL NINO FADES, THE CHANGE IN CLIMATE MIGHT SPAWN MORE SEVERE HURRICANES.

BYLINE: JOHN PACENTI, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Sometime this summer, the waters of the eastern Pacific will cool and the most
intense El Nino on record will vanish. The climatological change could mean a
decidedly more menacing Atlantic hurricane season.

Only seven named storms formed last year, three of which developed into
hurricanes. Only Hurricane Danny in mid-July made landfall, taking nine lives
and causing $ 100 million in damage in the Carolinas.

This year, meteorologists are armed with more tracking technology, and emergency
directors in coastal communities from Texas to Maine are preparing for the
worst.

As El Nino fades, it's typically replaced by its mirror opposite, La Nina. The
timing of this turnabout will play a significant role in this year's hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.

''There are some who say it will go to La Nina very quickly and, based on past
data, there would be a lot of land-falling hurricanes in the later part of the
season,'' says Jim O'Brien, an El Nino expert and meteorology professor at
Florida State University.

El Nino, a periodic ocean warming and air pressure change in the eastern
Pacific, causes weather changes worldwide. La Nina turns the Pacific waters
colder than usual and plays the same weather tricks, in reverse - wet where it
was dry and vice versa.

Yet some meteorologists, O'Brien among them, believe La Nina will merely make
the Pacific waters temperate, producing a run-of-the-mill Atlantic hurricane
season. These forecasters believe La Nina will probably play a larger role next
year. The annual average is 9.3 tropical storms, 5.8 hurricanes and 2.3 intense
hurricanes.

In 18 prior El Ninos, the probability of two or more Atlantic hurricanes hitting
land was less than 25 percent, according to O'Brien's studies. In a La Nina, the
probability jumps to 75 percent, his studies show.

Emergency planners poring over projections worry about an exploding coastal
population and wonder if all the new technology will be enough if evacuation is
necessary.

''It's the age-old problem - are we keeping up?'' said Jerry Jarrell, director
of the National Hurricane Center in Miami. ''We may be, but we are not making
progress and we started out behind. We are not being able to get people enough
warning to do what we think they ought to do, like prepare their homes.''

It costs about $ 1 million to evacuate every mile of populated coastline.

About 85 percent of the coastal population - some 47 million people - has never
been through a major hurricane. And emergency managers believe many coastal
dwellers are new residents who may not respond to warnings.

''I'm a little concerned the next time they tell people to evacuate, they will
say, 'No way, Jose,''' said Stan Spears, who commands South Carolina's National
Guard. ''They ought to be concerned we could get hit again this season.''

Audrey Landers, whose two-story townhouse is a block from the Atlantic Ocean in
Myrtle Beach, S.C., said newcomers are quickly educated by those who went
through Hurricane Fran two years ago and Hurricane Hugo in 1989.

''People are listening to the news media. We don't want to take a chance,'' she
said. ''You have to be prepared.''

Forecasters and emergency directors are most concerned about motorists who could
become stranded along evacuation routes. Coastal communities in Florida, Texas
and the Carolinas could become death traps for stragglers.

The last major hurricane to hit the Florida Keys, the fragile string of islands
stretching out into the Gulf of Mexico, was Betsy, in 1965. But 40 hurricanes
this century have come within 65 miles of Marathon, in the central Keys,

''We just hope for the best that we don't get it,'' said John Klausing, manager
of Sloppy Joe's Bar in Key West. ''You are always a target when you live in the
Keys.''

When a strong hurricane looms, both hospitals in the Keys shut down, and
emergency workers need about 50 hours to get residents to safety. The only
highway connecting the Keys to the mainland is mostly two lanes with occasional
passing zones, including the elevated Seven Mile Bridge.

Billy Wagner, the emergency management official in charge of evacuating roughly
77,000 year-round Keys residents, also worries about the tourists. ''One of the
problems we have is the RVs in the campgrounds. We've got to get the
non-residents out,'' he said.

On Padre Island off Texas, Jarrell said a building boom is threatening to slow
evacuation efforts.

''There's a lot of building going on out there, and it's just getting worse and
worse to try to evacuate,'' he said. ''Hurricane Opal in 1995 closed the road to
the island and the storm was 300 miles offshore.''

William Gray, the hurricane prognosticator from Colorado State University, has
already predicted an average Atlantic season with 10 tropical storms. Six of
those will develop into hurricanes, he said.

Of course, Gray is still smarting from last year when his forecast flopped. And
what does he blame?

''There is no way we could have foreseen the most intense El Nino on record
would occur,'' Gray said.

''We had a bad year,'' he added, chuckling. ''But it's better to have forecasted
and busted than to not have forecasted at all.''

 Hurricane names for 1998 season

Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges, Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne,
Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula, Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie, Walter

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   April 12, 1998, Sunday, WASHINGTON EDITION

ASSISTANT PLANNER HEADS FOR CAYMEN ISLANDS

BYLINE: DALE KIEFER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 436 words


After more than two years as zoning officer/assistant planner for Cecil, Andrea
Stevens is ready for a change. Rather than change careers, however, Stevens is
changing scenery. Drastically.

Last week, Stevens said good-bye to her co-workers at the municipal offices in
Cecil.

Yesterday, she left for her new assignment as a planning assistant in the Cayman
Islands.  Surprisingly, Stevens says it's not the balmy Caribbean climate that
lured her to the Caymans.

''I've known since high school I wanted to work overseas,'' says Stevens.
Growing up in coastal Maine, she also knew she wanted to be near the water.
After graduating from the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and
International Affairs, Stevens applied for a job with the Peace Corps. Given an
opportunity to indicate her geographical posting preferences on the application,
Stevens replied only that she hoped to be near water.  She ended up in the
Marshall Islands - a two-year tour that proved to be one of the best jobs she's
ever had.

''The Peace Corps has to be the most tremendous organization to work for, they
bring together so many good people,'' says Stevens.  ''I had a very good
experience.'' Working as a teacher for two years, Stevens says she felt safe,
secure and well-trained for her duties, but she eventually missed the changing
of the seasons.  She returned to the temperate climate of the northern United
States, but again felt the tug of distant tides.

After more than two years in Cecil, she noticed an advertisement for the
position in the Caymans.  She was pleasantly surprised when the tropical British
colony offered her the position, after an interview in Miami earlier this year.
Noting that the Caymans are multicultural and multiethnic, Stevens says, ''The
chance to work with different groups of people and cultures is more important to
me than the weather. . . . I'm very excited.  I've never been down in that
area.'' Nestled in the West Indies, between Jamaica, to the southeast, and Cuba,
to the north, the three small islands of the Caymans enjoy an average
temperature of 82 degrees Fahrenheit.

Cecil's director of planning, David Hirschle, says Stevens did good work. ''She
did elements of many other jobs.'' He points to her work on the township
newsletter, the Parks & Recreation Master Plan and the capital improvement plan
for the township.  But he understands her decision.

''Who could turn down such an opportunity?''

Cecil will continue accepting resumes for replacement assistant planners until
the first of May.

CECIL

Dale Kiefer is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              43 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 19, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

REALITY, NOT PHOBIA

BYLINE: BRANDON MACGILLIS; DIRECTOR OF CAMPAIGNS; OZONE ACTION; WASHINGTON, D.C.

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C-2, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 261 words


In Jack Kelly's June 28 column ''What Keeps Clinton Afloat,'' which clearly
focused on President Clinton and the effect of personal scandals on the
popularity of presidents, it is strange that Mr. Kelly decided to detour from
the subject and take a shot at global warming.

Jack Kelly may be qualified to analyze economic and political matters, but he is
not a scientific expert and has no basis for his preposterous claim that global
warming is a ''phony phobia.''

If Mr. Kelly were a scientist he probably would have heard that every month of
this year has been the warmest on Earth since record-keeping began in the
mid-1800s. He would also know that seven of the past 11 years have been the
hottest years on record.

Although Mr. Kelly might believe that these changes are part of a natural cycle,
he would be in disagreement with more than 2,000 of the world's preeminent
scientists on the International Panel on Climate Change, who have concluded that
''the balance of evidence . . . suggests a discernible human influence on global
climate.''

This past December, 171 countries met in Kyoto, Japan, where they adopted a
protocol acknowledging humanity's role in global warming and outlining policies
to stop it. Governments and organizations at the meeting were concerned about
the rising sea levels, extreme weather patterns and negative physical and
economic impacts brought on by global warming.

They were worried about real problems their countries could face in the next
century, problems that would never be caused by a ''phony phobia.''

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 17, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

A GREAT REGREENING IS UNDER WAY IN PENNSYLVANIA'S FORESTS

BYLINE: PAUL NUSSBAUM, THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER

SECTION: STATE, Pg. C-6

LENGTH: 1309 words

DATELINE: SWEDEN VALLEY, Pa.


The apple trees are about the only remaining evidence of Tom Fee's Camp.

Gray and gnarled, they are scattered among the towering maples and oaks and
pines, living reminders of the long-gone loggers who stripped this hill 90 years
ago.

''Only thing we can figure is the guys ate a lot of apples,'' said Dolores
Buchsen, director of the nearby Pennsylvania Lumber Museum, as she surveyed the
woods. ''Or the cook made a lot of apple pies.''

When Tom Fee set out to log Denton Hill in 1908 for his bosses at the Goodyear
Lumber Co., his job was to get all of the timber. His crews left this hillside
bare in a matter of months. On other hills throughout northern Pennsylvania and
much of the northeastern United States, the scene was replayed. Vast forests
were efficiently transformed into bleak acres of stumps.

From the time European settlers arrived in New England until Tom Fee's crew
logged off Denton Hill, American lumbermen and farmers cleared 300 million acres
- an area the size of 10 Pennsylvanias. The great northern woods, stretching
from Maine through New England and New York into north Pennsylvania, dwindled to
forest fragments.

Today, though, the woods are enjoying a remarkable resurgence. Where once stood
the blacksmith shop for Fee's Camp are now groves of black cherry and oak. And
the regenerated forest is alive with animals that were feared lost forever:
bear, turkey, beaver, elk, river otter, bobcats, warblers, wood ducks and deer.

A great regreening is under way in northern Pennsylvania and the Northeast,
almost unnoticed amid concerns over suburban development and rain forest
destruction. Within 100 miles of the megalopolises of New York, Philadelphia and
Boston, there are places where ''the rural landscape has taken on an appearance
much like it must have had prior to the American Revolution,'' said a forest
historian.

Preliminary figures from a new federal study show that the New England and
mid-Atlantic states have gained 23 million acres of forest in the past 90 years.
More of those acres are in Pennsylvania than in any other state. And the trees
are now growing into maturity, providing homes for an increasingly diverse array
of wildlife.

''This is one of the biggest environmental stories of our time, and one of the
only hopeful ones going on anywhere,'' said Bill McKibben, a New York
environmentalist who has studied forest regeneration. ''It shows that if we're
willing to back off, nature retains some resilience and can recover in many
ways.''

The big question is whether this natural resurgence can continue. New threats
from familiar forces such as development and logging and unprecedented ones such
as climate change, are on the horizon.

Before the Revolutionary War, Americans on the East Coast were already running
out of wood. Used for fuel, buildings, fences, iron furnaces and charcoal
production, wood was in universal demand in the colonies. By the early 1800s, a
traveler from New York to Boston reported seeing less than 20 miles of woodland
on the 240-mile journey.

With the coming of the railroads and westward expansion, demand for wood
increased dramatically. From 1850 to 1910, lumber production grew eightfold, and
farmers were clearing forest land at the rate of 13.5 square miles per day.

The great stands of white pine and hemlock in the north woods were the loggers'
favorite targets.  The hemlock bark was used for tanning leather, and logs were
hauled to local sawmills or floated to lumber centers such as Williamsport to
feed the nation's insatiable hunger for wood.

By the time Tom Fee's crews were at work in 1908, Pennsylvania's forest cover
had been reduced from 95 percent of the land to about 30 percent. In New
England, the remaining forest covered as little as 20 percent of the land area.

Logged-over hillsides were left bare of everything but highly flammable debris,
which caught fire with alarming regularity. By the advent of the 20th century,
wildfires were burning 20 million to 50 million acres a year.

Smoking, stripped and eroding, the hills of the north country had little left to
give. Soon, the lure of new prospects pushed people onward - there were still
trees to be logged in the Northwest, and the fertile flatlands of the Midwest
made better farms.

The human population of the region began a slide that, in some areas, continues
today. Potter County, home of Tom Fee's Camp, has lost about half its population
since the turn of the century. So have Sullivan and Forest counties. Populations
in Jefferson and Cameron counties are down by more than 25 percent since 1910.
Tioga County had 20 percent more people in 1890 than in 1990.

Just in time, the north woods got a respite.

Douglas Gross hiked into the high spruce swamps on the eastern edge of the
Allegheny Plateau, looking for a nest. The veteran ornithologist brushed past
50-foot-tall spruce trees and knee-high saplings, blueberry bushes and mountain
holly atop Dutch Mountain in a part of Wyoming County that more closely
resembles Maine than most of Pennsylvania. As he walked, he listened for the
distinctive call of the blackpoll warbler.

The forest-loving warbler, which migrates each year from South America to
Canada, had never been found nesting in Pennsylvania because ''the timbermen got
there before the ornithologists,'' said Gross. But the loggers were long gone
from the mountain, and Gross was hopeful that the warbler had returned.

He soon found a nest with a pair of blackpoll warblers, foraging for food
through the cool shade of the mature forest. And each year since that 1994
discovery, he and the warblers have returned to Dutch Mountain. He estimates at
least 10 territorial males are nesting in the area around Coalbed Swamp and
Tamarack Swamp with a rejuvenated community of boreal forest birds: red-breasted
nuthatch, Canada warbler, yellow-bellied flycatcher, scarlet tanager, barred
owl.

''One of the reasons the birds are there is that people have left the area alone
for 80 years,'' Gross said last month. ''It's taken a long time, but this
regeneration of the conifers is really helping a lot of birds.''

With reborn forests and limits on hunting, other animals have benefited, too.
There are about 10,000 black bears in Pennsylvania, the most robust population
in the eastern United States. State game officials estimate there are more bear,
turkey and white-tailed deer in Pennsylvania than there were when European
settlers arrived.

The fisher - a forest weasel - and the river otter have been successfully
reintroduced into Pennsylvania forests. Elk have taken so well to the north
woods since being reintroduced that some are being moved east and south.

Along Tionesta Creek, a northwestern tributary of the Allegheny River, Indiana
University of Pennsylvania biology professor Arthur Hulse studied a region
notorious at the turn of the century for its spoiled environment. He found a
renewed forest with water clean enough to make a home for the largest salamander
on the continent, the hellbender, which can grow to 30 inches and weigh as much
as 6 pounds.

Even as the forests of the Northeast recover, there are continuing challenges to
their rebound, including logging, development, climate change, acid rain,
disease, insects and the ubiquitous deer.

Logging remains a significant force in the woods. The black cherry, maple and
oak that have grown up in Pennsylvania to replace the original hemlock and white
pine give the state the most valuable hardwood forests in the country. For
furniture, lumber, paper and pulp, loggers cut more than 1.2 billion board feet
of timber in the state last year, half the level of a century ago, but up about
50 percent from 20 years ago. The industry is Pennsylvania's seventh-largest,
employing about 85,000 people, with a payroll of $ 2.6 billion.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              46 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 14, 1998, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

WARMING TREND;
CLIMATE-CHANGE TREATY OFFERS THE U.S. A CHANCE TO LEAD

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 490 words


Extreme weather left a trail of destruction and death around the globe this year
- Hurricane Mitch in Central America, droughts and floods in Texas,
drought-driven fires in Indonesia, Florida and Mexico and killer floods in
China.

It's possible that the severe weather was unrelated to the gradual warming of
the planet over the last century attributed to industrialization and the release
of greenhouse gases. But what is generally acknowledged is that the extreme will
become far more normal if the warming continues.

Controversy rages on about the existence of and appropriate response to man-made
climate change, and nowhere is the debate more heated than in the United States.
That's why the Clinton administration's decision to sign the global warming
treaty hammered out in Kyoto, Japan, a year ago was greeted with both cheers and
jeers.

The decision came as delegates from around the world were meeting in Buenos
Aires to push the accord along. The United States was hardly a trailblazer on
this score, becoming the last of the industrialized nations to agree to the
terms, which call for sharp reductions in heat-trapping gases by the 38 most
developed nations.

The opponents of the treaty, many of whom sit in the U.S. Senate, are upset that
Third World nations are not required to reduce their output of greenhouse gases,
primarily carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning fossil fuels. But the Clinton
administration felt rightly that it would be unsuccessful in pushing other
nations to move ahead without the moral authority that comes from signing the
treaty.

The accord is not law until it is ratified by the Senate, and no one expects
that within the next year. President Clinton has said that he will not submit it
until he gets agreements from developing nations to do their part. (Argentina,
the host nation of this year's conference, took a first step by becoming the
first developing nation to make such a commitment.)

Despite the howls of opponents, the signing was an important signal to the world
that the United States recognizes the seriousness of the problem and
acknowledges that as the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases, it has a
pivotal role to play in reaching a solution.

It will not be easy and it will not be cheap, but the available strategies for
reaching reduction targets are plentiful and include everything from improving
energy efficiency and perfecting technologies to imposing taxes and planting
trees. The president also hopes to reach agreement on trading emissions credits.
Countries able to reduce greenhouse pollutants at lower cost can sell credits to
countries facing excessive costs.

The Third World, particularly countries like India, China and Brazil with
potential for explosive industrial growth, must take part in the global effort
if it is to be effective. But the United States must lead the way, not pick up
the rear yelping at others' heels.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              66 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 7, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

ACCESS, SENSITIVITY RULE IN WORKPLACE

BYLINE: R.H. MELTON, AND KIRSTIN DOWNEY GRIMSLEY, THE WASHINGTON; POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 1457 words


Louise Kifer was verbally accosted about being a woman from the start of her 40
years as a glass factory worker in Clarion, Pa.

''The president of the local said, 'Those guys don't want you,' '' recalled
Kifer, 60, who was rearing two children at the time. ''It's because women try a
hundred percent, and it makes men look bad.

''These damn men need an attitude adjustment.''

John Knight, a mortgage loan officer in Michigan, has an adjusted attitude about
the workplace of the late 1990s.

''There's been a general wising up,'' said Knight, 47. ''Today, if a group of
guys are talking in a circle and a woman walks up, the circle opens.''

Men and women are profoundly different, and the workplace - the arena where
problems are solved, careers made, salaries earned and home life juggled - can
have a curious double effect, flattening but also accentuating gender
differences like few things in society.

Whether it's in Kifer's gritty factory or Knight's sleek office building,
interaction between the sexes has vastly improved in the blink of a generation,
according to a new nationwide survey by The Washington Post, the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation and Harvard University. Much of the locker room chatter has
evaporated in a climate that is warmer and fairer to female colleagues, and men
and women have more finely tuned antennas to sexual harassment.

Some experts believe the good news about the workplace is that more people are
willing to confront harassment. But those same observers see a downside, the
potential to chill the working environment, robbing it of a creative energy that
comes from men and women working as peers and colleagues.

''I have hope that men who are now 10, 18 and 22 will be in offices and
factories that are better places than the workplace of 25 years ago.'' said
Leslie R. Wolfe, president of the Washington-based Center for Women Policy
Studies. ''But it would be tragic if we end up with men who are sensitized but
also terrorized.''

The survey found strikingly similar numbers of men and women who said that many
everyday facets of working life - from asking a colleague for career advice to
speaking candidly in groups - are now more difficult. Nearly half the men and
more than one-third of the women said they generally avoided complimenting
co-workers of the opposite sex on how they looked.

''You have to preplan what you say, it seems like,'' said James Lindow, 35, a
warehouse operations manager in Green Bay, Wis.

The great tide of women into the American workplace has forever changed how it
looks and sounds. Within two years, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
the white males who once ruled the nation's commerce will account for only 45
percent of all workers and 15 percent of new employees.

Women, nonwhite males and new immigrants will account for 80 percent of labor
force growth, and women of all colors will constitute 47 percent of the work
force.

But women's increased presence in the workplace has caused different concerns
for the sexes. The poll found evidence of discontent and confusion about the
ongoing issues of pay equity and career advancement beneath more recent worries
about how to divine the best ways to conduct workday dealings.

Wolfe sees women's growing presence as spurring nothing less than a long-term
redirection of corporate and office culture as more companies adopt flex time,
child care, working at home, job sharing and mentoring programs for women.

''We must transform our corporate cultures to truly value employees who value
both their work lives and their home lives,'' Wolfe said.

But to Bill Elder, 53, a furniture sales representative in Dallas, the change
comes down to a list of cautious behaviors he has adopted.

''If you're in a conversation with a woman, you don't want to have the door
closed,'' Elder said. ''You want to be in threes, not in twos, in larger
clusters, so there are more people involved, whether you are out for a drink
after work or at dinner. All of a sudden, you're thinking of something that
never entered your mind before.''

Human resources consultant Tamara Cagney, whose clients have included major
firms such as AT&T and Nationwide Savings & Loan, said workers today were being
asked to work 50- and 60-hour weeks and that women were feeling a special burden
because of their many family responsibilities.

''Most of them feel like they're running just to stay in place,'' she said.

Spending even more time outside the office on job-related activities adds to the
burden, though it is still perceived as giving an employee an advantage. Many
women in the survey said they were held back if they did not socialize with male
colleagues.

Adjusting to women as leaders in a workplace is harder still, some survey
respondents said.

''The world's not ready for it,'' said Bob Fletcher, 60, a property maintenance
man who lives near Harpers Ferry, W.Va.

Fletcher said that in property management, although men still hold the
highest-paying slots, he believed the only reason some women were moving
steadily into middle management was that ''they work for less money'' than a man
would want for the job.

On the other hand, he said, one up-and-coming female vice president at his
company ''really knows her business.'' He thinks she may be promoted.

Although the survey found areas where people said their workplaces had improved
as gender roles shifted, responses also suggested that some bad old ways
persist. Large numbers of both sexes say that they believe women are paid less
than men for similar work. Two-thirds of the men polled and 80 percent of the
women believe women face pay discrimination.

Yet even success can have unexpected repercussions, said Ann Ford, 59, a married
nurse who lives in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Ford said she knew of relationships
souring over a woman's successes. She said a close friend of hers, also a nurse,
started dating a man who was a heavy equipment operator. Things seemed to be
going well until he learned that the woman was making 5 cents an hour more than
he was.

''He said he couldn't take it that she was making more money,'' Ford said. ''Men
feel threatened when they think a lady is doing better.''

Most people say working women have made it easier for families to earn enough
money to live comfortably. At the same time, substantial majorities of women and
men say such development in society has made it harder for parents to rear
children and for marriages to be successful.

Large numbers of both sexes - more than half of men and of women surveyed said
they thought harassment of women by men was pervasive; much smaller numbers said
men were sexually harassed by women. Six out of 10 women polled said harassment
by men happened often, and the majority of women and four in 10 men agreed that
the federal government should enact tougher laws to curb sexual discrimination
and harassment in the workplace.

''We are in such a transition in the way we talk to each other in the
workplace,'' said Wolfe, of the Women Policy Studies center. ''Twenty-five years
ago, there wasn't even the terminology for sexual harassment - no language,
concept or policy.''

Jennifer Ponciano, 45, a payroll coordinator in Orland, Calif., said she once
had a boss who demanded sex in exchange for her keeping a job. The young single
mother of four quit on the spot, ''appalled and insulted,'' and complained to no
one.

''People are more aware'' of discrimination, Ponciano said. ''When it happens,
women are listened to.''

Lindow, the warehouse manager in Green Bay, said his company's culture would not
tolerate harassment of any kind, a policy he views as a sea change in his mostly
white, mostly male world.

''We've got female truck drivers and female customer service reps coming through
here, and when some of these older guys say something they shouldn't, I pull 'em
aside and say, 'You can't say that,' '' said Lindow, who is married with a
daughter, 7, and a son, 4. ''I probably never would have done that 10 years
ago.''

There is a price, though, he said. ''You're definitely guarded.  . . .  And you
don't get to know them as well. Everybody's more distant.''

Knight, the American Financial Mortgage Corp. loan officer from Traverse City,
Mich., said he often witnessed ''distasteful behavior'' by male colleagues in a
previous job at a recording studio.

''What was considered standard operating procedure is now demeaning,'' said
Knight, who is married with a son and two stepsons.

''It boils down to simple respect,'' he said. ''If I have to say to myself,
'Boy, I better not touch this person or invade their personal space' - I mean,
that's just common decency.''

THIRD IN A SERIES

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHART, PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette: Louise Kifer exercises
one of her; Dobermans near her Clarion County home.  A veteran employee of a
glass; factory, she recalls her first days on the job were greeted with little;
enthusiasm among some male co-workers.; CHART: A new series of national surveys
sponsored by The Washington Post, the; Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and
Harvard University; Anita; Dufalla/Post-Gazette: (Sexual harassment); SEXUAL
HARASSMENT; Most working men and women say they know what sexual harassment is.
They; believe that women more often experience sexual harassment but also say
that; women more often make false harassment claims.; Q: How well do you think
you know what would be considered sexual; harassment?;
........................................Men....................Women;
Very....................................55 percent.............64 percent;
Somewhat................................37 percent.............32 percent; Not
very.................................6 percent..............4 percent; Not at
all...............................2 percent..............- percent; Q: How often
do you think each of the following things happens?; Women are sexually harrassed
by men; ..........Often..........Sometimes........Rarely.........Never.........;
Total.....56 percent.....36 percent.......6 percent......1 percent.;
Men.......52 percent.....38 percent.......8 percent......1 percent.;
Women.....61 percent.....33 percent.......4 percent......1 percent.; Men are
sexually harrassed by women;
..........Often..........Sometimes........Rarely.........Never.........;
Total.....16 percent.....44 percent......33 percent.......4 percent.;
Men.......13 percent.....41 percent......39 percent.......6 percent.;
Women.....20 percent.....47 percent......27 percent.......3 percent.; A women
falsely files a lawsuit or complaint against a man for sexual; harassment;
..........Often..........Sometimes........Rarely.........Never.........;
Total.....33 percent.....45 percent......18 percent......1 percent.;
Men.......33 percent.....46 percent......19 percent......1 percent.;
Women.....34 percent.....44 percent......18 percent......1 percent.; A man
falsely files a lawsuit or complaint against a woman for sexual; harassment;
..........Often..........Sometimes........Rarely.........Never.........;
Total.....6 percent.....22 percent......59 percent......10 percent.; Men.......5
percent.....19 percent......62 percent......12 percent.; Women.....6
percent.....26 percent......56 percent..... 7 percent.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              68 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 17, 1998, sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

ECONOMISTS AGREE ON JOB GROWTH

BYLINE: PAUL R. FLORA, POST-GAZETTE ASSOCIATE EDITOR

SECTION: TABS, Pg. F-8

LENGTH: 1011 words


Who says economists never agree?  When asked how much total job growth the
Pittsburgh region would experience in 1998, four economists with Mellon Bank,
PNC Bank, Regional Financial Associates and WEFA converged on a forecast in the
range of 0.9 percent to 1.4 percent.

Although those percentages indicate gains of between 10,000 to 15,000 jobs, a
spread of 0.5 percentage points represents a general consensus in their
business. After all, the annual data revision process by the Pennsylvania
Department of Labor can swing the official estimates by more than 0.5 percentage
points in any given year.

And when the economists are asked in which direction they feel their forecasts
might shift sort of a second guess, carrying a lower probability the consensus
tightens. With the lowest job growth forecast of 0.9 percent, Stuart Hoffman,
chief economist at PNC Bank, stated his expectation that any surprise is more
likely to be better than worse.

Both local bank chief economists, Hoffman and Richard Berner of Mellon Bank,
held to an upward bias on their forecasts with the feeling that local
development efforts are beginning to bear fruit that could fuel slightly
stronger growth than their forecasts predict.

In contrast, the two national economic forecasting firms, both based outside
Philadelphia, put forth the strongest forecasts. But Lawrence Getzler, senior
economist with Regional Financial Associates, would be more inclined to trim
their 1.4 percent growth forecast, citing layoffs at Westinghouse, lack of
population growth and strong fourth quarter growth in 1997 that will be hard to
match in 1998.

Given the split between the local banks' and national consultants' forecasts, it
is tempting to speculate about the value of proximity and locale, inside
knowledge vs. the objectivity that distance may bring to these forecasts. Or
perhaps the local banks' lower forecasts reflect a desire to avoid bearing
messages of bad news later in the year in the form of downward adjustments to
prior forecasts. But the differences are too small to debate.

The differences are smaller still for their forecasts of the Pittsburgh region's
1998 unemployment rate. Mellon Bank held Pittsburgh's rate the same as last year
at 4.8 percent. PNC Bank and RFA forecast a continued decline to 4.6 percent.
WEFA sees it edging up to 4.9 percent.

And all four economists held to nearly identical views of the U.S. economy with
1997-98 payroll job growth ranging from 2.0 percent to 2.3 percent, the 1998
unemployment rate at 4.6 percent or 4.7 percent and the annual growth of real
gross domestic product spanning the narrow range of 2.9 percent to 3.2 percent.

When asked about Pittsburgh's prospects during the next recession, the experts
seemed to agree on three themes. First, Pittsburgh's response will depend on the
type of recession the specific set of factors that cause the national recession,
and the extent to which those factors are present in Pittsburgh or to which
Pittsburgh's key industries are sensitive to those factors.

After expressing caution that the character of the next recession is not yet in
evidence, they also all agree that Pittsburgh appears to have become less
sensitive, at least on the basis of the last recession, and may suffer less in
the next.

Mellon's Berner states that "last time, Pittsburgh suffered less than other
areas did," in part because the region didn't participate in the massive defense
buildup of the 1980s and avoided the excesses of the real estate boom.

Compared to several other northeast cities, Pittsburgh's employment growth from
1987 to 1996 has been relatively less volatile, according to Getzler of RFA.
Pittsburgh scores an 82 with RFA's volatility index, indicating more stable
employment growth patterns than the U.S. economy's score of 100, on which their
regional indexes are based.

"We seem to have become a little less cyclical," said Hoffman, but a national
recession would still take its toll on Pittsburgh. Hoffman expects that jobs
would stop growing, particularly in the manufacturing sector, which is currently
building on four years of job growth.

In addition, the combination of public/private investment, including the
announced building of new Mellon and PNC bank operations centers, the growth of
Sony and suppliers, and "Plan B" efforts in and around the Pittsburgh region,
could be especially well timed, Hoffman contends, to give Pittsburgh a little
buffer in the year 2000 or 2001, if a national recession occurs.

If no recession materializes in that time frame, Hoffman said, "we might see a
convergence of job growth" for Pittsburgh and the nation around 1.5 percent
"with tail winds at the back."

Building on the current positive steps to improve the business climate, Berner
maintains, will encourage firms to locate and expand in the region, bringing
people with them.

With a solid consensus around adding 10,000 to 15,000 jobs in 1998 and further
speculation that 15,000 jobs might be possible in subsequent years, a clear
picture emerges of the odds that this region's economic development leadership
will meet one of its key goals.

A target of 100,000 new jobs by 2000 was put forward by the Allegheny Conference
on Community Development in late 1994. From the 1994 base year with 1,041,000
jobs to 1997 the target period's midpoint the region has grown by only 30,000
jobs. (See Jobs Progress chart below.)

In the absence of a recession, the forecasted job growth would add about 45,000
jobs at best, leaving the region 25,000 jobs short of the target.

%BC% Survey of 1998 forecasts %EC%

PNC

MELLON BANK RFA WEFA

Pittsburgh region 1.1% 0.9% 1.4% 1.2%

payroll jobs

Pittsburgh region 4.8% 4.6% 4.6% 4.9%

unemployment rate

U.S. payroll jobs 2.2% 2.0% 2.2% 2.3%

U.S.  4.7% 4.7% 4.6% 4.7%

unemployment rate

U.S.  3.2% 2.9% 3.0% 2.9%

real GDP change

Note: Jobs and GDP are expressed as percentage changes from 1997 to 1998.

Unemployment rates are 1998 annual averages expressed as percents.

Economic Analysis

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC (1), INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: (Survey of 1998
forecasts)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              73 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 26, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

THE IRISH, HERE AND THERE

BYLINE: TRINA VARGO

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1289 words


For almost 30 years, Irish America's identity has been largely defined in one
way or the other by "the Troubles" in Northern Ireland. For many individual
Irish Americans, it has been a very emotional issue. Some have sent money to the
IRA and a few have even sent guns. Others have followed the lead of nationalist
leader John Hume, becoming advocates for peaceful change. Others never got
involved, backing away from their Irish ancestry because they did not want to be
associated with violence or with a convoluted conflict they didn't understand.

For numerous Irish American organizations, influencing U.S. policy on Northern
Ireland has been literally their reason for existing. If the problems of
Northern Ireland do indeed get resolved, these organi zations will have to adapt
- or they will disappear.

The overwhelming support for the May 22 referendums on the Northern Ireland
Agreement, and the success of pro-agreement candidates in the recent elections
for the new Northern Ireland Assembly, have begun the process of healing
Northern Ireland. The agreement, and the mood, were tested by the standoff
between traditionalist Protestant Orangemen and security forces over a banned
parade and by the arson-murder of three children of a Catholic mother living in
a Protestant neighborhood of County Antrim. But the sober reaction so far,
compared to the violence of previous years in such situations, demonstrates that
the will for peace is strong.

With the possible beginning of the end of the centuries-old conflict, Irish
America is thus about to become a constituency without a cause.

The vast majority of the people of Ireland have chosen a new path for themselves
and so must Irish Americans. The recent changes present a unique opportu nity
for Irish America to redefine and revitalize, starting with an effort to learn
about - and really understand - what Ireland is today, and what it is no longer.

The southern part of the island is a modern, thriving, European country,
confident about its future, sensitive to its past, and now engaged in a
synthesis of the two that is producing a cultural renaissance. The
internationally celebrated show "Riverdance," Martin McDonagh's multiple Tony
Award-winning play "The Beauty Queen of Leenane," the poetry of Seamus Heaney
and Michael Longley, the music of U2 and the Cranberries, the films of Jim
Sheridan, Noel Pearson and Neil Jordan, the acting of Liam Neeson and Aidan
Quinn, the books of Roddy Doyle, Patrick McCabe and Maeve Binchy - this is the
culture of today's Ireland, and it reaches far beyond its shores.

The Irish Republic has a booming economy - the fastest-growing in Europe a
business climate conducive to investment, and a well-educated, English-speaking
workforce. Nearly 500 American corporations have already recognized the gateway
that Ireland provides to the larger European market. Intel is manufacturing its
next-generation Pentium chip just outside Dublin and the Dell Computer Corp. is
poised to become the biggest employer in Ireland.

Ireland is now the second largest exporter of software in the world. And Irish
business is doing so well that it is expanding to this side of the Atlantic,
with companies like Jefferson Smurfit, Elan and the Doyle Hotel Group creating
jobs in the United States. What isn't Ireland? It isn't the impoverished land of
Frank McCourt's childhood years ago as described in "Angela's Ashes." It isn't
seething with fierce and fiery nationalism. And the "shamrockery" of leprechauns
and green beer is strictly for American tourists. Many Americans cling to the
old images (as do a lot of tourism promoters) as if they don't want Ireland to
grow up.

But the Irish I know recognize little of themselves in these stereotypes. And
they are perplexed by a large segment of Irish America which is, if truth be
told, more conservative than Ireland itself. Many of the Irish-American
organizations that demanded an "inclusive" Northern Ireland peace process,
meaning the participation of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA, have
themselves long practiced the politics of exclusion- the exclusion of
Protestants, women (never mind that Ireland now has its second female president,
Mary McAleese), racial minorities, and gays and lesbians (never mind that gay
and lesbian organizations march in St. Patrick's Day parades in Ireland). There
are 44 million Americans who define themselves as Irish in ancestry. But beyond
that, the degree to which they actually identify in any real way with Ireland
varies widely.

Most who are Catholic are descendants of those forced to flee Ireland during the
Potato Famine in the mid-19th century. They brought with them to America an
understandable hatred of the British as the source of their misery. In the late
1960s and early 1970s, many of the descendants of these emigrants learned of the
unfair discrimination and brutal intimidation inflicted upon the Catholic
minority in Northern Ireland. a

Steeped in anti-British animosity passed down through the generations, many
became fervent nationalists- believing that the solution to Northern Ireland's
problems was getting the British out of Northern Ireland. Some became supporters
of the IRA.

But more than half of the 44 million Irish Americans are Protestant. Most of
their ancestors emigrated to the United States decades before the famine and
quickly assimilated. However, some later began to label themselves as "Scotch-
Irish" in an effort to disassociate themselves from the recently arrived famine
Irish who were being discriminated against because of their Catholicism and
poverty. The vast majority of today's Protestant Irish Americans have no
feelings of kinship with Northern Ireland's Protestant unionists, nor do they
recognize triumphalist Orange marches and the Rev. Ian Paisley's hate-mongering
as legitimate expressions of Protestantism.

Their interest in defining themselves today as Irish is, to some extent, a
result of the phenomenon of "Roots," which sent many Americans in search of
their ancestry. Ireland's cultural renaissance has also contributed to their
interest in ancestral ties.

But without the opportunity to celebrate their Irishness in an Irish America
that has long considered being Irish as synonymous with being Catholic, this
Protestant half of Irish America has been largely invisible. Thus Irish America
must reconcile its different identities just as the different identities must be
reconciled within Ireland.

Views held about Northern Ireland will become less of a defining characteristic
of what it means to be Irish American, just as views held about the Irish Civil
War have become less of a defining characteristic of what it means to be Irish.
But the tie to Ireland and the identity of being Irish remains valid and worth
preserving.

Politically, there will continue to be issues of relevance involving
immigration, business, nurturing the peace process and other topics yet
unforeseen. But the question remains as to whether Irish Americans recognize the
effort that is required to develop the kind of political constituency that
Jewish Americans, Greek Americans, Italian Americans and Armenian Americans
have.

There's a vacuum in Irish America. It is a luxury that can be enjoyed briefly,
like catching one's breath after a long race. But only briefly, or complacency
will lead to disintegration. Irish America and Ireland must develop a dynamic
new relationship which is broader than the narrow ground of Northern Ireland.

Trina Vargo is president of the new Washington-based U.S.-Ireland Alliance. For
the previous 11 years, she served as foreign policy adviser to Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy. She wrote this for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: Gable/Globe & Mail, Toronto:

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 5, 1998, Wednesday, WEST EDITION

TRAFFIC MEANS BUSINESS TO CARNEGIE MERCHANTS AWAITING CHANGES ON MALL

BYLINE: GRACE RISHELL, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. W-6

LENGTH: 391 words


Sonny Matrascia, co-owner of Carnegie Paint & Wallpaper on Carnegie's East Mall
Plaza, is looking forward to the day when automobile traffic will pass in front
of his store.

He believes opening the mall to vehicle traffic will increase business at his
establishment, which stocks wallpaper, paint and paint supplies.

''Customers will have a chance to drive through and see us. Most of the trade we
have now is from existing customers who already know we are here,'' Matrascia
said.

''We advertise, but the exposure you get when people drive by is still the
best,'' he noted. ''If people don't know we're here, they're not going to spend
money.''

Matrascia was one of several Carnegie merchants who said that opening a portion
of the mall from Broadway Avenue to the pedestrian bridge would be good for the
community's business climate. The area was closed to traffic more than 30 years
ago to create a plaza effect.

Harry Ballard, owner of Ballard's Hearing Aid Center at 8 East Mall Plaza, said
he moved his offices from Scott to larger quarters in Carnegie two years ago. He
said he often runs into people ''who don't know we're down here.

''When it's done it will be to our advantage,'' Ballard said, referring to the
reconfiguration of the shopping area.

Noise and dust resulting from construction might be inconvenient temporarily,
but the change in traffic patterns should make people better acquainted with his
services, Ballard said.

Kevin Kilp, a clerk at the East Mall post office, predicted an increase in
window service. ''The business area will flourish. More people will be coming
into the area, and they will find us convenient.

''Our budget is tied to how much business we do at the window'' and more
activity could mean hiring an extra clerk or two, he said.

Porto Fino's Pizza and Pasta, a restaurant that offers sit-down and takeout
meals, is at 231 East Main Street. It's only a block from the mall but is
located on a section of the shopping street that has automobile traffic.

Restaurant Manager Ron Mehdiun had sympathy for mall business owners who will
have to cope with the disorder and noise caused by construction, but said ''I
don't think it's going to disturb us. I think in the long run it would be better
for us'' because more vehicles traveling through could bring in more diners.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              80 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 8, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

WE STILL USE TOO MUCH STUFF;
CUTTING BACK POLLUTION IS NOT THE SOLE ANSWER. AN 'ECO-EFFICIENCY' REVOLUTION;
MUST TAKE PLACE, AND ERNST ULRICH VON WEIZSACKER IS LEADING THE WAY

BYLINE: ERNST ULRICH VON WEIZSACKER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1250 words


A new idea has emerged among those who write about the environment: The
environmental crisis is over; pollution control has worked. In this line of
thinking (found in Gregg Easterbrook's book "A Moment on Earth"), countries
start out "poor and clean." Then they industrialize and become "rich and dirty."
Once they are rich enough to afford pollution controls, they finally become
"rich and clean" and live happily ever after.

It's a fairy tale.

The trouble is, pollution is just one aspect of the environmental crisis. It is
far from being over, as a trip to Mexico City, Cairo or Jakarta will quickly
demonstrate. But the bigger problem is that "rich and clean" involves per capita
consumption levels of depletable resources easily 20 times the rate of the "poor
and clean" stage. Experts refer to this as the huge "ecological footprints" left
by the lifestyles of the rich and clean countries.

Ecological footprints represent the area needed to support the entire supply
chain of a nation's lifestyle - shelter, food, energy, industry, transportation,
leisure activities, etc. Expressed in these terms, my country (Germany) is
hopelessly overpopulated, needing an area nine times its size to support its
ecological footprint. The United States itself is overpopulated by at least a
factor of two.

China and India, on the other hand, are not yet overpopulated because they
manage to subsist with very tiny footprints. But, of course, they are doing
everything they can to develop Western-size footprints. And if they are
successful, we shall need three or four planet Earths, demonstrating rather
dramatically that our present Western lifestyles are ecologically unsustainable.

Among the most alarming effects of our footprints is the rapid loss of
biodiversity. At present, we are losing some 20 to 50 plant and animal species
every day. This is mostly due to the destruction of natural habitats brought
about by land conversion for mining, agricultural use, forest monocultures or
settlements. Developing countries tend to export most of the products of their
lands, allowing industrial countries, in turn, to maintain total footprints
exceeding their own territories.

But materials are only one part of the footprint story. The other is energy. A
sizable part of the footprints are actually not left on the ground, but blasted
in to the air in the form of human-caused greenhouse gases. To stop these
dangerous trends, we should aim at a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by
some 50 to 80 percent by the middle of the next century. This would enable us to
stabilize carbon dioxide concentrations at present levels.

On the other hand, we learn from the World Energy Council that the demands for
energy services, and with it the emissions of carbon dioxide, are likely to rise
steeply and at least double within that period. That leaves a gap as large as a
factor of four that will have to be closed.

Given lifestyles with large ecological footprints requiring huge energy and
materials flows, the challenges of sustainability, of biodiversity protection,
and of climatic change could leave us feeling rather helpless.

Fortunately, there is hope - hope rooted in technological progress. But the task
will be no smaller than the adventure of the Industrial Revolution.

In the past, technology was mostly driven by the desire for economic expansion.
The main emphasis was laid on the increase of labor productivity. Nature seemed
to be available on a nearly unlimited basis, so the exploitation of nature
seemed like a legitimate and natural part of the game.

The game was later called the Industrial Revolution by historians, and it is
still going on world-wide.

Today, however, we are living in a com pletely different world.

Labor is abundant, labor productivity is very high, and the real scarce resource
is nature. This means we must concentrate our efforts on the increase of
resource productivity as the best answer to the challenge of sustainable
development. The new guiding term should be "eco-efficiency." We need to move
beyond the Industrial Revolution to the Eco-Efficiency Revolution as the only
viable strategy to accomplish a reduction in the size of our ecological
footprints without jeopardizing employment and competitiveness.

The good new is that it is possible to at least quadruple resource productivity.
A 1995 Report to the Club of Rome featured 50 examples for potentially
increasing resource productivity by at least a factor of four. Some of these
were:

* By redesigning cars, making them light weight but still crash resistant, and
by using modern hybrid engines, fuel consumption can be improved to 150 miles
per gallon.

* By reducing the excessive use of fertilizers and the transportation of fodder,
and by slightly cutting meat consumption, energy requirements for a healthy diet
can be cut by a factor of four.

* Replacing a clumsy, paper-based filing cabinet with a modern CD ROM system
yields energy and materials savings of more than tenfold.

Needless to say, there is not going to be much of an Eco-Efficiency Revolution
unless the basic conditions for doing business are changed. Efficiency must be
made profitable.

Fortunately, much eco-efficiency is already profitable. Companies paying
attention to resource flows going through the firm have discovered that they
gain considerable benefit also on the financial flows; they enjoy better
cohesion with their staff; and they experience better customer relations. All
this has led to the most promising experience that portfolios of "green" stocks
can perform better on the stock markets even than the Morgan Stanley Capital
International index, which is seen by many as the benchmark index for
shareholder value.

It is to be feared, however, that the potential for making profits by
eco-efficiency measures will be narrowly limited by the widespread obsession
with classical industrialization.

Local politicians tend to believe that just any industrial investment deserves
their support. As a result, we see the most incredible amount of subsidies going
into resource-eating activities. De-subsidizing resource use will be an
essential and important policy worldwide. Another related policy tool is
ecological tax reform. In a world of scarce natural resources, it just doesn't
make sense to draw the biggest part of fiscal revenues from human labor while
resource use goes essentially free of charge.

Such new incentives systems directed towards long-term profitability and
sustainability will be honored by higher profits once Western societies (and in
their wake, others) begin to realize in a broad and pervasive manner that the
present industrial and consumer worlds are unsustainable. Realizing that a new
technological revolution is waiting around the corner, enlightened states and
business communities can initiate change in that new direction.

It will be these eco-efficiency pioneers who will harvest the dividends of this
new approach.

GLOBAL HOUSEKEEPING

The following essays are adapted from speeches at the second

annual Global Integration Lecture at the University of Pittsburgh

on Nov. 2, cosponsored by Pitt's Center for International

Studies and the World Federalists of Pittsburgh

Ernst Ulrich von Weizsacker is president of the Wuppertal Institute

for Climate, Environment and Energy and a member-elect of the

German parliment. He is a co-author of ''Factor Four: Doubling

Wealth, Halving Resource Use.''

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: Ted Crow/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              94 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 24, 1998, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

SENATE UNLIKELY IN SECRET SESSION CLOSED DOOR WOULD VIOLATE

BYLINE: DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


To keep President Clinton's impeachment trial from becoming an unseemly
spectacle, some senators want to have witnesses like Monica S. Lewinsky testify
in closed session or to avoid witnesses altogether and simply accept the
evidence presented by independent counsel Kenneth Starr.

But that would break with precedent and require a change in Senate rules. As a
practical matter, it probably could not happen unless all senators agreed, and
the idea of closed proceedings has already brought criticism.

Senate rules require all testimony to be in public, and the Senate Historical
Office says no impeachment trial has ever been held without public witnesses.

Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who will become chairman of the Rules Committee
next year, argues that the trial could be abridged to spare senators the
embarrassment of taking testimony on scurrilous matters in public.

"There's nothing in the rules that requires every piece of testimony to be taken
in open session," McConnell said in an interview.

"There are certain now infamous characters in this seamy episode from whom we've
heard quite enough," he said.

"If it's deemed necessary to take testimony embarrassing to the children of this
country, we can take it in private. The transcript could be subsequently
released. We just wouldn't make it a television event."

McConnell and other Republicans are presumably reading the opinion polls showing
that most people opposed impeachment and now oppose a trial.

But many authorities on impeachment rules, which were written for President
Andrew Johnson's impeachment in 1868 and have not been significantly changed
since, take issue with McConnell's interpretation.

They cite Rule XX, which states: "At all times while the Senate is sitting upon
the trial of an impeachment, the doors of the Senate shall be kept open."

The Senate can waive or rewrite its rules, but it requires a two-thirds vote if
any senator objects to the change. As a practical matter, rules are almost never
altered unless senators agree unanimously to do so.

Unanimous consent might be difficult to come by in the current climate. For
instance, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said that she would resist efforts to
hear witnesses behind locked doors.

"I for one would have very strong opposition to any kind of star chamber
proceeding that's held in private," Feinstein said Sunday in an interview on
CNN. "After all, this is now removal of the president from office."

Some leading Republican senators, including Phil Gramm of Texas and Orrin Hatch
of Utah, said in interviews that they thought the Senate could basically rely on
the evidence gathered in Starr's investigation, the way the House Judiciary
Committee had done.

"I see no reason to call Monica Lewinsky," Hatch said. "Nothing she said has
been rebutted."

Michael Gerhardt, a law professor at the College of William and Mary who is an
authority on impeachment, said he thought it possible that the senators might
agree unanimously to hear certain witnesses like Lewinsky in private.

"I have a hard time believing anyone would feel comfortable about having her
testify in public," Gerhardt said.

It is hard to imagine that a Senate trial could occur without testimony from
Lewinsky, beyond doubt the most important witness in the case other than the
president himself.

But it is also not clear whether the lawyers for the House or those for the
president would be the ones to call her to the witness stand.

Gerhardt said he doubted that the senators could accept Starr's evidence as fact
the way the House Judiciary Committee did. "They must get public support for
what they're trying to do." Gerhardt said. "For them to take shortcuts that
don't inspire confidence in the outcome would be extraordinarily risky."

Betty Koed, the assistant Senate historian, said in an interview that witnesses
had testified publicly in all impeachment trials that had reached a verdict.

There have been 11 such trials. Seven of them, all of federal judges, ended in
convictions. Four officials, including Johnson, the only president to stand
trial, were acquitted, and two officials who were impeached had their cases
dismissed before their trial had run its course.

Unless Clinton and the Senate reach an accommodation in the next two weeks to
avoid a trial, the first stage will begin Jan. 6 when the 106th Congress
convenes.

The trial, once it begins, will take place in the Senate chamber and will
resemble a courtroom trial in many respects.

The lawyers will make opening arguments, examine and cross-examine witnesses,
present documentary evidence and make closing arguments.

The deliberations over motions and the final verdict will take place in closed
sessions.

Senate ethics rules prohibit senators from divulging what is said in these
sessions. Of course, the senators could decide by unanimous consent to debate
the verdict in open session.

It requires a two-thirds vote of the Senate to convict the president, which
would automatically remove him from office.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              97 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  January 18, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FLOATING ALL BOATS;
STRONG NATIONAL ECONOMY IN 1997 RUBBED OFF ON REGIONAL HOUSING MARKET

BYLINE: CATHERINE ERICKSON

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. H-1

LENGTH: 987 words


Ron Crouch and his family are still unpacking boxes as they settle into the
four-bedroom Colonial they bought just before Christmas. And as the dust
settles, Crouch is marveling at interest rates that couldn't have fallen at a
better time.

''We probably bought a little bit more house than we expected to buy,'' he says.
A 15-year mortgage carrying just a 7 percent interest rate made the home in
Pleasant Hills especially affordable.

Mild interest rates and the strong economy are credited with propelling home
sales in the Pittsburgh region and across the nation in 1997. And, with interest
rates starting to dip below 7 percent in early January and expected to hold
steady or even fall a little further, the outlook for early 1998 appears to be
bright.

''We have such a strong national economy,'' says Howard ''Hoddy'' Hanna,
president and chief operating officer of Howard Hanna Real Estate Services.
''Even though we might not be total recipients of that in Western Pennsylvania,
we're partly recipients. People are spending on high-end items.''

The statistics for 1997 are incomplete, but the National Association of Realtors
estimates sales of existing single-family homes for the year topped 4.2 million
in the United States, a 3 percent increase over the record 4.08 million sold the
year before.  In 1998, that number is expected to fall by 1 to 2 percent, mostly
due to expectations the economy will weaken slightly, according to association
economist Fred Flick.

''We've seen two record years in housing,'' Flick says. ''We've reached the
point where a lot of people who wanted to trade or buy homes have done that.''

The 1997 numbers were mixed in Western Pennsylvania. Most Realtors and companies
in the Pittsburgh area were thrilled that sales rose more than 3 percent in
Allegheny County, topping a prosperous 1996. In Westmoreland County, sales rose
nearly 2 percent.

But four surrounding counties saw declines. They were led by Armstrong County,
with a 13 percent drop; Beaver, with a nearly 6 percent decline; Butler, with a
5 percent drop; and Washington County, where sales fell nearly 3 percent.

The combined sales of the six counties rose nearly 1 percent.

West Penn last year began tracking sales in Clarion, Lawrence, Mercer, Somerset,
Fayette, Greene and Indiana counties, but no comparison could be made because
figures for 1996 were not available.

''Overall, it was an up year,'' says Michael Ryan, president of West Penn
Multi-List and director of the Real Estate Educators school. ''Everybody seems
to be real happy with the way the year went. We can't expect to see a 20 or 30
percent increase every year.''

The three biggest companies reported increased sales in 1997, partly due to the
opening of new offices or acquisitions of competitors. Howard Hanna says sales
rose about 13 percent to total about $ 1.2 billion, as first-time buyers helped
spur the market. And sales early this year are expected to be especially strong
because business was unusually brisk during the traditionally slow holidays.

''Certainly, the first quarter will be dramatically better than the first
quarter of last year,'' Hanna said. ''Our existing business is up dramatically.
We're experiencing almost a three- or four-year low in interest rates. That will
make for a very vibrant January.''

Prudential Preferred Realty reported sales rose 8 percent in 1997 to more than $
780 million. Helen Sosso, executive vice president, credits much of the increase
to the company's Value Range Marketing program, in which sellers advertise a
price range rather than a specific asking price.

Sosso, who is also president of the Realtors Association of Metropolitan
Pittsburgh, is hesitant to predict the outlook for the region. ''Some of that
will depend on what happens with people leaving town,'' she said, citing layoffs
at Westinghouse Electric Corp. as one example.

Coldwell Banker acquired Metro Real Estate Services in late October, bringing
the number of its offices in the Pittsburgh area to 18. Coldwell's business was
up about 7 percent and Metro's had risen about 9 percent before the merger,
according to Coldwell President George Hackett. Both saw even bigger sales
growth after the deal, he says.

''We increased our business without opening any new offices,'' Hackett said.

He believes brokers and Realtors have to be careful not to become overconfident,
and possibly careless, in these more prosperous times, because the climate
inevitably will change.

''A lot of people are working under the misconception they're doing a lot of
things better than normal,'' he said. ''This isn't going to stay. The pendulum
is going to swing.''

Changing tides in the industry may be swinging the pendulum for some agents
already. As the big companies get even bigger, capitalizing on cost-effective
synergism, it grows harder for small agencies to compete.

For Mark Ratti, 1997 will be remembered as the year he merged his agency, RE/MAX
Alpha One, of Peters, with RE/MAX CSI South, Upper St. Clair. He and his son,
Mark Jr., who work as a team, sold 64 homes last year and had their best quarter
ever at the end of the year. But Ratti found some of his agents were struggling
more and more to meet RE/MAX requirements. Agents affiliated with the company
get to keep all of their commissions, but they must sell enough to pay monthly
fees covering overhead costs.

''A lot of agents were having difficulty with the year,'' he said. ''The top
agents are getting more business and the part-time agents or those who do less
business are having to leave the industry or go to a company that will take
agents that make less sales.''

Still, Ratti is optimistic. ''There's pent-up demand. I think there are more
buyers,'' he says. ''And I've seen more people wanting to come to Pittsburgh.''

Free-lancer Catherine Erickson writes about real estate for the Post-Gazette.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Ron and Shana Crouch unpack
belongings; at their new four-bedroom home in Pleasant Hills, a move made more
affordable; by the recent drop in mortgage rates.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              99 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 4, 1998, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

RIDGE BUDGET: A 'NEW' STATE;
$ 17.8 BILLION PLAN PROVIDES TAX BREAKS TO BUSINESS, NEEDY; MORE EDUCATION AID

BYLINE: FRANK REEVES AND PETER J. SHELLY, POST-GAZETTE HARRISBURG;
CORRESPONDENTS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2085 words

DATELINE: HARRISBURG


Gov. Ridge proposed a $ 17.8 billion election-year budget yesterday that
appeared to give a little bit to everyone.

He offered more money for public education, job training programs and children's
health care, business tax cuts and a a tax break for poorer Pennsylvanians.

The governor's budget would increase spending by 3 percent - the biggest jump
Ridge has called for since he took office in 1995.

Not surprising for a governor facing re-election, he proposed no increases in
either the state income tax or business taxes. His spending plan also includes
no increases in fees the state charges.

Yet Ridge, who prides himself as a fiscal conservative, was quick to note that
the budget increase is smaller than the budget increases his predecessors
routinely sought. Under Democrat Bob Casey and Republican Dick Thornburgh,
annual budget increases hovered between 4 percent and 5 percent.

And Ridge warned lawmakers against embarking on a spending binge at a time when
the state, because of a robust national economy, is enjoying yet another budget
surplus. By administration estimates, Pennsylvania could end the current fiscal
year $ 200 million in the black.

''Harrisburg's history is only too clear,'' he said in his budget address. ''In
good times, a spending spree. Then, when the economy inevitably turns down, a
tax increase at exactly the worst time. That is one tradition we must change. We
cannot abandon the fiscal responsibility that got us here.''

The annual message, delivered to a joint session of the Legislature, was
broadcast statewide and included two ''infomercials'' beamed into the House from
a Philadelphia elementary school and a Tioga County computer firm.

In a series of campaign-style news conferences over the past few weeks, Ridge
had announced most of the new budget initiatives. But his 3.5 percent boost for
basic education - the largest of his tenure - caught some off guard.

Nonetheless, Democrats criticized the plan on several fronts, including what
they regarded as an insufficient increase for public schools. They accused Ridge
of hoarding the surplus, which they contend could top $ 300 million by June,
rather than spending more on education or using it to cut state income taxes.

''The governor's proposal contains a lot of trinkets for a host of worthy
initiatives. Unfortunately, what it does not contain is a long-overdue tax cut
for Pennsylvania's over-taxed and hard-working middle class,'' said Senate
Minority Whip Leonard Bodack of Lawrenceville, the Allegheny County Democratic
Committee chairman.

''Between the state's burgeoning revenue surplus and the so-called Rainy Day
Fund, there's as much as $ 1 billion sitting idle in the state piggy bank. I
think Pennsylvania's people would rather put it in their own savings accounts or
spend it as they like instead of trusting the state government with unnecessary
extra amounts of their hard-earned money.''

Senate Democrats again called for reducing the personal income tax from 2.8
percent to 2.7 percent. And House Democrats again urged Ridge and the
GOP-controlled Legislature to cut local school property taxes by 50 percent over
the next five years.

Republicans praised the speech.

''This responsible, innovative budget offers something for everyone,'' said Sen.
Melissa Hart, R-McCandless. ''The proposed budget will put more money and
decision-making power back into the hands of our local communities and
organizations, from volunteer fire departments to working families to struggling
small businesses.''

Said Sen. Tim Murphy, R-Upper St. Clair: ''For the first part of this decade, we
had some of the worst job growth in the nation here in southwestern
Pennsylvania. In recent years, we've seen some improvement, and, with this plan,
Pennsylvania is going to continue to be a place that is friendly to businesses
that create jobs.''

Under Ridge's proposal, overall state spending for public schools would rise by
about $ 200 million - from $ 5.4 billion now to $ 5.6 billion in fiscal year
1998-99. This includes the basic state subsidy for Pennsylvania's 501 public
school districts.

In previous years, Ridge promoted little or no increase in the basic education
subsidy. But the governor proposed raising the basic subsidy from $ 3.45 billion
to $ 3.57 billion - an increase of about $ 120.1 million, or 3.5 percent.

A coalition of 217 poor and rural school districts has sued the state,
contending that the formula used to distribute state aid to local districts
hurts less-affluent districts. They also want the present way of paying for
public schools, which relies largely on local property taxes, to be declared
unconstitutional. A decision in the case, pending in Commonwealth Court, could
come this year.

Ridge said most of the fresh basic education money will go to the state's less
wealthy districts. The poorest 125 districts will get 30 percent of the new
money - about $ 36.6 million - while the 125 richest districts will get 7
percent, or $ 8.8 million.

But House and Senate Democrats said the education funding proposals would do
little to reduce the disparity between what wealthy school districts are able to
spend on their children's educations compared with what poorer districts can
muster.

House Minority Leader H. William DeWeese, D-Waynesburg, noted that the 10
poorest districts spend about $ 5,000 per pupil, while per-pupil spending by the
10 wealthiest school district is more than $ 11,000.

Sen. Allyson Schwartz, D-Philadelphia, complained that the 3.5 percent increase
in the basic education subsidy ''is barely holding the line with inflation.''
She said the increase is so paltry that unless the Legislature increases it,
many districts could be forced to raise local property taxes or cut services.

Sen. Vincent Fumo, D-Philadelphia, ranking Democrat on the Senate Appropriations
Committee, noted that under Ridge, the state share of the cost of public
education has dropped from 42 percent in the 1994-95 fiscal year to 38 percent
in the current one. As a result, he said, districts have been forced to raise
local property taxes or cut programs.

The governor's budget address is more than a policy statement. Most chief
executives use the occasion to cite accomplishments as well as a vision for the
future, especially in an election year. Ridge was no exception.

In his speech yesterday, the governor contrasted ''the New Pennsylvania,'' an
economically vibrant state that has prospered under his leadership, with the
demoralized state he said he found when he took office.

''For too long, Pennsylvania lagged behind its neighbors,'' he said. ''Our state
was ranked 45th out of 50 in job creation. We had the highest job-crushing taxes
in America. Our workers' comp(ensation) rates were among the highest in the
region. A new generation of brazen, violent juveniles terrorized our streets -
and mocked a system unwilling to stop them. Our public schools, once some of the
best in the nation, seemed trapped in a bureaucratic maze.

''The New Pennsylvania leapfrogged all the way from 45th in job creation to
17th. . . We've cut those job-crushing taxes. We reformed workers' compensation
costs. . . Now, juveniles who commit an adult crime do adult time. And we've
established plain, tough, common-sense academic standards that you can use
everyday to hold your kids - and your schools - accountable.''

To demonstrate the power of technology in the Information Age, Ridge spoke from
the House chamber via satellite with Gabrielle Ulmer, who with her husband owns
Kingdom Computers in Tioga County, and with a Sulzberger Middle School class in
Philadelphia. An oversized TV screen projected their image to lawmakers in the
cavernous House chamber. The high-tech connection cost taxpayers $ 39,000.

Ulmer thanked the governor and the Legislature for the state's improved business
climate. The company, founded in 1990, has received $ 100,000 in job-creation
tax credits and a $ 420,000 state loan for business expansion.

Ridge told lawmakers that ''we'll build our own Silicon Valleys right here.''

The Sulzberger school is part of the state ''Link-to-Learn'' program, a $ 132
million, three-year effort to connect every public school to the Internet. This
year's budget includes money for the initiative's third phase.

Some Democrats weren't thrilled with the high-tech wizardry.

''He didn't show us the homeowner groaning under yet another property tax
increase. Those homeowners - the middle-class families who make up the vast
majority of taxpaying Pennsylvanians - didn't appear in the governor's magic
mirror,'' said Rep. Ivan Itkin, D-Point Breeze, who will be challenging Ridge in
the general election next fall.

''He's not using this year's surplus - the latest in a long line - to cut
property taxes for those millions of home-owning Pennsylvanians.''

%BC% Highlights of Ridge's budget %EC%

EDUCATION:

* A 3.5 percent increase to the state's basic education subsidy formula. The
state's cost is $ 120.7 million.

* A 3.25 percent increase in funding for the State System of Higher Education
and community colleges. The cost is $ 38.3 million.

* A 7 percent increase in how much the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance
Agency awards to needy college students. The cost: $ 17.5 million.

* A 32 percent increase in money for the nearly 450 public libraries, with most
of that intended for technological improvements that would link all libraries to
the Internet by 1999. Cost: $ 11 million.

* Provide $ 5 million in new money to extend the ''Link to Learn'' technology
initiative to non-public schools. The budget also includes $ 48 million for the
third and final year of the project in public schools.

TAXES:

* $ 128 million in tax breaks, most of them for businesses.

* An expansion of the poverty exemption, so a family of four making $ 25,000 a
year would pay no personal income taxes, saving that household $ 700 a year. The
exemption would apply to 371,000 more people than it does now, and cost the
state $ 54 million.

* Increasing the cap on the Job Creation Tax Credit from $ 15 million to $ 20
million. Participating businesses can earn a tax credit of as much as $ 1,000
for each job they create.

* Extending the time businesses can carry forward losses from three years to 10
years, at a cost to the state of $ 17.8 million.

* A reduction in the Capital Stock and Franchise Tax, from 12.75 mills to 12.25
mills. This will affect as many as 50,000 businesses and cost the state $ 46.2
million.

* Establishing Keystone Opportunity Zones to spur development in blighted
neighborhoods. No taxes would be levied for as many as 12 years. The state's
cost: $ 5 million. Local governments would have to agree to waive local taxes in
the zones.

CRIME:

* The Department of Corrections budget would go from $ 1.03 billion to $ 1.09
billion, including federal funds, and state money alone would top $ 1 billion
for the first time. Ridge also called for $ 5 million for a new juvenile
probation program, which includes in-school probation and after-care for
troubled youths. He proposed spending $ 2 million for community crime prevention
grants and $ 550,000 to implement some recommendations made by the Governor's
Alliance for Community Land Law Enforcement Relations.

WELFARE:

* Most years, the Department of Public Welfare allocation generates much of the
budget debate controversy. But this year, there are no major DPW cutbacks
specified.

* The governor's budget calls for $ 2.9 billion for medical assistance, or
health care for the needy - up from the nearly $ 2.8 billion in the current
budget.

* Ridge proposes adding $ 22 million for welfare-to-work job-training programs.

* The governor wants to expand access to the Children's Health Insurance
Program, or CHIP, by adding $ 15 million. Combining that with more federal
dollars could add 122,000 children to the program, which now serves 58,000.

JUDICIARY:

* Ridge has included a $ 15 million request for the cost of about 170 county
court administrators, their top staff and other expenses associated with the
state takeover of county courts. In 1987, the Supreme Court ruled that the state
should pay the costs, but lawmakers and the governor never appropriated the
money. The litigation still hangs over the Legislature's head, and this step has
caused some angst amongst lawmakers worried that the Supreme Court could end up
controlling county courthouses.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Joyce Mendelsohn/Post-Gazette: Students at Rochester
High; School watch Gov. Ridge on the Internet as he gives his budget address in;
Harrisburg yesterday. From left, Stephanie Dishler, Chrissy Lilja and Jennifer;
Hogue.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              100 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 18, 1998, Wednesday, NORTH EDITION

THIS OLYMPIC STUFF REQUIRES SNOW IN ATTIC

BYLINE: KELLY D. BURGESS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. N-2, GUEST COLUMNIST

LENGTH: 615 words


I wasn't surprised when the Olympic gold medalist in the snowboarding
competition was temporarily disqualified after a drug test found marijuana in
his system. I'd have to be high as a kite to get involved in a crazy sport like
that.

And that, in a nutshell, is the problem I have with the winter Olympics. Not
that I want to insult all you winter sports freaks, but people who ski must have
ice cubes for brains. That is the only explanation I can think of for why anyone
would get up at the crack of dawn, drive for miles to put on heavy, expensive
equipment and fall down a mountain. In the cold.

Of course the general idea is to not fall, but every time I have ever seen
anyone skiing, that's pretty much what they're doing. In the Olympics they don't
fall as often, but they make up for it by doing other things that are completely
incomprehensible.  I'm speaking, of course, of moguls.

Moguls are a classic example of what happens to people when they live in a
climate where it is winter most of the year. They get so bored that they go out
and invent something stupid.  But just because they do so, that doesn't mean we
all have to make it an Olympic event. Does it?

For those of you who have never seen moguls, in this sport (ha!) the skier does
not glide down the mountain. Instead, he or she sproings down the mountain,
jumping from one little hill to another, kind of like crossing a stream by
jumping on stones. Occasionally, the skiers leap into the air and turn their
body back and forth for no apparent reason except, probably, a neededbreak from
jarring their skeletal system.

Although this is painful to watch, at least this and other skiing events have a
scoring system grounded in reality. If you're the fastest, you win.

In figure skating, however, the judges seem to have been smoking with the
snowboarders. The result is that, the Romanian figure skater can fall flat on
her face and be hauled off the ice by six paramedics and the judge from her
country will give her a 5.9. The next skater, an American, can do the first ever
quadruple toe loop with triple axel and the same judge will give her a 2.

Also, figure skaters are not judged on their current performance. This is why at
the end of a truly electrifying number that nets the skater a combined score of
maybe 4.2, you will hear the commentator explain that this is due to the fact
that at the Nationals in Prague in 1987, this skater had a lackluster
performance.

I don't care if she accidentally fell into the grandstands and killed three
spectators back then, I watch ice skating only during the Olympics. They're all
equal to me, and they should be equal to the judges.

Obviously, I'm not the only person who feels this way. My problem is that I
can't just sit and watch the Olympics and inwardly fume about the stupid scoring
system. I get so annoyed that by the third performance I'm screaming at the
television: ''Who told those people they were impartial? Kenneth Starr?''

Then my husband, who calmly accepts this inequity as part of the sport, gets
crabby because he gets to watch the Olympics only once every four years, and I
ruin it for him.

Sure, blame me. It's easier than trying to change things. If I were in charge,
figure skating would be fair.  Every time one of the judges did something so
obviously biased that even a skier could figure it out, they would be kicked off
the panel and barred from judging anything for life. Better yet, I could devise
a more painful punishment. Maybe something involving moguls.

The humor column of Kelly Burgess, a free-lance writer from West Deer,

appears periodically in PG North. Her e-mail: kellyp@nauticom.net.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              101 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 9, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

BROOKE HOPES '10-CENT WINDS' SOARS OFF THE CHARTS

BYLINE: TRACY COLLINS, ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. D-1, MUSIC PREVIEW

LENGTH: 741 words


Jonatha Brooke is in high spirits this morning. It's finally stopped raining in
her newly adopted home, Los Angeles, and she's getting ready to head to the
rehearsals, preparing for two of the most important months of her career.

In two days, she heads east on a rigorous concert tour. She knows she has a
killer new disc to promote, ''10-cent Wings,'' and it's time to go sell it to
radio execs and a public that seem more accepting of her folk-rock style than
ever before - witness the success of a woman with whom she has often been
compared, Shawn Colvin.

Brooke is in town tomorrow night at 7:30 at Rosebud in the Strip District.
Pittsburgh has been a regular stop for her since she co-founded The Story with
Jennifer Kimball a decade ago, and she returns in support of her second album
since breaking off on her own.

''Are they playing my record on WYEP,'' Brooke asks over the phone from Los
Angeles.

She's thrilled by a firm ''yes,'' but knows the FM station is about the only
place playing her songs here. But she's quietly confident that's about to
change. This disc is something special. The critiques have been very positive,
but what matters most to Brooke is the feeling of accomplishment she felt when
first hearing the completed ''Wings.''

'' 'Oh my God, I love this,' '' she recalls saying. ''I think I was surprised at
how coherently it held together. I liked the songs as I wrote them, but together
they worked really well thematically. It's almost as if I didn't understand what
I was writing at the time, and when it came together, it was more powerful than
I thought.''

It was power born of pain. The death of her father and the move west, away from
family and friends in New England, were the raw material. It produced a body of
work notable for its biting insight into family and romantic relationships, and
a sound that's never been more approachable.

''I didn't have a pop record in mind,'' she says. ''That's really hard for me,
because I'm kind of at the whim of the muse, you know? I write what happens to
be in the crock pot at the time.''

With all she's been through, there is a lot of reading between the lines of the
lyrics, yet that can be precarious, Brooke warns.

''That's always the fun part, seeing what people will come up with when they
hear the songs,'' she says. ''Sometimes, they're really wildly off. There was a
song called 'Dog Dreams' on my album 'Grace in Gravity.' It was about my dog.
But I heard from a feminist group who said the song was an important feminist
foray into issues of women's accessibility into certain parts of society. I
thought, 'What the hell are you talking about? This is about my dog.' ''

Still, she acknowledges a writer is powerless to perception, and that all of the
wonderful pop hooks provide ample opportunity to miss the dark messages. She
laughs when talking about those who misinterpreted Paula Cole's ''Where Have All
the Cowboys Gone,'' thinking Cole was the Nancy Reagan of rock.

''People will make their own reality out of it. People who can't handle darkness
will only hear the pop hooks.''

Brooke found her strong voice and vision through a variety of influences. As
with many women in her generation, Brooke comes back to the same folk-mother:
Joni Mitchell. She's also quick to cite a recent source of inspiration,
Brazilian singer Elis Regina. The jazz singer died of a drug overdose in 1982,
but many of her albums have been released only in the last few years in the
United States.

''She is the most emotive, connecting singer I've ever heard,'' Brooke says.
''She just sings so clearly, and with such passion. Of course, I have no idea
what she's saying because she sings in Portugese, but it's really beautiful.''

Brooke played some of ''10-cent Wings'' last June at Graffiti, but promises a
fuller reading of the disc tomorrow night, ''and that much more rollicking good
fun,'' she says, with as close to a wry smile as one can make out over the
phone. Then she turns serious for a moment.

''I'm becoming more experimental with my voice, testing its ranges, seeing what
it can do. I'm feeling more confident, so I'm pushing myself more. That's what
you can look for.''

(For more of the Post-Gazette's interview with Jonatha Brooke, visit our web
site at www.post-gazette.com)

Jonatha Brooke

Where: Rosebud, Strip District.

When: 7:30 tomorrow.

Tickets: $ 12.50 in advance, $ 15 day of the show.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Jonatha Brooke hopes a climate hospitable to female;
folk-rockers will help her second solo release hit big.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              102 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 21, 1998, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

CURBS ON CUBA EASING; EMBARGO STILL TIGHT

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITTLE, THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Cuba will remain under a tight U.S. embargo despite President Clinton's decision
to relax curbs on sending medicine and money to the island, Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright said yesterday.

''We will maintain economic pressure through the embargo and the Helms-Burton
Act,'' Albright said, referring to a law that imposes penalties on foreign
companies that make certain investments in Cuba.

Despite that explanation, the administration's decision won praise from Cuban
leader Fidel Castro and criticism from Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and coauthor of the Helms-Burton Act.

Castro, in an interview with CNN, characterized the measures as ''really
positive and constructive,'' though he said they must be studied before Cuba
would offer a definitive reaction.

He added, however, that the steps would ''aid in creating a better climate of
relations between the United States and Cuba. . . . We are confident that one
day they will improve.''

Albright said she and Helms discussed the administration's decision ''at
length'' on Thursday. But the senator issued a statement complaining of the
''administration's decision to make controversial changes in U.S. policy by what
amounts to the use of executive fiat.''

''I am puzzled that the administration chose to act alone - in a manner that was
certain to provoke harsh criticism - when so many in Congress, including me,
were willing to work with them,'' Helms said.

Albright said the administration would ''continue to shine a spotlight on
Havana's prisoners of conscience and call for their release.''

''And we will not forget that, 25 months ago, three U.S. citizens and one legal
resident were shot down in international air space,'' she added.

Clinton tightened restrictions on dealings with Cuba in 1996 and backed the
Helms-Burton legislation after Cuban MiG fighter jets shot down two unarmed
civilian aircraft flown by Cuban exiles on a protest mission. The exiles were
over international waters at the time.

Formally announced at the White House by press secretary Mike McCurry, the new
measures include:

* Asking Congress to approve legislation to ''meet humanitarian food needs'' in
Cuba.

* Expediting the issuance of licenses to sell medical supplies to the island.
''We will continue to verify that medicines reach the Cuban people and are not
diverted to other uses,'' Albright pledged.

* Approving direct charter flights to the island for humanitarian purposes. ''We
will allow humanitarian but not tourist or business flights,'' Albright said.

* Allowing Cubans in this country to remit as much as $ 1,200 a year to ''close
relatives'' on the island. Such remittances have been barred since 1994. But a
State Department fact sheet acknowledged that many Cuban-Americans have been
sending them ''outside authorized channels.''

Speaking to reporters at the State Department, Albright stressed that the
relaxations were a response to Pope John Paul II's January visit to Cuba, not a
reward to Castro.

''We're taking these steps now, not because of anything the Castro regime has
done, nor are we doing it to improve official relations with the government of
Cuba,'' Albright said. ''On the contrary, we are acting because of the new
possibilities that exist outside the government.''

Albright said that when she met with the pope in Rome earlier this month ''he
expressed support for steps that would reduce the suffering and isolation of the
Cuban people.''

She added that ''over the past month'' she had ''consulted with the
Cuban-American community'' in Florida and elsewhere.

''Not surprisingly, there is a divergence of views,'' Albright said. ''But there
is agreement that the pope's visit generated huge amounts of energy and
excitement within Cuba, and that we should explore ways to help the Cuban people
without helping the Cuban government.''

In a written statement, Clinton said the response of the Cuban people to the
pope's visit had ''convinced me that we should continue to look for ways to
support Cuba's people without supporting its regime, by providing additional
humanitarian relief, increasing human contacts, and helping the Cuban people
prepare for a peaceful transition to a free, independent and prosperous
nation.''

Helms said he agreed that ''now is the time to pursue the opportunities created
by the pope's visit, by supporting the Catholic Church and by decreasing the
Cuban people's dependence on the Castro regime. But there is a right way and a
wrong way to do it.''

McCurry said the administration had ''consulted extensively with members of
Congress'' before deciding on the measures. ''We believe there will be support
for the decision of the president today,'' he said.

Key Democrats in Congress issued statements backing the decision.

Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., a senior Foreign Relations Committee member,
said the steps would put American policy ''on a higher moral standing.''

Rep. Lee Hamilton of Indiana, senior Democrat on the House International
Relations Committee, said the administration's action would ease the burden of
the U.S. embargo on the Cuban people.

''It's in our interests to help the suffering Cuban people, and to begin the
move toward the post-Castro period,'' Hamilton said.

But members of Congress with Cuban-American constituencies were critical.

''I do not believe that unilateral concessions to Castro without corresponding
improvements in his human rights records will bring us any closer to the
ultimate goal of freedom for the Cuban people,'' said Sen. Robert Torricelli,
D-N.J. New Jersey has a large Cuban exile population.

Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., a Cuban-American who has been a leading
anti-Castro voice, said the measures would send a ''terrible message.''

''We are forgiving Castro for the death of poor innocent American citizens,''
Ros-Lehtinen said. ''I wish we would be a little tougher with the dictator.''

Human Rights Watch, which opposes the U.S. embargo, praised the administration's
decision. And the director of the group's Americas Division immediately wrote to
Castro requesting permission to visit the island to investigate the state of
human rights there.

The moves also won applause from business groups that want to see the U.S.
embargo lifted. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce called them ''good first steps,''
as did USA-ENGAGE, a coalition of 661 small and large businesses and
associations that oppose economic sanctions.

''I think there are some who are going to say we did too little, there are some
who are going to say we've done too much,'' said Jim Dobbins, the National
Security Council's top expert on inter-American affairs. ''We think this strikes
the right balance.''

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Stanley Cohen on the
eighth floor; of his Penn Avenue business with some of the medical and religious
supplies he; will deliver to Cuba. (Photo, Page A-1); PHOTO: Jose
Goitia/Canadian Press: An employee of a state-owned pharmacy in; Havana's
Miramar neighborhood reaches for medication while tending to a; customer
yesterday in Cuba.  At left is a portrait of Cuban revolutionary hero; Che
Guevera.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 11, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

LONGER, HEALTHIER LIVES ARE FORECAST;
WHO REPORT CREDITS LIVING CONDITIONS, MEDICAL ADVANCES

BYLINE: LEE BOWMAN, SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 632 words


Discounting the occasional Methuselah, life in the 21st century promises to be
longer and healthier for more of the globe's people than at any time in human
history, according to a report issued today by the World Health Organization.

The average life expectancy for a baby born in 2025 is projected to be 73 years,
up from 66 years today, as death becomes increasingly equated with old age not
just in North America and Europe, but worldwide.

In the 1950s, 50 percent of all deaths were among children under age 19, (40
percent before age 5) and mostly from childhood diseases and birth
complications. Just 21 percent were among persons 65 or older. By the second
quarter of the next century, the report says, just 11 percent of deaths will be
children, while people over age 65 will account for 63 percent.

WHO officials say the trend is the result of decades-long campaigns against
infectious disease, including improvements in sanitation, water supply and
immunization for childhood disease, that have reached the vast majority of the
world's people.

Still, there are pockets where ''great numbers of people have seen little, if
any, improvement at all,'' said WHO Director-General Hiroshi Nakajima. More than
50 million people live in countries, almost all in sub-Saharan Africa, where
life expectancy is less than 45 years.

The challenge for the 50-year-old public health agency is to continue efforts to
help those impoverished countries bring their health status up while also
''taking on the new challenge of improving health in an aging population, to
help people not just live longer, but healthier lives,'' said Dr. David
Brandling-Bennett, deputy director of the Pan American Health Organization, the
regional arm of the WHO.

For much of the world, particularly in Asia and Latin America, increased
economic prosperity has brought with it the disease burdens and risk factors of
rich nations - increased fat content and less fresh fruits and vegetables in
diets, a greater incidence of smoking, and obesity, along with older
populations.

In an aging population, the leading causes of death and disability are heart
disease and stroke, cancer and the associated losses of vision, hearing and
mobility. And by 2025, one person in 10 is going to be 65 or older around the
world.

''The strategies against these diseases take much longer to show results. We
started a campaign to eradicate polio a decade ago and incidence is now 10
percent of what it was; a campaign against smoking might take 25 years to show
any results in cancer rates,'' said Dr. Paul Kleihues, director of the
International Agency for Research on Cancer.

He noted that the rest of the world, and particularly developing nations, needs
to move toward the policies now being adopted in the United States and other
western nations that medicine should seek not just to preserve life, but to
avoid or delay the onset of disability.

''We can't avoid death, but we should aim to avoid premature death and
disability. To have death occur relatively suddenly at a late age should be
considered an accomplishment rather than a failure.''

Mutu Subramanian, director of World Health Reporting, admitted that the
projections about health problems are based ''on what our experience has been
for the past 50 years and assumes that things will go as they have been,''
rather than any effort to forecast the future.

WHO experts in the next few years will begin to try and take into account
resurgent and new infectious diseases and the impact of possible climate changes
and other environmental factors that influence health.

But in the meantime, Nakajima calls the report ''a cautiously optimistic vision
of the future. It gives us hope that a longer life can be a prize worth
winning.''

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 12, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. A-2, CORRECTION/CLARIFICATION

LENGTH: 147 words


Science & Environment. Saturday's story about peregrine falcons included an
incorrect Internet address for the website that shows photographs of falcons
nesting on the Gulf Tower. The address is:
http://www.transarc.com/Falcon/camera.html

The Region. Candlewood Suites opened April 30 at the Pointe in North Fayette. A
report Friday about a fire at a nearby hotel under construction incorrectly
reported that Candlewood Suites was not yet open for business.

Magazine. A review of the Surge Festival in yesterday's editions misidentified
the call letters of co-sponsor WXDX.

Magazine. The last Carnegie Lecture on Global Environmental Change at the
Carnegie's Museum of Art Theater in Oakland, ''In a Democracy the Climate
Problem Is Whatever the Public Believes It Is,'' is May 19, not May 12, as
listed in yesterday's Town Talkers. The phone number is 412-622-3288.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              117 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 10, 1998, Wednesday, WEST EDITION

ENERGY PLAN WOULD COST $ 525,000

BYLINE: RENA A. KOONTZ, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 415 words


If Moon supervisors are willing to spend some money, they can save close to $
30,000 a year in energy costs.

That was the message Paul Carter delivered last week when he gave the
supervisors their first glimpse of the energy management plan developed by ERI
Services. The township has enlisted the help of the Moon firm to cut energy
costs and make its operations more energy efficient.

Supervisor John Wink wasn't so sure that ends were justified by the means. To
Wink, it might not make sense for the township to spend $ 524,929 just to save $
29,532 annually, as ERI has proposed.

''It doesn't look like an 18-year payback is anything to get excited about, and
I wouldn't if that was all that was involved,'' Wink said. ''But you have to
remember most of our equipment is beyond its useful life and needs replaced, and
our maintenance costs increase each year.''

Jack Griffin, assistant township manager, said equipment such as the
air-conditioning units and boilers are 35 years old.  Parts to repair them are
hard to come by and expensive.

ERI's proposal would allow the township to replace its equipment as a package,
thus getting a better purchase price. New, improved technology will provide more
efficient operations and cut costs.

Carter said his firm made a preliminary evaluation of the township facilities,
looking in ''every nook and cranny'' to find what he called significant
opportunities to fix problems.

For example, the control systems in the municipal building, public safety and
Cherrington buildings all are outdated and do not allow climate control in
individual rooms, Carter said.

The system in place now does not allow for weather changes where air
conditioning is needed one week and not required the next, Carter said. ERI's
plan installs programmable thermostats.

One by one, Carter outlined his plan, talking about rooftop units, the windows
and a 35-year-old boiler once used by prisoners and police who showered at the
building.

Carter said even the fish frys the volunteer firemen sponsor cost the township
about $ 3,000 just for electricity because the fryers are outdated. Much of the
equipment the township uses has outlived its life span, he said.

The bottom line is a savings that the township will realize over the course of
several years as maintenance costs decrease and efficiency improves.

The supervisors are reviewing the details of ERI's proposal and are expected to
act on it in an upcoming meeting.

MOON

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              120 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 14, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

BACKLASH ON SANCTIONS

BYLINE: PAT GRIFFITH, POST-GAZETTE WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 1973 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


India and Pakistan conduct underground nuclear tests.

 Iran, Syria and Libya promote state terrorism.

Sudan and Myanmar torture and slaughter helpless citizens.

In Iraq, Saddam Hussein plays games with the United Nations and tries to hide
chemical and biological weapons. Thai fishermen kill protected sea turtles when
they cast nets for shrimp.

Alarmed at potential threats to national security and outraged at willful abuses
of human rights and environmental standards, U.S. lawmakers are fighting back.

From the Oval Office to Congress to a growing number of state capitals and city
halls, they are imposing economic sanctions as punishment, hoping the offending
country will change its ways and other countries will be deterred from following
suit.

U.S.-imposed sanctions, which can be as limited as an embargo on tuna imports or
as broad as a ban on all business and financial transactions, affect more than
70 nations representing two-thirds of the world's population.

A study released by the National Association of Manufacturers last year found
that during President Clinton's first term, from 1993 through 1996, 61 laws or
presidential orders authorized economic sanctions against 35 countries. They
account for more than half of all sanctions imposed by the United States since
World War I.

USA*Engage, a lobbying group of corporations and trade associations, last week
passed out a list of 74 countries now targeted by U.S. sanctions. Indonesia
(repression of civil rights), Switzerland (slow resolution of dormant bank
accounts of Holocaust victims) and Turkey (religious persecution) will join the
list if measures pending either in Washington or local governments are adopted.

The group cites a study by the Institute for International Economics in
Washington which said economic sanctions reduced U.S. exports to 26 of the
targeted countries by $ 15 billion to $ 20 billion in 1995 - at a cost of
200,000 to 250,000 U.S. jobs.

There's no way to determine whether companies picked up new business elsewhere
that they might not have pursued if sanctions had not blocked anticipated deals,
thus keeping most if not all of their employees on the job. So far this year the
nation's unemployment rate has remained well below 5 percent despite a drop in
exports to Asian countries.

Legislative attempts to enact sanctions have been plentiful this spring. In
March the Senate came within a few votes of imposing sanctions on Mexico for not
cooperating more fully with U.S. counter-narcotics efforts. In May the House
overwhelmingly passed a bill that would curb exports to countries that engage in
religious persecution. A similar measure, originally introduced by Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa., is awaiting Senate action.

Over vigorous objections from the White House, the House followed the Senate
last week in approving sanctions against Russia for transferring missile
technology to Iran. It will be vetoed, but the message will have been sent.

Sanctions that prohibit transfer of sensitive military technology to China,
among other nations, are at the heart of the current uproar in Washington over
whether the Clinton administration erred in granting a waiver to Loral Space &
Communications Ltd. in February to launch a satellite aboard a Chinese rocket.

As the number of sanctions and their legal complexity grow, complaints from the
business community are rising. Not only are they watching potential business
fall in the laps of their competitors, they say, but the bewildering array of
sanctions is creating a climate of doubt in many countries as to whether
American firms can be relied upon to deliver what they promise.

At the same time, foreign policy experts are raising doubts about the
effectiveness of legislated, piecemeal diplomacy, often to satisfy domestic
political interests.

''Sanctions are not a panacea and they are not cost-free,'' Under Secretary of
State Stuart E. Eizenstat reminded the House International Relations Committee
earlier this month. When they are applied ''under inappropriate circumstances,''
he said, ''they can actually impede the attainment of our objective and come at
a significant cost to other U.S. policy objectives.''

Many in Congress are also coming to a grudging realization that in the post-Cold
War era of global economics, sanctions may have no more impact than a hound
baying at the moon unless they are carefully targeted and backed by major U.S.
allies.

In the hope of bringing ''some reason to the sanctions business,'' Sen. Richard
Lugar, R-Ind., a veteran member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
announced last week he is introducing a bill to reign in the free-wheeling
imposition of sanctions as a foreign policy tool.

The legislation, which won immediate endorsement from the administration, would
require that future sanctions be tied to a specific U.S. foreign policy or
national security objective, undergo analysis for economic impact on U.S.
businesses and allies as well as on the target country, protect existing
contracts, allow for a presidential waiver, and include a provision to end after
two years unless Congress or the president decided otherwise.

Lugar would exempt agricultural products from sanctions or give special
assistance to farmers and ranchers ''who bear a disproportionate burden'' when
exports are reduced.

Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., a co-sponsor, said U.S. companies have too often been
victims of ineffective unilateral sanctions.

''Many other countries have the technology or product we are withholding, so the
sanctioned country just buys from them. There's hardly an industry in
Pennsylvania - agriculture, construction equipment, oil refining, cement,
nuclear power - that isn't impacted by some of the unilateral sanctions we've
imposed.''

Santorum cited China's use of its military to crush student demonstrators in
Tiananmen Square as an example of a situation so morally reprehensible that
sanctions are justified to express the nation's moral outrage.  While religious
persecution might also fit into that category, Santorum said, he doesn't like
making sanctions mandatory, as called for in a pending Senate bill.

''Congress acting and showing its disapproval of religious persecution in the
world is important,'' Santorum said, but he would oppose a ''knee-jerk sanctions
policy'' that doesn't give the president flexibility to decide whether imposing
sanctions is in the national interest.

When India conducted five underground nuclear tests and Pakistan followed suit
last month, they knew they would trigger far-reaching U.S. economic sanctions
under the Arms Export Control Act written by Ohio Sen. John Glenn.

The Glenn amendment was envisioned as a blunt instrument to forestall the spread
of nuclear weapons by imposing stiff penalties on any country that dared to
blast its way into the world's nuclear club.

The automatic sanctions now taking effect include a halt in all U.S. financial
aid, military sales, and support for loans by international agencies. The act
does not allow a presidential waiver, and it has no provision for ending the
sanctions.

''Sanctions may well be a psychological outlet in the absence of another
policy,'' Robert Pfaltzgraff Jr., president of the Institute for Foreign Policy
Analysis, said last week. ''The problem is that the solution being tried may be
tantamount to shooting yourself in the foot out of frustration . . . For the
United States to impose sanctions on India right now is simply to encourage
European countries to go in and sell products and services in a market that the
U.S. may have had in the past.''

Congress is not accustomed to passing laws without loopholes, and the fact that
the Glenn amendment apparently lacked any is generating some fancy legislative
footwork in response.

On Wednesday the House Appropriations Committee voted 7-5 to exempt agricultural
products from the sanctions on India and Pakistan, the first step in what could
become a ''Christmas tree'' of special-purpose exemptions sought by
election-minded members.

Meanwhile, Commerce Department officials are working closely with the high-tech
industry to try to spare as much of their export market to the two countries as
possible, while major U.S. banks are seeking exemptions to restrictions on loans
to the Indian government.

The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. companies exported $ 900 million in
computer equipment to India last year, most of it not sophisticated enough to be
helpful to the military. U.S. firms also sold $ 650 million in civilian aircraft
and parts to India and $ 504 million in telecommunications equipment last year.

Future sales are now in doubt as companies await word on whether this equipment
will be barred as having potential military use, and whether sales can be
financed through state-owned Indian banks.

Although it is not yet clear what affect the India and Pakistan sanctions might
have on a major global corporation such as Westinghouse, the company has been
tripped up by sanctions in the past.

In 1989 Congress passed legislation barring the sale of advanced nuclear power
equipment and related technology to China for national security reasons. Since
then, the company's chairman and CEO, Michael H. Jordan, has reported that China
has purchased or contracted for approximately $ 8 billion worth of nuclear
plants from France, $ 3 billion from Canada, and $ 4 billion from Russia.

During the same period, Westinghouse reduced its nuclear-related workforce
headquartered in Monroeville by one-third, or 3,500 workers.

''I have no doubt that if these talented men and women had been allowed to
compete in the Chinese market alongside their European, Japanese and Canadian
counterparts, they would all be working today,'' Jordan wrote in an April 6
article in the Post-Gazette.

''It's very frustrating, and we're entitled to ask just what is this
accomplishing?'' said Ian Butterfield, Washington spokesman for Westinghouse,
said on Thursday. ''We're supposed to be punishing the Chinese by making them
buy French?''

In the case of India and Pakistan, Butterfield said that a halt in financing
through the Export-Import Bank could stop sales of such big-ticket items as
conventional turbines and steam generators used in coal and natural gas power
plants.

''We'd certainly like to see a rational consideration of this whole sanctions
regime,'' he said.  ''We're putting on a new sanction every few weeks, and 90
percent of this makes no sense.  We've got to learn these things aren't like
light switches; you can't just switch them on and off whenever you want to.''

NATIONS SUBJECT TO OR THREATENED BY U.S. UNILATERAL ECONOMIC SANCTIONS:

%BC% SANCTIONS PRESENT %EC%

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus,
Belize, Burundi, Canada, Colombia, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Costa Rica,
Djibouti, Gambia, Georgia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania,
Moldova, New Independent States of the former Soviet Unin, Oman, Panama,
Paraguay, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuala, Yemen, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).

%BC% SANCTIONS PRESENT AND PENDING %EC%

Cambodia, China, Cuba, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Laos, Libya, Myanmar (Burma), Mexico,
Morocco, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Vietnam.

%BC% SANCTIONS PENDING %EC%

Indonesia, Switzerland, Turkey.

SOURCE: The President's Export Council, the Organization for International
Investment, USA*ENGAGE Federal Sanctions Watch List. (Current as of June 1998)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP, MAP: The President's Export Council, the Organization for;
International Investment, USA*ENGAGE Federal Sanctions Watch List. (Current as;
of June 1998); Emily Ayars/Post-Gazette: (Nations subject to or threatened by;
U.S. unilateral ecomonic sanctions)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              123 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 29, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

NEW MATERIAL FOR SYNTHETIC ORGANS

BYLINE: FROM LOCAL AND WIRE DISPATCHES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 660 words


Penn State University researchers have transformed a polymer originally
developed for clear plastic bags so that it may be suitable for use in
artificial muscles, skin and organs.

The material, called Poly(vinylidene fluoride-trifluoroethylene)Copolymer, was
known to move a little when an electrical field was applied. But Qi-Ming Zhang
of Penn State's Materials Research Laboratory found that bombarding the material
with electrons creates a material that moves much more and is easier and cheaper
to manufacture than similar materials.

Zhang and his research team reported the discovery last week in the journal
Science. In addition to uses in artificial organs, the pliable material also
would be suitable for acoustic transducers used in medical imaging equipment,
underwater detectors and stereo speakers.

 Recycle phone books

The Allegheny County Health Department has extended its deadline for phone-book
recycling through Wednesday. Old directories can be dropped off 24 hours a day
at the City of Pittsburgh Department of Environmental Services, 3001 Railroad
St., Strip District, or from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Pittsburgh Recycling
Services, 102 32nd St., Strip District.

 Bristles change to scales

Those scales on the dinosaur's hide may have metamorphosed into feathers, as
evolution, with its customary economy in making old structures serve new ends,
crafted the bird. But from what existing structures did evolution create
something so special as the scales on a butterfly's wing?

The answer is the bristle. The sensory bristles that stud a fly's body have a
pattern of development in the embryo similar to that of the butterfly's scales.
Sean B. Carroll and colleagues at the University of Wisconsin at Madison report
in Current Biology that the butterfly's scale control gene is related in its DNA
sequence to the fruit fly's bristle control gene.

Carroll suggests that the wings of the first winged insects were covered with
sensory bristles. As butterflies evolved, the bristles flattened into scales and
acquired a palette of colors.

Tips to save money, Earth

The average U.S. home produces twice as much greenhouse gas pollution as the
average U.S. automobile, the Environmental Protection Agency says. But a new
brochure suggests plenty of ways homeowners can both reduce pollution and save
on their utility bills.

For a copy of ''Power$ marts: Easy Tips to Save Money and the Planet,'' send a
self-addressed, business-size envelope and $ 3 to: Power$ marts, Alliance to
Save Energy, Box 33939, Washington, D.C. 20033-0939 or visit the Alliance's Web
site at http://www.ase.org/consumer.

Global warming in space

While earth scientists argue about whether or how much Earth's climate is
changing, astronomers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology have used the
Hubble Space Telescope to detect global warming on Neptune's largest moon,
Triton.

Since 1989, when the Voyager spacecraft cruised by, Triton has undergone a
substantial warming - rising from minus 392 degrees Fahrenheit to minus 389
degrees, they reported last week in the journal Nature. The temperature is not
exactly balmy, but it's high enough to turn some of Triton's frozen nitrogen
surface into gas.

Triton is a bit smaller than Earth's moon.

Chinese more tolerant

Intellectual contradictions are better tolerated by Chinese than by Americans,
according to a study by Kaiping Peng, a former Beijing scholar who is now a
psychologist at the University of California at Berkeley.

In a family conflict, Chinese are more likely to urge disputing parties to
agree, without apportionment of blame, whereas Americans tend first to decide
which party is right and then insist the other capitulate.

But ''the American way of dealing with contradiction may be optimal for
scientific exploration and the search for facts because of its aggressive,
linear and argumentative style,'' Peng concludes.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              126 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 2, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

BAD TIMING, PRUDISH CULTURE BLAMED AS CULTPRITS FOR FILM'S RECEPTION

BYLINE: ROB OWEN, POST-GAZETTE TV EDITOR

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. G-3

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.


It's the movie many have talked about, but few have seen. That changes tonight
at 9 with the premiere of Adrian Lyne's "Lolita" on Show- time.

Based on the novel by Vladimir Nabokov and already put on film in 1962 by
Stanley Kubrick, Lyne's tale of a 37-year-old man who falls in love with his
teen-age stepdaughter has been maligned since it began production more than
three years ago.

Jeremy Irons, who stars as Humbert Humbert, said "Lolita's" scurrilous
reputation hardly reflects what Nabokov wrote.

"When [the book] was published in America, everybody went out to buy it and
started thumbing through it, looking for the dirty bits," Irons said at a recent
TV critics press conference. "And of course there are not dirty bits in this
novel. It's extraordinary that it has the reputation it has, but it is not
salacious."

However, it is disquieting material, and those involved with the latest "Lolita"
make no apologies for that.

"This is not a message movie," said screenwriter Stephen Schiff, who adapted
Nabokov's novel for Lyne's film. "It is a movie where you are poured into
Humbert's skin. And if you don't feel uncomfortable there, then I don't think
we've done a very good job."

Because of its controversial subject matter, the $ 58 million movie was unable
to find an American distributor for a theatrical release until Showtime agreed
to air the film (Samuel Goldwyn Films subsequently announced plans to release
the movie in select cities).

Schiff blames a "culture of fear" in America, a
"keep-it-in-the-dark-and-maybe-it-will-go-away kind of culture." Irons
attributes the reaction to bad timing.

"I think it has something to do with the fact that pedophilia has become a
subject talked about and pushed forward, rightly, for the last three years,"
Irons said. "'Lolita'was a very useful hook to hang this debate on. We were, in
a way, used to our detriment by this airing of a very important subject. "

The reluctance of American studios to distribute the movie may not have been too
surprising given Lyne's reputation. He also directed the sultry "9 1

2 Weeks," "Fatal Attraction" and "Indecent Proposal."

"I think there was a kind of pre-judgment, a pre-idea of what this film was
going to be like," Lyne said. He believes the film was rejected by distributors
because of a greater public concern about pedophilia, with the unsolved JonBenet
Ramsey case at the forefront.

"I think that in the last five or six years, the climate has changed enormously
in this country," Lyne said. "In the '80s or the '70s, this movie would have
been released without a problem."

Perhaps the most disturbing element of the story is that even though Humbert
seduces Lolita (Dominique Swain), he never becomes a traditional antagonist.

"Nabokov pulled off this extraordinary juggling act, really," Lyne said. "You
read the novel, and you are appalled at what this man, Humbert, does to Lolita.
It's horrendous. And yet Nabokov will then make you laugh, and he'll slide you
through the next scene, and you'll start to maybe feel sorry for Humbert.
Despite your not wanting to, you come to even like him a little."

Irons said he initially rejected the Humbert role.

"I felt I played enough oddballs for one career," he said. "Adrian was very
passionate that I should do it, which is very flattering, and then [he] accused
me of being politically correct by turning it down, which made me think, because
I felt that one functions in the arts to stir up debate."

"Lolita" stirred the career of 17-year-old actress Dominique Swain, who was 14
when she auditioned for the film. Swain said life has returned to normal for
her, although some of her classmates in Malibu, Calif., "made it their business
to figure out why I was getting so much attention." But she has no regrets about
making the movie, and was even comfortable having her mother on the set during
her love scenes with Irons.

"I would have felt safe with or without her," Swain said. "My parents have
raised me to make decisions for myself and to make decisions that I feel
comfortable with, and they will support me through them whatever I decide."

It may put viewers'minds at ease to know that a pad was placed between Irons and
Swain during their more intimate scenes, which are filmed in a way that plenty
is understood, but little is revealed. Although he considers the film erotic,
Lyne said that doesn't require showing "acres of flesh."

"The imagination is usually better than being confronted with it," he said.

"Or worse," Swain added.

The actress said she wanted to play the title role because she felt she
understood Lolita as Nabokov wrote the character.

"I really thought I knew what Lolita was thinking and feeling," Swain said. "I
think she was just trying to succeed in the face of adversity. She should have
been able to be in a school play without having to seduce her stepfather.
Because he was holding out on her, she was just going to do what she had to do
to get to the top."

Although she understood Lolita, Swain said she cringes when she sees real-life
couplings of older men and younger women.

"That type of relationship makes me ill," Swain said. "You just wonder what
either one of them are getting out of it."

Swain, who was rather giggly in her appearance before television critics, said
it wasn't difficult to play the Bambi-like Lolita seen at the beginning of the
movie.

"That kind of carries over from my awkwardness in real life," Swain said. "I'm
trying to figure out the space my body's taking up, and I'm kind of clumsy."

Swain, who has a 19-year-old boyfriend, said she couldn't relate to Lolita's
attraction to Humbert - or women who drool over Irons. He's a "dinosaur. I
couldn't see that he was attractive, but maybe that's my immaturity.

"Around the set I saw these women who were dying to get a glimpse of him," Swain
said, "and I'm, like, whatever."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Jeremy Irons, left, with "Lolita" director Adrian Lyne,
whose; films "Fatal Attration," "Indecent Proposal" and "9 1/2 Weeks" also deal
with; sexual obsession.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 9, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

GIBSON'S APPROACH TO PITCHING INSIDE IS PRETTY MUCH HISTORY

BYLINE: PAUL DOYLE, THE HARTFORD COURANT

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. D-6

LENGTH: 1035 words


One pitch whistles high and outside, pulling the batter to the balls of his
feet.

The next floats and drops in front of the plate, a changeup purposely bounced to
keep the batter off balance.

Almost unconsciously, the batter leans over the plate, anticipating a pitch on
the outside.

That's just what Pedro Martinez was attempting to achieve, so he plants a seed
in his opponent's head. A 97 mph fastball soars on the inside corner, sending
the batter to his backside.

''Why not?'' the Boston Red Sox ace says with a shrug. ''Why can't I pitch
inside? Who says it's off-limits? I have just as much of a right as (the batter)
does.''

It's a pitching sequence Martinez has displayed throughout his career lulling
batters with his knee-buckling changeup before buzzing a fastball inside.

It's a style steeped in fear and a style that is becoming obsolete. Martinez is
the soul child of Don Drysdale, Juan Marichal and Bob Gibson, pitchers who
relied on inside fastballs to intimidate batters.

Thirty years ago, it was understood: Pitchers would come inside. If a batter
were hit by a pitch, he would most often stand, brush the dirt off his uniform
and take first base.

But the game has changed on the side of offense. In a season in which three
players are challenging the sacred single-season home run record, beanball wars
have been numerous. If a pitcher routinely throws inside, he is labeled a
headhunter.

So few do. Martinez has been fighting that label his entire career. Randy
Johnson and Roger Clemens - two of the best starters of their generation have
been accused of deliberately throwing at batters.

None apologize.

''It's part of the game,'' Clemens said. ''Guys can't expect to lean over and
sit on those outside pitches. We have to keep them honest.''

Pitchers such as Clemens and Johnson have built their mound personas around
intimidation. Clemens rarely hears complaints from batters, although Johnson has
had feuds with many. Earlier this season, Kenny Lofton and Johnson had a
shouting match that nearly led to a brawl.

But no pitcher has been more closely associated with headhunting than Martinez,
a disciple of Marichal. Call it a cultural difference, but Martinez says he was
taught to throw inside while growing up in the Dominican Republic. He points to
his idol, Marichal, and Gibson as examples of how to pitch correctly.

In the United States, teen-age pitchers often spend their formative years
flirting with off-speed pitches. By the time the best prospects reach the
minors, they are afraid to throw inside.

''It's a lot of things, not just one thing,'' said New York Mets special
assistant Dave Wallace, a former Los Angeles Dodgers pitching coach who tutored
Martinez in the minors. ''The whole game has changed, all the way down the line.
Someone like Pedro, he always (threw inside). It was instinctive.''

Wallace says the climate has changed over the past 30 years. Just as pitchers
grow up throwing off-speed pitches and concentrating on pitching on the outer
half of the plate, batters are more sensitive to inside pitches because they are
not exposed to them.

Aluminum bats, which enable batters to fight off the inside fastball, also take
away the effectiveness of the inside pitch. That may cause amateur pitchers to
subconsciously stay away from the inside corner.

But pitching coaches like Wallace and Joe Kerrigan of the Red Sox dismiss the
importance of the aluminum bat. Both say it's a change in the mind-set of
pitchers, batters and umpires.

''There's less tolerated,'' Kerrigan said. ''More pitches are seen as purpose
pitches rather than pitches that establish that inside corner.''

But there are those who insist batters must be protected. Players from Tony
Conigliaro to Dickie Thon have had their careers altered by high fastballs. No
one endorses the beanball, but finding a point between pitching inside and
hitting a batter is the challenge.

''The whole idea of pitching inside is to make the guy speed up his bat, not to
establish fear,'' Mets Manager Bobby Valentine said. ''Fear is already there.
Every human who goes to the plate has fear.''

As a player, Valentine was intentionally beaned by a pitcher named Greg
Washburn.

''Broke my cheekbone and pushed it down 3 1/2 inches,'' Valentine said. ''So
when you start doing that stuff and something happens to someone's career, or
worse, his life . . . I don't think any of that stuff is worth it. No staff
pitches inside more than ours, but we never have incidents. There's a
difference.''

There are obvious times when pitchers hit batters - retaliation for a teammate
getting hit or after a home run. Most players understand that pitchers will
protect teammates.

''You've got to protect your guys,'' Clemens said. ''Nobody will argue with
that.''

But intentionally hitting a batter after a homer is peculiar, though common.
When Armando Benitez of the Baltimore Orioles hit Tino Martinez of the New York
Yankees after a home run this season, it sparked one of the worst fights in
recent history.

The pitchers who work inside with a plan separate themselves from beanball wars.
But it took Pedro Martinez three years to overcome that label. In 1994, he hit
11 batters and was charged three times, leading to three brawls. In 1996, with
the Montreal Expos, Martinez hit Gregg Jefferies before the Philadelphia
Phillies' Mike Williams threw two pitches behind his head. Martinez charged
Williams and was suspended for the first eight games of last season.

Still, Martinez went on to win the 1997 Cy Young Award. While he hit nine
batters and routinely threw inside last year, there were no incidents.

''There was a time when I was very concerned because this guy was being warned
if he pitched two fastballs inside in a row,'' Expos Manager Felipe Alou said.
''I was concerned about all the treatment, that all the accusations would get to
this young boy.''

Martinez insists he has not changed his approach. His control is better and he
may have earned more respect from batters and umpires.

But the grumbling about his intimidating style will probably be there the rest
of his career, as it has followed Johnson for 10 years.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 16, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FAULT FINDING IN L.A.;
POSSIBILITIES FOR ARE ALL THEY'RE CRACKED UP TO BE

BYLINE: BOB HOOVER, BOOK EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. G-8, BOOK REVIEW

LENGTH: 1002 words


"THE ECOLOGY OF FEAR"

By Mike Davis.

Metropolitan Books. $ 27.50.

Anyone visiting Los Angeles in the spring of 1994 must have felt some
uneasiness. Still in shock after the January earthquake, the damaged city
resembled the sets from disaster films.

The freeways were chaotic because of crumbled ramps and missing sections.
Buildings were unrepaired or abandoned. Memories of the ' 92 riots after the
Rodney King debacle hung over the brown, dry landscape like the brown smog.

More was to follow shortly, from the O.J. Simpson episode to fires, mud slides
and other woes.

It's easy to feel anxious in this creepy town with its reputation for psychos
and disasters natural and manmade. L.A. has given us one horror show after the
other, and they weren't all filmed in Hollywood.

Mike Davis is a Southern Californian who is drawn to L.A. like a pyromaniac is
drawn to a house fire. His 1990 study of L.A.'s culture, "City of Quartz," was a
best seller, and later it brought Davis a $ 315,000 "genius grant" from the
MacArthur Foundation.

Between stints teaching urban theory at Southern California Institute of
Architecture and driving delivery trucks, Davis has written another quirky book
on the city where the concept of "noir" was born.

"Southern California, in the most profound sense, is suffering a crisis of
identity," is Davis' argument in this book, subtitled "Los Angeles and the
Imagination of Disaster."

Once the mecca for millions of Americans seeking a better way of life, the
region is reeling from one disaster after another, creating a huge exodus in
residents since 1989. More than a half-million deserted Southern California by
1995, most of them middle-class.

The result, writes Davis, was an "astonishing" 20 percent drop in the area's
median income.

Who could blame them? From its climactic extremes to its powder-keg social
structure, this area of more than 4 million people is spoiling for catastrophe,
and Davis painstakingly shows the many ways it could occur.

Geographically, "Los Angeles has deliberately put itself in harm's way," writes
Davis in several chapters detailing the various threats from weather: tornadoes,
brush fires, extremes of rain and drought, and the best-known, earthquakes.

Forget the San Andreas fault, says Davis, because newly discovered "thrust
faults" stretching in every direction beneath L.A., coupled with shoddy
construction, pose a multibillion-dollar catastrophe so large it will cripple
the federal budget.

The '94 Northridge quake resulted in $ 42 million in damages and relief costs
and 72 deaths, yet business pressures blocked tougher building standards. A
quake under L.A. would dwarf the Northridge one in casualties and damages. Davis
makes no apology for his left-wing politics as he cites example after example of
how L.A.'s underclass of blacks, Latinos and Asians have suffered under the
white conservative power structure.

Examples include the constant fire dangers in L.A.'s tenements, some of them
more than 60 years old, which are routinely neglected in the face of slumlord
influence.  When Davis marshals hard facts and figures to support his thesis,
"Ecology of Fear" is a scary book, but when he makes assumptions based on a few
scientists' concerns, it's easy to imagine that he's pushing a little too hard
to be Chicken Little.

A chapter on tornadoes lacks convincing evidence that the "Hollywood" sign will
be airborne soon, as does one on the "man-eaters of the Sierra Madre" wild
animals that threaten the always-encroaching humans.

"The Literary Destruction of Los Angeles" adds a few little-known books and
films to the growing pile of disaster entertainment which the city seems to
inspire, but Davis redeems himself in the closing section, "Beyond ' Blade
Runner.' "

In it, he raises an issue which is more frightening than a big quake - the
specter of class warfare, with the signs mounting in what he calls the
"relegitimation of public racism."

Pacing this social breakdown is the decline of older, middle-class suburbs and
the growth of "edge cities" - white en claves, often gated and patroled by
rent-a-cops, which grab a share of government aid and send a horde of Newt
Gingrich followers to Congress.

Hate crimes against various minorities, including Asians, are mounting in the
face of law-enforcement indifference and perhaps even sympathy, Davis suggests,
calling LA the "hate-crime capital" of the nation.

Davis saves his best horror story for last - the California prison system.

The state now operates the third largest penal system in the world, behind China
and the United States. Filling the prisons are tougher penalties, including the
"three-strike" rule. New ones are passed in every session of a state legislature
whose members are in a "rush to put their names at the top of new, anticrime
measures, while ignoring the progressive imbalance between the numbers of felons
sentenced to prison and the existing capacity of the Department of Corrections
facilities."

When told that longer sentences will cause a 262 percent increase in the number
of prisoners by 2005, hard-line Gov. Pete Wilson replied, "If these additional
costs have to be absorbed, I guess we'll have to reduce other services. We'll
have to change our priorities."

Currently, the state spends twice as much on 18-year-old inmates as it does on
18-year-old college students.

These social issues pose a more predictable threat than climate or earthquake
and probably deserved a more thorough exploration in this book. Unlike
earthquakes, sociological conditions in California can be tempered, but Davis
offers no way out of this time bomb.

"The Ecology of Fear" is just the guidebook to the action to come.

Visiting Southern California in the late 1980s, I met an elderly woman who had
left Pittsburgh in the late 1940s before smoke control and the Renaissance.

"What a dirty, old place," she told me, "I couldn't wait to get out."

I hope she had a round-trip ticket.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              131 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 7, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

A LABOR DAY MIXED MESSAGE;
FOR UNIONS, EACH STEP FORWARD SEEMS TO BE MATCHED BY ONE BACK

BYLINE: DAVID S. BRODER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-13

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


For America's working families - and for the labor unions that would like to
represent more of them - this Labor Day is a time of mixed messages. Both can
point to some small victories, but in a wider perspective, both are running very
hard just to stay in place.

As a child of the Great Depression and a product of a smoky industrial suburb of
Chicago, I grew up believing that workers and unions were one and the same. For
one to do well, the other had to be strong. Even today, in a very different
economy, the statistics show that unionized workers are better paid than their
nonunion counterparts in the same occupations.

But the workers and their families are not doing all that well. In their
just-published volume "The State of Working America," authors Lawrence Mishel,
Jared Bernstein and John Schmitt summarize:

"As the 1990s recovery proceeds, unemployment has fallen sharply and real wage
growth has become strong and broad-based. . . . And yet, despite consistent
expansion of the economy since 1991, neither the wage of the median worker nor
the income of the median family has returned to its pre-recession level."

The three authors are affiliated with the Economic Policy Institute, a
union-backed think tank. But a Labor Day report from the National Association of
Manufacturers, which proclaims on its first page that "the American worker is
prospering," also includes a statistical chart showing real nonfarm wages
essentially flat since 1991.

The story is more complicated than a single number can convey.  Workers with
high school diplomas or more have seen their incomes rise; the relatively
unskilled are losing ground - underlining the critical importance of education
and training for the work force of the new century.

The picture is similar for unions. AFL-CIO President John Sweeney, in his
pre-Labor Day briefing, said that expanded organizing drives by its affiliates
had added 400,000 dues-paying members to the rolls in 1997. But overall union
membership didn't grow because that many union jobs were lost.

Again, there is an imbalance. The public employee unions continued to expand,
while private sector unions shrank. Unions now represent barely 10 percent of
private, nonfarm wage and salary workers but 37 percent of government workers.
More than twice as many union workers draw government paychecks as earn their
money in manufacturing.

This tilt is as unhealthy as the growing gulf between well-educated and meagerly
educated workers.

To prosper, workers have to join the mainstream of the American population with
at least 12 years of schooling - and probably more. And to remain vital, unions
have to sell themselves in the expanding areas of the American economy. Given
the conservative climate of the country on taxes and spending, government is not
likely to be a growth industry.

Sweeney came to office three years ago promising a more dynamic style of
leadership than the people he replaced. Lord knows, he has tried. The staff of
AFL-CIO head quarters is younger, abler and more energetic. Changes at the top
in many of the affiliated unions reflect the same trends.

But the giant Teamsters union, where reformers once appeared to have made real
progress in removing the taint of criminality and racketeering, has been wracked
by scandal. The man who led its successful - and popular - strike against United
Parcel Service, Ron Carey, has been forced to step aside as president, and the
indictment of its former political director has cast a cloud over AFL-CIO
secretary-treasurer Richard Trumka.

Trumka has denied any wrongdoing in the laundering of funds for the mutual
benefit of Carey and the 1996 Democratic presidential campaign. But the
investigation may imperil Trumka, one of the most dynamic of the
younger-generation unionists who otherwise would be Sweeney's likely successor.

As Sweeney concedes, unions have not turned the corner to gain greater
membership or public acceptance.

One poll this year showed much higher approval of business corporations than of
labor unions. In another poll, twice as many people said labor had too much
influence in the Democratic Party as said it had too little.

A Wirthlin International survey this summer found seven out of 10 Americans
disagree with the statement that union workers are better trained and do a
better job than nonunion workers.

Both the workers and the unions have a way to go.

David S. Broder is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              136 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 1, 1998, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

ALSO IN THE WORLD . . .

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-6, WORLD BRIEFS

LENGTH: 140 words


The U.S. space agency NASA has agreed to build a $ 20 million laboratory in
Honduras to study changes in climate and the atmosphere. It would be the first
project of its kind in Latin America . . . An Iraqi nuclear scientist has won
political asylum in Britain after convincing immigration officials he would be
forced to work on atomic weapons research if returned to his homeland. The
scientist's identity has been kept secret because he fears for family members
who live in Iraq . . . Saddam Hussein's half-brother, Barzan al-Tikriti, who
served as Iraq's ambassador to the U.N. headquarters in Geneva, has refused to
return to Iraq since his diplomatic service ended last month . . . Russia's
ultranationalist politician Vladimir Zhirinovsky said yesterday that he wants to
run for governor of the region surrounding St. Petersburg.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              144 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 18, 1998, Friday, SOONER EDITION

CAN AN IMPEACHED CLINTON GOVERN? SOME SCHOLARS SAY YES

BYLINE: ROBERT A. RANKIN, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House appears certain to impeach President Clinton. The Senate outlook is
cloudier, but few expect Clinton to be forced from office, and he vows never to
resign.

If all that proves true, the nation then must face several questions: Will
Clinton be able to govern the next two years? How badly crippled will he be
politically? Can the Comeback Kid possibly come back again after becoming only
the second president in history to be impeached?

The answer, say many nonpartisan political analysts, is yes. Clinton can quite
possibly come back and govern after impeachment as effectively as before -
although that is arguably a weak standard of measurement compared to most
successful presidents.

"Domestically, he can't be weakened much because he wasn't dealing with many
strong cards to begin with," said Bert Rockman, a presidential scholar at the
University of Pittsburgh.

Clinton is unlikely to be able to push any significant new legislation through
Congress, analysts agree. The Republican majority there profoundly distrusts
him, as shown by the striking public questioning of his motives in bombing Iraq
by many GOP lawmakers, including even Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.
The impeachment process is sure to intensify this partisan ac rimony dividing
Congress from the president.

"The bitterness this has created is pretty extreme," said Barbara Sinclair, a
scholar of Congress at the University of California-Los Angeles. "Gosh, it's
hard to see this not having a pretty negative impact. This is gut-level stuff!"

Impeachment thus probably dooms any chance that Clinton and Congress will
succeed in their de clared agendas of seeking to reform Social Security,
regulate health maintenance organizations, and pass big tax cuts, analysts
agree. Instead, stalemate is expected on all but routine legislation.

But stalemate is already the norm for Clinton and the Republican Congress, quite
apart from impeachment. No major legislation passed in 1998, and none was likely
to pass in 1999 or 2000, even without the extra burden of impeachment. Clinton
and Congress differ too much on policy, and major legislation requires
compromises beyond their reach in today's climate. Impeachment doesn't change
that, it only reinforces it.

"As long as he continues to recommend the kinds of policies he has before, I
don't think [impeachment] will have any effect on his influence on Congress.
Because those are policies where he has been successful articulating a centrist
position," said Terry Sullivan, a political scientist at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

"Where he's not going to have any influence is on that set of issues the
president cares about most," Sullivan said, that is, major new initiatives aimed
at making history, like Social Security reform.

Turning to foreign affairs, the threat of impeachment appears to be weakening
Clinton's credibility in some quarters for now, but once it is resolved,
analysts say his authority as president should be undiminished abroad.

"Our allies have no benchmark to compare this [impeachment process] to," said
Don Kettl, director of the LaFollette Institute of Public Affairs at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison. "They wonder what in the world is the United
States up to. This is on turf untrodden and unproved, which makes it harder for
other nations to exercise their calculations" about how the world's only
superpower may behave.

Nevertheless, foreign powers understand that Clinton alone retains all the
official powers of the presidency - as he has demonstrated vividly since August
by bombing Afghanistan, Sudan and Iraq. Once impeachment is over, Clinton still
would be perceived in foreign capitals as the man in charge.

"If Jordan and Israel reach a peace agreement, they still want the president of
the United States to be there," said Sullivan of UNC.

"On foreign policy, it's conceivable he might come out quite strengthened if the
bill of impeachment fails," contended Rockman of the University of Pittsburgh.
If the Senate doesn't convict him, "it doesn't look like he is weakened to
foreign eyes," Rockman said.

To be sure, if the House impeaches Clinton, it will stain both his image with
the public today and his legacy in the eyes of history. But even that may not
weaken his ability to govern, to come back politically or to be remembered as
consequential.

Clinton's image is already stained badly by everything that has been revealed
about him all year long, yet public approval of his job performance has remained
steady and high - over 60 percent - ever since the Monica Lewinsky scandal broke
in January. While the shock of watching the House impeach Clinton could erode
his public standing, the public's imperviousness to all the shocks of 1998
argues against it.

"The public knows what the score is. They believe he perjured himself, but they
don't believe it's particularly important," said Rockman. "I'm not so sure he
won't come back."

History suggests why, several analysts said.

The only president impeached so far was Andrew Johnson in 1868; the Senate
failed to convict him by one vote. To be sure, he is remembered almost solely
for that dubious distinction.

Yet the stigma of Johnson's impeachment is deeper and darker on the Congress
that put him through it than it is on Johnson himself, scholars say. Johnson was
a Democrat, and Congress was controlled by what were then called "Radical
Republicans." They were determined to impose harsh Reconstruction policies on
the defeated post-Civil War South, and when Johnson resisted, they impeached
him.

"It's not so much Johnson as the Radical Republicans who look bad historically,"
Rockman said. "I'm not so sure the same thing won't happen here. This is another
case of overreach."

In addition to Johnson's experience, Presidents John Tyler and Herbert Hoover
were targets of House impeachment drives mounted by "partisans pursuing policy
objectives different from the president," said UNC's Sullivan, a scholar of
impeachment history.

"One thing that's real clear when you go look at the practice of impeachment is
that it has always been used as a policy weapon of the congressional majority,
except for the Nixon case," said Sullivan. "It seems to me that the record to
date [regarding Clinton] is exactly that."

If the House impeaches Clinton, said Stephen Wayne, a government professor at
Georgetown University here, "he'll get a tag that history won't forget.

"But history won't forget also that despite this, he was able to do things."

WAR & IMPEACHMENT

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              150 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 17, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

HMO-BASHING SPICES CAMPAIGNS;
CANDIDATES ARE FEEDING OFF VOTERS' DEMAND FOR PATIENTS' RIGHTS FROM MANAGED;
CARE, BUT AT WHAT PRICE?

BYLINE: PETER T. KILBORN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Public anger over the state of managed care has burst into this year's election
campaigns as a major issue, up there with perennials like education, crime and
Social Security. In speeches and television advertising, Democrats and a few
Republicans are seizing on consumer complaints and calling for a sweeping
''patients' bill of rights.''

In at least a score of states, including New York, California, Texas, Florida
and North Carolina, candidates in primaries and general elections for governor
and Congress typically are promoting access to more doctors, a right to appeal
managed-care organizations' decisions on restricting care to impartial
tribunals, and freedom to sue the organizations for malpractice.

''We're seeing it in various parts of the country,'' Karen Ignagni, president of
the American Association of Health Plans, said of the anger.

The association represents more than 1,000 managed-care organizations.

In North Carolina, John Edwards, a wealthy lawyer, ran a successful campaign for
the Democratic nomination for the Senate on patients' rights and education and
will challenge the conservative Republican Sen. Lauch Faircloth in the general
election in November.

In Texas, Garry Mauro, the Democratic land commissioner, has made two 30-second
television commercials to date in his bid for governor, both attacks on HMOs and
the health care record of Gov. George Bush.

''It's the biggest issue we have going right now,'' said Mauro's spokesman, Joe
Cutbrith.

In HMO-packed California, all three Democratic candidates for governor Rep. Jane
Harman, Lt. Gov. Gray Davis and Al Checci, a businessman - are promising major
new controls of the managed-care industry.

''HMOs must start putting people ahead of insurance company profits,'' Harman,
the daughter of a doctor, says in a new television commercial.

And California Republicans are hardly springing to the defense of the industry.

''The one thing the California Republican Party will not do,'' said Michael
Schroeder, the party chairman, ''is defend the status quo because we do not
believe the status quo is defensible.''

Glen Bolger, a partner of Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican consulting
concern that helped turn the public against the Clinton health plan four years
ago, said: ''It's a good issue for Democrats. It's a 'damn right' issue,'' the
kind that elicits a clenched-fist response from crowds.

''If you see Democrats winning with it'' in primaries and subsequent polling,
Bolger said, ''you're going to see it catch fire.''

The candidates' assault on HMOs marks a striking shift in public sentiment from
the time when the insurance industry and the Republican-controlled Congress beat
back the president's sweeping attempt to overhaul the health care system and
extend health care to all. Back then, it was government bureaucracy that was the
whipping boy on the campaign trail and the nation's airwaves.

Insurance companies helped kill the plan with the ''Harry and Louise''
commercials, which featured a couple fretting that the Clinton plan would
deprive people of the right to choose their care. ''They choose,'' Harry said.
''We lose,'' Louise said.

That argument has now turned against the industry. As enrollment in managed care
has climbed from half the work force four years ago to 85 percent, largely
driven by employers trying to contain health care costs, millions more Harrys
and Louises are complaining of choices they do not like and of no choices at
all.

In the view of some political analysts, Louise's heir in the popular culture is
Carol, who in the movie ''As Good as It Gets'' slams HMOs with a string of
gutter epithets.

''I'd never seen an audience clap about a policy issue,'' Schroeder said after
seeing the movie. ''The entire theater applauded.''

The industry is aghast at the way passions over managed care's failings have
drowned out its achievements and brought demands for regulatory legislation.

''This is a very simplistic and shortsighted response to the transition we have
gone through in health care,'' Ignagni said of such legislation.

The managed-care plans have nearly stabilized the once-soaring costs of health
care. Ignagni said they had introduced businesslike discipline to doctors'
offices and hospitals in purging the system of waste, in measuring doctors'
successes in treating patients and in making preventive care commonplace.

''Where this rhetoric would take you,'' she said, ''is to extol the virtues of
the old system that virtually bankrupted employers and working families.''

The managed-care organizations and insurance companies and employers, who
typically pay about 70 percent of their workers' health insurance premiums, are
clearly mobilized in their own defense: They have formed a coalition to block
enactment of most patient-rights proposals in Congress and to respond to the
accusations in the campaigns.

The coalition is also developing commercials warning that tighter control over
HMOs would produce a regulatory ''monster,'' along with unemployment, higher
premiums for health insurance and the loss of coverage for more families.

Small employers, especially, could be crippled by the cost if managed-care
organizations' had to fight malpractice suits, said Bill McInturff, of Public
Opinion Strategies.

Charles Kahn III, chief operating officer of the Health Insurance Association of
America, said, ''The message should be no matter how compelling'' the anecdotes
that candidates repeat about bad care, ''the costs will increase'' if regulatory
legislation is enacted.

Such arguments carry some weight with the public, consultants say. A Kaiser
Family Foundation survey early this year showed that strong public sentiment for
restraint on HMOs weakens when people are asked if they are willing to pay more
for it - but not to the point where support falls below 50 percent. A survey
last month by Wirthlin Worldwide found that 56 percent of the people polled
would be willing to pay more for less restrictive care.

''Those are the same arguments they used in the days of the Clinton plan,'' said
Gary Cuneo, executive vice president of the American Chiropractic Association,
which has joined 70 other professional organizations in promoting the bipartisan
legislation to regulate the industry, proposed by Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y.,
and Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga.

The cost issue may be a particularly hard sell in states, generally the most
populous, with high HMO enrollment.

''When you have an angry voter,'' Schroeder said, ''it is difficult or
impossible to make that kind of a nuanced argument.''

Peter Fenn, a consultant to Democrats, noted the rising number who have no
health insurance at all. Since the demise of the Clinton plan, that number has
climbed to more than 41 million from 38 million. At the same time, he said,
there is a torrent of voters' anecdotes about inadequate care.

''Everyone has a story of something that happened to a relative or a friend,''
Fenn said. ''It's a big issue that hasn't been solved, and it's getting worse.''

Voters do not want wide government intervention in health care, said Frank
Luntz, a Republican pollster who helped develop House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
''Contract With America'' four years ago. On the other hand, he added, ''Support
for setting minimum standards is a mile wide and a mile deep.''

To be sure, the political climate could change. The industry has time to refine
its response, and Congress is debating several ''patient protection'' bills. The
industry steadfastly opposes legislation like the D'Amato-Norwood bill, but
political consultants say enactment could give Republicans cover in their
campaigns.

Because the legislation is likely to include concessions to the industry,
Democrats believe HMO-regulation will keep fueling their campaigns.

ELECTION '98

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              154 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 30, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

SECURITY EXPERTS URGE BUSINESS AS USUAL DESPITE RISK OF TERRORISM ATTACKS

BYLINE: CAROLYN SPENCER BROWN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. F-6

LENGTH: 532 words


U.S. missile attacks on Sudan and Afghanistan Aug. 20, retaliation against
terrorist groups that bombed American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania earlier
this month, raise alarms for travelers. A "high-ranking government official" was
quoted in the Aug. 21 Washington Post as saying that "the prospect of
retaliation against Americans is very, very high." A briefing on Pinkerton
Global Intelligence Services' site (http://www.pinkertons.com/pgis) on the
Internet reiterated the warning: "The possibility of retaliatory attacks by
terrorist groups against U.S. targets, either government or private sector, is
extremely high."

All of which raises the question: Should overseas travelers worry about being
unwitting victims of a terrorist retaliation scheme?

Should you just stay home?

Many people remember the bombing of Pam Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland,
almost a decade ago as one that, according to speculation, was retaliation for
the U.S. attack on Libya in 1986. Pinkerton security consultant Frank Johns
doesn't necessarily subscribe to that theory but concedes, "It's indelibly
etched in everyone's mind, which is what [terrorists] wanted."

His advice? "My position is business as usual" - both from a personal-security
point of view and also because we can't permit these people to change the course
of our lives. Of all Americans traveling overseas, probably the least at risk
are tourists.

"Now, before you go where you would have gone anyway, take a hard, careful look
at your destination. Investigate the political climate. Then go."

Pinkerton and other security companies post safety information on their Web
sites, so travelers can keep abreast of developments. In addition, U.S.
government agencies have taken the following steps:

The State Department, on its Web site
(http://travel.state.gov/travel_warnings.html), revised the "Worldwide Caution"
it issued last week in response to the embassy bombings, urging U.S. travelers
to "exercise much greater caution than usual" - regardless of destination. It
continues to offer the recommendation that overseas travelers avoid large crowds
and anti-American demonstrations. Travel warnings advise avoiding trips to
obviously risky destinations, including Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Libya and North
Korea, as well as Kenya, Tanzania, Albania, Eritrea, Sudan and Pakistan.

The Federal Aviation Administration announced Aug. 21 that it is prohibiting
U.S.-registered airlines from flying through air space in Sudan and Afghanistan.
It also said that airports and air carriers will be required to "enhance"
security measures, but maintained that security procedures are already so strict
that there's no need for drastic upgrades.  Eleni Jakub, of Control Risks Group,
a Washington area travel security consultant, points out that U.S. airlines are
at greatest risk for terrorist attacks - which means you can expect longer waits
at carry-on security checkpoints.

Jakub also said passengers should be on their guard at airports. "Statistically,
terrorist attacks occur in open areas outside security. Travelers should move as
quickly as possible beyond security cordons. Relax on the other side."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 31, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

WALL STREET PONDERS: HAS A REAL BEAR ARRIVED?

BYLINE: TIM SMART, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1185 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


As Wall Street's summer of discontent enters its final week, there is one
question uppermost in the minds of both the professional trader and the average
investor as they await today's opening bell: Are we at the end of the greatest
bull market in history?

Last week saw the Dow Jones industrial average, a broad symbol of American
capitalism, lose almost 515 points, or 5.65 percent of its value. Since peaking
six weeks ago, the Dow has lost almost 14 percent of its value.

For many whose job it is to watch the whims of Wall Street and try to make sense
of them, last week's swoon seemed different from other dips over the past
decade. To them, the recent market turmoil might foreshadow a bear market - a
sustained decline in stock prices like that of the early 1970s.

The saw-toothed nature of the Dow's descent, in which it struggles to recover
from the prior day's losses only to end lower, increasingly suggests to analysts
a more ominous phenomenon than just another short-term sell-off, or correction,
like those of October 1987 or at the outbreak of the Persian Gulf War.

''I think the consensus is rolling around that we're in the second inning of a
bear market rather than the ninth inning of a correction,'' said Michael Molnar,
who directs the trading of over-the-counter stocks at Salomon Smith Barney, one
of Wall Street's financial giants.

What worries Molnar and other stock experts is that this time the drop in the
Dow comes amid a worsening global economic climate that has seen currency and
financial crisis spread from East Asia across the Urals to Russia and beyond to
emerging markets in Latin America. Neighboring Canada has been affected, with a
sharp drop in the value of its dollar.

And some on Wall Street say President Clinton's personal problems leave him
without the stature to provide the leadership that some think is needed at this
moment.

The great truth of the market is that no one knows what will happen today or
beyond. But for 16 years now, the general trend has been up and investors,
particularly individuals, have been conditioned to believe that's the only
direction for it to travel.

''When the bear really bites, we'll see,'' said George Summers, 58, a long-term
investor who was outside the Charles Schwab & Co. brokerage office inside the
World Trade Center. Summers said he was checking on his holdings of gold stocks
at the office.

Individual investors could well hold the key to the market's immediate health.
There is some $ 5 trillion invested in mutual funds, an economic force of such
power that it can change the market. For years now, investors have been pouring
money - as much as $ 20 billion a month - into stock funds, and if they continue
to do so, that will keep markets buoyant for the long term.

But, tellingly, last month saw the first outflow of money from stock mutual
funds as stock prices began their summer swoon. Reports from mutual-fund
companies indicate that investors have begun moving to the sidelines, either
into bond funds which are considered safe havens, or into money-market funds,
where they can earn interest on their money and still have easy access to it.

Telecommunications installation manager Mel Morgan is one investor who is not
selling - yet.

His portfolio had risen more than $ 80,000 in value in the two years leading up
to July 17, Morgan said, but has since slipped about $ 30,000.

''I am still not selling,'' he said, standing in the lobby of an office building
in lower Manhattan. ''People who held on last time did well,'' he said,
referring to 1987. ''If the market dropped probably another 8 percent, I'd start
pulling money out and moving it around.''

It wasn't supposed to turn out this way.

Just a few years back, presidents, prognosticators and pundits saw a world in
which capitalism had vanquished communism and free-market thinking would
displace command-and-control economies.

But resistance has set in. China is back in control of Hong Kong, and just last
week the government stepped in to buy stocks and prop up prices in what was once
one of the world's most free markets.

Japan, the wunderkind economy of the 1980s, seems incapable of rising from its
late 1990s recession. Russia in the past few days is showing signs of that
country's historic favoritism for state intervention in the economy.

Although Japan is by far the greater economic problem - Russia is a bit player
on the world economic stage - it is the financial collapse in the former Soviet
Union that seems to have really shaken Wall Street and Washington. That is
because Russia still maintains a nuclear arsenal and is one of the world's
largest producers of commodities such as oil and precious metals, the prices of
which have reached lows not seen in decades.

These developments are a long way from America's Main Street geographically, but
not so economically or psychologically. Companies such as Coca-Cola Co. and
Xerox Corp. depend heavily on markets overseas to sell their products. Falling
oil prices worldwide hurt the earnings capabilities of companies such as Exxon
Corp., still one of the largest employers and most widely-held stocks in the
United States.

One conviction underpinning U.S. stock prices throughout this bull market was
the belief that American companies, more efficient in the wake of 1980s
downsizing, would gain a large share of the emerging world's purchases of goods
and services. That led to a frenzied buying of these stocks, which bid their
prices up to dizzying levels and forced companies to meet heightened profit
expectations.

As the realization sets in that Intel Corp. will sell fewer chips in China, or
that Boeing Co. will sell fewer airplanes to Singapore, investors see these
companies as less valuable and are sending their stocks down to reflect their
less sanguine outlook.

If last week's slump on Wall Street does end up becoming the moment the bull
market ran out of steam, people will begin looking, in hindsight, for the clues
they missed. They won't have to look far.

The signs of excess have been evident for some time. The Beardstown Ladies had
supplanted the Avon lady as a cultural icon. Backyard barbecue conversation had
turned from real-estate values and property taxes to price-earnings ratios and
IPO announcements. Watching CNBC had overtaken watching ESPN as a favored
pastime of aging baby boomers. Executives were forgoing seven-figure salaries in
favor of more options on their company's stock.

But despite the persistent notion that the market had gotten ahead of itself,
the Dow still rose, confounding the skeptics. Until July 17, that is, when it
peaked at 9,337.97.

There are those who reject the notion of the end of the bull run, including Abby
Joseph Cohen of Goldman, Sachs, who still believes the Dow will end the year
above 9,300.

To do so, the market will have to climb a wall of worry, soaring more than 1,000
points over the next four months. It's not out of the question, certainly for
this market, but is clearly a more difficult prospect than before the crisis in
Russia erupted.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              156 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 September 20, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FALL COLORS TO COME EARLY THIS YEAR;
DRY SUMMER LEADS FORESTERS TO PREDICT JUMP OF TWO WEEKS

BYLINE: MICHAEL RUBINKAM, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: STATE, Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


Autumn's show of color will come a week or two ahead of schedule this year
because of a dry summer, forestry experts say.

From the Allegheny National Forest to the Poconos, the peak of the fall foliage
season is expected to arrive the first week of October.

David Gregg, a district forester in Wellsboro, said the leaves on maple trees
there are starting to turn red.

''A few are at peak color, although green is still dominant,'' he said.

And in the southern reaches of the Poconos, birch and black gum trees are
already beginning to show color.

The early color is likely the result of the dry summer weather, officials said.

Rainfall in July and August was nearly 2 inches below the normal average of 7.83
inches, according to the Northeast Regional Climate Center at Cornell
University. The dry weather stresses trees and causes them to stop making
chlorophyl, the green pigment in plant cells.

In Virginia, forestry experts says fall colors won't be as brilliant as usual
and leaves will likely die and drop to the ground sooner because of the lack of
rain. In Maryland, leaves are dropping two to four weeks ahead of normal.

But a poor showing isn't being predicted for Pennsylvania.

''I've really never seen a bad year for leaf color'' in Pennsylvania, said Dick
Croop, chief of the Division of Forest Advisory Services for the state
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. ''When we get it, it may vary
from the very end of September to the middle or end of October. But once they
change everything seems to fall into place.''

''The only thing that would make (the season) shorter is once the leaves do turn
and we get a lot of rain and wind. That brings them down quicker,'' Croop said.

A colorful foliage season is good news for the tourism industry, which makes
millions of dollars off the changing leaves every year.

In the Poconos, October is the third busiest month of the year, behind August
and July, said Robert Uguccioni, executive director of the Pocono Mountains
Vacation Bureau. People who come to see the fall foliage spend $ 250 million in
the region each year, he said.

Uguccioni says he had heard ''doomsday prophesies'' of an inferior foliage
season in each of his 30 years promoting tourism.

But, he said: ''Mother Nature always comes through for us. The foliage is always
beautiful.''

Grace Hydrusko, owner of the Blue Berry Mountain Inn in Blakeslee, is already
gearing up for the fall rush.

''It's a tremendous attraction,'' she said of the colorful leaves. ''Weekends in
October are booked up already.''

For more information, travelers can call a Poconos foliage hot line, which is
updated every Tuesday. The number is (717) 421-5565.

Or check out www.fallinpa.com. Six cameras that went online last week capture
fall foliage at various locations around Pennsylvania, and are posted in real
time on a state-run Internet site.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              157 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 28, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

IN PREDICTION SCIENCE, CHAOS IS THE ONLY CONSTANT

BYLINE: MALCOLM W. BROWNE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1471 words


Back during China's Shang dynasty, around 3,500 years ago, sages foretold the
future by casting oracle bones - the clairvoyant equivalent of crap shooting.

Things have changed somewhat since then, even though predictions are as much in
demand as ever, and even though we still send plenty of business to astrologers,
tarot-card readers, numerologists, phrenologists, necromancers and psychics of
all stripes.

Aside from the traditional soothsayers, we sometimes also heed forecasts based
on observations, scientific synthesis and reasoning.

Scientific sages depend not on tea leaves or the positions of planets but on
tools like mathematical modeling, statistical analysis, complexity theory,
celestial mechanics, geology, economics and epidemiology. Needless to say,
scientists discount the naive paradigms of fortune tellers, ancient and modern.

Alas, rational approaches to prediction also fail all too often, and it may be
that there are some phenomena for which predictions will remain forever out of
reach.

As the stock market lurches between the tugs of bulls and bears, financial
analysts armed with statistics and the latest marketing theories throw up their
hands in despair when asked to guess what will happen from one day to the next.

Picnic planners know better than to rely on short-term weather forecasts, and
meteorologists offer little hope that truly accurate weather predictions for
specific places and times will ever be possible.

Relief agencies get little useful help from experts as they try to brace for
disasters that might, with equal likelihood, occur tomorrow or a thousand years
from now. Understanding the mechanisms of events like earthquakes and volcanoes
offers little help in predicting precisely when they will occur.

Geologists have a pretty good idea that earthquakes are caused by the movement
of tectonic plates, yet the art of earthquake forecasting remains notoriously
imprecise.

The largest earthquake in four years - an 8.2-magnitude temblor centered under
the ocean between Australia and Antarctica - caught seismologists completely off
guard when it shook the sea floor last March 25, and geologists are still
puzzled by the quake; it did not occur at the junction of tectonic plates where
most quakes occur, but struck within a single plate.

Future seismic surprises, including those causing catastrophic loss of life,
seem inevitable.

The tsunami that roared over Papua New Guinea on July 17, killing more than
2,000 people, caught everyone by surprise. Experts excused their failure to warn
the population on the ground that a giant tsunami materializes only when a
scarcely noticeable wave spawned by an earthquake or some other event far out at
sea reaches shallow coastal water. By then it is almost on top of some hapless
coast line, leaving no time to prepare.

There have been recent reminders that even in principle, some things are
impossible to predict.

Among the puzzles that have perplexed mathematicians and physicists at least
since the time of Isaac Newton in the 17th century is the "N-body problem"
(sometimes called the ''Many-body problem'').

One of Newton's monumental discoveries was that any two objects attract each
other with a force proportional to their masses and inversely proportional to
the square of their distance apart. But when three or more objects - the Sun,
the Earth and the Moon, for example - are interacting gravitationally, exact
solutions of the equations describing their motions generally remain beyond
reach.

Fortunately, since Newton's day, some very good approximate solutions of N-body
equations have been devised, and such solutions have allowed space scientists to
send vehicles to the distant reaches of the solar system with astounding
precision.

This month, Gregory R. Buck of Saint Anselm College, in Manchester, N.H.,
disclosed a new class of approximate N-body solutions based on the analogy of a
closed loop of beads, in which the beads, evenly spaced, chase each other around
the curves and tangles of the loop.

The system may help to work out the interactions of particles within a plasma,
Buck suggested.

But none of the approximations now known exactly solve Newton's equations, and
this means that the motions of asteroids and comets can be predicted only up to
a certain point in the distant future. Beyond that, forecasting an impact by one
of these objects on the earth may be intrinsically impossible.

A hit or miss may depend so sensitively on the minuscule ''initial conditions''
of all the objects involved that precise calculation becomes impossible. This is
a property of a large class of systems scientists describe as chaotic.

Long-term foreknowledge of the hit or miss - a question of life or death for
millions - is ruled out by the chaos inherent in the N-body system.

Scientists have yet to come to terms with chaos in all its manifestations.
Steven Weinberg, winner of a Nobel prize in physics, once said he considered an
understanding of chaotic turbulence in fluids as the single most intractable
problem in physics. Until scientists reach a deeper understanding of turbulence,
many physicists believe, the dynamics of climate change, the behavior of
galaxies and many other phenomena can never be fully penetrated.

Chaos can also prevent reliable predictions of group decisions, including those
that investors make. Group decisions by investors can cause chaotic price
fluctuations of commodities that are intrinsically unpredictable, it seems.

In a report published Aug. 24 in the journal Physical Review Letters, David A.
Meyer of the University of California at San Diego and Thad A. Brown of the
University of Missouri presented formal proof that collective decisions can be
chaotic, even when the views of all participants are known and a standard voting
rule is strictly applied.

When a group of decision-makers must choose between three or more options by
comparing two of them at a time, the collective outcome often depends on the
order in which the choices are presented. The outcome can cycle chaotically, the
mathematicians found.

Frustrated by the complex and chaotic behavior of the real world, some theorists
have invented forecasting techniques based on little more than pure mathematics.

In the 1970s, Rene Thom, a French mathematician, developed an approach called
Catastrophe Theory, which, for a time, enjoyed a considerable vogue among
physicists, biologists and even sociologists. The theory is an application of
topology, a field of mathematics that deals with the shapes of surfaces.

Thom's theory holds that many sequences of events can be represented as smooth
trajectories along a saddle-shaped surface, at one point of which an abrupt
discontinuity, or ''catastrophe cusp,'' shunts them off to one side of the
saddle or the other.

Thom and his followers proposed that mathematical models based on catastrophe
cusps could be used to predict the reproduction of bacteria, the behavior of the
stock market, heart attacks, biological evolution and the outbreak of war, among
many other things.

To some, Thom's theory seemed to offer an explanation of almost everything, but
many others condemned it as useless. Today, Catastrophe Theory is all but
forgotten.

Predicting lifespans in the absence of detailed knowledge has long interested
scientists as well as insurance statisticians. A forecast of life expectancy
based on the average age at death of a person's four grandparents is a simple
example of statistical forecasting. But a much more daring approach was devised
a few years ago by J. Richard Gott III, a professor of astrophysics at Princeton
University.

Gott's scheme is based on the ''Copernican principle,'' which assumes that the
odds are overwhelmingly against any particular place or time being ''special.''
From this, Gott reasoned that the mere knowledge of how long something (or
someone) has been around is sufficient to estimate how much longer it could
last.

Based on this system, and the assumption that Homo sapiens appeared on earth
about 200,000 years ago, Gott calculated that intelligent human beings are 95
percent certain to survive a minimum of 5,128 years more, and a maximum of 7.8
million years more.

There are those who contend that predictions like these are so vague that they
not useful.

Scientists will never be able to answer all our questions about future events or
to satisfy a deep-seated human yearning to foresee what's coming at us. Some
scientific efforts at prediction will always be defeated by the nature of
Nature.

Mystic oracles have never shed light on future events either, but even 1,398
years after Socrates' suicide, legions of people continue to visit palmists,
astrologists and psychics. It's human to prefer something to nothing at all.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: By James Hilston/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              160 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    November 2, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

FACILITY TO USE GARBAGE TO PRODUCE FUEL OIL

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALK, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: JENNINGS, La.


The plant was opened in 1977 to refine crude oil into gasoline, but when that
proved unprofitable, it was converted in 1981 to be powered by molasses and, in
1987, grain. Bankruptcy followed.

Now, with rust on its tanks and pipes and grass growing through the gravel on
its paths, construction workers are converting it again, to turn agricultural
garbage into fuel alcohol.

The plant's product, ethanol, which can be blended with gasoline to power cars
and trucks or used alone to power modified vehicles, has been produced across
the country for years using corn and wheat and other high-quality, high-cost
ingredients but never with economic success. The new owners of the plant here,
BC International Corp., with a subsidy from the U.S. Energy Department and help
from a genetically engineered, patented bacterium, hope they are on the cusp of
a new era.

''It is a bio-refinery,'' said Stephen Gatto, president and chief executive of
the company. Exactly 25 years after the beginning of the Arab oil embargo, the
Energy Department believes that Gatto's company might have a way to replace
crude oil with garbage. BC International will be the first to try to do so on a
commercial scale.

''The input costs are close to zero,'' said Dan Reicher, assistant secretary of
energy. ''In some cases, they are less than zero because people are paying to
get rid of these materials.'' And if it works, the technology might also reduce
the accumulation of gases in the atmosphere that are thought to cause climate
change and might lower smog.

The south-central Louisiana plant will be powered by bagasse, a part of the
sugar cane plant usually considered useless, and rice hulls, a currently useless
part of the rice plant. Later, it might digest sawdust as well.

Across the country, energy experts have their eyes on clippings from suburban
lawns, prairie grasses and other woody materials as fuel for the new process.
''It's a lot cheaper to grow wood and grass than corn,'' said John Ferrell,
director of the Office of Fuels Development at the Energy Department.

In the current generation of ethanol plants, the fuel is the corn kernel; plants
using the new technology might digest the cob and the stalk as well, Ferrell
said.

These materials are composed of cellulose, which contains large amounts of
sugar, the basic ingredient required for alcohol production, but the sugar in
cellulose is in a chemical form that traditional fermentation processes, which
use yeast, cannot digest.

BC's plant uses a bacterium, KO11, which is also used in the pharmaceutical
industry, to break down the sugars. The natural bacterium on which KO11 is based
likes to eat sugars and produces acetic acid. But through gene splicing, Lonnie
Ingram, a microbiologist at the University of Florida's Institute of Food and
Agricultural Sciences, borrowed four genes from another organism, Zymomonas
mobilis, to make the bacterium produce alcohol instead.

Across the country, researchers are working with Z. mobilis to find other
approaches, but BC International's will be the first commercial plant to make
ethanol from woody material. The plant will take about 18 months to build and
will cost $ 90 million, including $ 11 million from the Energy Department.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART, CHART: BC International Corp.; N.Y. Times News Service: (A New
Way to; Make Ethanol)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              164 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 26, 1998, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL BALLOON FLIGHT ABORTED

BYLINE: MALCOLM W. BROWNE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1062 words


After flying more than halfway around the world and skirting storms, mountain
ranges and hostile airspace, three veteran balloonists aboard the ICO Global
Challenge were forced to ditch yesterday in the Pacific Ocean.

Their landing at sea, 15 miles north of Kahuku Point, Oahu, in the Hawaiian
Islands, marked the end of the most nearly successful attempt by any balloonist
to achieve the sport's last great goal - a nonstop trip around the world. More
than 20 attempts have been made during the last two decades, and at least seven
other balloons currently await launching. While it did not set a distance
record, this flight had a notable success in crossing Asia from one end to the
other.

The big ICO Global Challenge and its sturdy and waterproof crew capsule splashed
down gently, and within minutes the three-man crew was picked up by a Coast
Guard team that included two helicopters, an airplane and a cutter. There were
no injuries, and the aeronauts smiled and waved at onlookers when they arrived
on land.

The balloon's crew, Richard Branson, Per Lindstrand and Steve Fossett, chose to
end their flight yesterday after their meteorology team in England told them
that an impenetrable low-pres sure trough that was stalling them would continue
to block the winds they had hoped would carry them to America's west coast and
beyond. The balloon could have remained in the air for another week, but would
only have had to ditch in the open sea later, nowhere near land, according to
the team's operations center in England.

Ditching was nothing new for the crew.

All three men were forced down at sea in previous attempts at set ting distance
records. In the most recent of these, Fossett, piloting his Solo Spirit in
August, was blown down into the Coral Sea in the South Pacific by a storm that
ripped open his balloon. Fossett was nearly killed but was rescued by a yacht
that providentially happened to be in the area. He had flown 14,232 miles from
Mendoza, Argentina - a distance that remains the world record.

Yesterday's sea landing was piloted by Lindstrand, the most expe rienced
balloonist in the group. His company, Lindstrand Balloons Ltd., built the ICO
Global Challenge.

Until early yesterday, the 160-foot-high balloon had been traveling at 200 miles
per hour and the crew had high hopes of defying the odds and reaching the United
States, crossing the Atlantic, and completing its global circumnavigation north
of the starting point, in England, before New Year's Day.

The termination of the flight came as a bitter blow to the balloonists and their
supporters. In his last message from the balloon capsule, Branson said, "I'm
sorry that it's now all over. We raced across the Pacific in winds up to 200
miles an hour, but ended up hitting a solid trough from one end to the other. It
has been like hitting up against a solid brick wall. All day and all night we
battled to get through it."

Addressing the balloon's fans around the world, Branson added: "We are sorry to
let you down. We've had a fascinating journey and will now try to be back with
our family and friends for the rest of Christmas."

An indication of the interest the balloon flight aroused was the number of
Internet connections made to the team's Web site. By Thursday the site had
received more than 40 million hits.

Branson recognized years ago that one of the main obstacles to long-distance
ballooning is the closed airspace that bars balloon flights over some North
African and Middle Eastern countries, as well as Russia and parts of Asia,
including China. To smooth the way in recent years Branson's team has included
protocol experts who have brought diplomatic persuasion to bear on inhospitable
countries.

But this has had only limited success. During his latest flight, which began
eight days ago at Marrakech, Morocco, Branson's team was initially denied
permission to fly over Libya. After Libya was persuaded to let the balloon pass,
it had to avoid storms over Turkey, and then had to steer a difficult course
avoiding Iraq, Iran and Russia. Finally, after the balloon had already begun its
crossing of the Himalayas from Nepal to Tibet, China withdrew overflight
permission and ordered the balloon to land at Lhasa, Tibet.

By then, the balloon was past any place where it could safely land, and China
reluctantly gave permission to proceed. But on Thursday the Beijing government
announced that it would permit no more balloon overflights. The ban brought
protests from balloon teams waiting to join the round-the-world race, including
the Swiss Breitling Orbiter 3, Britain's Cable and Wireless Balloon, and
America's J. Renee and Spirit of Peace balloons.

China's refusal to grant overflight permissions may have ended further
round-the-world attempts in the Northern Hemisphere, because China stands
athwart virtually all usable jet stream winds. However, three other balloon
teams hope to circle the world next July by flying routes confined to the
Southern Hemisphere.

The ICO Global Challenge represented a high level of technology. With a
pressurized, heated crew capsule, it was easily capable of cruising above 30,000
feet in jet-stream winds. Like all the latest long-duration balloon types, it
was a Rozier balloon - a hybrid using both helium gas and hot air for lift. The
balloon could gain extra lift, particularly during the cool of the night, by
turning on its big propane burners to warm the air in its hot-air compartment.

The balloon, which was estimated to cost $ 1 million, was equipped with the
latest satellite navigation and communication systems and many technical devices
for improving safety and comfort.

Attempts to circle the globe in recent years have all used balloons made by two
rival British companies - Lindstrand's company and Cameron Balloons Ltd. These
companies have jealously concealed their technical secrets, including the cost
of their long-distance balloons.

Ballooning has been compared with yacht racing, in that it is primarily a rich
man's sport. Branson, who has flown or financed many long flights, is the
billionaire chairman of the Virgin Group of Companies, which include Virgin
Atlantic Airways. Fossett, a millionaire commodities broker who lives in Beaver
Creek, Colo., races ocean sailing yachts and dog sleds, and competes in swimming
and mountain climbing.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO MAP, PHOTO: George F. Lee/Honolulu Star-Bulletin: Two Coast
Guard; helicopters head for Barbers Point Naval Air Station yesterday after
picking; up the three balloonists 15 miles north of Kahuku Point on Oahu,
Hawaii.; MAP: ICO Global/Associated Press (no caption)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              167 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 17, 1998, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

EL NINO AFFECTS RAIN FOREST'S ABSORPTION OF CARBON

BYLINE: JOSEPH B. VERRENGIA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 527 words


Instead of inhaling extra carbon dioxide, Brazil's rain forest does the opposite
in an El Nino year, exhaling millions of tons of the heat-trapping gas and
potentially adding to global warming, scientists say.

The rain forest, under normal conditions, acts as the "lungs" of the planet. Its
dense canopy of trees stretches for thousands of miles, releasing oxygen and
absorbing as much as 700 million tons of carbon dioxide a year.

But when global climate conditions are scrambled by El Nino and the rain forest
becomes parched, scientists from the Woods Hole Research Laboratory in
Massachusetts determined the Amazon Basin produces as much as 200 million tons
of excess carbon dioxide a year.

The calculations by Hanqin Tian and others are in today's journal Nature.

The study examined three El Nino episodes from 1980 to 1994. It did not include
measurements of the record-setting El Nino in 1997-98, but the trend is clear,
researchers said.

"In El Nino years, which bring hot and dry weather to much of the Amazon, the
ecosystems act as a source of carbon," Tian said.

Scientists say understanding the planet's fluctuating carbon cycle is a key step
in accurately predicting - and managing - global warming in the 21st century.

Some studies show global temperatures have been creeping up by as much as one
degree as industry, traffic, deforestation and other human activities generate
more carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases - so called because they trap
heat from the sun.

Many natural features on the planet act as "carbon sinks" to absorb excess
carbon and help to stabilize the planet's climate. The oceans and the rain
forests absorb the largest shares, along with tundra and rangeland.

But not always.

During an El Nino, a vast pool of warm water expands in the equatorial Pacific.
It upsets weather patterns around the world. In the Amazon, it triggers severe
droughts.

Under such severe stress, the forest can't adequately photosynthesize and store
carbon dioxide.

Tian's results correspond with the results of carbon cycle simulation developed
at the Max Planck Institute in Germany, which developed a computer model showing
the Amazon acting as a carbon source during three El Nino episodes between
1982-94.

Researchers at Max Planck said the Woods Hole study is based on limited field
measurements in a small sampling area, and failed to answer the fundamental
question of what is canceling the rain forest's role as a carbon sink.

"Such understanding is crucial for long-term predictions," said Colin Prentice,
who with Planck colleague Jon Lloyd reviewed the new study for Nature.

Several groups of scientists are trying to understand the world's carbon cycle.

Last week, researchers launched a three-year study to find the "missing sink" to
account for lower-than-expected carbon dioxide levels in the Northern
Hemisphere. A likely suspect: trees that have regrown in previously logged
forests and farmland.

Because of the hemisphere's industrialization, carbon dioxide levels are
expected to be higher. But measured carbon emissions have been 2 billion tons
lower than expected in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              174 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 25, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

WEST AFRICA'S OPEN DOOR;
CONTINENT WELCOMES VISITORS WITH BEAUTY, HOSPITALITY AND HISTORY

BYLINE: ERVIN DYER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 2316 words


Ak-waa-bbbba," the springy, lyrical welcome, was the frequent, warm greeting I
was met with traveling through Ghana. Known as the Gold Coast, during Britain's
Colonial rule and at the height of its trade of the lucrative metal, the country
now banks on a more precious commodity: its people and its affinity with black
America.

From Accra, Ghana's gentle capital, to the country's slow-moving and rural
settlements and fishing villages, the cheerful chant gives a Midas touch to "the
gateway to Africa."

Ghana is golden. Its growing political and economic stability, and tourist
market, make it one of the jewels of this diverse, 53-nation continent.

But West Africa has other gems.

Ghana's coastal neighbor, Cote d' Ivoire, boasts the pearly sophisticated city
of Abidjan, a smooth, glistening metropolis. And further up the Atlantic coast,
the tiny, but bustling city of Dakar, Senegal, is a lusty, vibrant ruby.

GHANA

Every morning I rushed to the window in my hotel and let the sun-kissed tropical
air and lush scent of palm leaves awaken me to the realization that though
thousands of miles away from America, where I was born, I'm home.

For the African-American, Ghana is a heady, otherworldly experience.

Although no records exist, it is believed that the ancestors of most
African-Americans passed through Ghana as enslaved people.

A memorable Ghanaian saying makes the inextricable kinship even more poignant:
"The blood that binds us is stronger than the water that divides us."

Whether the impression is real or imagined, I don't know, but traveling through
Ghana is like a journey through my own gene pool. Here, the people with their
smooth cocoa skin and chiseled cheeks resemble my mom, Jean, ; my cousin,
Roger,; my sister, Dana,; and my uncle, Edward.

"Welcome," they say. "You are my brother, my cousin. Akwabaa." When they greet
me and smile, my soul touches theirs.

Ghana's history is deeply connected to African-Americans. The late Kwame
Nkrumah, Ghana's first independent president, opened his arms to black Americans
after winning his country's freedom in 1957. Seduced by Pan-Africanism, the
concept of unity among all African people, many came. Among them was
African-American scholar W.E.B. Du Bois, who died in Ghana in 1963 and whose
home in Accra's Cantonments section is now a museum.

Du Bois' intellectual strength makes him my hero. What a treat to be able to
touch his original manuscripts, view autographed copies of first editions of his
books and pose next to regalia from his endless academic honors. Sadly, the home
does not have air-conditioning or humidifiers and Africa's heat .

It was Du Bois and his studies that revealed the burden of racism born by blacks
in America. A weight, he said, that divided our souls. During my five-day stay
In Ghana, I was able to shed this oppressive yoke.

As a first-time traveler to the motherland, I saw a fuller and more glorious
picture of Africa everywhere I ventured. Despite my romantic notions, this
nation is not all Kente-robed kings and queens and old-century kingdoms. The
closest I got to African royalty was a tour of the dusty former palace now a
museum - of King Prempeh, a former leader of the Ashantis.

The Africa of today is full of modern buildings and a creeping Westernization.
Each morning, I saw proud men and women on their way to work waiting for the
tro-tro, vans that serve as public transportation, children walking to school in
brightly colored uniforms and women heading to market. It was heartening to see
black people everywhere, running the country, flying the planes, teaching in the
universities, managing the banks and owning the hotels and restaurants.

There are plenty of unexpected delights for a traveler. The pampered grounds of
the Coconut Grove resort, along the coast of Ghana, beckon with their sunny golf
courses and tennis courts. Eat outside, sip fresh coconut juice and have a
narrow strip of the Atlantic beach as your companion.

At Kokrobite, a 40-minute ride from central city Accra, the Academy of African
Music and Arts is worth a visit. A simple restaurant is hidden amid the
tile-roofed, white buildings and palm trees. Every Sunday, African drummers and
dancers perform. They, however, compete with the breezy view from the cliffs
nearby.

There are others attracted to this comfort zone.

My guide, a winsome young man by the name of Kofi, a Ghanaian moniker that
signifies being born on Friday, tells me tours have had more participants for
the past few years.

A decade ago, Ghana played host to 85,000 foreign tourists. Each year since,
tourism has grown steadily, with more than 300,000 visitors last year.

A big air-conditioned tour bus was my second home during my stay in Ghana. In
it, sometimes for hours a day, I bounced down bumpy rural highways that gave me
National Geographic views of Ghana's interior.

Red-dirt roads would wind for miles against a backdrop of lush green trees,
women carrying baskets on their heads, cocoa plantations and rice fields. For
the most part, the roads were empty and quiet as I passed through old-world
fishing villages, into the heart of the Ashanti kingdom in Kumasi and through
the tropical, verdant rain forests. The pace quickened at the crossroads, where
streets came alive with people socializing and selling their wares.

Ghana's vast, clear beaches, towering palms and easy living may make it seem
like paradise, but it isn' t perfect. Visitors should be cautious and never
travel alone, particularly in the cities. One evening, a travel companion and I
were too trusting while out for a walk in Accra. We were led away from the
market we intended to visit and ended up in an empty square as dusk settled upon
us. Before we knew it, we were being approached by four tattered and raggedy men
who seemed more interested in our cameras and wallets than helping us get a
closer view of the Atlantic Ocean. Able to hail an oncoming taxi, we escaped a
very suspicious situation and got back to our hotel safely.

IVORY COAST: ABIDJAN

Cote d'Ivoire is a vivacious country bursting with energy; it was once known as
the Paris of West Africa. Its citizens are sophisticated, the sun glows, and
every day is a yummy fresh fruit fiesta. Its people lend it a flavorful
diversity as well. Outside of traditional Western dress, it's commonplace to see
proud, regal men wear long, flowing robes called boubous and women who are
garbed in a dazzling array of material splendor.

A former colony of France, Cote d' Ivoire's official language is still French.
My grade-school French kept getting usurped by my inconsistent Spanish. "Yes"
would sputter out "si" instead of "qui" so often that I frequently confused
myself as to what I was trying to say.

I played hooky the day my scheduled tour was to visit Yamoussoukro, which became
Cote d'Ivoire's capital 15 years ago. Houphoukt-Boigny, the president from
independence in 1960 until his death in 1993, decided it would be nice to have
his home village as the capital.

Instead I ventured over to the hotel tennis courts and played a game with Igor,
a young man who dropped out of school but taught himself the sport. Graceful and
smooth on the court, he now earns a living giving lessons and rallying with
tourists.

I also swam in the hotel's pool, a sparkling lagoon that crawled the length of
the hotel. You had to swim during the day though, the complicated process to
keep the water safe for Western visitors shut the pool down at 6 p.m. It took 12
hours for the chemicals to mix properly.

I also treated myself to a haircut and shave in a hotel salon, and then took a
short walking tour of Abidjan, hoping to take in some of the other attractions
apart from the hotel and government offices. This is a modern city with
skyscrapers, high-priced boutiques and kamikazie taxis. The hotel where we
stayed would rival any in the United States, had it not been for the
anachronistic 1960ish furniture and dial phones.

SENEGAL: DAKAR

In Dakar, I checked into the urban Hotel Sofitel Teranga, where the staff was
courteous and the rooms spacious. At breakfast, I descended to the
garden-courtyard, where I was greeted by the sound of Christmas music in July. I
guess the French either didn't take time to translate the music or just didn't
bother to change the tape.

Dakar isn't as friendly as Ghana. At times there seemed to be tension. Outside
the tourists spots, a few citizens rudely reminded me I was an outsider when
they ignored my request for water in restaurants, refused directions to a public
restrooms and delivered sharp looks in the airport as I pushed past to get my
luggage.

Still, Dakar - warm and breezy during the day and cool at night challenges the
image that most would have of a "typical" African city. At its core is a
bustling, crowded downtown area of modern office buildings, lush plazas, lavish
mosques - about half the population is Muslim - cathedrals or side streets lined
with older houses in need of repainting. A little, the pace quickly grows more
lazy.

At night, I quickly discovered I wouldn't need the air-conditioning to sleep. I
opened the glass doors to let in fresh air and discovered my room had a dark,
creepy view of Goree Island, a port infamous for its slave-trading that I'd get
a chance to see up close the next day.

Goree Island, a short ferry ride from the mainland, is an unforgettable journey.

I stood in the Door of No Return and shuddered. And you would, too. The stench
of blood and death at Goree's House of Slaves is chilling. The history of this
place is as dark as the dungeons in which the captured Africans were held.

Sadly, it's not the only blood-soaked post that stains sunny West Africa. The
slave castles - built by the Dutch, Portuguese, British and French as they
warred for control over the continent - once lined the West African coast. The
coral pink walls of this fortress houses spacious courtyards that were built to
protect European interests after they came to Senegal to mine the land of gold,
ivory and other resources.

The slave trade, which flourished for more than 200 years, soon became more
lucrative, and the black corridors beneath the forts were then used to warehouse
more than 20 million black Africans. Beaten, raped, shackled - and murdered if
they resisted - hundreds of thousands would lose their lives awaiting passage
across the Atlantic. Their last contact with the motherland came at the Door of
No Return. Once there, they were beaten across gangplanks, and made to board
waiting ships to take them to the land of their enslavement.

While the pain of their suffering made me weak, a great pride also healed me as
I realized that I am a descendent of the strong spirits that survived their
horrible journey to America.

If you go

Travel was arranged by Consolidated Tours Organization, in Atlanta, Ga. Because
I journeyed with 51 other people, we were able to get package rates on hotel
accommodations and two meals a day during the 10-day trip. Consolidated Tours,
which will arrange travel for groups of 15 or more, handled arrangements for all
international travel and tours and for air transit between the West Africa
nations. For sightseeing, we were placed with English-speaking,
government-licensed guides, and all entrance fees to attractions were handled in
advance, as were tips and taxes.

You can reach Consolidated Tours at 404-767-2727 or fax at 404-766-4520.

Getting around: In the cities of Ghana, Cote d' Ivoire and Senegel it is easy to
get around. It is not expensive to hire a taxi and most hotel concierges can
help find a responsible driver. Most will negotiate a fee whereby they will
ferry a passenger to several stops and wait for your return.

Health: The United States and the West African nations require that you get
certain inoculations before you travel. Check with the county health department
for more information. You should check at least two months in advance as some of
the medicine requires multiple shots taken at least a week apart. You'll need
medicine for malaria and, in most instances, an injection for yellow fever.

Air: We traveled out of JFK International on Air Afrique but if you make your
own arrangements, Ghana Airways, KLM and British Airways fly to Accra. Ghana
Airways flies out of John F. Kennedy International Airport. From New York,
expect a 10-hour direct flight to Accra. Flights average around $ 1,000 to fly
to West Africa.

Air Afrique and Ghana Airways are the two competitively priced, black-owned
airlines that fly directly to Africa from the United States.

For more information, contact:

The Ghanaian Embassy, 3512 International Drive, NW Washington, D.C., 2000 (202)
686-4520. A VISA is required to travel to Ghana. A single entry VISA is $ 20.

The Embassy of Ivory Coast 2424 Massachusetts Ave., NW Washington, D.C., 20008
(202) 797-0300. No VISA required

The Senegalese Embassy 2112 Wyoming Ave., NW Washington D.C., 20008 (202)
234-0540. No VISA required. In West Africa, Senegal's Goree Island, a slave fort
off the coast of Dakar, has the largest museum dedicated to the history of the
slave trade.

For more information, write the Senegalese Tourism Board at 310 Madison Ave.,
New York, N.Y. 10017 or call 212-286-0977.

Ghana is another important destination for those who wish to delve into the
past. Contact a travel agent or the Department of Trade and Tourism at the
Ghanaian Embassy (202-686-4520, Ext. 243 or 217.)

Global Volunteers, a private, nonprofit organization, is seeking volunteers to
work on community projects in several villages on Ghana' s Atlantic Coast. No
special experience is needed. The first team is scheduled Jan 22 to Feb 12,
1999. The $ 1,985 fee covers all meals, lodging, and in-country ground
transportation, but not roundtrip air fare. For information 1-800-487-1074.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3), PHOTO: Children draped in Kente cloth dance and sing at an
African; naming ceremony in Accra, the capital of Ghana. Such ceremonies are
held to; bestow traditional African names based on birth order and day of
birth.; PHOTO: Melanie Eversley/Detroit Free Press: African slaves were chained
to; cannonballs like and forced to stand in the hot sun at Elmina Castle in;
Elmina, Ghana.; PHOTO: A view of downtown Abidjan, Ivory Coast, a city popular
for its; cosmopolitan flavor.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 10, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SILICON VALLEY CAN TEACH BOSSES HOW TO MOTIVATE

BYLINE: SHERWOOD ROSS

SECTION: TABS, Pg. H-5

LENGTH: 679 words


Savvy employers who seek a dedicated work force may have something to learn from
the human resources practices of Silicon Valley.

With unemployment skidding to 4.6 percent, some employers think they're lucky
just to find warm bodies, never mind dedication.

''I think the Valley is unique in the way that it encourages and evokes passion
from employees,'' said Christopher Meyer, researcher and managing principal of
Integral, a Menlo Park, Calif., consulting firm. ''You can't innovate with a
machine. You can't innovate in a beauracratic environment.''

If employers can't resolve their human resources problems, not much else may
matter because ''in a global knowledge economy people are the critical piece,''
Meyer said.

''The greatest problem facing industry across the planet in the next 10 years is
going to be finding skilled, capable and, most importantly, creative people,''
Meyer said.

That's precisely what consultants Watson Wyatt Worldwide found in a recent
survey of top executives in 2,143 companies in 23 countries: ''To reach the next
level of performance, companies must focus on their human capital - their
people.''

How best to maximize individual potential is taken up in Meyer's book
''Relentless Growth'' (The Free Press), subtitled, ''How Silicon Valley
Innovation Strategies Can Work in Your Business'' and excerpted in a recent
issue of Inc. magazine.

Terming the Valley ''the oldest, most successful knowledge economy in the
world,'' Meyer said other high-tech centers ''have mimicked and built on what we
started here,'' including Oregon's Silicon Forest and Research Triangle Park in
the Raleigh-Durham, N.C., area.

Some companies have copied Valley innovations such as open offices, ''business
casual'' dress, and ''creative space'' for workers, Meyer said.

Reward systems pioneered by Sun Microsystems Inc., Intel Corp. and Cisco Systems
Inc., where employees have ''skin in the game,'' are also being replicated,
Meyer noted.

''In Silicon Valley there are secretaries and purchasing clerks who have gotten
extremely wealthy, including millionaires,'' Meyer said. He contrasted this with
traditional corporate stock option plans open to top executives only.

''Valley companies use equity, phantom stock and royalties as a way of sharing
the wealth generated by new technologies,'' Meyer writes, because ''the
underlying philosophy is that if people get rich while the company gains, it's
no problem.''

''What really drives highly educated knowledge workers,'' Meyer quotes CEO Kirk
Raab of biotech firm Genentech Inc. as saying, ''is pride in accomplishment.''
Money, Raab believes, ''is the ultimate report card but not the incentive.''

Valley employers have removed hierarchical distinctions and focus ''on what
would please the customer,'' not ''what would please their manager,'' Meyer
said.

Rather than focusing on ''who's in charge,'' he explained, ''a far more
effective approach is to define what work is required, identify the key
interdependencies, and then parse the task to small, interlocking teams with
defined leaders.''

To avoid stagnation, Meyer said, many Valley companies allow their work team
members time off after completing a project ''just to clean out their heads and
come back (refreshed). They may go out on field trips to customers and
universities, take a sabbatical or go into the research side and play around
with new ideas,'' widening their horizons, he added.

Valley companies maximize productivity by providing the finest tools, since
''knowledge workers know what's possible, and they can't be fooled,'' Meyer
writes.

Intel, he noted, between 1984 and 1989 spent $ 250 million, or 20 percent of its
research and development budget, fine-tuning its computer-assisted design tools.

Meyer also stressed the importance of allowing employees to focus on their work,
without bureaucratic interruptions. ''Nothing you do will score more points than
this,'' he said.

TOP 50

BEST OF PITTSBURGH BUSINESS

Sherwood Ross covers workplace issues for Reuters News Service.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              190 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 17, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

BALLOON GLOBAL QUEST ABORTED;
SOLO SPIRIT PLUNGES INTO SEA; FOSSETT SURVIVES DISASTER

BYLINE: MICHAEL WOODS, POST-GAZETTE WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The last great adventure story in the oldest form of aviation remains unwritten
today, after American adventurer Steve Fossett and his Solo Spirit balloon
plunged into shark-infested waters of the Coral Sea yesterday.

The mishap, which began off the coast of Australia at about 10:23 a.m., ended
Fossett's fourth attempt at circumnavigating Earth in a free-floating balloon.
It has proven to be one of the most elusive goals in the annals of manned
flight.

Miraculously, Fossett, 54, survived the plunge. After about eight hours of
world-wide suspense over his fate, a French rescue plane from New Caledonia
located the Chicago millionaire at 6:45 p.m., about roughly 500 miles from the
coast of Australia.

He was floating in the ocean capsulelike gondola, according to reports from Solo
Spirit Mission Control. The plane dropped a life raft and emergency supplies.
More supplies are expected to be dropped later by Australian planes.

Fossett reportedly climbed into the raft, an indication, according to Mission
Control that his condition was good. Several rescue ships were steaming toward
the raft to remove him from the water. The first, the New Zealand tanker
Endeavor, was expected to arrive early this morning.

Seas were reported to be moderately choppy but not threatening. Weather was warm
and partly cloudy with no storms expected. There were about seven hours of
daylight remaining when Fossett was spotted.

''We've been sweating bullets for about eight hours,'' said Joe Ritchie, mission
recovery director. ''So we're feeling pretty good.''

It was unclear late yesterday what caused Fossett to fall from the sky,
according to the the mission control center at Washington University in St.
Louis. But Bob Rice, chief meteorologist, cited thunderstorms - the great horror
of pilots everywhere - as the leading possibility.

Solo Spirit had completed two-thirds of its trip in terms of distance, having
traveled 15,200 miles since launch Aug. 7 from Mendoza, Argentina. Only six more
days of flight remained to completion of the last leg, a triumphant landing back
in Argentina, and a $ 1 million prize offered by Anheuser Busch.

Ritchie said rescuers were able to locate Fossett so quickly because the signal
from an emergency locator beacon led rescuers to his exact location.

The device first sounded at 10:23 a.m. EDT yesterday as electronic devices on
board Solo Spirit abruptly stopped reporting the craft's position. It was night
at Solo Spirit's location when the alarm went off.

Among them was a NASA science package being tested on Solo Spirit's as a model
for future balloons designed to explore the atmosphere of Mars and Venus.

Fossett was flying at 29,000 feet when contact was lost. A controlled descent,
Mission Control personnel noted, would allow time to don a wet suit, important
for long-term survival in the ocean.

The time would have allowed Fossett to make further preparations for entering
the ocean, such as readying the life raft and other emergency supplies.

Alan Blount said an abrupt descent would have greatly diminished Fossett's
chances for survival.

Fossett was less than a week away from making aviation history by completing his
around-the-world flight. Plans called for a landing late this week in Argentina,
just past the line of longitude through Solo Spirit's starting point, Mendoza.

Tragedy struck literally out of the blue, as mission controllers at Washington
University in St. Louis were elated with Fossett's progress. Ground crew members
broke into applause early Saturday morning upon learning that Fossett broke his
own world record (10,360 miles) for distance in a balloon.

Later came confirmation that Solo Spirit had surpassed the halfway point in the
20,000-mile journey. Success seemed finally within grasp.

Mission Control called a press conference to announce the milestones, and held a
celebration immediately thereafter that included praise from Washington
University Chancellor Mark S. Wrighton. Fossett, a university trustee, planed to
donate $ 500,000 of the prize to Washington University.

One of Fossett's last electronic mail messages to Mission Control reflected the
optimism resulting from recent milestones in the flight.

''It's certainly going well so far,'' he said in the message, relayed by
communications satellite. ''Although I was very worried over the Indian Ocean
that I would get caught and captured in the high pressure area . . . and never
be able to get out of it.''

If Fossett had remained aloft one more day, he would have broken the world
record for the longest solo balloon flight. It is 9 days 7 hours and 55 minutes,
set in January by Swiss pilot Bertrand Piccard.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP, MAP: Washington University in St. Louis web site; James;
Hilston/Post-Gazette: (Balloon down)

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 21, 1998, Monday, SOONER EDITION

AHH, SWEET YOUTH;
DESIGNERS IN N.Y. SHOW SOFT LOOKS FOR SPRING

BYLINE: JACKIE WHITE, KANSAS CITY STAR

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


It is mid-September. Monday night football is well under way. The World Series
is yet to come. And on New York fashion runways, we are watching models blithely
glide along in delicate rose print sheaths, sheer pleated organza skirts, layers
of tulle dresses and oversized cashmere T-shirts.

They are mostly in pale frothy colors, all meant to be worn not next month but
next spring. Yes, spring. That's the season that comes well after the holidays
and President's Day when you may still be in debt for winter coats. What's wrong
with this picture?

While it is not unusual for part of the apparel business to be quietly marketing
spring clothing in September for de livery to stores in February and March, it
is new for name designers such as Donna Karan and Calvin Klein to open warm
weather lines with very public press shows before most consumers have put away
the shorts and tank tops.

But last week, to get an edge on Europeans who start the fashion circuit in
early October, about 10 designers broke away from the Fashion Week scheduled in
early November in New York's Bryant Park to hold runway events around the city.
Besides Karan and Klein, they include Helmut Lang, the Austrian who moved to New
York and set off the changes, Nicole Miller and Vivienne Tam.

It seems fashion is not just about newness. It is also about being first with
the new. Stung by accusations they cull from Europe, these Americans also want a
piece of the global dollar (and lire and franc) before retailers spend it all in
Milan or Paris. (And by the way, there is one advantage for you. You have an
idea of what to keep and discard when you clean out your closet this fall. You
can be the first, say, with a new pale pink organza dress.)

At any rate, Donna Karan's DKNY line was unveiled in the West Side warehouse
district a few skips from the Hudson River where truckers struggling to maneuver
their vehicles into loading spaces held up limousines, hired cars and taxis for
several minutes.

Her vision, as it turned out, was fitting to the rough hewn setting. It was
about youth, sweetness and naivete executed in a very sophisticated manner. But
with frayed edges, crinkled textures, patched denims and sheer layers of tulle
dresses, there was a deconstructed, urban, almost urchin look to the clothes.
Most were in gentle pinks, lilac, blush, pale lime green, white and an
occasional quirky neon so light and diluted it lacked the usual power to shock.

There were long street-touching skirts, cowl tops, panel drapes reminiscent of
those portrait photographers used to use and elbow length or very long sleeves,
or no sleeves. A year ago, she was among the first designers to introduce capri
pants, which have been a major hit this year. Now she likes them loose and
cropped a few inches below the knees for women and only slightly longer for men.

Her few jackets were unfitted, casual, light and left open to wave behind as the
models walked.

Donna Karan's signature Collection came the following day. Always pushing
forward the concept of modern, she chose innovative sheer materials reminiscent
of not-so-new fabrics. Organdies, taffetas, tulle, organzas and cashmeres were
puffed, twisted, layered, draped and tucked to make airborne-like clothes that
although they were offered for daytime sometimes looked like a ballerina's
costume about to leave the ground.

There is no question Karan is advocating a radically new luxurious way of
dressing and at a time when fashion is in transition toward a less structured
romantic look, she may be joined by others.

Her skirts are sculpted into art objects and left to drift well below the knees.
The jackets are in such featherweight fabrics that even when they are layered,
they have a feeling of sprites. Her T-shirts are in cashmere gauze or linen
knits and cut to envelop the body. For evening, the clothes are more dramatic:
Giant-sized cashmere tops with pouf skirts, chiffons draped into fluttering
gathers and subtle beading sprinkled over chiffons are part of the agenda. The
models wore slip-on bedroom-like flats or closed soft slippers in matching
colors throughout the show.

Meanwhile, even Nicole Miller, a designer known for overtly sexy dresses on
occasion and for a heavy hand in the hey-look-at-me department, has lightened
up. Her sheath dresses with longer skirts in rose prints are as sweet and tender
as my grandmother's garden. So are the embroidered skirts and colors such as
pink and blue.

In the big picture, there is no absence of tailored clothes in the market. You
will still be able to find your silk tweed pantsuit or black and white sweater
set. But even though it's too early to plan next year's wardrobe, you may need
the time to get used to some of these new ideas.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4), PHOTO: Mitch Jacobsen/Associated Press: Donna Karan's
fashions for; spring include a casual jacket shown over a bare fine cashmere
tube and; matching column trousers.; PHOTO: Brad Rickerby/Reuters News Service:
Donna Karan's spring collection; includes a pink taffeta strapless twist dress.;
PHOTO: Mitch Jacobsen/Associated Press: Above right: Calvin Klein's collection;
includes a desert stretch cotton jacket over an alabaster superfine;
cashmere-silk tank with a desert stretch cotton pant.; PHOTO: Adam
Nadel/Associated Press: Right: A white cotton/nylon jacket is worn; over a white
cotton ribbed t-shirt and white cotton/nylon drawstring pants at; the DKNY show.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              195 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 8, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

POLAND'S PROMISE;
NO LONGER UNDER SOVIET FOG, WARSAW AND KRAKOW ARE REMAKING THEMSELVES INTO;
TOURIST ATTRACTIONS

BYLINE: TOM WASELESKI, ASSOCIATE EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 2141 words


It was a warm summer's night in Old Town, and the historic square was teeming
with weekend revelers. On a Friday after 9 p.m., the restaurants and bars that
lined the perimeter were doing turn-away business.

Patrons waited for seats, either indoors or outside at umbrella tables. Live
music played from stoops and corners around the cobblestoned space. The building
facades glowed turquoise and peach and rust in the lamplight. And, through the
din, conversations could be heard in a symphony of languages.

Welcome to Warsaw.

In 1945, the square was a pile of rubble, laid waste by a retreating army of
Nazis. Ten years ago the country was still feeling its way through a gray and
numbing Soviet fog. Now Poland is charting its own course with a reformed
government, a refashioned economy and an appetite for tourists.

Our Pittsburgh group had a hunger of its own. Near the end of a one-week
business trip in Poland last June, it occurred to us veterans of countless
Pittsburgh ethnic festivals that we had not sampled authentic Polish pierogies.
So we took an outdoor table at Fukier, one of the city's top restaurants.

There, under a humid Warsaw sky, in the middle of a square restored to its
17th-century splendor, a waiter brought us steaming plates of white triangular
dumplings.

The pierogies, slipping on a golden pool of butter, came six to a serving for 13
zlotys, or about $ 4. Imagine our surprise when, cutting the thin membrane of
dough, the filling turned out to be a sweet, delicate ball of ground beef. As
scrumptious as the best homemade ravioli.

A bit puzzled by the filling, one of our group, in her best Polish, asked the
waiter, "You don't have pierogies with potatoes or cheese?"

Russkie pierogies!" was the curt reply. Some cultural lessons have to be learned
firsthand.

What visitors learn up close is that the Polish cities of Warsaw and Krakow
belong among Europe's deserving new destinations. After the Communists were
tossed out of power at the start of this decade, small businesses took off,
shops and restaurants rolled out the carpet for foreigners and hotels began
catering to tourists used to American comforts.

Familiar American nameplates - McDonald's, Nike and Pizza Hut - have staked out
the busier spots in Poland, just as they have in other countries. But there was
nothing to prepare the Pittsburgh travelers last summer for a banner strung high
above the street in Krakow, promoting an exhibit of work by Andy Warhol.

Last May's Conde Nast Traveler even put Poland on its annual global "Hot List"
in a fawning story titled "The Polish Surprise."

The first thing that strikes a newcomer in Warsaw is the city has three distinct
styles of architecture: the centuries-old designs in historic sectors (some of
it Renaissance, some of it Baroque); the drab and nondescript Soviet-era
buildings (mainly offices and high-rise housing); and sleek, shiny corporate
towers (signaling Poland's capitalist intentions).

English-speaking visitors will find natives to converse with in the city,
particularly in the tourist haunts. But Americans should come armed with at
least a few Polish phrases since Russian, not English, has been taught in
schools for decades as the country's second language.

With or without a Polish phrase book, travelers will do fine communicating in
the cities with waiters, shopkeepers and taxi drivers. Many menus are bilingual,
merchandise is frequently price-tagged and Polish merchants are eager to please
Western customers.

Among the tourist bargains are lead crystal, amber and silver jewelry, leather
goods and woolens. The country also does a big business in colorful handicrafts:
peasant-style clothing, painted wooden eggs, jewelry chests and chess sets.

It wasn't long ago that Western visitors - mainly business people and academics
- cringed at the Spartan accommodations of Polish hotels. Today, Warsaw and
Krakow offer growing choices of full-service hotels, some of them with
well-known names like Marriott, Shera ton and Holiday Inn.

Our group stayed in the Hotel Mercure Fryderyk Chopin, a French property named
for the Polish composer. The building was modern, spacious and, like many hotels
in Western capitals, had several restaurants. The rooms were well-furnished,
comfortable and fully equipped. Cable TV and pay-per-view movies were standard.
And forget those Cold War-era warnings about toting all of your personal care
essentials (read: toilet paper) - the Mercure's bathrooms were stocked with all
the complimentary offerings of an American hotel. Nightly tariff: $ 120-$ 140.

In Warsaw, the cabs are cheap, the food an adventure and the streets relatively
safe. Although petty crime is up (the city's police chief says that under
capitalism there's just more to steal), not a lot of thievery has hit tourists.
Like America's homeless, panhandlers are harmless but plentiful, and they're
more like the European variety: 5-year-olds playing the violin, Gypsy mothers
clutching near-naked toddlers along tourist byways.

The most recognizable sight in Poland is the much-maligned Palace of Culture and
Science, a stupendous example of Soviet Realist architecture that, at 30
stories, dominates the Warsaw skyline. But ugly is in the eye of the beholder.
Large enough to hold concert halls, theaters, offices and now even a casino, the
massive building is as imposing as Pitt's Cathedral of Learning and is bathed at
night in golden spotlights.

For shoppers, Nowy Swiat ("New World") is a street lined with mod ern boutiques
devoted to high-fashion, not to mention high-priced, merchandise; jewelry,
perfume and Italian designer clothing abound. For more typical tourist
treasures, the best buys are tucked in tight little shops along narrow side
streets near Old Town's market square.

Along the way, the Vistula River slips by the city, and a bronze statue of the
Warsaw mermaid, the city's legendary protectress, stands guard above the bank.

Another creature in Polish lore is the dragon, or "bazyliszek," which also
happens to be the name of a fine Warsaw restaurant. Like Fukier, Bazyliszek can
be found on the market square and features more formal dining in a series of
rooms adorned with medieval armor and other masculine trappings. Among the house
specialties are roast duck and a green, semi-creamy mushroom soup.

Around the corner, in a wing of the Royal Castle (now open to the public as a
museum), is Cafe Zarnek. Tourists who spend a day inspecting the royal quarters
can conveniently enjoy a lunch of sauteed veal with breaded apples and potato
dumplings.

Another popular Warsaw restaurant is Restauracja Polska. Its name may lack
creativity, but there the blandness ends. Near high-fashion Nowy Swiat, the
subterranean dining room sits like a dimly lighted, velvet cavern. Candles
illuminate old paintings and textured wallpaper; accent tables are adorned with
artful displays of fresh fruits, vegetables and flowers. Among the house dishes
are trout, venison and - there's no delicate way to say it pig's feet.

While we're on pork surrounded by gelatin, a word about what Polish waiters
bring to the table when you order a salad: a small gelatin mold containing
chopped carrots, celery and lettuce. So let Americans who crave leafy green
salads beware.

Three hours south via highway, Krakow sits as a genuine remnant of the Middle
Ages, behind a stone wall and largely untouched by 20th-century warfare. Like
Warsaw, it lies tucked into a curve of the Vistula River. The seat of Polish
kings for over 500 years, the city also grew as a university and cultural
center. So, unlike Warsaw, which seems all business and government, Krakow is
one of Europe's beautiful "old" cities, soaked in learning, religion and
history.

It, too, has an Old Town at its heart, with a thriving cafe culture and bustling
retail streets. In the center of Krakow's market place - the largest medieval
square in Poland and perhaps in Europe - sits Cloth Hall, an immense
14th-century trade building that was rebuilt in 1555 in Renaissance style.
Inside, scores of shopkeepers stand behind stalls and trade in souvenirs and
popular Polish handicrafts. Many of them offer the same wares, so it's easy to
compare prices (which are lower than Warsaw's) and negotiate the best deal.

Around the square are restaurants, cafes and shops - but also two impressive
religious structures. The small, domed St. Adalbert's Church dates from the 10th
century, and, next door, vendors continue to sell flowers as they have on that
spot for centuries.

Several hundred yards away is the massive St. Mary's Church, first built in the
1220s. Destroyed by Tatar raids, the facade now has two unequal towers, one
topped by a Renaissance dome and the other with a spire that was given a golden
crown in 1666. Every hour a trumpeter in the taller tower (265 feet high) plays
a simple melody that served as a warning of invasion during medieval times. He
blows his message, in turn, to all four directions, then breaks off the melody
abruptly, symbolizing a medieval watchman who is shot by a Tatar arrow while
issuing his warning.

While Krakow's market square is captivating, the city's major attraction is
Wawel (pronounced VAW-vell), site of the castle and cathedral that were the
seats of power for half a millennium. They sit on top of a hill with a
commanding view, and pilgrims get to the top by walking a narrow stone lane.

The royal cathedral, whose present structure dates from 1320, contains a host of
crypts and tombs, including those holding the remains of St. Stanislaus, patron
of Poland, and Tadeusz Kosciuszko, who fought for American independence. Several
commemoratives mark the visit of Pope John Paul II, who presided at Wawel
Cathedral when he was Cardinal Karol Wojtyla.

Next door is Wawel Castle, a residence first built in the 11th century which
would have a violent history.

It was burned and plundered by everyone from the Swedes to the Prussians. In
1530, Italian architects were hired to make it a Renaissance palace, which is
how it survives today.

The royal rooms are massive, featuring carved wooden ceilings and more than a
hundred tapestries. On the day of our visit a pair of minstrels serenaded the
crowd with songs of the period; the thick, high walls seemed built to hold that
soprano's voice.

Outside, in the center of the courtyard with its repeating arches, visitors
might think they are in one of several West European countries - anywhere but
Poland. Which may be a modern-day metaphor for the country itself.

As the revived nation opens its doors further, visitors expecting a drab Soviet
landscape are in for a treat. Warsaw and Krakow still harbor their ghosts and
tragedies. But the comforts and energy of the West abound, as Poland remakes
itself for its own people and the wider world.

 IF YOU GO

Pittsburghers, one-tenth of whom trace some ancestry to Poland, are traveling to
Warsaw in a big way.

Vicki Couch of Couch-Mollica Travel Ltd., Mount Washington, said that since the
Berlin Wall came down, she's been booking many more passengers to Warsaw. For
her agency, which specializes in international travel, many of the fares are for
people traveling on business.

Patty Sharpe of Travel King, Downtown, also has seen an increase in trips to
Poland.

Both agents said a roundtrip ticket from Pittsburgh to Warsaw, booked three
weeks in advance, costs $ 678 to $ 700 today, the off-season. Sharpe said a
comparable ticket in the spring or fall would run $ 848, and between June 1 and
Aug. 31 about $ 978.

The trip can be done in two legs, usually Pittsburgh-to-New York or
Pittsburgh-to-Newark, followed by the trans-Atlantic crossing to Warsaw. Total
flight time is about 11 hours.

Sharpe said her agency can refer travelers to economical charters that run from
New York. Travelers can also consider hotel and tour packages from major brokers
like Trafalgar, Globus and American Express.

Couch said her company has a relationship with Fly Away Travel in Warsaw, which
can tailor packages to a traveler's interests. Some are geared toward culture,
religion, architecture or national parks.

Passports, of course, are necessary. The time zone difference is plus-six hours,
EST.

Currency exchange is about 3.4 zlotys per U.S. dollar. Money can be traded
easily at banks, airports, travel offices and hotels. Credit cards are widely
used.

Electricity is 220v, the same as the rest of Europe.

Poland's temperate climate is similar to Pittsburgh's. In the fall, daily highs
are between 43 and 55 degrees. Winters are generally dry, although the
Carpathian Mountains to the south get heavy snowfall. The coldest months are
January and February, with temperatures occasionally below zero. July is the
hottest month, with highs in the mid-80s.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (6), PHOTO: Polish National Tourist Office: Krakow's major
attraction is; Wawel Hill, where Wawel Castle and the royal cathedral command a
magnificent; view.; PHOTO: Top photo: In the middle of Krakow's marketplace sits
Cloth Hall, a; huge 14th-century trade building that was rebuilt in 1555 in
Renaissance; style. It's a gathering place for artists and artisans who trade in
souvenirs; and handicrafts.; PHOTO: Left: Members of an Allegheny County trade
delegation are serenaded by; a brass band of coal miners during a visit to
Katowice, Poland, last summer.; PHOTO: Cloth Hall is in the center of Krakow's
Maket Square, one of Europe's; largest medieval squares.; PHOTO: Bill
Hogan/Chicago Tribune: A shopper picks out a running shoe in the; flea market
that sprawls on the grounds around the Palace of Culture in; Warsaw. The palace
was built by Stalin as a gift to the Polish people in; Warsaw.; PHOTO: Lori
Montgomery/Detroit Free Press: A view dow Prozna Street from what; would have
been the Warsaw ghetto. The street, which barely survived World War; II, is the
site of a $ 7 million project that seeks to restore essential; elements of the
Jewish community.

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              202 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 28, 1998, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

A NEW, UNSETTLING U.S-SINO ALLIANCE

BYLINE: JIM MANN, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


It would have been unimaginable only a few years ago. But President Clinton
appears to have moved American foreign policy into close alignment with China,
ending the estrangement that has prevailed since the end of the Cold War.

With their second amicable summit meeting in eight months, with a package of
deals and a stunningly warm, earthy news conference, Clinton and Chinese
President Jiang Zemin have succeeded, at least for now, in forging a new
partnership.

In the process, they underscored the enduring nature of America's old
fascination and obsession with China.

Once again, as so often in the past, the United States has decided to put China
at the very center of its foreign policy and its global aspirations. It is a
process that amazes other countries and often ends up disappointing the United
States itself, but which has recurred from generation to generation since the
19th century.

Despite the continuing differences over human rights and the Tiananmen Square
massacre, Clinton and Jiang made plain that their two governments would now
collaborate ever more closely in world affairs, on issues ranging from the
spread of nuclear weapons to the international economy.

This new strategic linkup between Washington and Beijing is a development with
profound implications for the rest of Asia. Other governments, especially the
ones in India, Japan and Taiwan, now confront a different world - one in which
the most powerful nation on the globe and the most populous one seem to be
working together to try to influence what happens elsewhere.

''China and the United States are partners, not adversaries,'' Jiang declared
proudly yesterday. And, indeed, that was the core message of the summit talks.

How did Clinton and Jiang bring this about?

In effect, what the two leaders did was to lance the boil of their disputes over
the way China represses political dissent.

Each leader got some, but not all, of what he wanted.

While the riveting exchanges at yesterday's news conference showed Clinton
challenging Jiang Zemin head-on, they also demonstrated that the American
president was accepting the legitimacy of China's Communist Party leader.

Thus, Jiang - tilting his head back with closed eyes and fiddling impassively
with his watch as Clinton spoke about the Tiananmen Square massacre - was able
to show the Chinese television audience that the American leader was treating
him as an equal.

And Clinton - turning his head sideways, in a favorite pose, to display his
clenched jaw - could demonstrate to American viewers that he was willing to
condemn Chinese repression.

Jiang was able to tolerate Clinton's rebuke because his rhetoric is no longer
backed up by threats, conditions or policy changes.

For other countries, the impact of the Clinton-Jiang summit was, if anything,
even more startling.

What happened yesterday is not likely to go down well in India, the world's
second-most-populous nation, which conducted a nuclear test last month and has
been warning that it confronts a military threat from China.

The Clinton-Jiang summit made no gestures of acceptance or conciliation to India
- or, for that matter, to Pakistan, which followed India's nuclear test with its
own.

The statement called on India and Pakistan to stop all nuclear testing, to
refrain from producing or deploying nuclear weapons and to avoid testing or
deploying missiles that can deliver nuclear weapons. Thus, the United States is
treating China as a partner in keeping the peace in South Asia, rather as one of
the parties to the conflict there.

The results of the Clinton-Jiang summit will probably be equally galling to
Japan, though officials in Tokyo undoubtedly will be more diplomatic and
restrained in public than their counterparts in New Delhi.

The president is spending eight days in China without making so much as an
overnight stopover in Japan, Washington's principal ally in Asia and the host to
about 40,000 American troops.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
