
                              12 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

EXPECT LOW WATER FOR TROUT OPENER

BYLINE: DEBORAH WEISBERG

SECTION: OUTDOORS; FISHING; Pg. D-15

LENGTH: 897 words


Area trout streams are likely to be low and clear on opening day, April 15,
reflecting a trend in recent decades toward spring seasons that are dry. That,
according to experts tracking climatic change and its impact on the environment.

"We'll be heading into trout season with a deficit of water," predicted Penn
State University water resources specialist Bryan Swistock. "A good storm might
raise levels temporary, but groundwater is so low, it would take more than one
good storm to right things."

Last month was one of the driest Marches in a decade, with precipitation down by
half in Western Pennsylvania, Swistock said. The university's climate model for
April forecasts more of the same. It is part of a pattern that Swistock said
puzzles even experts.

"Since 1895, Pennsylvania has actually been getting more precipitation
annually," he said, "but, in recent decades, spring has not followed this
pattern and has definitely been drier in most, but not all, years. Why is not
well understood."

Warm weather is also coming earlier, according to Richard Alley, Edwin Pugh
Professor of Geosciences at Penn State, who said there are several culprits, not
the least of which is global warming.

"There's been a shift in the East toward earlier peak flows," Alley said. "It's
a little like moving toward summer, sooner, where you have these big
thunderstorms but they dry out faster because it's warm, so you have to water
your tomato patch frequently anyway."

"Global warming increases total rainfall, but warmer temperatures tend to make
more droughts. You also have loss of snow pack, which is a concern, because snow
pack helps move peak flow into spring. If snow melts too quickly or comes as
rain, the spring peak flow is reduced or disappears."

Another effect of global warming, Swistock said, is that weather has been
fluctuating more dramatically, causing scientists to rethink their idea of
normal.

"The ping-ponging is nothing new, but the ball has been bouncing a lot more, and
in shorter time spans. If you look at 100-plus years of data, weather is much
more variable, to the extent there's no such thing as an average year anymore,"
he said.

The past 12 months in Pennsylvania have been dry, especially in Erie County and
in the eastern part of the state, where up to a foot less rain than normal has
fallen, Swistock said. So far this year, Pennsylvania's weather has come from
Canada, which tends to bring colder temperatures but less precipitation than
southwesterly systems that pick up moisture in the Gulf of Mexico.

"Our creek looks gorgeous," said Bob Shuey of Neshannock Creek Outfitters. "It's
just too low for March. We have more of a May flow. If we don't get some steady
rain, we'll be in trouble by June. Our water hasn't gone over the banks once so
far this year, which is pretty unusual for spring."

"Scary low," is how Glen McConnell of McConnell's Country Store characterized
Little Pine Creek in Lycoming County. "we could get a foot of rain and the creek
would still be wadable and fishable."

Lakes are low, too, but streams are longer-term systems that reflect what is
happening with climate over time, Swistock said.

"They're fed by groundwater. It's their life's blood. If groundwater is low,
they may go up quickly after rainfall, but they'll fall quickly, too."

That is especially true of Western Pennsylvania's freestone streams. Unlike
limestone, where fractures and sinkholes allow for the sort of groundwater
recharge that promotes consistent flow and cool temperatures regardless of
precipitation, freestone bedrock is shale and sandstone, which is tighter and
less fractured. That makes for poor groundwater recharge.

Small streams tend to rise and fall faster than larger ones, and urban area
streams suffer a double whammy when it comes to fluctuating levels, as a
consequence of sprawl.

"There are pretty good correlations between paving and chronically low ground
water, since paving doesn't let water into the ground," Swistock said. "It means
streams get very low when there's no precipitation and 'flashy' when it does
rain. There's no moderation, the way there would be if the ground is allowed to
store water. Mountain streams react more gently to rain and are more
consistent."

The changing environment is prompting the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission
to consider scheduling a different opening day for southeastern Pennsylvania,
where streams warm earlier. According to the agency's top cold water biologist,
the Fish Commission could move up opening day to early April for some counties,
perhaps as soon as next year, while maintaining the traditional mid-April date
for most others.

In any case, anglers can adjust to low, clear conditions by downsizing tackle
and slowing their presentation, whether they're fishing bait or flies. "You're
still matching the hatch. Ypu're just going smaller, especially with your tippet
or line.," Sheu said.

"They're killing them right now on size 16 to 18 early Black and Brown
Stoneflies and Blue Wing Oliver nymphs, and bright green and tan Caddis larvae.
Some of the attractor patterns like Zug Bugs and Prince Nymphs, or streamers in
black, brown or olive work well in early season bait water. They key is natural
presentation ... a drag-free drift."

"The water's cold right now," Shuey said, "but without a couple of good soakers
a week between now and opening day, there just won't be enough of it."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              15 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BRITISH PARTIES JOIN IN URGENT WARNING ON CLIMATE CHANGE;
SEE U.S. FAILING TO LEAD ON SLOWING GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: KEVIN SULLIVAN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Prime Minister Tony Blair warned yesterday that the world is heading toward
"disastrous" and "irreversible" climate changes. Meanwhile, David Cameron, the
popular leader of the opposition Conservative Party, vowed to install a
wind-power generator and solar panels at the prime minister's residence if he
wins the office.

Mr. Blair and Mr. Cameron are rivals, but their shared outspoken devotion to
fighting global warming -- the subject of a stark British government report
released yesterday -- illustrates the unity among leaders across the country's
political spectrum on the dangers of climate change and, in the absence of U.S.
leadership, their apparent determination to make Britain a world leader on the
issue.

In a clear reference to President Bush, Mr. Blair used a column in the Sun
newspaper yesterday to say, "The case for action is the final piece of the
jigsaw to convince every single political leader, including those in America,
China and India, that this must be top of their agenda."

While Mr. Bush has played down the dangers of climate change, Mr. Blair called
the new findings "the most important report on the future which I have received
since becoming prime minister" nearly a decade ago.

"There's consensus across the political parties on this," said London School of
Economics international relations professor Michael Cox. "And Blair genuinely
believes that if the United States is not going to lead on this, then Britain
will."

British politicians yesterday enthusiastically embraced the conclusions of the
report by Nicholas Stern, a senior British government economist and former World
Bank chief economist. He found that the world will face catastrophic
consequences without an urgent international effort to fight climate change.

Chancellor Gordon Brown, who commissioned the study and is Mr. Blair's likely
successor as prime minister, said new economic opportunities would be created by
finding alternative energy sources and other solutions.

He said such moves would create "new markets for new jobs, new technologies, new
exports where companies, universities and social enterprises in Britain can lead
the world."

Former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, who has written a book and produced a film
about the dangers of global warming, has become a symbol of Britain's
nonpartisan commitment to climate change and is advising Mr. Brown. Yet during
the Conservative Party's annual conference this month, Mr. Cameron attended a
screening of Mr. Gore's film, "An Inconvenient Truth," and said, "I absolutely
loved Al Gore's movie, and I think everyone here ought to see it."

Climate change is increasingly dominating British political discourse, as
leaders take to bicycles and hybrid cars in an effort to be more green than
their opponents.

The Conservatives recently adopted a tree as the party's logo, raising eyebrows
among many in a party that is generally more committed to lowering taxes than
raising trees.

A political cartoon in yesterday's Times newspaper in London showed Mr. Blair,
Mr. Cameron and Menzies Campbell, leader of the third-largest party, the Liberal
Democrats, all hugging trees and pointing at each other, saying, "The other two
are faking it!"

London School of Economics local government specialist Tony Travers said British
politics were a factor in the current emphasis on climate change. He said Mr.
Blair needed to demonstrate "traditional left-of-center" values on issues such
as the environment and African poverty to blunt criticism that he has led his
party too far to the right.

At the same time, Mr. Cameron wants to emphasize his green credentials "to
signal that he's not like the old Conservative Party," Mr. Travers said.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              21 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HANUKKAH IN A NEW LIGHT;
'WE'RE DEDICATING OURSELVES TO STEWARDSHIP OF THE EARTH'

BYLINE: Ann Rodgers, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 754 words


Combining an old joke with some serious theology, a Jewish environmental group
is seeking to have synagogues and Jewish families replace their standard
incandescent light bulbs with energy-saving compact fluorescent bulbs.

Press releases from the Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life went out
under the heading, "How many Jews does it take to change a light bulb?"
Organizers hope it will be all of them.

About 500 synagogues nationwide, including a half-dozen in the Pittsburgh area,
are taking part in this "Light Among the Nations" campaign, as it is formally
called. Some began Hanukkah observances last night by ceremonially replacing an
old bulb with a new, energy-efficient one.

"The story of Hanukkah includes the little bit of oil that stretched eight times
further than anticipated. When we replace the incandescent bulb with the
[compact fluorescent light], it will last eight times longer than the regular
bulb and be four times more efficient," said Rabbi Sharyn Henry, an associate at
Rodef Shalom Congregation in Oakland.

At Rodef Shalom, a new bulb has replaced a traditional one in the eternal light
that burns above the ark where the Torah scroll is kept. Because changing that
bulb was too difficult to do as part of the ceremony, a lamp was used in last
night's bulb changing ritual before the Sabbath service.

"Hanukkah means dedication, so we are dedicating ourselves to the stewardship of
the earth," Rabbi Henry said.

Hanukkah, sometimes called the Festival of Lights, commemorates the victory of a
small band of Jewish fighters over their Greek and Syrian rulers in 163 BC.
According to the story, they needed to rededicate the Jerusalem temple, and
found only a one-day supply of oil for the eight-day ceremony. They started
anyway, and the oil lasted eight days. Each night during Hanukkah, a family is
supposed to light one candle on an eight-branch menorah.

The Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life sees a parallel between compact
fluorescent light bulbs and that miraculous oil. A 20-watt compact fluorescent
bulb produces as much light as a normal 75-watt bulb, and lasts 10 times as
long. The most common types are sold in supermarkets and are spiral-shaped,
though they can be found in more traditional shapes.

Although they cost more than incandescent bulbs -- especially for decorative,
3-way and dimmable models -- advocates say they pay for themselves within months
and save money for years. The average compact fluorescent bulb is expected to
save its owner $55 over its lifetime. The participating synagogues are selling a
variety of the bulbs, at discount, to their members.

"Change is hard, but changing a light bulb is easy," said Barbara Lerman-Golomb,
executive director of the Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life.

"For many people global warming and climate change is a very daunting topic.
They think they can't do anything about it. This seemed like a great, simple
first step."

Her group expects synagogue members to purchase 50,000 bulbs through the
Hanukkah campaign. If they are all used, "the equivalent of more than 18,000
tons of carbon dioxide will be kept from entering the atmosphere," she said.

"The Hanukkah story talks about a small group of people who banded together to
make a difference, and that is what we, as a Jewish community, are doing with
this."

Lea Black, a point person for the project at Rodef Shalom, has already met with
groups in the synagogue to answer questions about the bulbs. Many older people
still believed that fluorescent bulbs had to be left on all day, she said. Ms.
Black, a longtime user of the bulbs, assured them this was not so, and that the
bulbs the synagogue was selling would give off a warm, white light.

"This campaign is a no-brainer," said Jeff Cohan, director of community and
public affairs at the United Jewish Federation.

"Usually it's expensive to do the environmental thing. But in this case it's a
significant money saver."

The federation started an environmental committee a year and a half ago. One of
its main projects is to help synagogues become more green. It has been so
effective that some of its members have been invited to give a presentation to a
national meeting of more than 125 Jewish public affairs councils in February.

"The environmental movement can never come close to realizing its full potential
without the religious community," Mr. Cohan said. "Improving the environment
requires change in behavior. No institution is more effective at changing
behavior than our churches and synagogues."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ann Rodgers can be reached at arodgers@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1416.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Diana/Post-Gazette: Rabbi Sharyn Henry, right, turns on
the fluorescent light bulb while Barbara Rogal lights candles during service at
the Rodef Shalom Congregation in Oakland last evening.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              24 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HURRICANE SEASON WON'T MATCH LAST YEAR

BYLINE: ABBY GOODNOUGH AND ANDREW C. REVKIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Government forecasters yesterday predicted that as many as 16 tropical storms
would become big enough to receive names during the six-month hurricane season
that begins June 1, far fewer than last year's calamitous season but still an
abnormally high number.

Of the 13 to 16 named storms expected to form in the Atlantic Ocean, eight to 10
will likely become hurricanes, including as many as six of Category 3 strength
or higher, said Conrad C. Lautenbacher Jr., administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Two to four hurricanes are likely to
make landfall in the United States this season, he said.

The storm activity will be caused by warm ocean waters and favorable wind
patterns, Mr. Lautenbacher said, though much will depend on smaller-scale
weather patterns that cannot be predicted this far in advance.

"Remember that it only takes one hurricane in your neighborhood to make it a bad
season," Mr. Lautenbacher said in a news conference at the National Hurricane
Center in Miami.

He and other forecasters and emergency officials urged the public to prepare
more scrupulously than last season, saying citizens should do a better job of
stockpiling supplies in advance, preparing evacuation plans and heeding
evacuation orders from officials.

The Atlantic Ocean is in a cycle of intense hurricane activity that started in
1995, producing 28 named storms last year, more than at any other time since
NOAA began keeping records in the mid-1800s.

Fifteen of those storms grew into hurricanes, the fiercest of which was
Hurricane Katrina, killing at least 1,100 people. Three others made landfall:
Dennis, which hit the Florida Panhandle on July 10; Rita, near the
Texas-Louisiana border on Sept. 24; and Wilma, in South Florida Oct. 24.

On average, the Atlantic hurricane season produces 11 named storms, with six
becoming hurricanes, according to NOAA.

For the moment, debate persists over whether storms are already being
strengthened by warming of the global climate and oceans, which most climate
scientists have linked to the buildup of greenhouse gases.

Most ocean and climate experts say it is likely that warmer oceans will favor
stronger storms, but there is plenty of debate about whether that trend is
already perceptible.

In what Mr. Lautenbacher called a "silver lining," a weak La Nina condition -- a
cooling of the tropical Pacific Ocean that often encourages stronger hurricanes
in the Atlantic -- has dissipated and will not be a factor this year, he said.
But existing wind patterns could combine to reduce wind shear, thereby
encouraging hurricane formation.

A central paradox in hurricane forecasting is that while experts have become
adept at presaging a busy storm season, they still have not improved predictions
for whether hurricanes will strike land, or where they are most apt to strike.

Luck still largely determines if a particular spot on a map, say the Outer Banks
of the Carolinas or the Florida Keys, will suffer in a particular season, said
Kerry A. Emanuel, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology hurricane expert. That
uncomfortable reality is why forecasters tend to fall back on the standard
wisdom that anyone in a hurricane-prone region needs to prepare for the worst.

The seasonal forecasts swing on several sets of conditions in the atmosphere and
tropical Atlantic Ocean: water temperature, wind speeds in successively higher
layers of the atmosphere and patterns in atmospheric pressure between Africa,
where most tropical storms are spawned, and the Americas, where they tend to go.

Several researchers, including Mr. Emanuel, have published papers over the past
year in which they claim to have found a big buildup in the power of hurricanes
in recent decades that can only be explained by human-driven global warming.

But a separate camp of scientists, including Max Mayfield, director of the
National Hurricane Center, and some other federal hurricane researchers,
contends that natural cycles in temperatures in the Atlantic and atmospheric
patterns above the sea surface caused a lull in mid-century and have contributed
to the surge in storminess since 1995.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Government forecasters predict that up to 16
tropical storms will become big enough to receive names during the six-month
hurricane season that begins on June 1, far fewer than last year's calamitous
season but still an abnormally high number. (Graphic, Page A-1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              31 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LET COOLER HEADS PREVAIL;
THOUGH IT MAKES FOR EXCITING JOURNALISM, GLOBAL WARMING HYSTERIA IS BAD FOR YOU

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 774 words


So, "the debate is over." Time magazine says so. Last week's cover story
exhorted readers to "Be Worried. Be Very Worried," and ABC News concurred in
several stories. So did Montana's governor, speaking on ABC. And there was
polling about global warming, gathered by Time and ABC in collaboration.

Eighty-five percent of Americans say warming is probably happening and 62
percent say it threatens them personally. The National Academy of Sciences says
the rise in the earth's surface temperature has been about one degree Fahrenheit
in the last century. Did 85 percent of Americans notice? Of course not. They got
their anxiety from journalism calculated to produce it. Never mind that one
degree might be the margin of error when measuring the planet's temperature. To
take a person's temperature, you put a thermometer in an orifice, or under an
arm. Taking the temperature of our churning planet, with its tectonic plates
sliding around over a molten core, involves limited precision.

Why have Americans been dilatory about becoming as worried -- as very worried --
as Time and ABC think proper? An article on ABC's Web site wonders ominously,
"Was Confusion Over Global Warming a Con Job?" It suggests there has been a
misinformation campaign implying that scientists might not be unanimous, a
campaign by -- how did you guess? -- big oil. And the coal industry. But
speaking of coal ...

Recently, Montana Gov. Brian Schweitzer flew with ABC's George Stephanopoulos
over Glacier National Park's receding glaciers. But Gov. Schweitzer offered
hope: Everyone, buy Montana coal. New technologies can, he said, burn it while
removing carbon causes of global warming.

Mr. Stephanopoulos noted that such technologies are at least four years away and
"all the scientists" say something must be done "right now."

Gov. Schweitzer, quickly recovering from hopefulness and returning to the "be
worried, be very worried" message, said "it's even more critical than that"
because China and India are going to "put more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
with conventional coal-fired generators than all of the rest of the planet has
during the last 150 years."

That is one reason why the Clinton administration never submitted the Kyoto
accord on global warming for Senate ratification. In 1997, the Senate voted 95-0
that the accord would disproportionately burden America while being too
permissive toward major polluters that are America's trade competitors.

While worrying about Montana's receding glaciers, Gov. Schweitzer, who is 50,
should also worry about the fact that when he was 20 he was told to be worried,
very worried, about global cooling. Science magazine (Dec. 10, 1976) warned of
"extensive Northern Hemisphere glaciation." Science Digest (February 1973)
reported that "the world's climatologists are agreed" that we must "prepare for
the next ice age." The Christian Science Monitor ("Warning: Earth's Climate is
Changing Faster than Even Experts Expect," Aug. 27, 1974) reported that glaciers
"have begun to advance," "growing seasons in England and Scandinavia are getting
shorter" and "the North Atlantic is cooling down about as fast as an ocean can
cool." Newsweek agreed ("The Cooling World," April 28, 1975) that meteorologists
"are almost unanimous" that catastrophic famines might result from the global
cooling that The New York Times (Sept. 14, 1975) said "may mark the return to
another ice age." The Times (May 21, 1975) also said "a major cooling of the
climate is widely considered inevitable" now that it is "well established" that
the Northern Hemisphere's climate "has been getting cooler since about 1950."

In fact, the earth is always experiencing either warming or cooling.

But suppose the scientists and their journalistic conduits, who today say they
were so spectacularly wrong so recently, are now correct. Suppose the earth is
warming and suppose the warming is caused by human activity. Are we sure there
will be proportionate benefits from whatever climate change can be purchased at
the cost of slowing economic growth and spending trillions? Are we sure the
consequences of climate change -- remember, a thick sheet of ice once covered
the Middle West -- must be bad? Or has the science-journalism complex decided
that debate about these questions, too, is "over"?

About the mystery that vexes ABC -- Why have Americans been slow to get in lock
step concerning global warming? -- perhaps the "problem" is not big oil or big
coal, both of which have discovered there is big money to be made from tax
breaks and other subsidies justified in the name of combating carbon. Perhaps
the problem is big crusading journalism.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: George F. Will is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(georgewill@washpost.com).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              38 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 2, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CALIFORNIA LEADS;
AMERICANS DESERVE SUCH ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRESS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 278 words


While the Pennsylvania Legislature and Allegheny County officials are duking it
out on how to ban indoor smoking in workplaces, California has enacted a far
more sweeping environmental law without anyone having a nervous breakdown.

It's enough to make you want to move.

Last Wednesday, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a major global-warming
initiative that will fill the void on federal policy and possibly lead the way
for other states to take action. The Bush administration's bankrupt approach to
the environment, particularly on the matter of limiting greenhouse gases, leaves
leaders at the state level no alternative but to pass laws over Washington's
head.

Some will say Gov. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, crafted the historic pact with
California Democrats because it's an election year, but we see it differently.
No doubt the governor scored political points with some, but he boldly broke
with -- and some would say upstaged -- his party's president on an issue of
national, indeed, global importance. That took guts, and too many politicians
shrink from courageous positions, particularly in an election year.

The California law will set the nation's first emissions caps on factories,
refineries and utilities to cut the greenhouse gases that warm the earth.
Between this law and the state's tough rules limiting auto tailpipe pollution,
California hopes to reduce its emissions to 1990 levels -- a 25 percent cut --
by 2020.

That's major-league environmental leadership that deserves to be copied in the
White House and Congress. It also puts in pitiful perspective the sandlot-level
fight in Pennsylvania over how to clear indoor workplaces of tobacco smoke.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

LIBERALS ARE ON THE ROPES IN CANADA ELECTION

BYLINE: JIM TANKERSLEY, BLOCK NEWS ALLIANCE

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 1402 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


The warning signs for Canada's longtime ruling party sit near the cash registers
of the Librairie Raffin, in a space often reserved for celebrity tell-alls and
Harry Potter.

There are three books, displayed in a row. Their pages detail scandals a decade
old. All are selling briskly, the man behind the counter says, and a little time
talking to shoppers at this Quebec mall -- and throughout Eastern Canada --
explains why.

"It's time to change," said Daniel Leclair, one of many voters at the Place
Versailles shopping center to voice displeasure with allegations of Liberal
Party corruption and financial mismanagement that began in Quebec's backyard and
now fill its bookstores. "The Liberals have been in power too long."

Canadians will elect a new parliament tomorrow. In interviews and public opinion
polls, voters say they're ready to evict the Liberals, who have run the federal
government for 13 years and hand control to the Conservatives, who preached
moderation and reform over the two-month campaign.

The election results could reshape Canadian policy on taxes, missile defense,
climate change and U.S. relations.

They could also prove instructive for Republicans and Democrats in America, as
they prepare for their own scandal-draped elections across the nation this fall.

Canada's Liberals won power in 1993. Canadians are divided on social issues, but
analysts say a majority of voters support abortion rights and same-sex marriage.

Unlike America, four parties hold seats in the Canadian parliament, including
the more-liberal-than-the-Liberals New Democratic Party and the Bloc Quebecois,
which pushes for Quebec to secede from Canada.

Quebec voters narrowly defeated a secession initiative the last time they
considered one, in 1995. The campaign was expensive, bitter, and the root of the
Liberals' problems today.

Following the election, the federal government poured hundreds of millions of
dollars into a so-called "sponsorship fund," which was intended to advertise the
rest of Canada's virtues to Quebec. Instead, much of the money enriched
politically connected companies, investigators discovered in recent years.

The scandal helped cost Liberals a parliamentary majority in Canada's 2004
elections. But the party clung to power until last November, when a judge called
the sponsorship fund a "culture of entitlement" in a scathing report. Parliament
dissolved, and Prime Minister Paul Martin, whom the judge cleared of any
sponsorship wrongdoing, was forced to call new elections.

Analysts predicted in December that Liberals might survive. Then the scandals
mounted -- and Stephen Harper came on strong.

Apartment towers grow in clusters in Mississauga, with penthouse nests that
overlook Lake Ontario, downtown Toronto, and some of the tidiest, most
ethnically diverse suburban sprawl in the world.

The city's nearly 700,000 residents make it Canada's sixth-largest. Locals call
Mississauga and its neighboring voter- and immigrant-rich Toronto suburbs "the
905," after their area code. Politicians know the area can swing a federal
election.

Canada divides, like the United States, largely between conservative rural
voters and more liberal urbanities. Prime Minister Martin hails from Montreal.
Stephen Harper, the Conservative leader who would succeed Mr. Martin if his
party wins the election, lives in Calgary -- the unofficial capital of Canada's
Western plains.

In the 905, large swaths of first-generation Canadians from Asia, Europe and the
Caribbean historically have backed Liberals, in what analysts call loyalty to
the party's immigration policies.

This year, conservatives sense a chance to win them over. Mr. Harper has
campaigned heavily in the 905, pounding Liberals over the sponsorship fund,
pledging to clean up Ottawa, and promising to crack down on crime -- a hot issue
around Toronto after a shootout on a busy shopping street downtown killed a
15-year-old girl the day after Christmas.

Scandal has won Mr. Harper some suburban ears.

"Since I came to Canada, I've always voted for the Liberals," said Winston
Bennett, a 1970 immigrant from Jamaica who relaxed in a Mississauga mall last
week before clocking in at a nearby auto parts plant. "All these scandals turned
me off. I don't trust the Liberal Party anymore."

Similar sentiments have Conservatives confident they can win a few seats in
Quebec, where the party was shut out in 2004.

If anything, Liberal woes ring even louder en francais: Among the hot-selling
books in Quebec is a recently released investigative work called "The Secrets of
Option Canada," which alleges a federally funded group broke campaign spending
limits while opposing the 1995 secession referendum -- and that Mr. Martin knew
about it.

Some anger has spread to Pelee Island, Canada's southernmost point in Lake Erie,
where Mayor Bill Krestel warns Liberals "will pay in the end for what they've
done to us and what they've done with our money."

History has shown Mr. Harper that outrage alone won't make him prime minister.
Liberals rallied late in the 2004 election, analysts say, by labeling him an
extremist and suggesting he would limit abortion, oppose gun control, and send
Canadian troops to Iraq.

Mr. Harper attempted to inoculate himself against similar attacks this time. He
pledged to leave abortion alone and keep Canada out of Iraq. His party has
curtained its most conservative and outspoken members from the national media.

Most importantly, analysts say, Mr. Harper filled the campaign with
middle-of-the-road policy proposals, including a cut in the national sales tax
that Conservatives say will help the poorest Canadians (Liberals say it helps
the rich more.) and a platform to spend more on new government programs than the
Liberals' does.

Conservatives have tied some initiatives to Liberal scandals. They pitched a
$100-per-month child care stipend as taking money from corrupt bureaucrats and
giving it to Canadian families.

Liberals have worked all campaign to highlight Mr. Harper's differences from Mr.
Martin -- and his alleged resemblances to President Bush, whom many Canadians
dislike.

Mr. Harper would abandon the Kyoto Protocol on global climate change and replace
it with Canada-specific environmental targets, and he suggested recently he
would reconsider joining a U.S. missile defense system, which Mr. Martin refused
to do.

The Liberals have tried to tie Mr. Harper, in epithetic terms, to American
religious conservatives. Wire services reported this week that Mr. Martin told
voters Canada has never seen "a significant political party with such a
conservative agenda as this one -- an agenda that's really drawn from the
extreme right in the United States."

The attacks appear to have reduced Mr. Harper's lead in late polls. They've
helped keep some voters in the 905, such as retiree Julio Anania of Brampton, on
the Liberal side. "What Harper is trying to do," Mr. Anania said, "is to change
a lot of things that is concerning for us seniors."

But analysts including Jean-Marc Leger, who runs a Montreal polling firm that is
one of Canada's largest, say the attacks are likely not enough to keep Liberals
in power this time.

"The Liberals did the same campaign they did in 2004," Mr. Leger said. "It was
good before. Now they are one battle late."

"Harper is different," he said. "Harper evolved."

Democrats are trying to turn key elections and across the nation this fall into
referenda on high-profile government scandals, such as illicit lobbying in
Washington.

Republicans in Washington -- who have already begun to fire back at Democrats on
the scandal front -- might note that in Canada's election of attacks and
counter-attacks, analysts say Liberals have lost track of key campaign issues.

One Liberal candidate, for example, said the party has been unable to leverage
the country's relatively strong economy with voters.

Voters "are taking [the economy] for granted," said Susan Whelan, a Liberal
candidate running in the Southern Ontario district that includes Pelee Island.

Democrats might note the contention of several political observers who say that
if Canada's Conservatives win tomorrow, they can thank themselves for branching
out.

"Appealing, specific" policies are the difference between Mr. Harper's party in
2004 and this year, said Stuart Soroka, a political scientist at McGill
University in Montreal who is tracking the election.

"Last time," Mr. Soroka said, "they had corruption and nothing else."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Block News Alliance consists of The Blade of Toledo, Ohio, and the
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette./ Jim Tankersley is a reporter at The Blade.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Allan Detrich/The Blade: Mayor Bill Krestel gets more election
signs to post around the island for tomorrow's election at the Pelee Island,
Canada, airport.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              47 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HAMAS YIELDING ITS CONTROL

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 577 words


RAMALLAH, West Bank -- Ten months after seizing power in a historic election,
the hard-line Hamas movement is preparing to relinquish control of the
Palestinian Authority in hopes of ending the international economic blockade
that has prevented Hamas from effectively running the government.

In a significant concession, the Islamist militant group agreed yesterday to
accept Mohammed Shabir, a microbiology professor with a degree from West
Virginia University, to replace Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh as prime minister.

Although a new unity government could end Hamas' short-lived reign as the ruling
Palestinian party in the Cabinet, it remains far from certain that it will
succeed in persuading critical foreign donors to restore millions in funding.

As soon as Hamas formed the government in March, Israel and the international
community cut off virtually all outside funding to the Palestinians. Since then,
the Palestinian government has ground to a halt.

Lebanon tribunal

BEIRUT, Lebanon -- A weakened Lebanese government yesterday approved a U.N. plan
for an international tribunal for suspects in the assassination of former Prime
Minister Rafik Hariri -- despite the resignation of six ministers and the
objections of the president.

The vote was a victory for Prime Minister Fuad Saniora, who is facing a
challenge from Hezbollah, which has threatened mass protests unless the group
and its Shiite Muslim allies gain effective veto power in the Cabinet. All 18
ministers remaining in the Cabinet voted for the U.N. plan, which begins the
process of prosecuting Hariri's alleged killers in a court with international
legitimacy.

S. Korea reluctant

SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea balked yesterday at Washington's demand that
it fully join a U.S.-led effort to intercept North Korean ships suspected of
carrying supplies for the North's nuclear and missile weapons programs.

The South insisted that it was already doing enough to stem possible weapons
proliferation from North Korea.

The decision underscored Seoul's reluctance to anger Pyongyang and complicated
efforts to resolve the standoff over the North's nuclear program now that the
communist regime has agreed to return to long-stalled international nuclear
disarmament talks.

Congo roundup

KINSHASA, Congo -- Scores of homeless children and others living on the streets
of Congo's capital have been rounded up and accused of starting a protest that
led to violence as an increasingly tense nation awaits presidential election
results.

Interior Minister Denis Kalume said yesterday the 337 homeless people, including
87 children and 15 mothers, were being taken outside the capital for "social
training."

Violence erupted Saturday between supporters of President Joseph Kabila and Vice
President Jean-Pierre Bemba, the contenders in a presidential runoff late last
month.

Lagging on warming

NAIROBI, Kenya -- Sweden, Britain and Denmark are doing the most to protect
against climate change, but their efforts are not nearly enough, according to a
report released yesterday by environmental groups.

The United States -- the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases -- ranked
at 53, with only China, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia doing worse.

The index ranks 56 countries that were part of a 1992 climate treaty or that
contribute at least 1 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions.

The calculations by the environmental group Germanwatch took into account
emissions levels, emissions trends and climate policy.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              51 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

2006 PRIMARY VOTERS GUIDE

BYLINE: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 3385 words


The following is a rundown of contested primary races in Western Pennsylvania
House districts.

All 203 state House seats are up for election this year.

Primary day is Tuesday. Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.

Reports on the races in the following districts appeared yesterday: 10th, 11th,
14th, 15th, 20th, 21st, 24th and 25th.

These districts have no contested primary races: 8th, 12th, 16th, 19th, 22nd,
23rd, 28th, 32nd, 33rd, 36th, 40th, 44th, 45th, 48th, 54th, 55th, 56th, 57th,
60th.

27th District

Three challengers have made 26-year incumbent Tom Petrone's long tenure and
acceptance of last summer's controversial pay raise the main issues in the
Democratic primary in the 27th District.

Mr. Petrone, 68, D-Crafton Heights, voted in favor of the pay raise, took the
money and donated it to help projects in his district; voted to rescind the
raise; and is repaying the money he received.

One of his opponents, Mike Galovich, called the pay raise "a betrayal of trust."
Mr. Galovich, 46, of Crafton Heights, is a supervisor in the Allegheny County
register of wills office.

Dan Cindric, 56, an engineer and Crafton councilman, wants state government to
do more of its business in public. He also supports term limits and campaign
finance reform.

Frank Liberatore, 79, of Ingram, wants to eliminate school taxes by raising the
state sales and income taxes. Mr. Liberatore ran unsuccessfully against Mr.
Petrone as a member of the Reform Party in 2000.

Mr. Petrone cites his seven terms as minority chairman of the Urban Affairs
Committee and his support for establishment of the Regional Asset District and
Pennsylvania's Keystone Opportunity Zone program, the new David L. Lawrence
Convention Center, Heinz Field, PNC Park and the rehabilitation of the Fort Pitt
Bridge and Tunnels.

The Democratic winner will face Bill Ogden, 45, of Crafton, who is unopposed for
the GOP nomination.

-- Ed Blazina

30th District

Three Republicans are running for the nomination for the seat formerly held by
state Rep. Jeff Habay, who resigned in February after he was convicted of using
his state office staff to do campaign work on state time.

The candidates are Mike Dolan, 26, of O'Hara, vice president of a company that
provides and services private jets; Frank Perman, 44, a Shaler funeral director;
and Randy Vulakovich, 55, a retired Shaler police sergeant.

Mr. Dolan lost a close special election last month to Democrat Shawn Flaherty to
fill the seat through the end of the year.

Mr. Dolan believes the Legislature may be ready to make significant changes in
the way it operates after last summer's pay raise controversy. He favors cutting
the size of the Legislature, changing pensions and other benefits for lawmakers
and eliminating "walking around money" that legislators use to fund their
favorite projects.

Mr. Perman would like to reduce the size of the Legislature, pay members
$100,000 a year with no benefits and limit House and Senate members to eight
years in office.

Mr. Vulakovich favors increased funding for schools, freezing school taxes for
senior citizens and cutting $450 million a year in business taxes.

The campaign has been particularly bitter, with candidates criticizing Mr.
Dolan's criminal record for alcohol-related offenses while he was in college and
Mr. Vulakovich for changing his registration from Democrat to Republican in
2004. Mr. Perman described the campaign as "a full-contact sport."

The Republican winner will square off against Mr. Flaherty in November.

-- Ed Blazina

34th District

Democratic voters in the 34th District will have clear choices with a four-term
incumbent, a longtime member of the Woodland Hills School Board and a PA
CleanSweep candidate all vying for the party nomination.

For incumbent Rep. Paul Costa, 46, property tax reform is the number one issue
in his district and across the state.

Changing the tax structure while funding schools is a complicated issue, the
Wilkins resident said. Over the past 30 years, legislators have not been able to
come up with a plan that works for everyone's situation, Mr. Costa said.

He has been endorsed by the Allegheny County Democratic Committee.

Marilyn Messina, 59, knows about school issues.

The Edgewood resident teaches fifth grade and mathematics and reading classes in
the Penn Hills School District. She is also in her fifth term on the Woodland
Hills school board.

She'd like to see changes in school funding, too, since she knows funding
schools principally through property taxes is a burden on many taxpayers.

"It's time to go to a different level," she said.

Steve Karas, a 36-year-old physical therapist, is running under the PA
CleanSweep banner, an organization dedicated to ousting General Assembly
incumbents. The organization formed last summer as a result of voter anger over
the pay raise, which was later repealed.

The Forest Hills resident said the current Legislature is expensive and far too
large. As representatives of the people, legislators should be more in tune to
what voters want and be more accountable for their votes, he said.

The district includes Braddock, Braddock Hills, Chalfant, Churchill, East
McKeesport, Edgewood, Forest Hills, North Braddock, North Versailles, Rankin,
Swissvale, Turtle Creek, Wilkins and a portion of the city of Pittsburgh.

James P. Carr, 60, of Swissvale, is unopposed for the Republican nomination.

-- Judy Laurinatis

35th District

Throughout a contentious campaign for the 35th District seat, incumbent Marc
Gergely's handling of the pay raise has been a central issue raised by his
opponent, Allegheny County Clerk of Courts George F. Matta II.

Mr. Gergely voted against the pay raise on July 7, accepted it with plans to set
up a scholarship program, and on Aug. 5 became the second lawmaker in Western
Pennsylvania to say he would decline the raise.

Even though Mr. Gergely was a "no" vote on July 7, Mr. Matta has tried to
capitalize in his campaign on the anti-incumbent fever aimed at the Legislature.

Mr. Gergely, 36, of White Oak, is a former legislative aide and former
McKeesport Area School District director who is seeking his third term. He says
the primary is a referendum on how well he has done his job.

Mr. Matta, 49, of White Oak, is a former Duquesne mayor, a longtime business
owner and founder of West-to-West, a Mon Valley revitalization organization. His
clerk of courts job is being eliminated at the end of 2007.

Both men are well-known Mon Valley politicians who claim they have fostered
economic development. They both support increasing the minimum wage and want to
use gambling revenues to eliminate residential property taxes.

The district includes Duquesne, East Pittsburgh, Homestead, Lincoln, Munhall,
South Versailles, Versailles, Whitaker and White Oak and parts of Elizabeth
Township, McKeesport, North Versailles and West Mifflin.

-- Jan Ackerman

38th District

In the 38th District, incumbent Kenneth W. Ruffing, who is seeking his fifth
term, has been targeted in the Democratic primary by two candidates -- a
political newcomer and a veteran West Mifflin politician.

William C. Kortz II, 51, of Dravosburg, an operations manager at the U.S. Steel
Irvin Plant, is the PA CleanSweep candidate who decided to launch a campaign
after watching General Assembly incumbents, including Mr. Ruffing, vote
themselves a pay raise on July 7.

Mr. Kortz said he is campaigning on a program of government reform that includes
reducing the size of the Legislature and setting term limits.

C.L. "Jay" Jabbour, 73, who is self-employed in the accounting field, is a
former West Mifflin councilman who has run for the Legislature at least five
times. He resigned his seat on Allegheny County Council to run against Mr.
Ruffing.

Mr. Ruffing, 39, who served eight years on West Mifflin council before winning
the House seat, said he's worked closely with Gov. Ed Rendell on education
issues and property tax reduction and is focusing on a bill to help homeowners
who suffer from landslides.

He voted for the pay raise and took it, but later voted to repeal it. He now
admits that he shouldn't have voted for the raise, but said he hopes the public
"won't judge me on that one issue."

The winner of the Democratic primary will face Republican Daniel J. Davis, 41,
of West Mifflin, a senior environmental project manager, in the general
election.

The 38th District includes Dravosburg, Glassport, Liberty, Pleasant Hills, Port
Vue and parts of West Mifflin, Baldwin Borough and McKeesport.

-- Jan Ackerman

39th District

In the 39th District race, chiropractor Robert E. Rhoderick Jr., who is a member
of the PA CleanSweep campaign, is hoping to unseat longtime incumbent David
Levdansky.

It is the first run for public office by Mr. Rhoderick, 35, a Democrat from
Elizabeth Township. He has taken a leave of absence from his job to run.

Mr. Levdansky, 51, a Democrat from Forward, is seeking his 12th term.

Mr. Rhoderick said he is running because Mr. Levdansky has not represented the
district well and has not brought enough money from Harrisburg back to the
district. He supports reducing the size of the Legislature and reducing the
perks like cars and fully-paid health insurance that legislators receive.

Mr. Levdansky said he has a solid record of bringing state money back to his
district and has sponsored legislation to reform the Legislature throughout his
career.

Though the CleanSweep group has targeted lawmakers that voted for or received
the controversial pay raise last summer, Mr. Rhoderick said the raise was not a
major issue in his campaign.

Mr. Levdansky pointed out that he did not vote for the pay raise and did not
take it.

Mr. Levdansky has criticized Mr. Rhoderick for not voting, claiming that he
could find no evidence that his opponent ever voted.

Mr. Rhoderick acknowledged that he hadn't voted in at least 10 years, but said
that he did vote in some elections when he was younger and worked on some
Democratic campaigns. He said he didn't vote in the past because he didn't think
one vote "would make a difference," but now believes that each vote counts.

-- Mary Niederberger

42nd District

The primary race in the 42nd District, which includes Mt. Lebanon, Green Tree,
Rosslyn Farms, Thornburg and portions of Scott and Bethel Park, pits Republican
incumbent Tom Stevenson against two newcomers, Mark Harris and Daniel A.
Hackett, both of Mt. Lebanon.

Mr. Harris, 21, who is about to graduate from George Washington University with
a degree in political science, is a conservative Republican and self-employed
Web site designer.

A 2003 graduate of Mt. Lebanon High School, he is affiliated with the PA
CleanSweep movement.

His priorities are reducing taxes, especially income, property and corporate
income taxes.

Mr. Hackett, 49, a self-employed financial planner and certified public
accountant, describes himself as more moderate.

His goals are reducing the size of the Legislature, increasing lobbyist
disclosure and putting all legislative compensation changes up for referendum.

Mr. Hackett emphasizes that he is not a politician but an ordinary citizen who
wants to effect change.

Mr. Stevenson, 53, of Mt. Lebanon, is completing his fifth term.

He said top-notch constituent outreach service has been a hallmark of his term.

He also touted his work on the hero scholarship bill, his securing of increased
funding for libraries and tax credits for movies that film in Pennsylvania, and
his rejection of a commuter tax for suburbanites.

He estimates 15 of his bills have become law.

While he did vote for the legislative pay raise, he said he was one of the first
to give it back.

Property tax reform is at the top of his re-election agenda.

The Republican winner will face Matthew Smith, 33, of Mt. Lebanon, who is
unopposed in the Democratic primary.

-- Laura Pace

46th District

Democrats Jesse White and Paul Walsh are squaring off in the 46th District,
where incumbent Rep. Victor Lescovitz, D-Midway, is retiring at the end of the
year.

Mr. White, 27, a former Cecil supervisor, is making a second run for the seat
while Mr. Walsh, 42, a Burgettstown councilman, is trying for the first time.
With Mr. Lescovitz stepping down and the controversial pay raises revoked, the
candidates are focused on other issues. Both are lawyers.

If there is one issue that resounds with both candidates, it is schools and how
they are funded.

There is a serious lack of equality among districts, Mr. White said. To rectify
that, he proposes countywide school districts in which no current district could
opt out. He also favors a law mandating a certain percentage of a district's
budget to be spent on students.

While Mr. White endorses property tax reform and lowering real estate taxes in
particular, he said there is no "magic plan" to eliminate them. The answer lies
in compromise and nonpartisanship, something to which Mr. White has pledged
himself if elected.

Mr. Walsh also believes education is a key issue in the race. The state should
take on more responsibility in part by raising funding to a minimum of $9,000
per pupil. To that end, he suggests several funding sources: tapping into
anticipated gaming revenue, raising the earned income tax on high wage earners
and expanding or increasing the state sales tax.

Paul Snatchko, 29, of McDonald, is unopposed for the Republican nomination.

-- Lynda Guydon Taylor

49th District

Rep. Peter J. Daley, D-California, faces a record number of challengers for his
seat in the 49th District this year, but the opposition says it's issues, not
last year's controversial pay raise, that spurred them into the race.

Mr. Daley, 55, is seeking his 13th term in the district, which encompasses much
of the Mon Valley, southern parts of Washington County and portions of Fayette
County.

He cites his work in bringing the district $120 million of grants and loans for
projects, including the $57 million Mon-Fayette Expressway.

In the Democratic primary, he will face off against Randy J. Barli, 51, of Coal
Center, a former coal miner and business owner, and James F. Rohaley, an
80-year-old World War II veteran from West Pike Run who favors the elimination
of property tax through shifts in the state sales and wage taxes. Mr. Barli
seeks changes in the state public education system.

Squaring off for the GOP nomination will be Edward S. Angell, a 38-year-old
nurse from Carroll, and Nate Nevala, a 22-year-old board member of the
California Area School District from West Pike Run.

Mr. Nevala said he will promote better infrastructure and employment
opportunities in the district, while Mr. Angell favors a long-term plan to
retain and create business.

-- Janice Crompton

50th District

It's been years since H. William DeWeese has faced a serious challenge in the
50th District, but this could be the year.

Mr. DeWeese, 56, has represented the district since 1977 and is the Democratic
leader in the House. He has used his position as one of the state's most
powerful Democrats to push through statewide legislation like expanded gambling
and help fund dozens of projects in the district. Frequently he has been
re-elected without opposition.

But he also was a leading proponent of last summer's legislative pay raise and
could suffer repercussions at the ballot box.

Robert Danko, Fayette County treasurer who lives in Masontown, is challenging
Mr. DeWeese in the primary. Mr. Danko, 74, who has been treasurer since 1990, is
running as part of PA CleanSweep, a group pushing to oust all incumbents.

Mr. DeWeese won't have clear sailing if he survives the primary because two
Republicans also want his seat.

Richard A. Yeager, 58, of Jefferson, has been the Republican chairman in Greene
County for six years. He said his business experience as terminal manager for a
trucking firm has prepared him for Harrisburg.

Greg Hopkins, 34, of Morris, is the elected auditor for the township and plays
professional Arena Football for the Los Angeles Avengers. He promises to restore
integrity to state government.

-- Ed Blazina

51st District

The decision by state Rep. Larry Roberts, D-Uniontown, to retire at the end of
the year has drawn three Democrats and two Republicans to the race to replace
him.

Mr. Roberts has been a controversial figure since he took office in 1993.

The Democrats seeking to replace him are: Gary Gearing, 50, of Uniontown, a real
estate developer; Tim Mahoney, 49, of South Union, a businessman and former
county jury commissioner; and Vincent A. Vicites, 45, of Uniontown, a Fayette
County commissioner for 10 years.

On the Republican side, the contenders are Harry F. Hughes, 75, of Uniontown, an
engineer, and John "Sonny" Mikita III, 36, owner of an antique business and a
certified real estate appraiser.

52nd District

James E. Shaner, D-Lemont Furnace, has been a popular figure since he took
office in 1995, but his age of 69 and recent heart bypass surgery caused him to
announce his retirement.

Mr. Shaner's decision caused a near-stampede of candidates to run for the 52nd
District seat: eight Democrats and two Republicans.

The Democrats are George P. Bozek III, 47, of Franklin, a township supervisor
for 18 years; Marigrace Butela, 47, tax collector in Dunbar; Tim Carson, 35,
former Scottdale mayor and restaurant operator; Harry Y. Cochran of
Connellsville, who previously served in the House in 1979-82; Deberah Kula, 57,
a former district judge in Union Township; John H. Lowery III, 35, of
Jefferson;; Gerald D. Lucia, 60, of Mount Pleasant Borough, who served as mayor
for 20 years; and Judy Reed, 61, of Connellsville, a retired schoolteacher.

The Republican candidates are William Earnesty, 34, of Dunbar, a cable
technician for a defense contractor, and Richard A. Grimaldi, 60, a dentist from
Dunbar.

-- Ed Blazina

58th District

Incumbent Democrat Ted Harhai of Monessen may have the party endorsement and
dozens of campaign signs along the roadsides of the 58th District, but
competition is hot for the Democratic nomination for the seat he's held since
1998.

The challengers are Bernard Sarra, 42, a member of Monessen City school board,
and Jodie Goughnour, 38, of East Huntingdon, who won the nod of PA CleanSweep
and the "Run Baby Run" initiative for women candidates.

All three claim to be reformers, and, like many incumbents, Mr. Harhai, 51, is
on the defensive this year. He missed the vote on the legislative pay raise last
year, and did not accept the money. But he was accused last year by a former
staffer of instructing her to lie to investigators looking into suspected fraud
in a run for a Monessen city council seat by Mr. Harhai's brother. Mr. Harhai
called his challengers "a couple of people who haven't worked in a while."

Ms. Goughnour, for 10 years a technician at the New Stanton Sony plant until a
layoff put her out of work, said "regular, common working people" are fed up
with Harrisburg scandals, and she wants to be part of the "climate change" that
will sweep regular people like her into office.

Mr. Sarra said his family has for generations been part of the Democratic scene,
but he's not afraid to redistrict himself out of a job. He called the present
Legislature "an absolute joke," and promised to keep himself clear of
Harrisburg's corrupting influences while pushing for 101 House districts instead
of the present 203.

Pete McConnell of Rostraver is unopposed for the GOP nomination.

-- Rebekah Scott

59th District

Jess Stairs, 63, was first elected to the Legislature when Jimmy Carter was
elected president. Unlike President Carter, Mr. Stairs was re-elected. He is in
his 15th term.

This primary, Mr. Stairs, a Republican from Mount Pleasant, has two challengers:
Robert E. Helterbran Jr., 62, of Ligonier, and Kathy Marks, 41, of Mount
Pleasant.

Mr. Stairs, a farmer and former teacher, gave up both of those professions to be
a legislator.

Mr. Helterbran, a native of Virginia, moved to Pennsylvania in 1995 and is
serving his second term as a Ligonier borough councilman. He owns his own
contracting business.

This is Mrs. Marks' first foray into politics. She is a territory manager,
handling sales accounts for Colker Co.

All of the candidates oppose gun control and gay marriage. They also oppose
abortion, though Mr. Stairs and Mr. Helterbran would allow exceptions to save
the life of the mother and in cases of incest and rape.

-- Ann Belser

To determine in which state Senate and House districts you reside, visit the
Pennsylvania General Assembly Web site, www.legis.state.pa.us

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VOTERS GUIDE/ PRIMARY 2006

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Galovich
PHOTO: Liberatore
PHOTO: Petrone
PHOTO: Cindric
PHOTO: Dolan
PHOTO: Perman
PHOTO: Vulakovich
PHOTO: Costa
PHOTO: Messina
PHOTO: Karas
PHOTO: Gergely
PHOTO: Matta
PHOTO: Ruffing
PHOTO: Kortz
PHOTO: Jabbour
PHOTO: Rhoderick
PHOTO: Levdansky
PHOTO: Stevenson
PHOTO: Harris
PHOTO: Hackett
PHOTO: White
PHOTO: Walsh
PHOTO: Daley
PHOTO: Barli
PHOTO: Rohaley
PHOTO: Angell
PHOTO: Nevala
PHOTO: DeWeese
PHOTO: Danko
PHOTO: Yeager
PHOTO: Gearing
PHOTO: Mahoney
PHOTO: Vicites
PHOTO: Mikita
PHOTO: Cochran
PHOTO: Butela
PHOTO: Reed
PHOTO: Lowery
PHOTO: Goughnour
PHOTO: Stairs
PHOTO: Helterbran
PHOTO: Marks
PHOTO: Hopkins
PHOTO: Bozek
PHOTO: Carson
PHOTO: Kula
PHOTO: Lucia
PHOTO: Harhai

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN

BYLINE: Patricia Sheridan, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; BREAKFAST WITH; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 1105 words


Christine "Christie" Todd Whitman has drawn from her experiences as head of the
Environmental Protection Agency and as Republican governor of New Jersey to
publish her views of the Bush administration and Republican Party in "It's My
Party, Too: Taking Back the Republican Party and Bringing the Country Together
Again." (2005, Penguin Press)

She was a featured speaker a few months back in Robert Morris University's
Pittsburgh Speaker Series.

Will you ever run for office again?

I don't see it. And right now, it's really important that people understand that
neither the political action committee that I have, nor the Web site
www.mypartytoo.com is about my personal political ambition. I think it's very
important that we get a discussion going about why we need to care about the
extreme rhetoric we are seeing in politics today and the partisanship between
and within the parties.

Not running makes you freer to speak out as well.

Oh sure, there's no question about that. I mean, actually it was one of the
things that enabled me to write the book. I wasn't going to be in office, nor
running for office.

Would you label the president a social fundamentalist at this point?

No, no I don't believe he is. A social fundamentalist for me is someone for whom
there is only one right answer. They accept no kind of deviance from a very
narrow position. He is willing to work with pro-choice people. He understands
and respects us. He is not narrow minded. He supported [Republican Pennsylvania
U.S. Sen.] Arlen Specter, when Specter was being challenged [as one of the]
RINOs [Republicans In Name Only].

Do you think your time as head of the EPA hurt your reputation?

In some ways it did. But I am still proud of what we did. The fact that we got a
regulation through that regulated the diesel emissions from tractors and
backhoes -- even the National Resources Defense Council said at one point that
it was possibly the most important thing for human health since we took lead out
of gasoline. Getting brown fields legislation through; it had been called for,
for about 10 years, and we were the administration that got it done. I hope at
the end of the day when people look at who and what I am, that they look at
those kinds of accomplishments rather than some of the political spin put on
things.

Yes, well the perception of many is that this administration is more interested
in supporting big industry than protecting the environment.

Well, you know, there clearly is a feeling about the importance of business and
industry to providing jobs and keeping the country moving forward. There are
many who feel that sometimes the balance tips too far in that direction. And
certainly there was a regulation that I objected to because of that within the
EPA, while I was there. That's really when I left, that's why I left at that
time. I left because my husband and I really didn't like a bifurcated marriage,
but ...

And what was the regulation?

New Source Review. It was a regulation that determined when utilities had to put
on the latest environmental scrubbers and things like that to enhance the
environment any time they made changes. It needed to be changed and reformed.

Would you say not supporting the Kyoto Protocol on global warming sent the
message the United States didn't care?

Oh, very much so. It was the way we didn't support it. It was not, the 'not
supporting,' because don't forget, the Clinton administration never even took it
up to the Senate. They knew what was going to happen to it because when they
presented the idea to the Senate it had been voted down 95 to nothing [in 1997],
and every year thereafter Congress had put language in the appropriations bill
to prevent any money being spent on anything that looked like Kyoto.

Was it a mostly Republican Senate at the time?

When [Clinton-Gore] sent it up, I am not sure, but it was 95 to nothing. It was
a bipartisan decision. That's why the Clinton administration never sent it back
up. The opposition was so overwhelming. If they thought they could have sent it
up and at least gotten a discussion or gotten political points for having it
been clearly Republicans against Democrats they would have done that.

So what is the problem with the Protocol? Why didn't we sign it?

Protocol itself isn't going to solve the problem of climate change. It does not
include and still doesn't, China and India, which are two of the fastest growing
polluters that we have. While we produce 24 percent of the world's greenhouse
gas emissions, China is at 15 percent and is going to surpass us within seven
years. So not to include them didn't make any sense.

In a perfect world, where you had full support of the administration, would you
have done anything differently as head of the EPA?

If we had a kind of no-holds-barred, I would have fought very hard for a cap on
carbon, something the president had called for during the campaign. Because you
put it out far enough, give industry time enough, set it at a level where they
can get to it without putting themselves out of business. They've shown in the
past that if you give them enough incentive and economic incentive, they will do
better than government will call for. They will do it faster. They will do it
with less expense. We have an extremely ingenious private sector in this
country.

Having been in a position to know more than most people about the health of the
planet, do you feel confident the environment is being protected more than
adequately?

We need to keep moving forward. I mean, we've done a lot. The Environmental
Protection Agency was established 35 years ago and we've come a long way and
things are a lot better. But 40 percent of our waters, here in the United
States, is still not fishable, drinkable, swimmable. We have an epidemic of
asthma in this country, which we know is exacerbated by poor air quality. We
have a lot of land that is still polluted and sitting there. So we need to keep
pushing. We cannot stop and rest on our laurels. And climate change is something
we really haven't begun to address at all.

Do you think the Republican Party can turn around its image as not
environmentally friendly?

Absolutely. If you look at every major environmental regulation and law that
underpins the entire way the Environmental Protection Agency works, and the way
the federal government can regulate the environment, all were signed by
Republican presidents working with a Democratic Congress. I mean this is a
Republican movement. It started with Teddy Roosevelt and the National Parks
System.

So you are saying it is possible to have a healthy economy and a protected
healthy environment?

Absolutely.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Patricia Sheridan can be reached at psheridan@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2613.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Todd Whitman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              62 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

POLL: GLOBAL WARMING A CONCERN

BYLINE: Deborah Weisberg

SECTION: OUTDOORS; Pg. C-14

LENGTH: 532 words


Pennsylvania outdoorsmen are worried about the changes they are seeing in the
places they traditionally hunt and fish, as a consequence of global warming.

That's the bottom line to a new poll commissioned by the National Wildlife
Federation, which keyed in on select states, including Pennsylvania. The
findings were released at a news conference held by the Pennsylvania Federation
of Sportsmen's Club, the NWF state-affiliate, in Harrisburg last week.

The poll comes in the wake of a much bigger study by Trout Unlimited that shows
Pennsylvania's state fish -- the native brook trout -- is on the decline here
and throughout the eastern U.S. as a consequence of climate change and other
factors.

"Brook trout are intact in less than one percent of the sub-water sheds where
they historically occur," said Nat Gillespie, a Trout Unlimited fisheries
scientist who helped direct the study that involved 17 agencies and encompassed
states from Maine to Georgia. "It varies by region, with New York, for example,
having certain strongholds in the Adirondacks and Pennsylvania not faring as
well. To generalize, wild brookies have declined substantially."

Gillespie cited a host of culprits, including poor land management associated
with farming, urbanization, stream fragmentation from road construction,
sedimentation from roads, non-native fish such as brown trout, degradation of
riparian habitat, dams, acid rain, abandoned mine drainage, de-forestation, and
increasingly high water temperatures.

Deb Nardone of Trout Unlimited's Pennsylvania Trout is involved in efforts to
educate the public about the brook trout crisis.

"We need to be concerned about all wild trout species, not just brook trout,"
said Nardone, who took part in last week's news conference. "It even goes beyond
trout to other fish, like suckers and darters, that are impacted by warmer
temperatures."

Like Gillespie, she said, many factors impact coldwater fisheries. "In
Pennsylvania, land use practices are probably number one," she said, "followed
by acid rain, and the stocking of hatchery trout over wild fish."

While 34 percent of Pennsylvania's watersheds have lost wild brook trout since
assessments were first done a century ago, it is possible to protect remaining
populations and even restore their numbers, Nardone said, provided lawmakers and
policy makers take action.

Of the 2,800 anglers and hunters sampled in random phone calls nationwide --
including 306 in Pennsylvania -- about half said they expect the number of fish
and other wildlife to continue to diminish over the next 10 years, a figure that
Duda finds alarming. "That's huge, very scary," said Duda, who described
respondents as mostly male, middle-aged and conservative. "It was one of the
most important findings in the study."

Three-quarters of the Pennsylvania sportsmen surveyed agreed they're seeing
changes in the natural environment and 60 percent of them blamed global warming.
Half reported seeing shorter winters and less snow. About a third agreed they
see less ice cover on lakes, unusual drought, drying wetlands and earlier
springs, as well as hotter summers and earlier bloom times on plants.

For more, visit www.targetglobalwarming.org

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              63 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PROTECTING NATURE'S SPONGE;
SUPREME COURT RULING TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 498 words


Wetlands, which help preserve and protect the nation's natural environment,
could lie only one vote away from wholesale destruction now that the U.S.
Supreme Court has delivered a fractured ruling on their legal status.

While the high court finally came down 5-4 on the side of continued wetlands
protection under federal law, its message was decidedly a mixed one: five
separate opinions emanated from the nine justices. The decision did not even
resolve two cases before the court, both from Michigan, in which developers were
restricted under the federal Clean Water Act from erecting a shopping mall and
condominiums on wetlands properties.

Instead, the court sparred in shortsighted fashion over whether wetlands must be
connected to "navigable waters" to enjoy protection and sent those cases back to
lower courts for further deliberation. In all likelihood, that means several
more years of administrative uncertainty and litigation.

In addition to not resolving the legalities, the court missed an opportunity to
deliver what is needed most: coherent recognition of the protective role
wetlands play in our ecology, as well as an accurate statement of why their
careful preservation benefits everyone, including those who build homes,
shopping centers, and other developments.

To begin with, regulation of wetlands is not simply, in the sarcastic words of a
lawyer for one of the developers, controlling the use of "every pond, puddle,
and ditch in our country."

Wetlands, under the definition used by the EPA, are "areas where water covers
the soil, or is present either at or near the surface of the soil all year or
for varying periods of time during the year, including during the growing
season." In the United States, these are found in some form in every locality
and climate and generally include marshes, swamps, bogs, and fens, identified by
the EPA as freshwater lowlands covered by grasses, sedges, reeds, and
wildflowers.

Wetlands typically are characterized by ecologists as acting like a sponge to
retard flooding, filter out pollution, and create habitat for wildlife.
Scientists also say that wetlands temper the effects of climate change by
storing carbon in plants and soil instead of releasing it into the atmosphere as
carbon dioxide.

In that context, it's easier to understand why wetlands are important to the
population at large, how they help to moderate the environment and make it more
habitable. If the fate of wetlands is turned over to homebuilders, developers,
ranchers and similar interests, the losers in the long run will be the American
people and the complex, integrated, and somewhat fragile ecosystem that sustains
us.

The wetlands controversy cries out for clarification and further protection by
Congress (the Clean Water Authority Restoration Act, Senate Bill 912, would be a
vehicle to do that and Pennsylvania Sens. Arlen Specter and Rick Santorum should
support it). Clean water is too important to be left to a single vote on the
Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              67 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

CITY-COUNTY MERGER:NOW, MORE THAN EVER?

BYLINE: JAKE HAULK AND FRANK GAMRAT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H-4

LENGTH: 688 words


Leadership Pittsburgh's recent graduating class had an assignment: Come up with
an idea that would move Pittsburgh forward. F's for the entire group.

They trotted out the tired old idea of merging the city of Pittsburgh into
Allegheny County. Regional boosters love the idea and tout improved economic
development, better image and improved efficiencies as reasons to love the
notion. Just get rid of all these municipalities and watch Pittsburgh/Allegheny
County take off. Perhaps they should first explain why the single city/county
government in Philadelphia costs so much and has a terrible problem with its
population and jobs leaving.

But they have missed the point entirely, as these civic-minded, well-intentioned
groups almost always do. The reason for the city's and county's dismal growth,
and for that matter the region's as a whole, is not fragmented government. The
problems can be found in the pervasive unionism that determines the business
climate as well as a regulatory climate that treats businesses as villains and
unions as heroes.

Merging city and county governments will not spur economic growth, although it
may improve the ease with which corporate wealth-fare is handed out.

True economic growth and improved job opportunities will be achieved only after
union-friendly regulations such as prevailing wage and Act 111 are eliminated.
Furthermore, fostering a better business climate can be helped along by cutting
tax rates, such as the state's capital stock and franchise tax and the city's
parking tax. Why didn't the Leadership Pittsburgh class focus on these job- and
business-growth killers?

As far as improving efficiencies in providing government services are concerned,
there is no evidence that full-scale mergers improve efficiencies. Two years
after the merger of Louisville and Jefferson County in Kentucky -- the example
often held up as the model -- government expenditures were virtually unchanged.
The major reason is the unions involved. With two different unions, with
differing pay scales and work rules, reconciling differences will be costly as
the unions will favor the pay and work rules that benefit them the most.

Improved government efficiencies can be brought about through privatization or
outsourcing of services. Study after study has been done recommending the city
privatize its refuse collection to save money. This notion has been resisted at
every turn by unions and their supporters on City Council. Even when tried, as
with fleet maintenance, private providers are hindered from implementing changes
that would lower costs substantially. Again, the graduates from Leadership
Pittsburgh failed to mention this option as a way to lower government costs.

Moreover, virtually every Allegheny County municipality has a per-capita cost of
providing government services below Pittsburgh's and they are not weighed down
by huge debt burdens, enormous unfunded pension liabilities and unfunded retiree
health care benefits. Nor do they spend a million dollars a month on Fire Bureau
overtime or $8,000 per employee for workers compensation. Both of these figures
prompt financial officials in other cities to shake their heads in disbelief
because they are so far out of line with normal and prudent outlays. Maybe the
Leadership Pittsburgh class ought to examine some of the more egregious city
spending habits before recommending that other taxpayers be saddled with them.

Perhaps some broader-based research to see how other areas have fared and why so
many of these mergers get turned down would be of some help as well.

Instead of coming up with innovative ways to improve the city and help pull it
out of financial distress, they continue the tradition of confusing activity
with progress. They see merging the city with the county as a way of spreading
the city's financial problems over a larger population.

As the president of the Fraternal Order of Police noted in a Post-Gazette
article about the proposal, having the city ask you to merge would be like "your
poor, drunk uncle was going to come and live with you." County residents are
wise enough to avoid that disaster.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jake Haulk is president and Frank Gamrat is senior research associate at
the Allegheny Institute for Public Policy (www.alleghenyinstitute.org).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              76 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

SWEDEN PLANS TO END OIL DEPENDENCY BY 2020;
AMBITIOUS PLAN IS RESPONSE TO GLOBAL WARMING, RISING PRICES AND DIMINISHING
SUPPLIES

BYLINE: MATTIAS KAREN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 882 words


President Bush may have surprised international observers by pledging in his
State of the Union address to break the United States' addiction to foreign oil,
but Sweden was already one step ahead of him.

The environmentally progressive Scandinavian nation has announced one of its
most ambitious goals yet: to completely end its dependency on petroleum -- and
do it in the next 15 years.

"Our dependency on oil should be broken by 2020," Sustainable Development
Minister Mona Sahlin said.

The target -- announced in September by Prime Minister Goran Persson -- has been
met with applause from environmental organizations, but also with great
skepticism from some experts who think the target is unrealistic.

Swedish officials acknowledge that getting rid of oil completely in such a short
time is close to impossible, but the aim is to ensure that Swedes will never be
forced to use fossil fuels because a renewable energy source is not available.

"There shall always be better alternatives to oil, which means no house should
need oil for heating, and no driver should need to turn solely to gasoline," Ms.
Sahlin told The Associated Press in an interview.

The ambitious plan is a response to global climate change, rising petroleum
prices and warnings by some experts that the world may soon be running out of
oil.

"We want to be both mentally and technically prepared" for a world without oil,
said Martin Larsson, a senior administrative officer in the Ministry of
Sustainable Development. "A lot of people think that in five to six years, a
liter of gasoline may cost 20 kronor ($2.50). That would be a dramatic change,
and a hard hit to a lot of households." Today, the price is around $1.43 per
liter.

Mr. Persson has said the target will be reached by boosting research on
alternative fuels, giving financial incentives for people switching to "green
alternatives," and increasing the annual electricity production from renewable
sources by 15 terawatt hours by 2016 -- that figure equals nearly one-third of
all the electricity used by Swedish industries in 2004. Some tax breaks have
already been introduced, while Mr. Persson has formed a special commission
tasked with finding other ways to create a society independent of oil. The
commission will present its first proposals this summer.

As with Mr. Bush's plan, no one is debating Sweden's good intentions.

"I don't think this is realistic, but it is a good ambition," said Kenneth
Werling, chief executive of Agroetanol, which runs Sweden's largest ethanol
factory. "Maybe we can build a society that is less dependent on oil, and that
is good in itself."

Ms. Sahlin, however, is confident Sweden can succeed. "Honestly, what is the
alternative?" she said. "Wait and see when oil gets even more expensive?"

Ms. Sahlin and other experts point to several factors that give Sweden better
chances than most countries to phase out oil. The country of 9 million people
has coastlines stretching hundreds of kilometers, which have given rise to a
number of wind power and water power plants. A large new wind farm is being
built off Sweden's southern coast, expected to be online by 2009. Sweden also
has more forest per capita than any other EU country, allowing it to burn tons
of biomass, which has helped make it one of the world leaders in renewable
energy.

In 2003, 26 percent of the energy consumed in Sweden came from renewable sources
-- more than four times as much as the European Union average of 6 percent,
according to EU statistics. Only 32 percent of its energy came from oil -- down
from 77 percent in 1970, according to Sweden's own statistics. About one-third
of Sweden's energy is nuclear power, with the rest coming mainly from coal and
natural gas.

So while the EU is striving to double its average use of renewable energy to 12
percent by 2010, Sweden is correct in setting the bar much higher, said
Jacqueline McGlade, executive director of the European Environment Agency in
Copenhagen, Denmark.

"Many countries are setting renewable energy targets. The difference with Sweden
is that the targets are achievable rather than aspirational," Ms. McGlade said.
"This is because government departments across sectors in Sweden have built
renewable energy into their long-term policies."

That is evident in Sweden's system for heating houses and apartment buildings --
a key function in a country where the harsh winter lasts up to five months. Many
Swedish counties use district heating that distributes steam heat, often
produced by burning garbage or wood.

Today only 8 percent of Swedish houses are heated by oil, said Stefan Edman, an
environmental adviser to the government. As of Jan. 1, those households get tax
rebates if they switch to renewable sources.

"I'm an optimist in that area," Mr. Edman said. "I think we can completely get
rid of oil there."

A much bigger challenge will be the transportation sector. Only 1 percent of the
about 4 million vehicles on Swedish roads run on alternative fuels. But sales of
so-called "environmental cars" that run on alternative fuel have almost doubled
over the last year, and the parliament passed a law in December making it
mandatory for all major gas stations to offer at least one alternative fuel at
its pumps.

Sweden already uses more ethanol per capita than any other EU country.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maja Suslin Scanpix/Associated Press: A man refuels his car with
the ethanol fuel E85 at a Statoil fuel station in Stockholm, Sweden, last week.
The E85 driven cars have become popular in the Swedish capital Stockholm after
the introduction of congestion charges. An E85 car can run both on the ethanol
fuel E85 and on regular gas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              82 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SAAB OFFERING LIMITED EDITIONS

BYLINE: Don Hammonds

SECTION: BUSINESS; SAAB; Pg. G-16

LENGTH: 349 words


Collectors, take note: Saab is bringing out some very limited production
versions of existing cars.

For example, just 500 units of the 2007 9-7X Altitude Edition will be produced
for the coming sales year. Among its special features will be 18-inch alloy
polished wheels, side assist steps, a rear DVD player and an exclusive carbon
fiber gray metallic paint. What's even more attractive is that all of these
items in one package will be offered at a total savings of almost $1,000 over he
cost if you'd order the items separately, though you're still talking well over
$40,000 for the car.

There are other changes and additions to the 2007 9-7X lineup. On-Star equipped
models have a new service called OnStar Turn-ByTurn Navigation, which is the
first factory installed fully integrated GPS navigation system from OnStar. The
system lets consumers talk to a live advisor who, in turn, sends complete
step-by-step direction to customers' new vehicles through the OnStar system.
Other 2007 changes include a standard tire pressure monitoring system, and a new
color, Crystal Blue metallic.

For the 9-3, the biggest change clearly is the new interior and dashboard. I've
always loved the 9-3 but found the controls to be problematic. They are not
always where you expect them to be, particularly for the audio and climate
control systems. I haven't seen the new design, but I'm hoping for the best.

Available engines for the 9-3 range from a 210 horsepower turbocharged four
cylinder to a 259 horsepower 2.8 liter V-6 that gets 250 horsepower. Mileage
ratings are around 23 city/34 highway, and prices range from $26,620 to $42,620.

The 2007 9-5 was given the Cinderella style makeover last year, so it's pretty
much holding the line on big changes this go-round. The engine is a 2.3 liter
260 horsepower I-4 (21 city/29 highway).

The 9-5 will get a special Anniversary Special Edition later this year that will
have Ice Blue metallic paint, a specific leather interior and 17-inch wheels.
Titan Gray metallic replaces Steel Gray metallic on non-Anniversary models.
Prices run from $34,820 to $35,820.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 2007 NEW CAR & TRUCK BUYERS GUIDE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              85 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREENING THE CAPITOL;
IT'S ABOUT TIME THE ENVIRONMENT GOT HIGHER PRIORITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 474 words


As Washington prepares for an influx of fresh faces in Congress, agendas are
being dusted off, polished and readied for the glare of legislative scrutiny.

Environmental issues are likely to be among the most prickly.

While our allies, France and the United Kingdom among them, are moving forward
with initiatives on global warming, Washington insiders are warning against
expecting too much from lawmakers because of the slim margin held by the
Democrats.

That is despite the changes taking place in key committees. For example, Sen.
Barbara Boxer of California will take over as chairman of the Environment and
Public Works Committee. She favors cuts in emissions linked to global warming
and wants to have information about the risks from Superfund sites made public
as one way of protecting families.

She replaces Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma, who labeled scientific agreement on
global warming a hoax. What a difference an election makes.

But having lawmakers who favor more environmentally friendly policies in key
positions is not necessarily going to bring immediate changes. It will remain a
challenge to forge agreements on those issues cited by Sen. Boxer, particularly
when there is no concern within the Democratic Party, particularly from
lawmakers, on fuel-efficiency mandates.

So the suggestion, made by one environmentalist, that the new leadership in
Washington represents the biggest change in worldviews since the Enlightenment
seems a trifle hyperbolic.

The reality is more likely to be that while the Democrats may pursue more
environmentally friendly policies, neither the Bush administration nor Congress
is going to initiate or enforce measures that will put struggling American
businesses, including Detroit automakers who met with President Bush at the
White House, at immediate risk.

That, sad to say, could place this country at odds with some of its closest
allies, including the United Kingdom and France.

In the Queen's Speech, a forum in which the legislative program of the British
government is outlined, Prime Minister Tony Blair last week promoted technology
to curb carbon emissions and dependence on fossil fuels. Earlier this month he
encouraged the German chancellor, who next year heads the group of
industrialized nations known as the G-8, to find agreement on emissions cuts.

Also, the French prime minister has suggested taxes on imports from countries
that have not signed the Kyoto Protocol, which calls for reductions of
greenhouse gases, and has outlined domestic taxes on industrial pollution and
coal usage. If enacted, that measure could hurt U.S. trade because this country
pulled out of the pact in 2001.

All of which suggests that, if nothing else, the environment will enjoy a higher
profile in the next congressional term, while the United States feels pressure
from its allies to get a little greener.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 6, 2006 Monday
                                 REGION EDITION

THE PRESIDENT WE HAVE;
BUSH'S CONFESSION ABOUT AMERICA'S 'OIL ADDICTION' MIGHT BE MERE TALK, BUT IT'S
AN OPENING WE MUST EXPLOIT

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 770 words


Well, it wasn't exactly Nixon to China. But it wasn't bean bag either. I'd say
the president's State of the Union speech, when it came to calling for an end to
our oil addiction and a real push to improve our educational competitiveness,
was more like Nixon goes to New Mexico. It was an important change in direction
and tone -- but still a long way from China, a long way from a definitive change
in policy and implementation.

Oh, come on, Friedman, get real! The president throws a few paragraphs your way
and you go all weak in the knees. Show some spine, man! You need to trash this
thing. You know these guys are not serious. This is a president who once called
for putting a man on Mars and then just dropped it. You assumed they were going
to do the Iraq war right -- remember? Look where that got you, you moron. You
should have listened to your wife!

Yeah, I know all that. But here's what else I know: George W. Bush is going to
be president for the next three years. We do not have three years to lose -- not
on climate change, energy efficiency or improving math/science education. I am
not going to sit around for the next three years just trashing these guys and
praying that some Democrat gets elected and does all the right things. We don't
have time, you moron!

I heard the president use language about the necessity of breaking our oil
addiction through innovation on renewable technologies -- without mentioning
drilling in Alaska -- which I've never heard before. When the president changes
language on an issue like this -- in a sustained manner (and we still have to
see if it will be sustained), the whole country and bureaucracy starts to talk
differently.

All you talk about is talk. How do we lock in some action?

One way is to write your senator and congressman and tell them to support the
Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act. Already supported by key
Republicans and Democrats, this draft bill aims to reduce oil consumption by 2.5
million barrels a day by 2015 and by 7 million barrels a day by 2025 -- much
more than the president's proposal. The bill offers ailing U.S. automakers loan
guarantees and other incentives on the condition they use the money to retool
their assembly lines to sharply increase their production of flex-fuel cars,
which run on any combination of alcohol and gasoline, as well as hybrid and
plug-in hybrid cars and trucks.

The bill is a way to save large amounts of oil quickly, bail out Detroit today
before it goes totally bust tomorrow and give Americans real fuel choices. "If
you want to send your dollars to the worst regimes in the Middle East, use
gasoline -- if you want to send your dollars to the best farms and communities
in the Middle West, then use alcohol made from the agricultural resources we
grow at home," said energy expert Gal Luft.

The technology we need to make a huge reduction in our gasoline consumption is
already here -- hybrid cars that run on flex-fuels. No great breakthrough is
required. What's needed are more buyers. While enticing Detroit to make these
more fuel-efficient vehicles is a good idea, we also need a gasoline tax to
entice every consumer to buy one. The president rejects a gasoline tax. He's
wrong. He can't end our oil addiction unless he ends his tax-cutting addiction.

Good luck, pal. These guys never connect the dots. The president doesn't see
that his global democracy-promotion agenda is going to be stymied unless America
leads the world away from oil. We are heading into an era we've never seen
before: $50- to $60-a-barrel oil for a long time. Five years of that will
strengthen the worst regimes and worst corruption trends across the globe, and
everyone is just going to coddle these oil regimes to get their crude.

You're right: Addicts never tell the truth to their pushers.

So here's my bottom line: I'm glad the president is changing his rhetoric on
energy and says he is changing his funding priorities. It makes for a great
headline. But he has to go much further if he wants to make a great difference.
There's no pain-free solution.

Remember how President Kennedy ended his May 25, 1961, State of the Union speech
calling for a moon shot? He said: "I have not asked for a single program which
did not cause one or all Americans some inconvenience, or some hardship, or some
sacrifice."

Pigs will fly before Bush says that.

You may be right. And if he fails to carry through with this energy initiative,
I'll be the first to rip him for it.

In the meantime, I prefer to give him a new reputation to live up to. You never
know. And by the way, pal, you got a better horse to ride right now?

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Wilson/Getty Images: Right you are, Mr. President.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              90 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MARKET SHOWS SMALL LOSS IN SEESAW TRADING SESSION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-3

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Nervous investors cashed in profits from a two-day rally on Wall Street
yesterday, leaving stocks marginally lower after a session of seesaw trading.

Stocks opened lower, swung to a gain after the Federal Reserve's Beige Book of
regional economic conditions said inflation was in check and then dropped as the
session neared its close.

Consumer discretionary and industrial stocks finished lower as investors sold
off Amazon.com Inc., Boeing Co. and UPS Inc. on disappointing earnings news.

Energy stocks gained as a spike in oil prices helped the sector. A barrel of
light crude settled at $73.94, up 19 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Oil had advanced as much as 90 cents a barrel earlier in the session. Health
care and utility stocks also rose as investors headed into the traditionally
defensive sectors, which tend to do well in a choppy economy.

In months of erratic trading, investors have frequently met one day's advances
with a sell-off the next session to lock in profits. With volatility on the
rise, swings of 100 points are now "the norm, not the exception," said Arthur
Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co.

At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 1.20 to 11,102.51
after rising a total of 230 points the first two days this week.

Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 0.48 to
1,268.40, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 3.44, or 0.17 percent, to
2,070.46.

Advancing issues led decliners by roughly 9 to 7 on the New York Stock Exchange.

Bonds rallied. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 5.03 percent, down
from 5.07 percent Tuesday. The U.S. dollar was mixed against other major
currencies. Gold prices rose.

The Federal Reserve's periodic "Beige Book,'' so-called for the color of its
cover, said the economy logged decent but slower growth in the early summer as
some consumers tightened their belts. It also said that despite high energy
prices, overall inflation remained fairly moderate.

That snapshot of America's business climate emerged yesterday from the Fed's
latest survey of economic conditions. All 12 Fed districts generally indicated
continued economic growth during June through the middle of July, though there
were "numerous individual reports pointing to evidence that the pace of growth
has slowed.''

Most districts reported that consumers, a major force in shaping economic
activity, had less of an appetite to spend. That resulted in weaker sales for
merchants. In some cases, high gasoline prices were blamed for squeezing
household budgets and forcing some people to spend less or cut back on shopping.

Sales were "relatively weak among 'big box' retailers and other low-price
outlets," the survey found. Sales were healthy for luxury shops, whose more
affluent customers are not as strained by high energy bills.

The report is based on information supplied by 12 regional Fed banks and
collected before July 17. Thus, the survey captures the latest run-up in energy
prices. Oil prices surged to a record closing high of $77.03 a barrel on July
14. Gasoline prices also have marched higher, exceeding $3 a gallon in some
areas.

Even though elevated energy prices have stung people and businesses, the report
suggested that the nation's overall inflation climate hasn't gotten out of hand.
"Increases in the prices of final goods and services generally remained modest,"
the survey found. "Manufacturers' and retailers' ability to pass cost increases
on to final prices varied."

Transportation stocks plummeted as railway and freight shipping company Norfolk
Southern Corp. fell $3.85, or 8.5 percent, to $41.40 after its second-quarter
profit dropped 11.6 percent. Higher fuel costs offset an increase in revenue
from heavier shipping volumes and fuel surcharges. Competitor CSX Corp. also
dropped sharply, falling $3.72, or 5.9 percent, to $59.09.

Shares of shipping company United Parcel Service fell $3.97 to $67.83, dropping
for the second straight session after the company's second-quarter earnings
missed analysts' estimates by a wide margin.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 2.99, or 0.43 percent, to
694.45.

Consolidated volume on the NYSE was 2.77 billion shares, up from 2.66 billion at
the same time Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 19, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EXPERTS: LET MISSISSIPPI GO ITS WAY;
RIVER SEDIMENT WOULD RESTORE MARSHES, BUT MAKING SHIPPING LANE IS A PROBLEM

BYLINE: CORNELIA DEAN ,THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 452 words


Scientists have long said the only way to restore Louisiana's vanishing wetlands
is to undo the elaborate levee system that controls the Mississippi River, not
with the small projects that have been tried here and there, but with a massive
diversion that would send the muddy river flooding wholesale into the state's
sediment-starved marshes.

And most of them have long dismissed the idea as impractical, unaffordable and
lethal to the region's economy. Now, they are reconsidering. In fact, when a
group of researchers convened in April to consider the fate of Louisiana's
coast, their recommendation was unanimous: divert the river.

Far from rejecting the idea, state officials have embraced it -- motivated not
just by Hurricane Katrina's lessons, but also by growing fears that global
climate change will bring rising seas, accelerated land loss and worse weather.

"A major diversion in the lower part of the river is something that needs to be
done," said Louisiana Department of Natural Resources Deputy Secretary James R.
Hanchey. He said the state was convening a planning meeting on the idea this
fall.

The diversion would be well downstream of New Orleans, in the bird-foot delta at
the river's mouth. Even so, there would be tremendous engineering challenges --
particularly in finding a new way for freighters to make their way into the
Mississippi's shipping channel, he said. But, "I think it's within the realm of
possibility."

The diversion proposal was recommended by a panel of dozens of scientists and
engineers from all over the world invited to view the state's marshy coast and
to envision its future, said University of New Orleans coastal geologist Denise
J. Reed, who organized the meeting.

"The thing is to stop wasting 120 million tons of sediment" the river carries
into the Gulf of Mexico on an average year, Ms. Reed said. Because the bird-foot
delta has grown so far into the gulf, she said, the river's mouth is at the edge
of the continental shelf. As a result, the sediment it carries ends up in deep
water, where it is lost forever.

A diversion would send the river's richly muddy water into marshes or
shallow-water areas where, she said, "the natural processes of waves, coastal
currents and even storms can rework that sediment and bring it up and bring it
into the coast."

"It's a lot," she said, enough sediment to cover 60 square miles half an inch
deep every year -- an amount that would slow or even reverse land loss in the
state's marshes, which have shrunk by about a quarter, or more than 1,500 square
miles, since the 1930s.

As the bird-foot delta broke up, Ms. Reed said, it would provide needed sediment
to the frail strings of barrier islands that line some of the coast.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              95 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

A NEW MIGRATION RECORD

BYLINE: Scott Shalaway

SECTION: OUTDOORS; WILDLIFE; Pg. D-19

LENGTH: 697 words


I stand corrected. A few weeks ago I wrote a column about bird migration in
which I identified the arctic tern as the grand champion migrant.

"Individuals that nest in Greenland and the eastern Canadian arctic," I wrote,
"travel south along the coasts of Great Britain, Spain and west Africa, then
wing their way west and south across the Atlantic Ocean to Antarctica for the
austral summer. When the Antarctic weather begins to deteriorate, they complete
the circuit by heading north along the coasts of South and North America to
their arctic breeding grounds. The total length of this incredible annual round
trip measures about 22,000 miles."

Shortly thereafter, I received an e-mail from Dr. Scott Shaffer, a research
biologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He wrote, "I recently
came across your article on bird migration and thought you probably hadn't seen
our paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (Aug. 22, 2006;
Vol. 103, No. 34). It shows that sooty shearwaters exhibit the longest migration
recorded to date."

If the arctic tern's 22,000 mile annual round trip is "incredible," the sooty
shearwater's journey is nothing short of astonishing.

Using geolocating archival tags, Shaffer and his 10 co-authors tracked 19
shearwaters from two breeding colonies in New Zealand for 222 to 313 days in
2005. The average migration path of 32,422 miles is the longest recorded.

Sooty shearwaters, small seabirds that weigh less than 2 pounds, roam the
Pacific Ocean from Antarctica to the Bering Sea and from Japan to Chile.
Shaffer's team found the annual migration of the tagged birds is a large
figure-eight pattern that spans the Pacific and lasts an average of 198 days.

By flying such vast distances, sooty shearwaters exploit an "endless summer"
away from their nesting area in the south Pacific.

The timing of these movements places the birds in the most productive areas of
the ocean at any given time of year. Where ever they are, food (fish, squid and
krill) is abundant. In fact, of 4,370 recorded foraging dives, 95 percent of the
dives in both hemispheres occurred when food availability was high.

Though we typically think of migratory birds as splitting their time between two
distinct locations over the course of the year, the movements of sooty
shearwaters makes them a truly global species. Shaffer and his colleagues
suggest because sooty shearwater activities span the Pacific Ocean, these
seabirds may be a key species to monitor the impacts of global climate change,
an oceanic variation on the canary in the coal mine.

The sheer distance that these shearwaters travel each year, more than 34,000
miles, is staggering. It begs the question, how do they do it?

Shaffer's team suggests that the figure-eight migratory route is possible thanks
to global wind patterns and the Coriolis effect. The rotation of the earth,
combined with near constant oceanic winds make flying long distances easier than
it would seem.

When sooty shearwaters leave the New Zealand nesting area, they head east on
prevailing westerly winds at an average rate of 321 miles per day. Then they
turn north and hop on easterly trade winds to move northwest across the Pacific.
On this leg of the journey, the tagged shearwaters traveled 546 miles per day.

After arriving on the cooler more productive north Pacific wintering grounds,
the shearwaters remained relative stationary until heading south. During this
time they moved only 132 miles per day, suggesting that they were staying within
a well defined wintering area while there.

To return to their New Zealand nesting area and complete the figure-eight, the
shearwaters hopped the easterly trades winds which took them southwest at an
average rate of 502 miles per day.

Another amazing part of the journey is that the return trip to New Zealand is
highly synchronized. All the marked birds crossed the equator between Oct. 2 and
12.

Thanks to geolocating archival tags, sophisticated radio transmitters, and
global positioning units, the mysteries of bird migration are slowly being
unraveled. It will be interesting to see long the sooty shearwater retains the
record as the champion long distance migrant.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Send questions and comments to Dr. Scott Shalaway, RD 5, Cameron, W.Va.,
26033 or via e-mail to sshalaway@aol.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              108 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

STUDIES SHOW SEA LEVEL RISING FASTER THAN ASSUMED

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Two new scientific studies measuring Greenland's rapidly melting ice sheet and
the pace of Antarctic snowfall suggest that the sea level may be rising faster
than researchers previously assumed.

The papers, both published Thursday in the journal Science, provide the latest
evidence of how climate change is transforming the global landscape.

University of Texas researchers, using twin satellites, determined that the
Greenland ice sheet, the earth's second largest reservoir of fresh water, is
melting at a rate three times faster than during the previous five years.

A separate study by 16 international scientists concluded that Antarctic
snowfall accumulation has remained steady over the past 50 years, with no
increases that might have mitigated the melting of the ice shelf, as some
researchers had assumed would occur.

Taken together, the two reports indicate that global sea level rise may increase
more rapidly in the coming years, though the Greenland study is based on only 2
1/2 years of data.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WOULD INCUMBENTS' DEFEAT COST STATE DOLLARS?;
REPUBLICANS ARGUE LOSS OF INFLUENCE WOULD BE SEVERE; DEMOCRATS SAY THAT'S A LOT
OF HOOEY

BYLINE: James O'Toole Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1321 words


With the roar of ascending planes in the background, a line of firefighters took
turns posing with Sens. Rick Santorum and Arlen Specter and a series of
improbably large checks:

* $116,684 for Whitehall,

* $53,937 for Unity;

* $51,553 for West Deer No. 1

Those are big numbers for volunteer fire companies and not so big for lawmakers
who deal in budgets denominated in billions and trillions.

The cartoon checks, however, were a measure of the clout of the two men
presenting them. Foreign policy and the economy may drive elections in a broad
sense; but the fates of politicians are also determined by their ability to
bring home the bacon.

Bacon comes in many forms, from outright grants like these to the ability to
tweak the tax laws to benefit a local firm, or to insert a crucial clause that
makes a reimbursement formula favor a region's hospitals.

The forum for those decisions are the committees of Congress, the legislative
duchies where the laws that few people read are crafted.

A Democratic takeover of one or both chambers of Congress would not only end the
careers of some Republicans, it would bring a major reduction in the voice of
the survivors, a change with potentially major consequences for Pennsylvania and
every other state.

If Mr. Santorum were re-elected, he would likely ascend to the number two spot
in the GOP Senate caucus, while occupying a senior spot on the powerful Senate
Finance Committee. Though he is not on the ballot, the Nov. 7 election will also
have a powerful impact on Mr. Specter's future. A Democratic takeover of the
Senate would rob him of the gavel on the Judiciary Committee and sap the power
of his number two spot among the Republicans on the Senate Appropriations
Committee.

"Seniority is really the name of the game in Washington,'' Mr. Specter argued
last week during a stop at the Skyview Fire Hall next to the Allegheny County
Airport. "I sometimes ask a rhetorical question, 'Do you know how long it takes
to build up 16 years' seniority in Washington?'"

Mr. Specter contended that the key reason to re-elect his colleague Mr. Santorum
was his ability to deliver projects and federal dollars to his state.

"If we lose Rick's seniority, it would be really devastating," Mr. Specter said.
"He has a key spot on the Finance Committee, which touches on Medicare and
Medicaid and tax policy."

Mr. Santorum has noted that was able to use his Finance Committee leverage to
help ease import duties on materials vital to the Sony Corp. plant in
Westmoreland County.

Democrats argue that turnover among congressional seats is inevitable, and the
seniority is a valuable commodity only insofar has you agree with the policies
that senior members promote.

"A Democratic victory is not going to be a loss for Pennsylvania, that's for
sure," said Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Forest Hills.

The handicapping of possible changes in the state's key committee spots starts
with the sitting Republicans. Beyond Mr. Santorum's closely watched Senate race,
Republicans hold a 12-7 majority in the state's delegation, and all of the
congressional seats thought to be competitive on Nov. 7 are now held by GOP
members.

Five Pennsylvania Republicans appear to be in jeopardy of losing their seats. If
those potential losses help tip the balance in the House, the surviving GOP
incumbents will suffer the consequences.

The most-coveted committee seats in the House are on Ways and Means, with broad
powers of taxes and government finances; Energy and Commerce, the panel with
perhaps the widest jurisdiction in the House, dealing with issues from
telecommunications to public health to interstate commerce; and Appropriations,
the arbiter of government spending and the font of the congressional largesse.

Pennsylvania Republicans hold two seats on each of those committees. Rep. Phil
English, R-Erie, and his neighbor Rep. Melissa Hart, R-Bradford Woods, each hold
seats on the powerful Ways and Means panel. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Upper St. Clair,
sits on the Energy and Commerce Committee, as does Rep. Joe Pitts, R-Lancaster.

Rep. John Peterson, R-State College, and Don Sherwood, R-Luzerne, hold the
state's spots on Appropriations. Mr. Sherwood's spot is in severe jeopardy
regardless of the overall fate of the House majority. After devastating
publicity from an extramarital affair, he is probably the most vulnerable
Republican in the state delegation. The other member of one of the prime panels
in a tough race is Ms. Hart.

Ways and Means seat

Even if she survives, Ms. Hart could conceivably lose her spot on Ways and
Means. A Democratic takeover would change the party ratios on the committees,
bringing more Democratic and fewer Republican members. Ms. Hart is relatively
low on the seniority list among the panel's Republicans, so she could be
vulnerable. Mr. Murphy could possibly suffer a similar fate on Energy and
Commerce.

"If we go from two members on the majority on Ways and Means to basically none,
that's not a good thing,'' Mr. Santorum said. "That's tax, trade, Medicare,
Medicaid. We're looking at a huge problem for Western Pennsylvania on Medicare
[reimbursement] and Melissa's been able to work on that, so has Phil English."

The three prime committees are not the only ones wielding power, of course, and
similar shuffles would take place elsewhere. Rep. Curt Weldon, R-Delaware
County, for example, enjoys considerable clout on defense issues due to his
number two spot on the Armed Forces Committee. The Boeing-Vertol plant in his
district has benefited through his rise in committee seniority as he championed
projects such as the tilt-wing Osprey aircraft built there.

Like Mr. Sherwood, Mr. Weldon, dogged by an influence-peddling investigation, is
in danger of losing his seat outright.

No Democratic House members appear to be in jeopardy in the state, in part
because of the overall national political climate and in part because there are
fewer of them. The 2002 redistricting plan, crafted by state Republicans,
chopped their numbers from 10 to seven.

Mr. Doyle said he was confident that new and current members of the state
Democratic House delegation would be positioned to more than compensate for any
loss of Republican clout for Pennsylvania issues and projects.

Mr. Doyle is a member of Energy and Commerce. Pennsylvania has not had a
Democratic seat on Ways and Means since the retirement of Rep. Bill Coyne,
D-Oakland, but two state Democrats hold seats on Appropriations, Rep. Chaka
Fattah, D-Philadelphia, and John Murtha, D-Johnstown. Mr. Murtha, whose district
is already littered with the fruits of his seniority, is the number two Democrat
on the powerful panel.

"Don't forget that Jack Murtha is in a battle for the majority leader post with
[Maryland Rep.] Steny Hoyer and if we have the majority leader of the House
residing Pennsylvania, then I think we're doing pretty damn well," Mr. Doyle
said.

Mr. Doyle noted that the House Democratic caucus apportions committee seats
according to the relative membership strength of different regions of the
country. Pennsylvania is in a region with Ohio and Kentucky. The Democrat
predicted that Democratic gains in House races in both Pennsylvania and Ohio
would boost the number of committee slots available to the state.

"[Our] region ... is going to be powerful because we're where all the growth [in
seats] is," Mr. Doyle said. "If we run the slate, we could have as many as 10
new seats; that's going to make us one of the larger regions."

He predicted that new Pennsylvania Democrats would be in line for seats on
Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means.

"If we win three, four, five seats in Pennsylvania, we're going to want to
position those members of good committees, so that they can help their districts
and so that their committee slots can help them in their efforts to be
re-elected," Mr. Doyle said.

"We've watched the Republicans in that respect and they've been very good in
positioning their members on good committees."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN 2006/ Politics editor James O'Toole can be reached at
jotoole@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1562.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              113 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 5, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

CHANCE FOR CHANGE;
THE VOTERS HOLD ALL THE POWER ON ELECTION DAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H-2

LENGTH: 764 words


Americans are angry about the war in Iraq, perturbed by the rising cost of
health insurance and unsettled about their jobs and the economy. They can
grouse, moan or call a radio talk-show.

But it's all worth nothing -- unless they vote.

Tuesday is their chance to have a say on six years of policies by George W.
Bush. The Republican president and his enablers who control the House and Senate
have put the United States on a risky path and will keep it there unless changes
are made in Congress. Now is your chance.

It would be one thing if Republicans on the Pennsylvania ballot raised
questions, showed independence or tried to steer the administration away from
failure. Like the president himself, who preached "stay the course" until he
realized too late that Americans were no longer with him, Republican senators
and House members have unrelentingly stayed the course with Mr. Bush's policies.
Sending them back to Washington will guarantee only more of the same.

Pennsylvanians -- and the nation -- deserve better. Here is a recap of the
Post-Gazette's endorsements.

U.S. Senate

After 12 years in Washington, Rick Santorum has made plenty of Pennsylvanians
think twice about him over his views on working mothers, teaching creationism
and the fine points of a residence in Pennsylvania vs. a home in Virginia. His
biggest shortcoming, however, is his blind allegiance to the Bush agenda, which
has caused tragic sacrifices for Americans in Iraq, sent the federal deficit
soaring and delivered no solutions to the problems vexing Social Security,
Medicare and the growing number of uninsured.

Bob Casey would be a senator who cares about how government affects average
citizens, from his demands to reassess the policy in Iraq to his unqualified
support to raise the minimum wage. The Democrat would ask tough questions and
not be a rubber stamp for the Bush-Cheney White House. We can't think of a
better reason to elect a new senator from Pennsylvania.

U.S. House

* 4th District: Republican Melissa Hart has managed to hang on in this
Democratic district, but now she faces a tough, competent challenger in Jason
Altmire. Like Rick Santorum, she doesn't challenge the Bush administration.
Democrat Jason Altmire is a better fit for Western Pennsylvania and would cast
votes that mirror the views of the district, not the White House.

* 12th District: Democratic war horse John Murtha has been a key player for
defense needs, veterans' concerns and his industrial region. His tough view
against the administration's misguided Iraq policy has enhanced his national
stature. He would be in the vanguard of change if Democrats were to retake the
House.

* 14th District: Democrat Mike Doyle questioned the Bush mission in Iraq from
the beginning. He's also been a strong voice for extending health coverage to
more Americans, raising the minimum wage and ending tax cuts to the rich when
deficits are soaring again.

* 18th District: Incumbent Tim Murphy may have more money and name recognition,
but Democrat Chad Kluko is an articulate alternative who would not be in
lockstep with Bush policies.

Governor

It hasn't been perfect or pretty, but the first term of Democrat Ed Rendell has
delivered to Pennsylvania: better access to prescription drugs for the state's
elderly, a plan to provide health coverage for all children, lower business
taxes, property tax relief funded by slots casinos, greater protection for the
environment and more students enrolled in early learning. Republican Lynn Swann
has scored points on the need for government reform and a business-friendly
climate, but he lacks the managerial experience to pose a credible challenge.

State Senate

* 38th District: Jim Ferlo (D)

* 40th District: Jane Orie (R)

State House

* 20th District: Don Walko (D)

* 22nd District: Chelsa Wagner (D)

* 24th District: No endorsement

* 25th District: Joseph Markosek (D)

* 27th District: No endorsement

* 28th District: Mike Turzai (R)

* 30th District: Shawn Flaherty (D)

* 33rd District: Frank Dermody (D)

* 38th District: Bill Kortz (D)

* 42nd District: Matthew Smith (D)

* 44th District: Mark Mustio (R)

* 46th District: Jesse White (D)

Ballot Question

Pennsylvanians should vote Yes on borrowing $20 million to pay a limited benefit
to state residents who served in the 1990-91 Gulf war. The state paid a similar
supplement to former soldiers of previous wars.

Pittsburgh City Council

In the special election to fill the District 1 seat vacated by Mayor Luke
Ravenstahl, North Siders would do themselves and their city a favor by taking
the historic step of putting a Republican on council: Joseph Lucas.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CHOICES 2006

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              123 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE TOP 50: A DECADE OF EVENTS THAT ROCKED THE PITTSBURGH CULTURAL SCENE;
FACED WITH A 10TH YEAR OF RANKING LOCAL ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT FORCES,
REBELLIOUS POST-GAZETTE CRITICS TAKE A LAST STAND, FOCUSING ON RESULTS RATHER
THAN INDIVIDUALS

BYLINE: TIMOTHY MCNULTY, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; TOP 50; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 5928 words


The list of Pittsburgh's Top 50 Cultural Power Brokers premiered on June 8,
1997, and even then the Post-Gazette's Patricia Lowry -- writing a round-up just
like the one you're reading now -- could see where it was headed.

"Loud, contentious and anything but scientific," she wrote. An "exercise in
comparing apples and oranges." A "strange-bedfellows list."

That set the pace for 10 years of struggles among the newspaper's arts and
entertainment critics as they debated the Top 50 list over the years -- and then
more struggles after the list came out, when the artists the PG covered
complained they weren't rated as well as they liked or weren't listed at all.

And not just artists. There were also philanthropists, leaders of arts
organizations, promoters and others. The first No. 1 was Teresa Heinz Kerry, who
as leader of three Heinz charities, donated millions to Pittsburgh arts groups.

The question of how to judge arts funders -- people who didn't appear on stage
or pick up a brush or baton -- was never fully answered. In the first year,
1997, philanthropist Elsie Hillman was kept off the power broker list, with the
reasoning that her influence was so great it couldn't possibly be attached to a
number. In 1998 she was No. 5.

By 1999, August Wilson -- also kept off the first Top 50 because he lived in
Seattle -- was No. 1, after spending the better part of a year in his hometown
to develop the world premiere of "King Hedley II." In 2001, the staff rejected
the concept of "power brokers," going for the more touchy-feely Top 50 "cultural
forces" instead. Taking that a step further, the next year it did away with the
confining structure of ratings entirely and merely grouped the power brokers,
that is, forces, into inoffensive categories such as "nurturers," "luminaries"
and "underdogs."

By last year the ratings -- from No. 1 (Kevin McMahon) to 50 (hip-hop band
CRAVE) -- were back. And after this year, they may not be back at all.

After a decade of putting the list together, the arts and entertainment staff
decided to change it one last time. Instead of rating people, it lists the Top
50 influences on, or events in, the arts over the past 10 years.

Some faces remain -- such as McMahon, who leads the mighty Cultural Trust, or
the late Wilson -- but they are there for representing deep impacts on the
cultural scene over time, rather than any one thing that happened over the past
year. The thought was that a decade-long look at the impact of the arts on
Pittsburgh would be a fitting way to end the list, never to see it again, after
10 years of fights.

But we reserve the right to change our minds.

NO. 1: THE PITTSBURGH CULTURAL TRUST POLISHESTHE CULTURAL DISTRICT INTOTHE JEWEL
OF DOWNTOWN

It is not so much the dozen arts-related spaces beating at the heart of Downtown
Pittsburgh, the $47 million budget, or the unusual use of arts and culture to
drive the economic revitalization of the old city that makes the Pittsburgh
Cultural Trust special. The Trust is the single greatest creative force in
Pittsburgh because of its spirit of reinvention.

In the past 10 years that this newspaper has compiled lists of the Top 50
creative forces in Pittsburgh, the Cultural Trust has built the O'Reilly
Theater, the adjacent Theater Square (with a 250-seat cabaret theater, bar, box
office, parking garage, restaurant and radio studio), Katz Plaza and an arty
riverfront park.

It created smaller performance spaces and galleries, forged a shared services
and ticketing apparatus with other nonprofits and got into the promotional game,
bringing world-class acts, such as the Globe Theater and the International
Festival of Firsts, to town.

So it is no wonder that the Post-Gazette has named the leaders of the Trust
either the No. 1 influence or among the city's top five cultural influences
almost every year its arts and entertainment staff has put the list together.
(Only in 2001, after the Trust's legendary president Carol Brown retired, did it
drop. Even then, Brown was No. 10.)

This year, with the newspaper looking back on the greatest creative forces and
events in Pittsburgh across a decade, the Trust had to be No. 1 again. What
makes the pick notable is the promise the 22-year-old nonprofit holds for the
next 10 years.

Already having a hand in the renewal of Downtown Pittsburgh -- which is
remarkable for a nonprofit arts institution -- the Cultural Trust is about to
reinvent a part of itself and its proven formula for promoting arts and culture
in the city by . . . building condos?

"It's the capstone to everything else we're doing," said the Trust's president,
Kevin McMahon, who was the Top 50's No. 1 in 2005. "The Cultural Trust is all
about bringing more people to live, work and play here. And the live part has
been lacking."

Any week now, the Trust is supposed to unfurl redevelopment plans for a nearly
6-acre chunk of riverfront land along Fort Duquesne Boulevard between Seventh
and Ninth streets, across the Allegheny River from Alcoa's headquarters. It is
the last major development spot in the Golden Triangle and would be one of the
biggest Downtown projects in decades.

It plans roughly 700-900 housing units, anchored with street-level shops and
other amenities -- all green-certified, using renewable and recycled resources,
like the nearby David L. Lawrence Convention Center -- and likely including some
small arts components. The rental and for-sale units are expected to include
pricey riverfront models and more affordable ones for artists and Cultural
District workers. Construction, which is planned in phases, is expected to
continue for several years before the entire project is finished.

The past few years, the Trust has been focused largely on smaller-scale cultural
projects (such as the opening of the SPACE and Future Tenant galleries), the
come-one-come-all free gallery tours it has hosted since 2004 and the business
of programming events into its performance spaces.

Even one of the Trust's major building projects, 2004's Theater Square, was a
pragmatic, street-level move. Its box office serves as a host for cultural
groups, its cabaret targets a broad audience and its garage makes money. Diving
headfirst into the residential construction market -- on a site directly between
the Cultural District and the river -- is another thing entirely.

"It's very clear that the building phase -- which, perhaps, some thought was
over -- is not over at all," McMahon said. "In fact, the footprint of the
Cultural District continues to grow, in small ways and very grand ways."

But this is not a list of Pittsburgh's Top 50 Real Estate Developers. What does
this arts group think it's doing?

Think back to how Pittsburgh's Cultural District, and later the Trust, started.

H.J. Heinz II, president of the Heinz Co., led the renovation of a vacant movie
theater into the swanky home for the Pittsburgh Symphony, Heinz Hall, in 1971.
More properties were collected in the shoddy Penn-Liberty corridor nearby,
including the Stanley Theatre, which a $43 million remodeling turned into the
Benedum. Reclamation of the Byham and Harris theaters followed.

All along, Jack Heinz's theory was that arts and culture would help boost real
estate, and vice versa. A 1979 urban design study called for the corridor to be
turned into an arts district and led to the creation of the (then) Pittsburgh
Trust for Cultural Resources in 1984.

Since then, the Cultural Trust has succeeded in drawing people and money to
town, even as the city lost population and flirted with fiscal ruin. In the past
five years, it generated an estimated $9 million in amusement and parking taxes,
and last year, nearly 1 million people attended Trust-affiliated events.

The Trust could play a quasi-governmental role. Led by Brown, it would be
instrumental in helping create the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership (which uses a
1996 building tax to fund Downtown cleanup and promotion) and in pushing the
"Plan B" drive for the two new sports stadiums and expanded convention center,
approved in 1999.

The efforts helped, slowly, to make at least a part of Downtown and its
surrounding neighborhoods bubbling hot. Right now, up to 2,000 new housing units
are on the drawing board, worth up to an estimated $1.2 billion.

The leaders of the Cultural Trust "were, more than any other organization,
responsible for the continued revitalization of Downtown. ... They have created
a level of activity night after night after night, that central business
districts need," said Steve Leeper, who led the Plan B construction drive and
served as Mayor Tom Murphy's development director from 1994-98.

"It's not something new," Brown said last week of the Trust's taste for big
projects that have an impact on both Pittsburgh and its arts.

"From the beginning the Trust was conceived of as a cultural institution engaged
in the development of its own area. ... One of the things Jack Heinz and I
talked often about was having some control over the adjacent real estate so we
could control what happened to our own theaters and cultural institutions, and
at the same time potentially turn our real estate holdings not only into
improvements for the community, but potential revenue streams for the arts."

So in turning its attention to housing, the Trust is tapping into the same
entrepreneurial spirit Heinz had 40 years ago, with his plans to leverage a
decrepit movie theater into the slow revitalization of the city. That spirit is
now reinventing the Trust itself and the ways that arts and culture, of all
things, are changing Pittsburgh.

THE NEXT FIVE

2. August Wilson completes his epic Pittsburgh Cycle of 10 plays chronicling a
century of African-American tragedy and triumph.

Born in Pittsburgh in 1945, Wilson moved to St. Paul., Minn., in 1978, then
burst on the national scene in 1984 with the Broadway production of "Ma Rainey's
Black Bottom." In the next 21 years, he wrote nine more plays, each set in a
different decade of the 20th century and all set in Pittsburgh's Hill District.
Of the nine plays to have reached New York so far, seven have won the N.Y. Drama
Critics Circle Award as best new American play. Two have won Pulitzer Prizes.

Wilson moved in 1990 to Seattle, where he died Oct. 2, 2005. But he had returned
frequently to Pittsburgh, and it was always his memories of life on the Hill
into which he dipped the ladle of his theatrical art. Of his five plays to debut
in the past decade, two premiered at the Pittsburgh Public: the rewritten
version of "Jitney" (1996) and "King Hedley II," which opened the new O'Reilly
Theater in 1999. As he readied "Hedley," he earned the No. 1 ranking among the
PG's Top 50.

Wilson's cultural significance is national and beyond, but in Pittsburgh he has
inspired a generation of theatrical creators and audiences. As he is
memorialized with the new August Wilson Center for African American Culture and
a possible August Wilson festival and gains prominence in high school and
college courses, his cultural clout will deepen and increase.

3. Corporatization of promoters monopolizes the booking of live music and
touring musicals in Western Pennsylvania.

In the summer of 1998, SFX Entertainment went on a shopping spree, and the
concert industry has never been the same. SFX (which later would become Clear
Channel and Live Nation) purchased DiCesare-Engler Productions and countless
other regional promoters that year in a bid to put the pop music business under
one big umbrella.

Locally, it meant taking full control of the Post-Gazette Pavilion and Chevrolet
Amphitheatre and the concerts that are booked there, in addition to some
bookings at other venues. Combined with its radio holdings, Clear Channel seemed
to have a stranglehold on the music business.

Last year, it spun off the entertainment business, which is now called Live
Nation. Regardless of which name or form this creature takes, smaller promoters
have claimed for years that its attempt to monopolize the industry has driven up
guarantees for artists and ticket prices for consumers.

4. Children's advocate Fred Rogers is lauded with national honors.

Before and after his death, Pittsburgh's favorite neighbor, "Mister Rogers'
Neighborhood" host Fred Rogers (No. 1 in 2001's Top 50), was lauded with awards
and recognition by the National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, the
Daytime Emmys and the Television Critics Association.

Even in death, Rogers remains a cultural force, having three books published
posthumously with his wife, Joanne Rogers, carrying on his legacy. Rogers was
honored in February at the Grammys when "Songs From the Neighborhood: The Music
of Mister Rogers" won for Best Musical Album for Children.

5. Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra makes the transition from the Mariss Jansons
era to the new order.

Russian-born maestro Jansons focused on artistry, from his unlikely early
success with Schoenberg's "Gurrelieder" to his exquisite Mahler and Bruckner
interpretations. Tours to Europe brought the best reviews the orchestra had ever
seen, and the PSO became the first American orchestra to perform at the Vatican.
During the Jansons era, many experts felt the PSO was one of the best orchestras
in the world.

But in Pittsburgh, audiences continued to dwindle, perturbing Jansons and
causing financial woes. He departed after the 2003-04 season, and a trio of
conductors was named to replace him.

Programming innovations have not solved attendance issues but have brought
increased attention to the musicians, who topped the Top 50 in 2004. They not
only have a larger role in running the organization, they also have been the
PSO's marketing focus and have been recognized for their presence in the
community.

6. The largest history center in the state, the Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh
Regional History Center, makes its debut in 1996.

Ten years ago, the History Center opened in the former Chautauqua Lake Ice Co.
warehouse in the Strip District, telling the story of Western Pennsylvania from
pioneer days to the present.

Under the leadership of Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania president
John Herbst, the group, founded in 1879, had rescued itself from the brink of
irrelevancy and become an active, vital place. Under its present leader, Andrew
E. Masich, the Heinz History Center became an affiliate of the Smithsonian
Institution and expanded in 2004 to become the largest history museum in the
state, with a new wing housing the Western Pennsylvania Sports Museum,
changing-exhibit and special collections galleries and an education center.

THE REST OF THE TOP 50

7. Music leaves Oakland.

For almost a decade, there was a Bermuda Triangle of Oakland clubs -- The
Decade, Graffiti and the Electric Banana -- that nurtured the careers of such
bands as the Iron City Houserockers, the Cynics and the Clarks. When Graffiti
closed in 2000, all three were gone. Somewhere in between, the Oakland Beehive
and Club Laga also came and went. That forces college students -- obviously a
big audience for club shows -- to head to Friendship, the South Side or Millvale
to see bands.

8. The Andy Warhol Museum celebrates its own 10th birthday and continues
cutting-edge and controversial programming, including "Without Sanctuary."

The Warhol's boundary-stretching and contemporary focus has attracted a hip and
politically active audience, foundation support including a $4 million gift for
its endowment last year from Teresa Heinz Kerry (the Top 50's first No. 1) and
international attention for its namesake, itself and Pittsburgh.

9. The Children's Museum of Pittsburgh gets a heralded makeover.

The expansion of the Children's Museum in 2004 is building-as-sculpture.
Visitors interact with exhibits that blend art and high tech, but also get to
"play with real stuff," like a Mini-Cooper. Museum director Jane Werner (No. 3
last year) led the transformation that sensitively connected two historic
buildings with a new "green" one, which won a national American Institute of
Architects' Honor Award this year.

10. The Waterfront complex, with entertainment, restaurants and shopping, rises
under the Homestead end of the Homestead Grays Bridge.

Although traffic has slowed due to bridge construction and the theater suffered
from a fatal shooting and a bomb scare, the 22-screen megaplex is still the best
place to watch a blockbuster. Now part of the AMC chain, the theater set a
standard for moviegoing, while the complex seems to have everything a hungry
shopper could want.

11. The development of the Green Building Alliance sparks Pittsburgh's emergence
as a leader in creating green buildings.

The erstwhile Smoky City now has more certified, energy-efficient buildings per
square foot than any city in America, thanks to the Green Building Alliance, the
vision of its funder, Teresa Heinz Kerry, and the work of its director, Rebecca
Flora. The nonprofit has served as a model for cities from Boston to Shanghai.

12. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh pursues a multimillion-dollar upgrade of
facilities.

Under former director Herbert Elish, the library raised $70 million to renovate
its aging Main Library in Oakland and branches in Squirrel Hill, Homewood,
Brookline and Woods Run and move its Hazelwood and Downtown libraries to
improved spaces. The result was a marked increase in library use, making the
Carnegie system the most-visited member of the county's Regional Assets
District.

13. Pittsburgh loses George Romero's "Land of the Dead" to Hollywood's rush to
cheaper Canadian venues but continues to push for movies to be made here.

The Pittsburgh Film Office weathered runaway production, scrutiny of director
Dawn Keezer and the loss of Romero's zombie movie. However, it turned Oscar
galas into fund-raisers, pushed for tax incentives and landed projects big and
small, from "Inspector Gadget" and "The Mothman Prophecies" to "10th & Wolf" and
the CBS pilot "Smith."

14. Pittsburgh CLO produces new musicals to tour, with some financial losses but
with many gains.

Under Van Kaplan (a Top 50 fixture since taking over in 1998), Pittsburgh CLO
expands its role on the national scene, investing in new musicals in
development, on tour and on Broadway. Some of its own tours prosper, some don't
("Copacabana," "Doctor Dolittle"), but even the latter may pay off over time,
while Broadway investments ("Spamalot") pay off more quickly and give CLO the
inside track on national tours. CLO also has extended its presence year-round
with the 250-seat cabaret theater.

15. Carnegie Museum of Art dissolves its Film and Video Department.

The 2003 budgetary move included the firing of staff members such as curator
Bill Judson, one of the country's noted scholars of the subject. In doing so,
the museum also eliminated its popular film programming, as well as its only
consistently present contemporary art curator, one who had built the museum's
department to rank among the most admired in the country.

16. "The Guardian," a prime-time show written, directed and produced by a
Pittsburgher, is set here and does some filming here.

Upward of 10 million TV viewers nationwide saw the Pittsburgh skyline each week
in the opening credits of the CBS series "The Guardian," which ran from 2001-04.
It would be tough to get better free publicity for the city than that.

17. Pittsburgh Glass Center is established in 2001 and draws national and
international attention.

The state-of-the-art 15,000-square-foot facility in the Friendship neighborhood
-- which offers classes, a gallery and studio space -- has attracted students
from across the country and instructors from abroad. Once a car showroom, the
now "green" building has gained the attention of those who support the use of
art as a catalyst for neighborhood change.

18. Anti-Flag emerges as a national voice and signs with a national label.

If you're looking for a political punk to fill out your festival, this
Pittsburgh band is probably at the top of the list. Anti-Flag started as an
underground local band in 1993 and has risen to become one of the mainstage
bands at the Warped Tour. It's now a member of the RCA roster with "For Blood
and Empire."

19. Pittsburgh Filmmakers flexes its muscles as a programmer and rescues the
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts.

Filmmakers teaches young artists, exhibits the work of emerging or established
ones, and screens movies at its three theaters, in addition to running an annual
festival. When it appeared PCA might buckle under its $1 million-plus debt two
years ago, Filmmakers executive director Charlie Humphrey (a Top 50 fixture)
orchestrated a merger that gave it renewed life.

20. The development of PICT and Quantum theaters leads the growth of
professional theater and creates a viable professional acting pool.

The big professional companies are Pittsburgh CLO, Public and City theaters. But
much of the highest quality local work belongs to two companies which grew with
the decade, Quantum Theatre (founded in 1990) and Pittsburgh Irish & Classical
Theatre (1997, and the larger at $1 million per year). Hiring mainly locally,
like City, they have made it more viable for actors to stay in Pittsburgh,
encouraging the growth of smaller pro theaters as well.

21. The Carnegie Museum of Art acquires the Teenie Harris and Duane Michals
photo archives.

The museum moved toward making photography a more significant component of its
collection by acquiring archival materials of Charles "Teenie" Harris, the late
Pittsburgh Courier photojournalist who recorded the city's black community from
the 1930s to the '70s. Duane Michals, noted New York-based fine art photographer
and McKeesport native, has given and/or promised his archives and artwork
collection to the museum.

22. Use of recorded music for live performances.

When the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre board decided to eliminate the orchestra last
summer, it caused a furor that reached across the country. That overshadowed the
company's growth under artistic director Terrence Orr, who commissioned 10 new
ballets (a home run in any league), raised the technical level of the dancers,
and refurbished PBT's "Nutcracker" and its roster of classics. Some good news:
Live music will be back for two of the new season's performances.

23. The Clarks emerge as "the Steelers" of the local pop scene.

With the little help from local radio, The Clarks have become the biggest
drawing band in town, routinely selling out (or nearly selling out) two-night
stands at the Chevrolet Amphitheatre in the summer and a four-night club run in
the winter. The national scene has been a tougher nut to crack, but The Clarks
did get their shot on "Letterman" in 2004.

24. Carnegie Museum of Natural History's Dinosaur Hall nears completion of a
multimillion-dollar renovation.

The museum is poised to complete the $36 million "Dinosaurs in Their World"
project, a nearly three-year undertaking that will triple the exhibition space
for the museum's world-class dinosaur artifacts. The new hall is expected to
open in the last quarter of 2007, the 100th anniversary of the museum's
expansion.

25. City Theatre expands its South Side campus from three buildings to six,
doubles its budget and becomes a player on the national new play scene.

In 2001, artistic director Tracy Brigden (No. 13 last year) took over a healthy
company with a strong board and strengthened its commitment to developing new
plays from the national pool, supported by dedicated funds and highlighted by an
annual marathon-of-new-works weekend, "Momentum." Aggressive fund raising has
doubled City's budget over the decade, the mainstage has been refurbished, and
programming in its Hamburg Studio has increased. And the quality of production
remains high, blending the best local actors with imports.

26. Foundation support becomes more and more important as other sources of arts
funding dry up.

In 1996, Congress chopped NEA funding by 40 percent, blowing a massive hole in
arts budgets. Pittsburgh was lucky: Ranking fourth nationwide in charitable
assets per capita and ninth in total foundation assets, its groups were in good
position to survive. Foundations granted $46.7 million to local arts
organizations in 2003 -- 18 percent of their total giving -- according to a
recent study by Grantmakers of Western Pennsylvania. (Note: The Top 50 has
always struggled with ranking dollars and cents, the life blood of an arts
organization. So here it is, solidly in the middle, although the debate among
arts and entertainment staff members continues.)

27. The development of the arts community in the Penn Avenue corridor, from the
Brillobox to the Glass Center.

Penn Avenue Downtown has seen a small artistic renaissance of late. Head east
past the Strip, and the energy picks up again, with cutting-edge art and music
happening at the Brillobox, Garfield Artworks, Modern Formations, the Quiet
Storm and the Pittsburgh Glass Center. It's become an indie alternative to the
South Side and the Strip.

28. Pittsburgh Opera enters a bold new era with Mark Weinstein assuming control
and Christopher Hahn and John Mauceri running the artistic and musical sides.

Those who joked that the Opera needed three people to replace Tito Capobianco
missed the point that the organization could no longer be run in the old
impresario manner. Weinstein, from New York City Opera, wanted the company to be
a part of the greater operatic community in terms of production style and singer
quality, and he got that with Hahn's expertise. Mauceri brought a big-name
cachet.

29. The Three Rivers Arts Festival becomes noted for its music acts.

During the late '90s, the Arts Festival's idea of a major headliner was
Livingston Taylor or Dar Williams. In the past five years, with Gary Hinston
booking the lineup, the festival has become more of a draw for music fans with
the likes of Wilco, Sonic Youth, Patti Smith, the Drive-By Truckers and such
entries this year as the English Beat, Rosanne Cash and Tom Verlaine.

30. Pittsburgh Public Theater supports the production of new works and world
premieres.

Eddie Gilbert supervised the Public's move into its new O'Reilly Theater in 1999
and opened with a world premiere, August Wilson's "King Hedley II." Ted Pappas
took over in 2000 and has nurtured more significant premieres ("The Bird
Sanctuary," "Paper Doll," "By Jeeves") and started a new play reading series.
He's shown a taste for the difficult ("Yellowman") and a populist bent ("The
Chief"), and he's continued to lavish an opulent eye on such classics as
Shakespeare and Gilbert & Sullivan.

31. Dissolution of the Y Music Society after 75 years of big-name and debut
recitals in Pittsburgh.

The Y series introduced Pittsburgh to significant international musicians such
as Vladimir Horowitz, Efrem Zimbalist, Nathan Milstein, Artur Rubinstein, Andres
Segovia and Isaac Stern. But it fell into financial hardships. The Pittsburgh
Symphony swooped in to help in 2000 but could not sustain it.

32. Imports such as the International Festival of Firsts become a staple of
Trust programming.

In theater alone, the Trust has sponsored two visits by Shakespeare's Globe with
"original practices" versions of "Twelfth Night" (2003) and "Measure for
Measure" (2005), bracketing the 2004 Pittsburgh International Festival of
Firsts, curated by CMU's Elizabeth Bradley, who chose eight companies to invade
Pittsburgh for three mind-bending weeks.

33. WQED-TV shuts down WQEX but begins positioning itself as a national player
(again).

Under WQED president George Miles, WQEX became a home-shopping channel and WQED
retrenched, at first focusing on local programs (like "On Q"). In addition to
regaining its financial footing, WQED branched out again with hugely popular
national pledge shows ("Doo Wop 50"), national Rick Sebak productions and then
the ambitious PBS presentation "The War That Made America."

34. The Sprout Fund supports projects by small arts groups.

The Sprout Fund gives a helping hand to grassroots projects in Pittsburgh
through its Seed Award and Public Art programs. Since its inception in 2001, it
has helped to support such diverse groups as Attack Theatre and BridgeSpotters
and collaborated with artists to develop public works.

35. The Mattress Factory expands and attracts important installations by James
Turrell and others.

The Mattress Factory museum expands and celebrates its 25th anniversary with an
exhibition by James Turrell, the internationally acclaimed artist who had been
one of the earliest to exhibit and to have a permanent installation in the
fledgling museum. Renovations to nearby structures allow for comfortable housing
for office and education staff, and the vacated quarters in the main building
now hold a smart cafe and gift shop.

36. Attack Theatre and Squonk Opera export art created here to national and
international audiences.

Attack Theatre founders and performers Michele de la Reza and Peter Kope have
been cultural forces among the Top 50, around town and around the world. They're
here now for the Arts Festival but head to Indonesia and Germany this summer.
Squonk Opera (No. 25 last year), a performance troupe founded in 1992, has taken
its show from local junkyards to Broadway to theaters worldwide.

37. Unable to generate enough traffic, two more jazz venues shut their doors in
the past year, and another one was forced to send out a distress call.

James Street Legends and the New Crawford Grill on the Square abruptly closed
their doors and Dowe's on Ninth was forced to have a desperation fund-raiser to
move ahead.

38. Frank Lloyd Wright buildings are front and center.

The Wright renaissance includes the restoration of Fallingwater and the
publication of "Fallingwater Rising," along with the creation of his design for
a Point View Residence apartment at the Home & Garden Show.

39. Joe Grushecky's Bruce Springsteen connection brings the Boss to Heinz Hall
for a flood relief concert.

The friendship took hold around 1994, when Springsteen produced Grushecky's
"American Babylon." Since then, they've shared a number of stages and writing
credits, including on the Grammy-winning "Code of Silence." In December 2004,
they teamed for a memorable night of music at Heinz Hall that raised more than
$250,000 for local Hurricane Ivan victims.

40. Renovations put Silver Eye Center for Photography in the national leagues.

New climate-control and security systems allow Silver Eye to upgrade the quality
of its exhibitions. A recently completed facade renovation done in compliance
with preservationist guidelines gives it a face as sophisticated as its
interior. Membership has expanded nationally.

41. The Kelly-Strayhorn Theatre re-opens its doors as a haven for small arts
groups.

With Whole Foods and Home Depot settled in and more businesses on the way, the
timing was right for this East Liberty showplace in 2001. Stephanie Flom and her
Community Theater Project Corp. spearheaded a $1 million renovation, and the
theater reopened as a reasonable rental for groups such as Dance Alloy, Squonk
Opera, Srishti Dances of India and primary tenant East Liberty Presbyterian
Church.

42. Rusted Root becomes a national touring act.

Clearly, Rusted Root peaked commercially around 1994 with the release of "When I
Woke" and the breakout single "Send Me on My Way." But the band (although
somewhat depleted at the moment) continues to thrive in jam-band circles with
regular college tours and, within the past 10 years, opening slots for Santana
and the Allman Brothers.

43. Mark Southers launches Pittsburgh Playwrights Theatre Company, now housed in
a Downtown parking garage, and creates Festival in Black and White.

A decade ago, Southers was a steelworker; now he's a playwright, director,
producer and creator of a theater. Its signature events are August (as in
Wilson) in February and the Festival in Black and White, which pairs black
directors with white playwrights and vice versa. Amid the glittering palaces of
the Cultural District, Pittsburgh Playwrights is a feisty, promising
alternative, nurturing home-grown playwrights and building bridges across the
racial divide.

44. Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble makes the radical step of forgoing the regular
season for a summer festival season.

Founder David Stock's departure in 1999 put the group in a precarious position,
exacerbated by the aborted hiring of a new conductor, a labor dispute and
dwindling audiences at the JCC in Squirrel Hill. Facing extinction, PNME
transplanted its season to summer and eventually ended up at the South Side's
City Theatre, a move that invigorated the group artistically and doubled its
audience.

45. Local radio reshuffles its personnel and formats as new choices hit the
airwaves.

With the launch of new broadcasting platforms, 21st-century radio became known
as "terrestrial radio." To face new competition (satellite and Internet radio,
on-demand music on portable MP3 players), strategies for local commercial and
public stations include HD radio, which enables a station to broadcast more than
one channel simultaneously; podcasts; trimming commercial breaks; and, as
always, revamping programming and personalities.

46. Lee Gutkind's Creative Nonfiction Foundation and its literary journal
produce a literary festival at the University of Pittsburgh.

The festival brought to town John Edgar Wideman and other authors and publishers
of national prominence for a three-day event in 2004. A writer and teacher of
nonfiction at Pitt, Gutkind (No. 24 last year) continues to push for national
recognition of the genre.

47. The early music scene experiences a growth spurt.

Call Pittsburgh out-of-date, and these groups take it as a compliment. In the
past decade, Chatham Baroque has made a name for itself here and on tours, the
Renaissance & Baroque Society has presented the world's top groups, and Pitt's
Bach & the Baroque has boosted the scene with performances at Heinz Chapel.

48. The Steeltown Entertainment Project springs up as a Hollywood-Pittsburgh
connection.

Steeltown organized an entertainment summit that continues to bear fruit: a
premiere of "Land of the Dead" which doubled as a salute to George Romero and
brought such famous fans as Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez to town;
grants to lure a Los Angeles firm here for movies based on an R.L. Stine horror
anthology; and plans for a screenwriting competition. Co-founder Carl Kurlander
is king of the ex-patriates, whether introducing them to students or filming
them singing "Won't You Be My Neighbor?" for his "Tale of Two Cities" movie.

49. Point Park University builds the Playhouse into one of Pittsburgh's most
active performance centers.

Arriving in 1998 as head of Point Park's Conservatory of the Performing Arts,
Ronald Allen-Lindblom cemented the commitment to the tradition-rich Playhouse,
filling it with programming by three student companies (theater, dance,
Playhouse Jr.) and the professional Playhouse REP.

50. Independent community radio station WYEP 91.3 FM opens a spiffy new studio
on the South Side.

The WYEP Community Broadcast Center is a 12,000-square-foot studio and
performance space using green design principles and funded by foundations and
individual supporters. Working with other arts organizations -- notably the
Three Rivers Arts Festival's performance series -- adult alternative WYEP
continues to raise its profile.

PREVIOUS NO. 1'S

1997: Teresa Heinz, Heinz Endowments

1998: Martin McGuinn, Mellon Bank

1999: August Wilson, playwright

2000: Carol Brown, Pittsburgh Cultural Trust

2001: Fred Rogers, television; children's advocate

2002: Bill Strickland, Manchester Craftsmen's Guild

2003: Janet Sarbaugh, Heinz Endowments

2004: Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra musicians

2005: Kevin McMahon, Cultural Trust

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TOP 50 CONTRIBUTORS: Classical music critic Andrew Druckenbrod;
entertainment editor Sharon Eberson; jazz critic Nate Guidry; book editor Bob
Hoover; architecture critic Patricia Lowry; pop music critic Ed Masley; Weekend
Mag editor Scott Mervis; TV editor Rob Owen; theater editor Christopher Rawson;
arts critic Mary Thomas; movie editor Barbara Vancheri; dance critic Jane
Vranish; assistant managing editor/Features, Allan Walton; and staff writers
Rosa Colucci, John Hayes, Adrian McCoy, Tim McNulty and Marylynne Pitz./ Timothy
McNulty can be reached at tmcnulty@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1581.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2006



CORRECTION:  A bond issue has generated $15 million for the Carnegie Library of
Pittsburgh, whose $55 million capital campaign is ongoing. Those numbers were
misstated in the Top 50 package yesterday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alyssa Cwanger/Post-Gazette: On a recent bustling Friday in the
Downtown Cultural District, audience and cast members leave the Byham Theater
after the Pittsburgh Youth Ballet's spring concert.
\ PHOTO: Alyssa Cwanger/Post-Gazette: The Pittsburgh Youth Ballet performs
"Symphonia" at the Byham Theater, at the edge of the Cultural District and one
of the active venues within the Cultural Trust's purview.
\ PHOTO: Alyssa Cwanger/Post-Gazette: Meghan and Kathy Austinson, center and
right, enjoy a meal before "Forbidden Broadway" takes the stage at the Cabaret
at Theater Square, part of Pittsburgh CLO's year-round local presence and one of
the newest additions to the Cultural District.
\ PHOTO: (For Nine Photos) (No Caption for any)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              124 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WHEN DOING DECK, PAINTS BEST STAINS

BYLINE: Consumer Reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; SHOP SMART; Pg. D-3

LENGTH: 604 words


To test the paints and stains that go on the exterior of your house, we coat
multiple panels of pine siding, starting with primed wood for paint and
untreated wood for stains. We place the coated panels outside our Yonkers, N.Y.,
headquarters on an angled rack, facing south. Then we wait.

For up to three years we wait and watch, while the panels weather. In our tests,
one year of angled southern exposure is equivalent to about three years on a
vertical surface, such as the siding on your home. Thus, after one year of
testing, we can say how well a paint or stain should do after three "normal"
years. Two years of testing approximates six normal years, while three years
translates to nine.

Here's some of what our tests revealed:

* Exterior paint generally outlasts stains.

* Opaque or solid-color stains maintain their appearance longer than
semitransparent stains, although the latter lets the wood grain show.

* With paint or stains, two coats provide significantly more protection than
one. Premium grades, moreover, are usually worth the extra cost.

* Paint gloss doesn't affect performance. Pick a paint in the finish you prefer,
or match the finish to the surface -- flat for siding, for example, or semigloss
for trim.

Some products, we discovered, fail too fast, deteriorating after the equivalent
of six or fewer years of normal exposure. Among paints, Glidden's Evermore flat,
although rated "very good" after three years' normal weathering, peeled badly
after six. True Value's WeatherAll semigloss and McCloskey's MultiUse satin also
faltered after six normal years.

Most of the stains that couldn't go the distance in our tests were
semitransparent products. Home Depot's Behr Deck Plus Deck Fence & Siding;
Olympic's Wood Protector Deck, Fence & Siding 792; True Value's Woodsman; and
Sherwin-Williams' Woodscapes all scored "fair" to "poor" for cracking after just
three years' normal weathering.

If you want a semitransparent stain for your wood, the better of our tested
bunch was Olympic's Water Repellent 511 ($19 per gallon). Scoring "good" in
appearance after three years of normal weathering, it trailed off to "fair"
after six, at which point we advise reapplication.

Best stains for the long-term are solid products, including top-rated Olympic
Premium 596 ($21) and Behr Plus 10 ($18, from Home Depot). Both retained a good
appearance after nine years of normal exposure and both helped prevent mildew
growth -- a consideration if your house is shaded or in a damp climate. The
Olympic, however, was better at resisting dirt (important in urban areas) and
color change (a consequence of sunny conditions).

As for paints, high-scoring flat finishes include California Fresh Coat Velvet
($27 per gallon, where available), Pratt & Lambert Accolade Eggshell ($34) and
Glidden Spred-Dura (at $15, it's a CR Best Buy). All looked at least "very good"
after nine years and each proved superior at resisting dirt, color change and
mildew.

If you want a glossier paint with staying power, consider these Glidden
products: Endurance ($32, though not readily available), a semigloss that
retained an excellent appearance after nine years; low-luster Endurance Satin
($30); glossy Spred-Dura (at $20, it's a CR Best Buy); and low-luster Spred-Dura
Satin (at $19, it's also a CR Best Buy). Like the Gliddens, the semigloss Pratt
& Lambert Accolade ($36) is a durable paint with enhanced resistance to dirt,
color change and mildew.

All of these recommended products have been fully tested. A number of other
paints and stains that we're still testing show promise, but it's too early in
the process to recommend them.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: By the Editors of Consumer Reports (www.consumerreports.org

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

WARM WEATHER KEEPS GLACIER FROM HOTEL DOOR

BYLINE: John Tagliabue, The New York Times

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: GLETSCH, Switzerland


To hear the locals tell it, you would think they were referring to a loved
family member declining in old age.

"It hurts, it hurts," Philipp Carlen said of his feeling toward the vast Rhone
glacier, which once came to the edge of his hotel, but now has receded several
hundred yards.

The glacier, whose soft contours and dirty gray surface make it resemble some
huge sea creature, a whale perhaps, is rapidly shrinking, in the mild autumn
weather, by 12 to 15 feet a day.

Eight thousand years ago, Mr. Carlen said, the glacier was the largest in
Europe, with arms that reached all the way to Lyon, in France. Indeed, it
remains the source of the Rhone River, which flows westward into France and from
there into the Mediterranean. Now, however, it is only the fifth-largest glacier
in Switzerland, and experts foresee the day, probably in this century, when the
glacier, all six miles of it, will melt away to nothing.

The shrinkage has consequences for the little village that owes its name --
Gletsch means glacier in Swiss German -- and its very existence to the icy
behemoth.

Like most of the people in Gletsch, Mr. Carlen, 45, spends only the summer in
the village; in the winter he practices law in the nearby town of Brig. Gletsch
began its role as a summer residence in the mid-19th century, Mr. Carlen said.

In those days, Mr. Carlen said, the glacier spilled down into the valley below,
almost reaching the edge of the village. But as the glacier shrank, so did the
number of visitors to the hotel; the automobile challenged a little steam
railway as a means of access to Gletsch and made day trips possible, and the
number of guests fell further.

The glacier's suffering is not unique. All of Switzerland's glaciers -- and
there are more than a hundred, large and small, experts say -- have lost about
15 percent of their surface in just the past two decades. The experts say global
warming is the reason, though particularly hot summers, which might have
happened anyway, played a role.

"This year was a terrible year for the glaciers," said Max Maisch, an expert on
the topic at the University of Zurich.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              135 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; THE MORNING FILE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 1038 words


It's even hotter in Britain

England is enduring its hottest July since 1911. The Times (London) reminisced:
"During those long, languorous prewar days skimpy bathing costumes, with sleeves
ending at the elbow rather than the wrist, made an appearance at seaside resorts
as the country struggled to cope with a five-month heat wave. The Editor of the
Pall Mall Gazette joined Lord Curzon for a game of tennis in the nude. As the
heat wave continued, however, people began to suffer. Fields were scorched,
fires broke out along railways and The Times introduced a column entitled
'Deaths from Heat.' "

A heat-health expert warned that Britain could experience a tragedy similar to
1911 and the far worse one in France in 2003 that left 14,000 people dead.
Forecasters said the baking weather would last well into next week.

Heat happens

The Daily Telegraph (London):

"As the thermometer nudged 100F in the summer of 1911, an MP 'in rather a
hesitating manner removed his coat.' Before long, we reported, 20 members were
in their shirtsleeves. Such measures were a last resort. Among readers'
suggestions for coping with the unrivaled heat that summer was for gentlemen to
wear cummerbunds lest apoplexy descend from the head to the stomach.

"This week, as most parts enjoy a few days of sun, all we hear is nagging. It is
'advisable' to carry bottles of water (a tiresome, untidy habit). Children must
frequently be topped up, but not too much in case they suffer 'water
intoxication.' The old must keep indoors. And no swimming, for fear of hidden
dangers. Phew! It's enough to bring on an apoplexy in itself. Winter's cold and
summer's hot -- let's embrace both."

Hot spots

* In America, it seems, anything goes with workplace attire ("flip-flop,
flip-flop") when it's extremely cold or extremely hot. Britain's railway workers
aren't so lucky. They can't wear shorts. A Bristol business leader said: "It is
ridiculous to do anything but relax dress codes in hot weather. The age of
stuffy British attitudes to uniforms is hopefully going."

* Billy White, 13, of Sheffield was unhappy with the stuffy attitude that
required him to wear long pants to school. So he showed up in a skirt. "The
rules discriminate against boys in this kind of weather and this seemed a good
way to make my point," he told The Guardian. Unfortunately for Billy, Silverdale
School's head teacher agreed: "If he wants to wear a skirt, he is welcome"

* Pigs at a farm in Worcestershire were decked out in sunglasses to protect
their eyes from the heat. No bathing suits were issued, however.

* The heat has taken its toll on Britain's beer drinkers. Quality inspectors
doing the rounds at pubs were served one pint at 86F, a temperature closer to
bath water. One in two pints were served too warm, they found.

* The bookmakers were feeling the heat, too. William Hill stopped taking bets on
temperatures breaching 100F and faces the largest weather-related payout since
2003.

* Buckingham Palace is exempt from London's hose-pipe ban. But the Queen has
chosen to adhere to the same restrictions as her subjects.

She prefers that women stay covered

Vicki Woods of The Daily Telegraph (London):

"So it is a warm old week and Britain's gone potty. Why can't we dress for the
heat? Shouldn't we be getting used to it by now? These are still only the little
low foothills of global warming, after all, and we are going to have to live
with these hot patches. Do people really think that nylon running shorts and
sports vests [sleeveless athletic shirts] are a) acceptable civil dress and b)
going to make them feel any cooler? No, no, people, please. Put that flesh away.
It is not only deeply unattractive to gaze upon but also the spreading patches
at groin and underarm smell like high old mutton.

"Look, I can do heat. I can dress for it really well. Scorching Dubai, sweaty
Mississippi, sweltering New York City -- they are all perfectly cope-able. Taxis
aren't air-conditioned in New York, but since everything else is
(planet-wreckingly) iced beyond all reason, you know exactly what to wear for
dressy appointments. As for women in this country, I wish they would adapt their
dress for heat waves. People do feel gloomy when boiling to death and gloom is
not lifted by all this panty-presentation under thin pale frocks. Acres of
cleavage, when it is so hot that steam rises off the mounds, looks disgustingly
like boiled duck. Midriffs ... God, I can't even think about the midriff horrors
that pop up in the heat."

Hot tips

* British tabloids, recognizing the people's right to know, feature naked women.
The Daily Star's babe of the day had wisdom to impart:

"Sexy Sammi is not used to the sort of weather we've been getting in baking
Britain this week. As you can see, she's even had to leave her vest off to keep
cool. The 21-year-old Essex beauty has another tip for coping with the heat, too
-- leave your knickers in the fridge overnight. Just be careful you don't dash
off to work the next day wearing a lettuce leaf!" (Picture unavailable.)

* The Sun: "You can take sensible health ministry advice and stay indoors, avoid
tea and alcohol and keep wet towels at hand. Or you can put on the shades, flop
on a sun lounger and crack open something long, chilled and thirst-quenching.
You decide."

Mad Dogs and Englishmen

By Noel Coward (1932)

In tropical climes there are certain times of day

When all the citizens retire to tear their clothes ............off and perspire.

It's one of the rules that the greatest fools obey,

Because the sun is much too sultry

And one must avoid its ultry-violet ray.

The natives grieve when the white men leave ............their huts,

Because they're obviously, definitely nuts!

Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the midday ............sun,

The Japanese don't care to, the Chinese ..................wouldn't dare to,

Hindus and Argentines sleep firmly from ..................twelve to one

But Englishmen detest-a siesta.

In the Philippines they have lovely screens to ............protect you from the
glare.

In the Malay States, there are hats like plates ............which the Britishers
won't wear.

At twelve noon the natives swoon and no fur..................ther work is done,

But mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the ..................midday sun.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact us at pleo@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1112 or Portfolio,
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15222. Tony
Norman has the day off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine Tozer/Pennywell Farm and Wildlife Centre: Pinky and
Perky, 4-week-old piglets, cool off at Pennywell Farm and Wildlife center near
Buckfastleigh in southwestern England with a cold-pack of carrots. Unlike many
Britons overwhelmed by the heat wave, Pinky and Perky have no problem with the
dress code.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPORT LINKS GLOBAL WARMING, HURRICANES

BYLINE: Martin Merzer, The Miami Herald

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Escalating a vigorous scientific debate, a new study yesterday reported more
strong links between human-caused global warming and rising ocean temperatures
-- a key factor in the development and growth of hurricanes.

The report stopped short of asserting a direct relationship between the
so-called greenhouse effect and the increased hurricane intensity of recent
years.

But some scientists and others said it supported their belief that industrial
pollution, vehicle emissions and other human impacts on the environment are
largely to blame.

"We've now learned that the human-induced buildup of greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere appears to be the primary driver of increasing hurricane activity,"
Robert Corell, an oceanographer and researcher for the American Meteorological
Society, said during a news conference to promote the study.

Some scientists agree, but some do not.

"They make a very good case that the trends in sea surface temperatures are-- at
least in part, if not substantially -- due to man-made global warming," said
Chris Landsea, a noted hurricane researcher from South Florida. "But this is not
a hurricane study."

The report, written by 19 scientists, found a very high probability that human
activities accounted for two-thirds of the increase in water temperature in key
hurricane-producing regions of the Atlantic and Pacific during the last century.

But that total increase is quite small -- only about 1.2 degrees Fahrenheit.
Other studies maintain that Atlantic hurricanes become only 2 percent stronger
for every one-degree rise in temperature.

In addition, ocean temperature is just one of many factors in the development of
hurricanes.

The study will be published tomorrow in the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences.

The report widened the gulf between two contingents of climate scientists.

One group, including some authors of the new report, sees growing evidence of
links between human-induced global warming, higher sea temperatures and enhanced
hurricane intensity.

The other group agrees that global warming is helping to fuel an increase in sea
temperatures, but maintains that little or no evidence points to a current
effect on hurricanes.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              142 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ALTMIRE TESTS HART;
UNFAVORABLE POLITICAL CLIMATE MAY ALSO SPELL TROUBLE FOR REPUBLICAN INCUMBENT
NEW OPPONENT, UNFAVORABLE POLITICAL CLIMATE MIGHT SPELL TROUBLE

BYLINE: Gary Rotstein, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 991 words


At the start of the new millennium, Melissa Hart seized for Republicans the
congressional district north of Pittsburgh that Democrats had long controlled.
In two successive races, the energetic conservative showed no sign of giving it
up.

Democrats see the 4th Congressional District seat as ripe for retaking, however,
through a combination of anti-incumbent sentiment among voters and a capable
candidate in Jason Altmire, 38, aggressive, politically moderate and
better-funded than his predecessors.

"With all due respect to the candidates who have run against Melissa before,
she's never really had a tough race," said political consultant Ron Klink, who
lives in the district and represented it in Congress in the 1990s. "I think
Jason's an underdog, clearly, but not as much as everybody thought he was going
to be, and not as much as previous candidates were."

The race pits two Washington-experienced, relatively young candidates who have
to win over the district's many blue-collar voters with socially conservative
views. The Democratic registration advantage of 55,000 voters contrasts with
increasingly Republican voting tendencies in the district, which includes
northern Allegheny County, where both candidates live. It includes some or all
of Beaver, Butler, Lawrence and Mercer counties to the west and north and
Westmoreland County to the east.

Ms. Hart, 44, who served a portion of the district in the state Senate for 10
years, won her three congressional elections by gaining 59 percent or more of
votes over Democrats Terry Van Horne in 2000 and Stevan Drobac in 2002 and 2004.
She stands out as Pennsylvania's first Republican congresswoman and a strong
voice on conservative issues, generally praising President Bush.

"I think he's probably made some mistakes, but I think everyone does," she told
one person in Shaler when door-knocking last week, winning him over with
forthrightness, even though he disagreed with her about the president and with
some of her staunchest anti-abortion views.

Mr. Altmire used to lobby the congresswoman in Washington as UPMC's vice
president for government relations. He lives across the street from her brother
in McCandless, and won the Democratic primary over businesswoman Georgia Berner.
The race sapped his initial bank balance but built his name recognition in the
district. Originally from Lower Burrell, he is in his first race for public
office, but he served in the 1990s as a Capitol aide to former U.S. Rep. Pete
Peterson, of Florida.

Ms. Hart has sought to use Mr. Altmire's more recent Washington experience as a
negative, using "lobbyist" as a disparaging term for him. He contends there was
nothing wrong with the job he did for UPMC for seven years after leaving
congressional work, but he would be glad for a chance to debate the role of
special interests in Washington. Ms. Hart has yet to agree to any of several
debate opportunities suggested by groups within the district.

"I feel like we're very close" in the race, said Mr. Altmire, who has been
working hard to familiarize himself with the heavy concentration of Democrats in
Beaver and Lawrence counties and the Alle-Kiski valley, where his campaign
office is based. "People know who Melissa Hart is. They've already made up their
mind about her. We just need to let people know who I am."

Part of the enthusiasm held by Democrats throughout the district and in
Washington is based on a poll done last month by a firm hired by the Altmire
campaign, suggesting he was behind Ms. Hart among likely voters by a 48-44
percent margin. It helped lead the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee
to place the 4th District on a short "emerging races" list of viable challengers
to Republican incumbents, which, Mr. Altmire said, has led to financial
contributions from national sources.

When asked what she thought of the chances the poll was accurate, Ms. Hart
smiled and said, "Zero." She has done her own polling, declining to release
details, but said they showed her with a double-digit lead.

"We're talking about issues, not polls," she said. "Sure, he's going to try to
spin a story that he's a credible candidate. We're just going to go out and do
our job and not worry about him."

The candidates' fund-raising reports through Sept. 30 will be released this
week, and the Hart campaign staff says hers will show more than $1 million in
the bank, of more than $1.7 million raised overall, with a total goal of $2
million for the race.

That outweighs the $270,000 on hand that Mr. Altmire said he would report, with
$600,000 raised overall and a goal of $1 million. He said he didn't have to
match the incumbent's funds, but merely raise enough to show he's competitive
and to run television ads.

He's been doing that with the help of national figures such as Democratic
National Committee Chairman Howard Dean, who visited the district over the
summer, and political humorist Al Franken, the featured guest at an Oct. 13
fund-raiser for Mr. Altmire in the Strip District. Ms. Hart was dismissive of
such backers of her opponent because they're far more liberal than the
district's Democrats.

She began airing ads a week ago focused on her support for the Medicare Part D
prescription drug program for senior citizens. Mr. Altmire began TV spot days
later, criticizing her on Social Security, veterans benefits and student loan
issues.

If the 4th District is like many competitive races in the nation, it ultimately
could be determined by how voters, especially Democrats who have developed
Republican voting tendencies, feel about the Bush administration's policies and
GOP-led House of Representatives. The polls suggesting many Pennsylvania
Democrats are in a mood to turn out an even higher-profile Republican incumbent,
U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum, help lend optimism to Mr. Altmire.

"If you like the way things are going, vote for Melissa Hart," the challenger
tells many people he greets. "If you want some change, vote for me."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gary Rotstein can be reached at grotstein@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1255.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: Jason Altmire talks with supporters
while campaigning in New Castle, Lawrence County, at a fund-raiser for Gov. Ed
Rendell.
PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: U.S. Rep. Melissa Hart runs to a house while
campaigning door-to-door in Shaler on Tuesday. A campaign worker found someone
home who wanted to talk with the congresswoman.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              151 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE COLOR OF THE YEAR;
THIS YEAR, AMERICANS REALIZED THAT 'GREEN IS THE NEW RED, WHITE AND BLUE'

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 767 words


I know that you should never generalize about global warming from your own
weather, but as a longtime resident of Washington, D.C., it's hard not to,
considering that it's been so balmy this winter season I half expected the
cherry blossoms to come out for Christmas. In fact, my wife was rummaging
through her closet the other day and emerged to tell me she needed a whole new
wardrobe -- "a global warming wardrobe," clothes that are summer weight but
winter colors.

For this, and other reasons, had I been editing Time magazine I would not have
opted for the "you" in YouTube as Person of the Year -- although that was very
clever. No, I'd have run an all-green Time cover under the headline, "Color of
the Year." Because I think that the most important thing to happen this past
year was that living and thinking "green" -- that is, mobilizing for the
environmental/energy challenge we now face -- hit Main Street.

For so many years the term "green" could never scale. It was trapped in a corner
by its opponents, who defined it as "liberal," "tree-hugging," "girly-man,"
"unpatriotic," "vaguely French."

No more. We reached a tipping point this year -- where living, acting,
designing, investing and manufacturing green came to be understood by a critical
mass of citizens, entrepreneurs and officials as the most patriotic,
capitalistic, geopolitical, healthy and competitive thing they could do. Hence
my own motto: "Green is the new red, white and blue."

How did we get here? It was a combination of factors: Katrina, Al Gore's
terrific movie, the growing awareness that our gas guzzlers are financing the
terrorists, preachers and rogue regimes we're fighting, the real profits that
major companies like GE and DuPont are making by going green, and the fact that
even the Pentagon has given birth to "Green Hawks," who are obsessed with
powering our army with less energy.

The most telling sign was the last election, when "being green became
pragmatic," said the Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg. "No one thought that
running an ad on alternative energy was something for an elite target audience
anymore. The only debate we had was whether it was one of the three things a
candidate should talk about or the only thing."

And now, Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart has earned its black eyes for labor practices. But
the world's biggest retailer lately has gotten the green bug -- in part to
improve its image, but also because it has found that being more energy
efficient is highly profitable for itself and its customers.

Wal-Mart has opened two green stores where it is experimenting with alternative
building materials, lighting, power systems and designs, the best of which it
plans to spread to all its outlets. I just visited the one in McKinney, Texas.
From the big wind turbine in the parking lot and solar panels on key walls,
which provide 15 percent of the store's electricity, to the cooking oil from
fried chicken that is recycled in its bio-boiler and heats the store in winter,
to the shift to LED lights in all exterior signs and grocery and freezer cases
-- which last longer and sharply reduce heat and therefore the air-conditioning
bill -- you know you're not in your parents' Wal-Mart.

Other big companies are now sending teams to inspect the green Wal-Marts, and
customers are asking the manager how they can adopt these innovations at home.

"When I started having people stop me in the aisles and say, 'How do I do that?'
or 'Can I do that?' that's when we really started realizing that this isn't just
a small thing, this can be really large and can be very rewarding to the
planet," said the store's manager, Brent Allen.

Hey, the more energy-saving bulbs Wal-Mart sells, the more innovation it
triggers, the more prices go down. That's how you get scale. And scale is
everything if you want to change the world, but to achieve scale you have to
make sure that green energy sources -- biofuels, clean coal, and solar, wind and
nuclear power -- can be delivered as cheaply as oil, gas and dirty coal. That
will require a gasoline or carbon tax to keep the price of fossil fuels up so
investors in green-tech will not get undercut while they drive innovation
forward and prices down. The U.S. Congress has to stop running from this fact.

Because while our embrace of green has finally reached a tipping point, the
tipping point on climate change and species loss is also fast approaching, if
it's not already here. There's no time to lose.

"People see an endangered species every day now when they look in the mirror,"
said the environmentalist Rob Watson. "It is not about the whales anymore."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By T. Brinton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

TOUGH EXAM;
MR. ROOSEVELT PASSES HIS FIRST MAJOR TEST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H-2

LENGTH: 564 words


When Pittsburgh Public Schools Superintendent Mark Roosevelt took the job last
year, he couldn't have expected it to be easy. The politics of trying to close
under-utilized schools while raising test scores in an unfavorable financial
climate and declining enrollment basically doomed his predecessor, the
well-intentioned John Thompson.

Not surprisingly in a region where change comes hard, Pittsburgh hasn't wholly
embraced the "right-sizing" Mr. Roosevelt has championed, but last week his
leadership started to pay off.

In a 6-3 vote Tuesday night, the school board took an action that was both bold
and necessary. Among other things, the plan will close 22 elementary schools,
expand 10 others to include sixth-, seventh- and eighth-graders and turn eight
low-performing schools into accelerated learning academies. The plan cuts 10,177
of the district's 13,706 empty seats.

The debate wasn't pretty but it is hard to argue against the facts -- although
some tried. The Pittsburgh school district faces an operating deficit of $45
million next year and must dip into its reserves to cover it.

Worse yet, academic achievement -- the very reason the district exists -- has
been disheartening, even shocking, especially for minority students. The plan
adopted by the board is tough medicine for both maladies. Far from playing
favorites, as he was accused, Mr. Roosevelt relied on reasonable criterion, with
excess capacity, fair use of resources and achievement chief among them.

Mr. Roosevelt took up his duties only on Aug. 29, and his speed in addressing
the district's problems has been remarkable. In part, recent history prepared
the way for him.

When he came on board, the great fight over neighborhood schools, which for a
time reduced the board to a bunch of dysfunctional bickerers, had largely passed
by, leaving in its wake a rough consensus that Pittsburgh public schools
couldn't go on the way they were. The board also wisely agreed to subject Mr.
Roosevelt's plan to an up-or-down vote, rather than see it pulled apart one
thread at a time.

It also helped that Mr. Roosevelt came as a politician with a deep interest in
education, not as a member of the education establishment. While his political
skills have not won over everyone -- particularly in the African-American
community -- his clear vision has helped immensely. He knows very well what he
was hired to do, and his dedication and professionalism have wrought a
remarkable change, one that can invigorate the district.

This, of course, is a sad victory -- nobody can take pleasure in closing schools
that have been beloved in their neighborhoods. Nor is it an end in itself. The
real victory will come only when the district is both operating within its means
and producing high-achieving students across the board.

If the plan adopted succeeds in those goals, the racially charged distrust that
accompanied its passage will dissipate. The charges of racism, and the negative
votes of two black board members, are unfortunate but should be understood as
the product of frustration, not to mention the memory of days when racism did
lay an obvious dead hand on the life of the city.

Mark Roosevelt did not come to Pittsburgh to perpetuate those days. His medicine
is meant to cure, not harm. Together with the board members who supported him,
he deserves praise for making a good start, although much hard work remains.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              174 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HEWLETT'S DUNN ON THE HOT SEAT OVER LEAK PROBE

BYLINE: Rachel Konrad The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Hewlett-Packard Co. Chairwoman Patricia Dunn is under scrutiny from business and
ethics experts after she oversaw an invasive and possibly illegal effort to
snoop into the home phone calls of fellow HP board members.

Ms. Dunn, a former freelance journalist who has become one of the most powerful
women in corporate America, oversaw the ouster of former HP CEO Carly Fiorina in
February 2005 and the hiring of Mark Hurd as her successor. Now analysts say she
may be the next one to leave.

"When you start spying on your own board, you darn well better have probable
cause," said Peter Morici, professor at the Professor Robert H. Smith School of
Business at the University of Maryland. "If the chairman thinks this is the way
business ought to be conducted, maybe it's time for her to take a sabbatical.
It's arrogant and inappropriate."

HP disclosed in a filing yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission
that the company sought the private telephone records of board members in a bid
to determine which director leaked confidential company information to the
media.

In the SEC filing, the company said it would decline to nominate one board
member, George A. Keyworth II, for re-election because he was a source of the
leaks. Mr. Keyworth, who has acknowledged leaking information, will end his
service on the HP board no later than March 2007.

But HP also revealed that lawyers hired to review its tactics could not
determine if the investigation "complied in all respects with applicable law,"
the company said in the filing.

California's attorney general subpoenaed some HP officials yesterday and is
examining the tactics of the investigation, which relied on a data mining method
known as "pretexting."

In this case, investigators hired by HP called the phone company and
impersonated at least one board member to get logs of phone calls to and from
his home, said the attorney of a former HP director.

California Attorney General Bill Lockyer characterized the state's investigation
as being in the "early fact-finding stage" and refused to say whether criminal
charges would be brought against any director or the private investigators HP
hired.

"I don't have a settled view on whether it was illegal yet, but it certainly was
colossally stupid," he said in a phone interview yesterday.

HP said in the filing it would cooperate with the state probe and that no
recording or eavesdropping of directors' phone conversations had occurred.
Spokesman Ryan Donovan said the company would not provide other further details
of the investigation. Ms. Dunn declined to comment through Mr. Donovan.

Mr. Keyworth's departure comes after a January article on CNET Network Inc.'s
News.com, which included a quotation from an anonymous HP source who described a
gathering of HP directors at a posh spa in Southern California. Although the
source didn't leak high-level strategic details or say anything inflammatory,
the statement angered Ms. Dunn, who has been on the board for eight years.

At a board meeting in May, Ms. Dunn identified Mr. Keyworth as CNET's source, as
well as the source of other leaks dating to early 2005. The board asked Mr.
Keyworth, 66, to resign, but he refused.

The attempted ouster riled another board member, Tom Perkins, 74, who resigned
and stormed out of the May 18 meeting.

In the months since his resignation, Mr. Perkins -- co-founder of venture firm
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers -- complained to other executives and
journalists about the investigation's ethical implications. He decried it as an
invasion of privacy.

His attorney, Viet Dinh, a former assistant U.S. attorney general, says he
discovered that one of HP's private investigators also obtained the last four
digits of Mr. Perkins' Social Security number.

The investigator used that information to open an online account with AT&T, Mr.
Dinh said. The investigator then called the telephone company and impersonated
Mr. Perkins, offering up his social security digits as proof of identity and
asking AT&T to send a record of phone calls to and from his house in December
2005 and January 2006 to a free, Web-based e-mail account.

In August, Mr. Dinh asked the SEC to require HP to submit a regulatory filing
with details of Mr. Perkins' resignation. HP acknowledged in the filing
yesterday that the SEC's Division of Corporation Finance sent the company a
letter about Mr. Perkins' resignation.

Mr. Perkins was unavailable for comment but issued a statement through his
lawyer.

"Despite this current disagreement, Tom Perkins has a warm place in his heart
for HP and believes in the prospects and performance of HP under the leadership
of Mark Hurd," Mr. Dinh said.

Ms. Dunn, 52, resigned as CEO of Barclays Global Investors in 2002 to battle
breast cancer and melanoma, but she's taken an active role as chairwoman of HP,
the 11th largest company on the Fortune 500.

She was one of the board members who hired Ms. Fiorina in 1999, but Ms. Dunn
became disillusioned over a lackluster stock performance and, in 2004, wrote a
four-page report to Ms. Fiorina detailing her concerns.

Ms. Dunn announced Ms. Fiorina's resignation in February 2005, and two months
later introduced Mr. Hurd, who was favored by Mr. Keyworth and Mr. Perkins,
among others.

Bruce Oliver, professor and director of the Center for Business Ethics at
Rochester Institute of Technology, said Dunn had the right to seek out the
source of leaks, but she crossed an ethical line in going after the home phone
logs.

"To engage in some activity where you're hiring someone to do something on the
QT where they're misrepresenting themselves, that's over the line of what
constitutes ethical behavior," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Sakuma/Associated Press: Hewlett-Packard Co. President and
Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd, right, speaks at a news conference with
Patricia Dunn, HP's chairwoman, in this March 2005 file photo.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 25, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: Natalie Hill, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; PEOPLE ON THE MOVE / DATELINE PITTSBURGH; Pg. C-10

LENGTH: 861 words


Architecture

Studio 109 Designs has hired David Fuller as architect.

Hayes Large named the following individuals principals: Donald Goodman, Karl
Kessler, David Dickinson, Brad Furey and Michael Zanin.

Associations& Organizations

Bernie McShea, senior vice president, business investment of Pittsburgh Regional
Alliance, was elected to the board of directors of the Northeastern Economic
Developers Association, for a three-year term to begin on Jan. 1.

LEADers Referral Networking Group of Southwestern Pennsylvania announced the
election of its 2007 officers: President: Robert C. DeWitt, Ph.D., Partners For
Performance Consulting; vice president: Jerry L. Keller, Practic Solutions;
secretary: Cheryl A. Hyatt, The Charitable Resources Group; treasurer: Briana K.
Banner, National City Bank; marketing director: Donna P. Barger, Sewickley
Graphic & Design Inc.; social co-chairs: William G. Fusco, William G. Fusco
Insurance Agency; and Ellen Hitchins, Cuttings Flower & Garden Market.

The Japan-America Society of Pennsylvania elected officers for 2007: Chairman:
Stephen Ceurvorst, partner, LCP Capital LLC; president: Susumu "Sam" Ishihara,
senior vice president, Sumitomo Corporation of America; vice president: Ed
Gerstenhaber, retired Westinghouse Electric executive; vice president: Brian
Heery, senior vice president and chief operating officer, Mitsubishi Electric
Power Products; counsel/secretary: Dennis Unkovic, author and partner, Meyer
Unkovic & Scott; and treasurer: Colleen Dimitroff, senior manager, Global
Employment Services, Deloitte Tax LLP.

Consulting

Ryan & Co. promoted Christopher J. Girod to senior manager and Charlie Masterson
to manager.

Education

Allegheny Valley School announced that Jeff Carraway joined as director of
finance and named Carol Erzen director of training and staff development.

Engineering

Infrastructure Engineers Inc. hired Joseph R. McKool as its lead bridge engineer
in its Bridgeville office.

Graphic Design

Steelcoast Creative hired Traci King as a designer to support the current
graphic design team.

Health & Medicine

Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh announced that Steven G. Docimo, M.D., will
serve as the vice president of medical affairs, effective Jan. 1.

Thomas E. Read, M.D., chief of the Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery at the
Western Pennsylvania Hospital, was elected to the American Board of Colon and
Rectal Surgery.

Law

Pepper Hamilton LLP announced that four new associates have joined the
Pittsburgh office. Dr. Gary A. Nitowski, Rebecca M. Bachner and Brienne S.
Terril have joined the intellectual property practice group, and Amber M.
Schuknecht joined the commercial litigation practice group.

Manufacturing

Timothy C. Coyne has joined the Trane Co. as the inside sales leader of the
residential and light commercial division.

Marketing

Pipitone Group hired Christopher Cruz, interactive account supervisor; Nicole
Zeller, account supervisor; and Michael Maskarinec, creative director, in its
channel marketing team.

Media

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette has named Mary Ann Brown general manager of
post-gazette.com. Ms. Brown starts in her new role on Jan. 2.

Nonprofit

Holy Family Institute announced that Victor Papale was hired as vice
president/COO.

Historic Harmony elected officers and two additional directors: President and
chief executive officer: John S. Ruch, retired PPG Industries manager of
corporate public information; vice president: Cathryn Rape, First Energy meter
service and Harmony Borough mayor; secretary: Samuel F. Regal, retired
Consolidated Natural Gas controller; and treasurer: Joseph White, University of
Pittsburgh associate professor of history. Non-officer directors reelected to
serve three-year terms through 2009 were Tim Shaffer, attorney, Dillon
McCandless King Coulter & Graham and former state senator; and Eleanor M. Wise,
retired Seneca Valley School District.

Carnegie Science Center appointed new members to the board. Albert J. Neupaver,
president and CEO, Wabtec Corp.; John P. Abriola, president, Select Financial
Group LLC; Kathryn Sutter, vice president of Leadership and Organizational
Development, Dick's Sporting Goods Inc.; and James A. Trainham, vice president
of Science & Technology, PPG Industries.

Elected to the CL 504 board were Thomas Dodson, senior commercial relationship
manager, Allegheny Valley Bank; Wayne Grinnik, president and CEO, Keystone
Business Services; Daniel Rivetti, partner, Robb Leonard Mulvihill; Mark Scott,
principal, SG&C Associates; and Jim Young, vice president, MSP DigitalDirect.

Professional Services

Continuous Learning Group hired Don Hillier as chief financial officer.

Technology

Thomas J. Hagan joined the SoftWriters Team as pharmacy management consultant.

Let us know...

Dateline Pittsburgh appears every Monday. To propose an item, send information
to Natalie Hill, Dateline Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the
Allies, Pittsburgh 15222, fax to 412-263-0908 or e-mail to
nhill@post-gazette.com

Photos submitted for the print edition version of this column may be sent via
e-mail in JPEG format, 170 DPI, to photos@post-gazette.com. Photo size should be
an 8- by 10-inch or 4- by 5-inch head shot at 170 dpi.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (no caption)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RUNWAY LOOKS REFLECT NEED FOR STABILITY, ROMANCE

BYLINE: LaMont Jones, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 976 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK CITY


Monique Lhuillier's cocktail dresses and evening gowns for spring in surprising
shades of moss and forest greens have meaning deeper than a fashion designer's
preference of the moment.

So, too, do Pamella Roland's glenplaid dress with a chantilly lace back, Tibi's
Egyptian embroidery pintucked dress and the scores of bubble skirts being sent
down runways here by womenswear designers as Olympus Fashion Week high-steps
toward its conclusion today.

From colors and patterns to shapes and silhouettes, the clothes created for men
and women for spring 2007 reflect and reveal something significant about the
current social climate in the United States, some observers say.

"People are desiring romance and beauty as an antidote to all of the horror of
the world," said Stan Herman, a loungewear designer and president of the Council
of Fashion Designers of America.

They're also reflecting a live-in-the-moment attitude.

"People are buying jewelry, big-ticket items," said New York stylist and costume
designer Rosemary Ponzo. "It's the idea of taking that risk. There's a sense of
urgency on our planet now, the sense that anything could happen, whether it be a
hurricane or terrorism."

Boxy jackets, pyramid-shaped babydoll dresses and tent-like gowns are in nearly
every womenswear line, as well as bubble or tulip skirts. Add sheer overlays,
stone and crystal adornment, golden glimmer and silvery shimmer, dressmaker
details such as appliques and rosettes, and the result is a sort of romanticism
that American consumers and others in the West are craving.

"I was at a show and the lady next to me said, 'Romance, romance, that's all we
want in England,' " Mr. Herman said.

The soft fabrics and classic shapes seen traditionally in lingerie and
loungewear are being adapted to daywear and eveningwear, he said. That may
inspire women to try silhouettes that tend to flatter a very limited
demographic, such as the egg-shaped bubble skirt.

"I don't know if women want to look like a balloon, but if it's done well,
people like it," said Mr. Herman.

"It's a very, very feminine shape," added eBay style director and former fashion
journalist Constance White.

This movement also is reflected in color.

The widespread use of all sorts of hues for spring surprised many
trend-watchers. Given the strong trend this fall toward black and other dark
colors, next spring was expected to be dark as well. Designers were trending in
that direction, but the public somehow caused them to veer back toward color,
Ms. White said.

"When you think about how ubiquitous black is for fall," she said, "there's been
very little black" for spring. "While designers and fashion leaders were
thinking one thing, consumers were thinking something else. Men and women want
something uplifting and joyous. A feeling of innocence has pervaded fashion
right now. People want to feel innocent but may not feel it."

The prevalence of green, from sportswear to dressier looks, is "an ongoing
phenomenon, showing renewed respect for green that speaks to preservation of the
environment, sustainability," said Leatrice Eiseman, director of The Pantone
Color Institute.

The institute identified the shades of "golden apricot" and a dustier, milkier
version of brown called "cafe cr

!-- e8(unknown) -->me" as two shades of brown and eight other colors that are
dominating American spring collections.

Although a season's color palette is "not totally reinvented" each season, Ms.
Eiseman said, color selection is intentional because designers have "an
awareness about what's happening in the world around us."

This time, she observed, designers leaned toward neutral colors for "big-ticket
items" -- suits, gowns, dresses, coats -- and incorporated brighter colors for
accent. That was evident in the waves of browns, grays, various shades of white
and even black that designers have been sending out.

Even menswear, which tends to change less than womenswear, is pregnant with
meaning. Looks continue to become cleaner and more tailored, with soft neutrals
as signature colors and neons such as yellow and green infusing a restrained
brightness. Nautical and spectator influences are strong, with two-toned
stripes, boat shoes and Bermuda shorts prominent in lines by A+Dam, Perry Ellis
and John Bartlett.

"This past Monday commemorated the five-year [anniversary] of Sept. 11, and it
seems that there is still a lot of global uncertainty regarding war, terrorism
and soaring gas prices," said Alison Sokolove, menswear fashion director for The
Tobe Report. "I think this marks a time of reflection for many, and people want
to spend their money on clothes that are clean and classic yet sophisticated,
and that is what a lot of menswear designers offered up for spring 2007."

"Overall, there's a real modernist feel influenced by Balenciaga, who is
influenced by the '60s, that is very clean and architectural," said Ms. White,
the eBay style director.

Ms. Eiseman, the color specialist, agreed, noting the powerful influence of art.
Color trends tend to be forecast two years in advance, she said, citing the
popularity of brown spawned by "The DaVinci Code" movie released in May.

The Mona Lisa image also is instructive for spring makeup trends, with a move
away from shine and high gloss to a more matte look. Even bright shades of
lipstick will be matte, and eyes will be darkened by navys and grays rather than
black, said MAC makeup artist Polly Osmond.

Ms. White sees spring fashion trends also influenced by a yearning for
spirituality -- especially for baby boomers -- a search to answer the question,
"What does my life mean?"

For men and especially women, the new designs suggest "a glorification of the
body," said Ms. Ponzo, the New York stylist.

"People are just living for the moment. And they feel that if they take risks on
the outside, with fashion, then they can take risks in their lives."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette fashion editor LaMont Jones can be reached at
ljones@post-gazette.com or at 412-263-1469.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Mainz/Getty Images for IMG: Bill Blass' spring line
includes gowns that put forth the idea of romanticism.
\ PHOTO: Stuart Ramson/Associated Press: Oscar de la Renta's spring collection
includes the egg-shaped bubble skirt look.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

EARTH TONES WITH A TWIST ARE WINNING FAVOR

BYLINE: Maggie Galehouse, Houston Chronicle

SECTION: METRO; Pg. SG-5

LENGTH: 806 words


HOUSTON -- A tall orange box tugs the eye toward the back of Brett Zamore's
bungalow.

More than a visual anchor for off-white walls, this colored "core" is
functional: It holds a closet, hides the fridge and helps stretch the home's
800-square-foot interior.

"Color is critical in architecture," says Zamore, 34, a Houston architect who
has gained national attention for his rehabs of small spaces. "If you have a
white box with one wall of color, your eye pulls back toward that wall and it
may make the space feel larger. "

Color guidelines like Zamore's never go out of style. But colors do.

Each year's fresh "new" palettes, offered up by paint companies, interior
designers and others, are conceived as much as two years in advance by national
color associations. Their choices creep into stores and, in turn, our
consciousness, dictating the colors we want for reasons we may not even know.
Representatives of the associations say that color trends respond to the current
social, culture and even political climate.

The most recent palette offers a new look at some old friends: earth tones.

"One of the largest factors in color design today is environmental sensitivity,"
says Margaret Walch, director of the Color Association of the United States.
"It's where we are culturally, and it's where we feel threatened."

Earth tones are comforting, Walch adds, and the palette has been broadened far
beyond the ochers, browns and rusts most associate with the Southwest. "Today's
earth tones include humbler metallics, like pewter, bronze and brass," Walch
says. "Blues and grays are part of it, too. It isn't just linguistic nonsense;
we're talking about water and sky and actual soil. All these colors, I think,
have a softness to them. And there's a big difference between blatant color and
soft effects."

A painted and silk-screened wallpaper pattern by Houston artisan Rusty Arena,
the founder of Arena Design/Painted Papers, seems to strike all the right chords
for this new palette. It features an iridescent background of dusty seafoam
green and chalky blue accentuated with twiggy brown birds crafted from Arena's
imagination.

When the design became so popular that it "saved the business," Arena concluded
that the appeal lay largely in color.

"It's the color of the earth, as seen from outer space," he says.

The pattern, which has sold five times more than any of Arena's other designs in
the past year, is popular on the East Coast and the West, and gets hung in
kitchens, powder rooms, bedrooms and dining rooms. "It doesn't go into pastel
but it's not jewel-toned," says the artist.

Paint companies are also touting earth tones. Glidden's color of the year is
Golden Kiwi, a greeny gold that mimics both the softness and vitality of nature.
Benjamin Moore & Co. offers colors based on morning (Fog Mist), afternoon (Amber
Waves) and evening light (Currant Red).

For many people, though, the question isn't "which" color to use on the walls,
but whether the walls should have any color at all. Fear of color is common,
says Lloyd Gite, who owns a Houston gallery filled with African art. But if you
want to display any kind of art in your home, says Gite, colored walls can bring
out the best in the canvases and objects.

The Gite Gallery boldly goes where many galleries dare not go. After visiting
too many galleries with unwelcoming walls, Gite decided to give each room in his
space a richly colored backdrop. The main room is pumpkin pie, the dining room
is eggplant, and the staircase to the second floor is glossy black.

"I encourage people to try color on their walls," Gite says. "Sit down and try
to envision your space if you were to paint your walls green. Then think about
how it would look to add art."

For interiors with volatile and rapidly changing inhabitants -- namely, children
-- the key is picking colors that can change and grow along with the child, says
Peggy Hull, owner of Creative Touch Interiors.

Nurseries are still done in yellows or blues and pinks, says Hull, but the trend
is toward brighter, more saturated colors. And adding lime green or
Mediterranean blue to bright pink can transform a little girl's room into a
pre-teen haven.

"Teenage girls love hot pink and citrus lime greens," Hull said. "Preteens and
teens also like hot pink leopard print. Think about feather boas and Britney
Spears, that rock star kind of look. Real bright and punchy. They're not afraid
of color."

Some designers warn that too much color can ruin a space, erasing details and
muddying the atmosphere. For architect Zamore, less is always more.

"This year, greens are in, but color always stays the same in the sense that
it's there for information, for coding, for making someone feel something," says
the principal of Brett Zamore Design. "Color can be a powerful tool, but it
needs to be used in a smart and direct way."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FALL HOME & GARDEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              210 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

PROSPECTS FOR BLACK GOLD PUTTING CUBA IN SUITORS' SIGHTS

BYLINE: Gary Marx, Chicago Tribune

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 913 words


Known more for cigars and rum than oil rigs, this socialist nation has become
the latest country drawn into the frenzied hunt for oil, hoping that a gusher in
its Caribbean fields will ease its energy dependence and kick-start its economy.

After years of boasting about its energy potential but seeing few results, Cuban
authorities received good news last year when the U.S. Geological Survey
estimated Cuba's northern offshore basin contains 4.6 billion barrels of oil and
9.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.

The amount of oil is roughly half the estimated reserves in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge, which President Bush wants to open for drilling, and could
provide Cuba daily production of about 300,000 barrels.

"Cuba is not Saudi Arabia or Venezuela, but it could become a major oil and gas
player in the region," said Jorge Pinon, former president of Amoco Oil in Latin
America and now a senior research associate at the University of Miami.

Already, oil companies from Canada, Spain, Norway, Malaysia and India have
signed agreements with Cuba's state-owned company, CUPET, to begin exploring in
Cuban waters more than 6,000 feet deep.

Earlier this month, India's state-run petroleum company raised its stake in
Cuba's oil sweepstakes by signing a deal to join CUPET in exploring a
1,660-square-mile area off Cuba's northwestern coast.

R.S. Butola, a top Indian oil executive, said geological studies of the area are
promising. The initial exploration is expected to last several years and cost
tens of millions of dollars.

Bringing a deep-water oil well on line would take many more years and cost $1
billion or more.

"It's a question of prospecting and doing a lot of work," said Mr. Butola,
managing director of ONGC Videsh, the overseas arm of India's state-owned oil
company.

Venezuela's state-run oil giant, Petroleos de Venezuela, along with Brazilian
and Chinese companies, also are interested in exploring for high-quality crude
in Cuba's 43,250-square-mile offshore zone.

American oil corporations are barred from participating because of U.S. trade
sanctions against the island. The sanctions also would prohibit the United
States from importing Cuban oil.

Embargo opponents and oil industry insiders argue that the United States should
grant an exemption to American petroleum companies, much like the law already
allows for U.S. agricultural and medical exports to Cuba.

"We need all of the increased crude oil and natural gas that we can get our
hands on," said Charles Drevna, executive vice president of the Washington-based
National Petrochemical & Refiners Association.

"It makes both economic and national security sense to develop those resources
either in our own waters or as close to our own waters as possible," Mr. Drevna
said.

The hope of a major strike in Cuban waters was buttressed in September by the
announcement that as much as 15 billion barrels of oil was discovered in
ultra-deep waters northwest of Cuba in the Gulf of Mexico. It could be the
largest U.S. oil discovery in decades.

"There has to be oil," Jose Luis Rodriguez, Cuba's minister of economy and
planning, said last week. "The form of the structures in the Caribbean basin, in
Cuba's waters, have the same structure as the oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico,
as much for the Mexican part" as the U.S. part.

In February, executives from ExxonMobil Corp. and other American corporations
met with Cuban officials in Mexico City to discuss oil exploration in Cuba's
gulf waters, which extend to within 50 miles of the Florida coast.

But the meeting was disrupted after an American-owned hotel expelled the Cuban
officials under pressure from the U.S. Treasury Department, which argued that
housing the Cubans violated the U.S. trade embargo against the island.

Cuban and Mexican authorities reacted with anger to the expulsions and accused
Washington of interfering in other countries' internal affairs.

One Cuban official who took part in the meeting was Manuel Marrero, senior
petroleum adviser at Cuba's Ministry of Basic Industry. He said that only 16 of
Cuba's 59 offshore oil blocks have been auctioned, leaving plenty of opportunity
for U.S. companies.

"We have 43 more blocks available for negotiation," Mr. Marrero said. "We know
U.S. companies are considering it. The ball is in the U.S. court."

So far, American multinationals haven't thrown their weight behind the Cuban
effort because the potential amount of oil at stake, while impressive, is not
yet worth the political battle and financial risk, experts say.

Instead, American executives are focused on getting legislation passed that
would open millions of acres to oil and gas drilling in U.S. territorial waters.

The U.S. House and Senate recently approved separate bills to ease drilling
restrictions in the Gulf of Mexico and other offshore areas despite opposition
from environmental groups.

President Bush and influential Cuban-American legislators oppose U.S.
participation in oil exploration in Cuban waters, because, they argue, it would
strengthen the island's authoritarian government.

Rep. Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who introduced a bill in May allowing
U.S. companies to bid on oil exploration leases in Cuban waters, said the
political climate in Washington could change if Democrats score big gains in
upcoming congressional elections.

A strong opponent of the embargo, Mr. Flake said Democrats generally have been
more supportive than Republicans toward easing U.S. travel and trade
restrictions to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: PETER LEO

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; THE MORNING FILE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 754 words


Still the heart of palms

One of the upsides to global warming: By the end of the century, Pittsburgh
could well be an ocean resort, overrun with retired seniors from Greenland
weaving their golf carts around swaying palms. Until then, we'll have to settle
for the Phipps Conservatory to eyeball a magnificent palm. Or go to some
hellhole such as Miami or Los Angeles, while they're still above water.

For a while there, it sounded as though Los Angeles was getting rid of its
famous palms. Not so, says John Pomfret of The Washington Post. L.A. is simply
limiting the planting of one palm species -- the tall and scrawny Mexican fan --
but that announcement, coupled with the city's program to plant 1 million
non-palms -- oaks, sycamores and other reliable shade-providers -- was enough to
set off a round of media obituaries about the iconic palm.

But it is true that palm trees aren't doing the job. Despite its balmy weather,
L.A. is practically bald. Only 17 percent of the sprawling city is covered by
tree canopy; the nationwide urban average is 28 percent. Throw in all that
pavement, and you have what experts call an urban heat island -- in L.A.'s case,
the world's hottest. The city's average temperature has increased about 1 degree
per decade. In the 1930s, 100-degree summers were unheard of. Today, they're
normal.

Still time to move here, Los Angelenos.

A tree grows in Sacramento

Other major cities to launch big tree-planting programs include Washington,
Baltimore, Minneapolis, Chicago and Denver. In Sacramento, about 375,000 shade
trees have been given away to residents since 1990, and 4 million more are yet
to be planted. Residents can receive up to 10 free trees and expert planting
advice from the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, a publicly-owned power
company.

Perhaps the most outstanding feature of Sacramento's shade crusade is its
rarity, says The Washington Post's Blaine Harden, despite federal research
showing that trees can lower summer temperatures, significantly cut
air-conditioning bills and absorb greenhouse gases responsible for global
warming.

Sacramento's project easily pays for itself, with summertime energy savings
about double the cost of the trees. As they mature, trees already planted are
expected to save enough electricity to power about 14,000 homes.

From Bush to trees

One mature tree can provide the equivalent of five 10,000 BTU air conditioners
running 20 hours a day. Three shade trees strategically planted around a house
can reduce home air-conditioning bills by about 30 percent in hot, dry cities,
and a nationwide shade program could reduce air-conditioning use by at least 10
percent, according to Energy Department research.

Although Bush administration officials say urban trees are a priority, spending
on the federal Urban and Community Forestry Program has declined by about 25
percent in the past four years, from a high of $36 million annually to a
proposed $27 million in the coming year.

Pittsburgh needs more green

Most American cities have shrinking tree canopies, because they don't have the
money or will to maintain older shade trees and plant new ones. Our own dear
Pittsburgh falls into that category. A 2005 inventory showed that the city had
just 31,500 street trees, most of them in only fair condition, with more than
1,000 terminal. Thomas Hylton, a tree lover from Pottsville, wrote in this paper
a year ago of the importance of trees to Pittsburgh long-term: "Politicians like
to lavish money on glamour projects like the stadiums and the convention center.
But if Pittsburgh aims to be a place where people live, not just visit, it's
vitally important to pay attention to the appearance of its neighborhoods."

Well, it does rhyme

Many people credit Joyce Kilmer, one of the great New Jersey poets, with writing
one of the worst poems ever, "Trees." But there's no question his -- and Joyce
was a he -- heart was in the right place. He was killed in action at the Second
Battle of the Marne in 1918 at age 31.

Trees

I think that I shall never see

A poem lovely as a tree.

A tree whose hungry mouth is prest

Against the sweet earth's flowing breast;

A tree that looks at God all day,

And lifts her leafy arms to pray;

A tree that may in summer wear

A nest of robins in her hair;

Upon whose bosom snow has lain;

Who intimately lives with rain.

Poems are made by fools like me,

But only God can make a tree.

Say what you want about Joyce, he was right about trees. And he has a rest area
on the New Jersey Turnpike named after him. How many of us can say that?

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact us at pleo@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1112 or Portfolio,
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15222.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press: The noble palm that has come
to define Los Angeles is not dead yet, but as they begin to disappear they're
being replaced by shade trees.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 10, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE PAST IS PRESENT;
GM AND FORD, SEEKING TO REVIVE SINKING FORTUNES ,INTRODUCE NEW VERSIONS OF OLD
FAVORITES

BYLINE: DON HAMMONDS, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 714 words


General Motors and Ford Motor Co., the domestic automobile industry's two most
financially troubled companies, are gambling their recovery on new cars and
trucks designed to call to mind some of their most storied models.

The products, on display at the North American International Auto Show in
Detroit that kicked off this week with a media preview, include concept versions
of the Chevrolet Camaro and luxurious new Buick Enclave and all-new models of
the Cadillac Escalade and Ford Shelby GT 500.

Whether these and a long list of other products introduced in press showings
over the last couple of days will be enough to turn around the two auto giants
is the subject of much debate.

GM already has said that it will cut about 30,000 jobs and close 12 plants by
the end of 2008, including a West Mifflin stamping plant. Ford is expected to
soon announce it also will cut at least 30,000 jobs and close at least 10 North
American plants over the next five years. GM lost about $4 billion in last
year's first nine months, while Ford lost about $2.1 billion in the same period.

Executives for both companies, anxious to change the subject during the media
previews held before the show formally opens, are spending most of their time
talking about the glitz and excitement concerning their new products and concept
vehicles.

Clearly, the car that everybody was waiting for was the Camaro, which made its
debut yesterday.

The sleek, aggressive looking coupe has a 400-horsepower V-8 that company
officials say would get 30 miles per gallon or more on the highway by using a
new fuel management technology and comes with a six-speed manual transmission
and four-wheel independent suspension.

The veil also was lifted on the Buick Enclave , which GM officials tout as a
"vision of a new luxury crossover vehicle that encapsulates the new, youthful
spirit at Buick." Like the Chrysler Pacifica, with which it would likely
compete, the combination sport- utility vehicle-station wagon has center
consoles stretching between all seating rows, with controls that allow its six
passengers to use their own climate and audio system settings.

Seatbacks of the drivers and front passengers have fold-down trays and leather
satchels for second-row passengers, and there is a large, panoramic sky light
that extends from the front row seats to the third-row seating area.

GM also unveiled some new hybrid models at the show. These include the 2007
Saturn Vue Green Line, expected to get 27 mpg in the city and 32 on the highway
and to cost less than $23,000, and the 2008 Chevy Tahoe two-mode hybrid, using
technology that was co-developed by GM, BMW and DaimlerChrysler.

Cadillac's new Escalade models feature massive, muscled lines; a new grille
based on the popular Cadillac Sixteen concept of a few years ago; front fender
vent ports; and plenty of "bling" -- chrome accents. Inside, there is a new
interior with instrument gauges with white needles and blue light inlays with
continuously lit white LED backlighting.

The Escalade EXT SUV pickup also features integrated running boards, wraparound
fascias and styled mirrors.

All Escalades include a new 6.22-liter, all-aluminum V-8 producing 403
horsepower.

Over at Ford, the name "Shelby" has always been associated with torrid road
performance in limited edition numbers. Carroll Shelby, a well-known designer
and former race car driver, produced Mustangs and Cobras in the '60s that led
the industry in sheer performance.

For 2007, Ford is introducing the Shelby GT500 coupe and convertible, both of
which will be the most powerful factory-built Mustangs ever when they go on sale
this summer. They have supercharged 5.4-liter, 475-horsepower engines, and
unique gauges and interior designs to set them apart from more ordinary
Mustangs.

Ford's also entering the popular crossover field -- which combines SUV, station
wagon and even minivan characteristics -- with the 2007 Ford Edge, which
features the new "face" of Ford: a chrome three-bar grille.

It includes soft-touch interior materials everywhere and a panoramic vista roof,
a fold-down front passenger seat and laptop friendly center console. Power comes
from a 3.5-liter V-6 and an advanced six-speed automatic transmission, along
with fully independent suspension and available all-wheel drive.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hammonds can be reached at dhammonds@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1538.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Pidgeon/AFP/Getty Images: General Motors Vice Chairman Bob
Lutz drives a concept version of the Chevrolet Camaro yesterday at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit.
PHOTO: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images: Ed Welburn, foreground, chief designer at
General Motors, talks to the media yesterday as people crowd around the
Chevrolet Camaro concept car at the North American International Auto Show at
Cobo Hall in Detroit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              240 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FROZEN METHANE GAS DEPOSIT FOUND IN OCEAN FLOOR OFF CALIF.

BYLINE: Alicia Chang, The Associated Press

SECTION: SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Scientists have discovered an undersea deposit of frozen methane just off the
Southern California coast, but whether it can be harnessed as a potential energy
source is unknown.

In recent years, there has been a growing interest in tapping methane hydrates,
ice-like crystals that form at low temperatures and high pressure in seabeds and
in Arctic permafrost.

Scientists estimate that the methane trapped in previously known frozen
reservoirs around the globe could power the world for centuries. But finding the
technology to mine such deposits has proved elusive.

The newly discovered deposit, believed to be substantial in size, was found
about 15 miles off the coast at a depth of about 2,600 feet, at the summit of an
undersea mud volcano. Scientists were conducting an unrelated study when they
came across the volcano, which sits on top of an active fault zone in the Santa
Monica Basin.

The discovery is detailed in the February issue of the journal Geology.

The ecosystem surrounding the methane hydrate site was unlike any of the other
vast hydrate deposits around the world.

Scientists found seashells and clams with unique chemical characteristics,
suggesting the area experiences an extreme flux of methane gas mixing with
water, said Jim Hein, a marine geologist at the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo
Park.

In additional to technical problems standing in the way of mining methane
hydrates, Mr. Hein said mining this deposit probably would be difficult because
of its proximity to shipping lanes from Los Angeles and Long Beach.

Some scientists also worry about the environmental effects of such large-scale
gas deposits. Hydrates are estimated to contain about three times as much
methane as is currently in the atmosphere, and some scientists say releasing it
could lead to global warming and change the world's climate.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              243 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REVAMPED SEDANS OFFER A SPARK

BYLINE: Bob Plunkett, New Car News

SECTION: TABS; Pg. D-25

LENGTH: 690 words


Volkswagen of Germany revamps sedans in 2006 with a larger mid-size Passat plus
best-seller Jetta in brash style packing a sparky engine.

* PHAETON: The full-size Volkswagen sedan amounts to an ultra-premium limousine
on a stretched wheelbase with luxury gear aboard. VW's 4Motion all-wheel-drive
(AWD) system is standard, along with an air suspension, xenon
high-intensity-discharge (HID) headlights, an automatic interior climate system
with four-zone temperature controls, plus a navigation system and deluxe digital
audio package with 12 speakers scattered around a leather-lined cabin. Phaeton
brings two powertrain options as model nomenclature follows engine patterns --
Phaeton V8 and Phaeton W12. Phaeton V8 contains a 4.2-liter V8 producing 335 hp
and connecting to a six-speed automatic with Tiptronic clutch-less shifter.
Phaeton W12 carries VW's W-shaped 12-cylinder engine at 6.0 liters and this year
with a 24-point power boost to 444 hp through a five-speed Tiptronic automatic.

* TOUAREG: The SUV from VW is a five-door model with a tight unibody structure.
Touareg employs VW's four-wheel-drive (4WD) traction device labeled 4XMotion,
which provides uncanny stick-it-down traction for all wheels, plus optional
locking rear differential and an air suspension. Engines contain six, eight or
even ten cylinders. For 2006, the base plant is new -- a 3.6-liter VR6 with
direct injection and output of 276 hp, which marks a 36-point improvement over
the previous 3.2-liter VR6.

* PASSAT: The mid-size Passat sedan grows up with a new design in 2006 that
positions this car closer to the luxury class. Passat's body expands by three
inches in length and width, which translates to more room for riders in the
five-seat passenger compartment. VW casts two Passat models segmented by
powertrain. Passat 2.0T is the entry issue in front-wheel-drive (FWD) format
with a new 2.0-liter four-in-line engine below the hood. It adds a turbo-charger
and direct fuel injection to generate 200 hp through a manual six-speed
transmission or six-speed electronic automatic with Tiptronic sequential
shifter. Passat 3.6 VR6 is the uplevel trim using a 3.6-liter V6 cranked to 280
hp.

* JETTA: Crisp body styling for the Jetta sedan features a brash face with
chrome grille flanking oversized corner lamps and aerodynamic lines sweeping up
a canted windshield and across the arching roof. Jetta's five-seat cabin has
more room than a car in the compact class should contain. Primary powertrain is
VW's 2.5-liter five-cylinder plant making 150 hp. A new 2.0-liter four-pack with
turbo-charging and direct injection nets 200 hp for Jetta 2.0T or GLI and ties
to a six-speed manual or optional six-speed Direct Shift Gearbox.

* NEW BEETLE: VW's compact two-door coupe and convertible show styling changes
for 2006 featuring revised fascias, fenders and side sills with keen lines drawn
around wheelwells and a bold face set with large oval headlamps and a mesh
grille. The standard engine this year is also new -- a 2.5-liter five-cylinder
rig which achieves 150 hp through a five-speed manual transmission or a
six-speed automatic. Equipment upgrades consist of a traction control system
(TCS) with ESP added to all models.

* GOLF: VW's subcompact series of three-door and five-door hatchbacks continues
in two trims as the base GL and uplevel GLS. A naturally-aspirated 2.0-liter
four-cylinder engine worth 115 hp is standard, but VW's direct-injection
1.9-liter turbo-diesel with unit-injector technology is available for 100 hp and
high fuel economy ratings. Several models fade away as VW awaits the arrival of
a new design in the spring.

* GTI: A variation of the Golf three-door hatch with firm suspension settings
and superior equipment goes by the tag of GTI. VW's 1.8-liter turbo four-pack is
the powertrain here for the 2006 GTI GLS, delivering 180 hp through a five-speed
Tiptronic automatic. GTI's cabin pitches two bucket seats in front of a
two-place jump seat with space in the hatchback bay for gear. Heated seats and
heated windshield washer nozzles go to the list of standard equipment for GTI
2006, along with ESP and 17-inch alloy wheels.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AUTO SHOW 2006

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PHOTO COURTESY OF NEW CAR NEWS: The 2006 Jetta sedan features a
brash face with a chrome grille flanking oversized corner lamps.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              244 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GERMAN AUTOMAKER KNOWNFOR UNSURPASSED PERFORMANCE

BYLINE: Bob Plunkett, New Car News

SECTION: TABS; Pg. D-3

LENGTH: 862 words


BMW of Germany builds incomparable performance machines in an extensive line of
sedans and coupes, station wagons and sport-utility vehicles, plus several
drop-tops.

* 7-SERIES: A face-lift marks BMW's full-size 7-Series luxury/performance sedans
and with it comes two powerful engines. Models include the V8-powered 750i and
stretched 750Li, plus V12 versions of 760i and 760Li. These line-topping cars
bring sophisticated electronics governing power production and vehicle
stability, and dazzling interactive voice commands for operating navigation,
climate and communication equipment. Updated 7-Series models project a new
kidney grille with revised fascias fore and aft plus xenon high intensity
discharge (HID) headlamps. Also evident on the body are refined lines and more
chrome highlights. The V8 engine employed by 750i and 750Li expands in
displacement from 4.4 to 4.8 liters to deliver 360 hp. The 12-cylinder engine
for 760i and 760Li carries forward with a 6.0-liter aluminum plant that develops
408 hp.

* 6-SERIES: Mid-size 645Ci models -- a hardtop coupe or soft top convertible --
switch to a new name as the 650i due to a new powertrain aboard with engine
Start/Stop button. The 4.8-liter V8 generates 360 hp with transmission choices
including a ZF six-speed electronic automatic with Steptronic manual mode.
High-tech hardware aboard includes Active Roll Stabilization (ARS) to reduce
body roll and optional Active Steering Control (ASC) that can vary the steering
ratio to match a driver's style and pavement conditions.

* 5-SERIES: BMW's mid-size cars grow for 2006 with three new all-wheel-drive
(AWD) models. There are two sedans labeled 525xi and 530xi and a five-door sport
wagon as the 530xi. Rear-wheel-drive (RWD) sedans include the 525i, 530i and
top-trim 550i. Six-pack power increases with in-line-six engines gaining
Valvetronic variable valve lift. For 525i and 530xi, the plant delivers 215 hp,
but for 530i and 530xi output climbs to 255 hp. Deluxe 550i sedan with the new
V8 off the 7-Series runs to 360 hp. All 5-Series cars for 2006 incorporate the
engine Start/Stop button also found on 7-Series sedans. All also provide the
full spectrum of BMW mechanical systems for performance and safety.

* 3-SERIES SEDANS / WAGONS: The 3-Series string of compact cars from BMW
includes four-door sedans, a five-door sport wagon plus two-door coupes or
convertibles. First ashore for 2006 are the next generation of designs for
3-Series sedans and sport wagon. The 325i and 330i sedans of 2006 ride on an
expanded RWD platform with longer wheelbase and wider track to enhance chassis
dynamics and hone handling traits. Revamped six-cylinder engines drop into these
cars, including a lightweight 3.0-liter plant for 330i rated at 255 hp and a
version for 325i scoring 215 hp.

* 3-SERIES COUPE / CONVERTIBLE: The compact-class coupe and convertible from BMW
in 2006 extend issues of 2005 but add three new shades to the palette of body
paints -- Quartz Blue, Monaco Blue and Deep Green. A new power rear sunshade
goes on the option sheet for the coupe, and the convertible's folding ragtop
offers motorized power movement.

* M-SERIES: A line of ultra performance cars from BMW continues with the M3
coupe and convertible, but a new M5 model arrives with massive firepower.
Nomenclature for the series uses the alphabetical designation of M, as in
muscle. The number 5 signifies BMW's mid-size 5-Series car based on the new 550i
sedan, and a 3 represents the 3-Series coupe and convertible. All of the thrust
for new M5 stems from a 5.0-liter V10 that blows the doors off with 507 hp and
massive torque through a seven-speed sequential manual gearbox (SMG) that brings
both automatic and manual shift programs. BMW projects the zero-to-60
acceleration time for this new super car to clock in around four seconds and
change.

* X5-SERIES: BMW's X5-Series of sport-activity wagons repeat as the X5 3.0i and
X5 4.4i but with an onboard computer now standard equipment. Both versions look
remarkably like one of BMW's big sports sedans, only jacked up with a wagon's
cargo compartment at the tail. Both also contain BMW's smart xDrive AWD system.
Adjustable and infinitely variable, the device can direct the engine's power to
whichever axle, front or rear, has the best traction bite. It works with BMW's
computerized four-wheel Dynamic Stability Control (DSC-X) mechanism and a
traction control system (TCS-X) that can correct potentially dangerous skid
movements. X5 splits into two models based on powertrain. X5 4.4i gets a
4.4-liter V8 worth 320 hp with a six-speed automatic. X5 3.0i has a 3.0-liter
in-line-six netting 225 hp.

* X3-SERIES: This compact-class SUV goes by the alphanumeric tag of X3. Think of
it as a raucous sports car with a wagon's boxy utility bay. A forceful in-line
six-cylinder engine fits in front of the four-door passenger compartment that
comprises two rows of seats for five riders and the cargo bay accessible through
a roof-hinged tailgate. X3 stocks the xDrive electronically controlled AWD
mechanism. Off pavement, X3 adds another device called Hill Descent Control
(HDC) to keep all wheels firmly planted on a steep slope.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AUTO SHOW 2006

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PHOTO COURTESY OF NEW CAR NEWS: BMW's new 330i sedan includes a
revamped six-cylinder engine.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              250 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

BYE BYE, DUBAI;
ON PORT SECURITY, THE PRESIDENT IS HOIST ON HIS OWN PETARD

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H-3

LENGTH: 873 words


If you never gave a moment's thought to who was managing American ports before
the United Arab Emirates deal blew up in President Bush's face, you have a lot
of company -- including, it would seem, many members of the U.S. Congress.

They, along with the rest of us, never noticed or uttered a peep as American
companies dropped out of the terminal management business for lack of sufficient
profit. Their withdrawal left the field largely to foreign companies that now
handle the cargo at 75 percent of American ports.

But once it became clear that President Bush was backing the sale of a British
firm that managed six U.S. ports to a company owned by the government of Dubai
in the United Arab Emirates, Capitol Hill erupted. The objections were so
furious, the Dubai firm finally agreed to carve the American ports out of the
purchase and transfer them to an "American entity" yet to be named.

The storm may have died down in Washington (although you've got to figure the
UAE is hopping mad), but the controversy says a lot about where we are right now
as a nation.

This was one of those "uh-oh" moments when societal perception, economic forces
and political expedience collide head on. And since they've been working at
cross purposes for some time now, an eventual crash was inevitable.

Let's take a look at what we've learned.

Lesson number 1. He who lives by instilling fear should not be surprised when
fear comes back to bite him.

Mr. Bush has positioned himself as a constant warrior, cast homeland security as
his party's biggest strength, begun every other sentence with "In a post-9/11
world ..." and stoked the dread of terrorism at every turn. So the prospect of
handing cargo management for New York City and New Orleans, already scenes of
horrific disasters, to a country with even tenuous ties to two of the Sept. 11
hijackers was bound to inflame the public.

Never mind that the U.S. Coast Guard and Customs would still be in charge of
port security (to the paltry degree that it exists) or that UAE has been a key
Arab ally on military and intelligence matters. A frightened populace isn't keen
on such distinctions.

The irony is that the president is right to insist we need moderate allies like
the UAE, but he must also take some of the blame for the climate of fear that
killed the deal. He did none of the advance work that a transaction like this
required. And given his administration's mishandling of the Iraq war, Katrina
and more, the public simply didn't believe his assurances that the sale was
perfectly safe. This level of tone-deafness seems to signal a president losing
his grip.

Lesson number 2: The Marlboro Man rode into the sunset a long time ago and is
not coming back unless it's for lung cancer treatment or the Academy Awards.

National mythologies die hard. One of ours is that Americans are self-reliant
people, tough, independent go-it-aloners who rise and fall based solely on hard
work and merit. On the world stage, we do what we want, when and how we want. We
don't ask permission or forgiveness. And especially since the attacks of 9/11,
everyone else is either with us or against us.

That self-image is almost pathologically at odds with reality. First, the past
four years have shown that the lone cowboy route leads to nothing but trouble.
And second, our economy is governed more than ever by global market forces that
don't recognize national boundaries and that operate largely beyond our control.

A truly independent, go-it-alone country would produce everything it needs
inside its own borders. It would never depend on buying goods and services from
the outside. Needless to say, we are not that country, and haven't been for a
very long time.

Business interests increasingly trump all other aspects of our national life,
and those interests love free trade above all else. That includes foreign
investment in U.S. companies and U.S. investment in companies from abroad.

Today, almost half of our manufacturing base is foreign owned, we're at the
mercy of oil-rich states in the Middle East, we outsource our tech jobs and call
centers to India and our baseball caps to Indonesia. The term "foreign car" is
increasingly meaningless, with Asian and European companies building vehicles in
U.S. plants. And American companies haven't been clambering to run our own ports
for decades.

So, if the port controversy does nothing else, it should strip away any
remaining illusion that this country is the sole master of its own fate. Kicking
Dubai Ports out of the picture might be symbolically satisfying to those who
equate the words "Arab" and "terrorist," but it doesn't change the fact that our
go-it-alone days are over.

Lesson number 3. In an election year, survival trumps loyalty every time.

It's never a good idea to get into a veto showdown with your own party, but
doing so in the midst of a campaign season is especially foolhardy.

Democrats may have found it entertaining to watch Republicans on Capitol Hill
turn against their fearless leader on a security issue. But GOP candidates have
to be worried that the tough-on-terror routine is wearing thin.

Mr. Bush isn't running for election again, but they are -- and if he keeps
misreading the public, that could include running away from him.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sally Kalson is a Post-Gazette columnist (skalson@post-gazette.com,
412-263-1610).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              251 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LOOSE USAGE

BYLINE: SCOTT H. KARAVLAN Shaler

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 173 words


In Rob Rogers' March 15 "Brewed on Grant" comic strip, a character makes a joke
that his goosebumps are "schizophrenic," suggesting that they have multiple
personalities due to the recent sudden climate change in the Pittsburgh area.
While this was meant as a witty joke, I feel that it is worth correcting this
very common misconception.

Multiple Personality Disorder is a dissociative disorder. The "new"
personalities that people develop are usually born out of neglect and childhood
abuse (not the funniest of subjects). Diagnosed schizophrenics can display
erratic personal behavior, delusions (or hallucinations), loss of contact with
reality, breakdowns in communication, or inappropriate emotions. While
hebephrenic schizophrenics can take on the identity of a famous individual, they
do not suffer from Multiple Personality Disorder.

As a local high school psychology teacher I felt I would be doing Mr. Rogers and
his fans (myself included) a disservice if I did not point out this long-lived
misconception.

SCOTT H. KARAVLAN

Shaler

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RUMSFELD HAS 'FULL SUPPORT' OF BUSH ON WAR;
EX-GENERALS CRITICIZE DEFENSE SECRETARY

BYLINE: PETER BAKER AND JOSH WHITE, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1003 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush interrupted Easter vacation yesterday to offer an unequivocal
vote of confidence for Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld amid criticism from
retired generals calling for the Pentagon chief to resign over his leadership of
the Iraq war.

In an unusual statement issued from Camp David, where he had already retired for
the weekend, Mr. Bush stepped directly into the debate over Mr. Rumsfeld's
performance to offer his "strong support" and make it clear that he would keep
the embattled defense secretary. Mr. Rumsfeld separately declared that he would
not go.

"I have seen firsthand how Don relies upon our military commanders in the field
and at the Pentagon to make decisions about how best to complete these missions"
of fighting terrorists while transforming the military, Mr. Bush said.
"Secretary Rumsfeld's energetic and steady leadership is exactly what is needed
at this critical period. He has my full support and deepest appreciation."

The president's decision to interject himself so forcefully contrasts to his
mild reaction to recent reports of dissatisfaction with Treasury Secretary John
Snow and reflected a calculation by Mr. Bush and his advisers that attacks on
Mr. Rumsfeld by prominent former military commanders strike at the heart of his
presidency. As Mr. Bush's choice to run the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr.
Rumsfeld serves as his proxy, and most of the judgments that have come under
fire were shared by the president and Vice President Dick Cheney.

Public support for the Iraq war and Mr. Bush's handling of it has been
evaporating in recent polls, as the administration tries to prevent that country
from deteriorating into a broader sectarian conflict. White House officials
trying to arrest Mr. Bush's political fall have concluded that Iraq, and the
public perception of it, are central both to the president's contemporary public
standing and his ultimate legacy.

The defense of Mr. Rumsfeld was the first act of new White House Chief of Staff
Joshua Bolten, who took over as Andrew Card left the West Wing yesterday for the
final time as Mr. Bush's top aide. White House aides decided that press
secretary Scott McClellan's statement of support Thursday was inadequate to stem
the chorus of resignation calls from the military.

Mr. Rumsfeld, who twice offered Mr. Bush his resignation during the scandal over
U.S. military personnel abusing detainees at Iraq's Abu Ghraib prison, made no
such offer this time.

"I respect their views," he said in an interview broadcast yesterday on
Al-Arabiya television. "But, obviously, out of thousands and thousands of
admirals and generals, if every time two or three people disagreed, we changed
the secretary of defense of the United States, it would be like a
merry-go-round."

The grievances aired by a half-dozen retired flag officers in recent days
resonated with many military veterans. "I admire those who have stepped forward,
and I agree with the arguments they are making," retired Marine Lt. Gen. Paul
Van Riper said yesterday. "I count myself in the same camp."

Gen. Van Riper, a Republican who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but did not vote in
2004e, said Mr. Rumsfeld has failed in a number of ways, including "disastrous"
war planning and execution and fostering a poor command climate.

Retired Army Brig. Gen. Charles Brower, a military historian and deputy
superintendent at Virginia Military Institute, said it is unusual to see such a
group of retired generals issuing public criticism.

"Officers now feel that there is almost an obligation to speak more openly about
policies that they disagreed with once they have retired," he said. "There is
now a group of officers who feel an obligation to speak more aggressively, and I
think that has to have been influenced by the Vietnam experience," during which
miscalculations by the civilian leadership caused a military defeat and a
years-long erosion in military morale.

"It's an important thing happening right now, an important phenomenon that's
going on" Gen. Brower said.

What makes the recent criticism more threatening to the Bush administration is
the sense that it represents an unspoken strain of thought within the active
duties. A poll of 944 troops serving in Iraq released by Zogby International and
LeMoyne College did not ask about Mr. Rumsfeld but found that 72 percent think
the United States should withdraw within a year, and more than a quarter said
they should leave immediately.

"That and other questions lead to the obvious conclusion that they're not sure
they're doing anything positive over there anymore," said pollster John Zogby.
"When it comes to the leadership, there seems to be a disconnect."

Mr. Rumsfeld's admirers, though, characterized the complaining generals as
malcontents unhappy with the secretary's attempts to restructure the armed
forces for the 21st century. "Look, he's trying to change an institution that is
very set in its ways, and that's not easy," said Richard Perle, former chairman
of the Defense Policy Board. "You've got some disgruntled former officers. It's
no big deal."

Longtime Rumsfeld critics said the generals were speaking from genuine concern.
"They really are acting out of patriotism," said William Kristol, editor of the
conservative Weekly Standard. "This is not fun for them. They're reluctant to
step forward in this way, and for good reason. ... But I believe they're doing
it because they believe that Rumsfeld is endangering the course of U.S. foreign
policy."

Retired Maj. Gen. John Batiste, who commanded the 1st Infantry Division in Iraq,
said there was no coordination among generals who have spoken out. "We have
nothing to gain by this, absolutely nothing to gain by this," he said on ABC's
"Good Morning America" program. "There's no political agenda at all. We've been
loyal subordinates."

But analysts said Mr. Bush cannot afford to let the generals' views go
unanswered. "It's a referendum on the centerpiece of the Bush presidency," said
Michael O'Hanlon, a Brookings Institution defense scholar.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SUPREME COURT TO RULE ON PUBLIC SCHOOL RACE PLANS

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court yesterday agreed to rule on what measures, if any, public
school systems may use to maintain racial balance in individual schools.

The eventual decision on whether they can take race into account could affect
hundreds of school systems in all areas of the country. The court accepted
challenges to plans in Louisville, Ky., where the schools were once racially
segregated by law, and in Seattle, where segregation was never official but was
widespread due to residential patterns.

U.S. appeals courts upheld these plans, both of which offer students a choice of
schools while taking race into account in deciding which transfer applications
to accept. Variations of this approach are common, and have been under legal
attack around the nation.

The Supreme Court's decision to add the cases to the calendar for its next term,
a step that was controversial within the court and unanticipated outside it,
plunged the new Roberts court into one of the country's deepest constitutional
debates.

The action came three years after the court upheld a racially conscious
admissions plan at the University of Michigan Law School. Writing for the
majority in that 5-4 decision, Grutter v. Bollinger, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor
suggested that, at least in higher education, affirmative action might be
necessary for another 25 years.

The new cases do not ask the court to revisit that decision, and the justices
are unlikely to do so. But the implications are far-reaching nonetheless.

The eventual decision, roughly a year from now, could not only set the court's
path in this area, but also could shape the climate in which government policies
with respect to race will be debated.

One difference between the Michigan decision and the new cases is that while the
University of Michigan sought to use affirmative action to achieve a measure of
racial balance, the school districts are trying to maintain such a balance.

In December, with Justice O'Connor still on the court, the justices turned down
a challenge to a racially conscious student assignment plan in the public
schools of Lynn, Mass. That plan, which a U.S. appeals court had upheld, is
basically indistinguishable from the plans at issue in the new cases.

What has changed is the Supreme Court itself, with the retirement in January of
Justice O'Connor and her replacement by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. One lawyer
involved in the challenges to the Seattle and Louisville plans, Sharon L. Browne
of the Pacific Legal Foundation, a conservative public-interest law firm,
expressed the view that this change made the difference. "I think the writing's
on the wall, or at least I hope it is," she said yesterday.

The plans under review in the new cases differ in details that are unlikely to
prove constitutionally significant.

The Jefferson County, Ky., school board adopted the Louisville plan in 2001,
shortly after the school system was declared desegregated and was released from
25 years of federal court supervision.

The "managed choice" plan applies to all schools, kindergarten through 12th
grade. In a district that is one-third non-white, every school is required to
seek a black student enrollment of at least 15 percent and no more than 50
percent.

The Louisville case was brought to the Supreme Court by Crystal D. Meredith, a
white parent whose son, Joshua McDonald, did not receive a requested transfer to
attend kindergarten in a school that was trying to maintain a sufficient number
of black students.

The plan in Seattle, which has struggled for decades to deal with the effects on
its school system of segregated housing patterns, applies only to the city's 10
high schools.

Under the "integration tiebreaker," high schools that deviate by more than 15
percent from the system-wide balance, which is 60 percent nonwhite, must take
account of an applicant's race in order not to deviate further.

A group of parents organized as a nonprofit corporation called Parents Involved
in Community Schools to fight the plan, and filed the Supreme Court appeal after
losing by a 7-4 vote in the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in San Francisco.

Both appeals reached the court in January and evidently provoked a vigorous
internal debate among the justices, who considered the Seattle case six times
and the Louisville case seven times before issuing the one-line order granting
both cases. Prolonged review of this sort is unusual.

The court also:

* Ruled unanimously that a federal defendant's rights under the Speedy Trial Act
of 1974 were violated when, while seeking more time to prepare his defense to
counterfeiting charges, he signed a statement presented by the trial judge in
which he waived any future right to a speedy trial.

With certain exceptions, the federal law requires criminal trials to begin
within 70 days after defendant is charged. The trial for this defendant, Jacob
Zedner, did not begin for seven years. In an opinion by Justice Alito, the
Supreme Court ordered the indictment dismissed. The statute does not permit such
a waiver, he said.

* Agreed to decide whether to give retroactive application to a 2004 decision
that sharply limited judges' discretion to impose sentences above the thresholds
set by sentencing guidelines systems.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              279 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WILD THINGS;
DOES YOUR KITCHEN FEEL LIKE A ZOO? TAKE A PEEK AT THE REAL THING. THERE, COOKS
CAN'T MONKEY AROUND.

BYLINE: Marlene Parrish, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 2162 words


Never again should you complain about getting a meal ready for the family. Don't
even think of calling your kitchen cramped. Stifle yourself when you feel like
grumbling about making a special, different meal for a picky eater. And if
grocery shopping aggravates you, get over it.

Just be glad you're not Patrick Kennedy, commissary supervisor at the Pittsburgh
Zoo & PPG Aquarium.

"We make the daily meals for approximately 400 species. That's roughly 4,000
mouths to feed every day, sometimes three and four times," he said. "I buy 575
to 600 tons of food a year."

When it comes to eating well, humans could learn a lot by visiting the zoo at
feeding time. Every animal at the zoo has a special diet, formulated by zoo
veterinarians with set standards for nutrition and portion control.

Breakfast for the gorilla group of 10, for instance, consists of grapefruit,
white potatoes, broccoli, green beans, endive, romaine, celery, spinach and 13
pounds of nutritional munchies called primate browse biscuits. All food is
weighed out to the gram, placed in a separate bag and labeled. The gorillas put
down about 200 pounds of food every day.

The commissary kitchen is the size of an average bedroom. There is a double
sink, a cooler for prepped produce and one 8-foot prep counter. Beneath the
counter are five bulk food bins of specially formulated animal biscuits shaped
like all sizes of corks. The middle of the kitchen is crowded with cardboard
boxes of produce.

The staff consists of two full-timers, one seasonal worker and two students.
They prepare meals by referring to plastic-covered diet sheets mounted on
clipboards.

There's very little cooking to do, however. Vegetables for small marsupials are
cooked in a microwave oven, and 15 dozen eggs a week for the primates are
hard-cooked on a one-burner hot plate.

"The big animals don't get their food chopped but the small ones do," said Kira
Albert, an animal diet technician. "We save peelings and outer lettuce leaves
for the rhinos to snack on. Nothing is wasted. The biggest chore is taking those
little stickers off the fruit."

With the kitchen going through 12 cases of apples a day alone, Mr. Kennedy buys
high-quality bulk produce from wholesale institutional vendors.

"I'm feeding endangered species like the snow leopards, Siberian tigers and
cheetahs," said Mr. Kennedy, a jovial guy who speaks fondly of his "critters."
"I'll match the quality of my groceries to yours any day. My food is as good or
better than what you buy at the Iggle."

The commissary pantry shelves include a few supermarket items along with sacks
of special animal chows.

"Since a little bit of sweetness helps the medicine go down, I have blackberry
syrup and applesauce for some keepers to give," Mr. Kennedy said, pointing out
those items. "Bears love to take their meds in peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches. This stock of orange Gatorade goes to fend off dehydration in the
primates. And kangaroos get the contents of a tea bag sprinkled over their food
every day because something in their natural habitat supplies caffeine."

Just outside the kitchen are giant coolers. Today's prepped produce will be
served tomorrow. The freezer is stocked with herring, squid and caplin, a small
deep-water fish, destined for bears and sea lion meals. Kennedy buys 40,000
pounds of seafood by the truckload, an eight-month supply, which is stored in an
off-site freezer.

Babar's buddies

Willie Theison has worked with elephants for 28 years. As a keeper, he oversees
the training and teaching of his six charges -- one male, three females and two
babies.

"They think I'm one of the family. Elephants must be trained in footwork and
taught to stand still and to lie down, mostly for ease of handling. They get a
bath every day, either from a swim in their pool or from a high-pressure hose.

"Elephants in the wild eat branches and grasses," said Mr. Theison. "They went
through 13,000 bales of hay last year, and if the hay is old or dried out, they
pick it up in their trunks, take it to the water and soak it to soften before
eating it. If any tree pruning is done on zoo property, the branches are brought
here to the compound. Elephants will eat or seek food as long as they are awake.
Their digestion is only 45 percent efficient, so they have to eat twice as much
as they need. The elephant family eats just shy of five tons of food a week."

Elephants love to chew. They get six sets of teeth in a lifetime, according to
the keeper. They use chains as a teething ring and can often be seen chewing on
the metal links when they are teething.

"The main treats for my elephants are carrots and apples," Mr. Theison said.
"They like pumpkins and watermelons, especially the smashing part. And every
year I buy a case of Girl Scout Thin Mints. They love them."

Holidays are celebrated. On birthdays, baby elephants blow out the candles on a
carrot or banana cake from Jenny Lee bakery. At the holidays, they get Christmas
trees. To eat. Employees bring in their evergreen trees, sans tinsel and
ornaments, toss them onto a pile and the elephants nosh away. Mr. Theison also
gives each of them a stocking filled with mangos, papayas and big thick candy
canes. Savannah, one of the mothers, loves to suck on a candy cane.

To stay in shape, the elephants go for a walk with their keepers every morning.
Before the zoo opens, they cover the complete circuit of asphalt "people paths,"
occasionally getting up to a jog, just fast enough to get them breathing hard
and their heart rate up.

Everybody loves the elephants, especially the boss, Dr. Barbara Baker, chief
executive officer and president of the Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium. She has
been known to bring in purple Marshmallow Peeps and Reese's Pieces to hide for
the elephants.

The lion king and queens

Kathy Suthard is lead keeper of the carnivores and the two veggie-loving rhinos.
She's been at the zoo for 26 years. The tall, pretty blonde is in charge of four
lions, three tigers, two snow leopards, one Amur leopard, a cheetah and the
rhinos. She runs her own commissary out of a Pepsi cooler in the lion house.

"All the cats eat ground horse meat purchased from vendors who package zoo
carnivore diets. It comes in frozen and has to be thawed for 24 hours," Ms.
Suthard said. "Some of the cats will snag a snack on their own. Mallard ducks,
free-ranging on the Allegheny River, will fly up here to the zoo hoping to cadge
a free meal. Occasionally, they become the meal."

The lions eat the whole duck, usually leaving the beaks and feet.

Once a week, the lions will get a horse leg bone with some meat on it for a
treat. The gnawing and chewing is good for cleaning their teeth. For another
occasional change-up in their diet, the keepers toss them a whole dead rabbit --
the works, hair, ears and entrails.

The lions grab the rabbits and run to a corner to eat in solitary contentment.

Tigers don't get rabbits, but then they have a better chance of snagging one of
the mallards.

"Toma, the young Siberian tiger, never turns down a meal," Ms. Suthard said.
"She's the smallest of the cats but a fierce hunter. All of the cats will get
smelts as an occasional treat. The cats get no people food. None."

Rhinos have not evolved much, according to Ms. Suthard. All they need is food,
reproduction and a good climate.

Rhinos like to eat timothy hay, a staple, and alfalfa hay, which is greener and
richer.

"For treats, the rhinos love crunchy tree branches," said Ms. Suthard.

"And when they get strawberries, watermelon and cooked sweet potatoes, they just
close their eyes in rapture."

Underwater

The commissary delivers buckets of sardines and herring for larger fish and
penguins, plus bags of cut-up oranges, lettuce, bananas, strawberries and
blueberries for the South American fish.

Jennifer Moffat, the aquarist for the cold marine gallery, has her own kitchen
backstage, behind the glass-enclosed exhibits, where she preps fish meals. And
yes, it's stinky. She makes a stew of mysis, the tiniest shrimp, for sea horses
and sea dragons while other fish get shrimp and krill.

Ms. Moffat's favorite critter, it's no secret, is Squirt the octopus. After she
preps his lunch of herring, squid and soft-shell crabs, it looks
restaurant-ready. She stuffs it into a container with a twist-top lid and drops
it into Squirt's tank. Squirt is 11/2 years old and weighs about 50 pounds, and
he'll grow to about 150. He has eight tentacles, and the span is 12 feet.

Squirt grabs the food jar with one tentacle and unscrews the lid with another.

"I save unusual containers and infant toys so he has to work to get his meals,"
said Ms. Moffat, hiding the crabs among the rocky ledges of the habitat. "If an
octopus isn't mentally stimulated, he can become destructive and hurt himself.
At Halloween, I gave him a pumpkin stuffed with fish, and he ate the whole
thing."

Bears, giraffes and zebras

Mo Brown is the bear keeper, and his twin brother Ed is keeper for the giraffes
and zebras. The good-natured brothers have been animal lovers all of their
lives, both working at the zoo for 35 years.

Rocks and the pool are what people see in the bear exhibit. Behind that is their
night home, where they sleep and eat in private. Mo Brown gives them fish and an
occasional bone with meat to clean their teeth, but bears eat 75 percent plant
foods by choice. Because they eat the same thing every day, keepers give them
treats so they have something to look forward to. They love blueberries and
nuts.

"Rocky, the male Kodiak, is the most laid-back and friendly animal I've ever
met," said Mo Brown. "He loves grapes and peanuts but hates tomatoes and
broccoli. Susan-Bear was hand-raised and expects all my attention. I can touch
and pet her. Sometimes I'll buy yogurt at the supermarket and dump it on their
greens. Susan-Bear prefers Breyer's yogurt with the fruit on the bottom. She
won't touch light [yogurt]."

The giraffes like to nuzzle up to Ed Brown. When they aren't eating branches as
big as a man's thumb or their ration of produce, they graze from huge food
buckets mounted on the wall 12 feet high, 2 feet higher than a basketball hoop.

Monkeyshines

Suellen Stanley takes care of what she calls "the fuzzy ones."

"The kids know the names of my primates," she said. "The mandrills are the ones
with the bright faces and bottoms, and the chimpanzees look like Rafiki from
'The Lion King.'"

The primates all get along well in their social groups, she says, because
parents teach their offspring social skills and manners. The babies can get away
with anything. But as they get older, more is required of them. Primates want
their young to grow into happy, well-adjusted animals as adults.

"My animals are leaf eaters and have a special diet of high-protein biscuits and
lots of produce. Given a banana, they'll peel it and eat the sweet inside first,
and then eat the peel, too. They get only healthful treats such as plain yogurt
or cottage cheese. The monkeys have their evening meals downstairs in their
bedrooms, which are fitted out with hammocks and shelving for their toys and
balls. The animals need mental stimulation to ensure that they are
well-adjusted."

Ms. Stanley wants people to know that when they see a sign that says, "Do Not
Feed the Animals," it means just that. "Our veterinarian-prescribed diets are
very species-specific to keep them healthy and maintain a good weight," she
said. "We have no obese animals at the zoo."

Animals can get sick just as people do. They can catch a cold or flu and get
arthritis and have coronary trouble. As with humans, diabetes can run in their
families; the zoo had a mandrill a few years ago that was diabetic.

"People, trying to be nice, will bring in treats and toss it to animals," said
Ms. Stanley. "If our mandrill had gotten any candy, he'd have been in big
trouble.

"Then there are the social issues. If someone throws food into a habitat, there
would be competition but only one animal would get it. We are careful to take
care of social structure and dominance issues."

"People mean well," she says, "But please, don't feed the animals."

The food court

And what about the top of the food chain, Homo sapiens? Us?

We are omnivores, eating either meat or plant foods. We are considered to be
"opportunistic" feeders, surviving by eating what is available.

At the zoo's Safari Grill, members of our species lunch in a habitat of picnic
benches under zebra-striped umbrellas. The zoo attracts roughly 750,000 people a
year.

This year, because of the new polar bear exhibit opening later in August, that
number is expected to reach 900,000. Next year, visitors may top the 1 million
mark. Most of them stop to eat.

Because people are not an endangered species, they make their own dietary
choices. These include chicken fingers with fresh-cut french fries,
cheeseburgers, cheese fries, hot dogs, pizza, salads, deli sandwiches and ice
cream.

Many of this species are obese, and many show no signs of ever having exercised.

Some of their young are undisciplined.

They have no keepers.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marlene Parrish can be reached at parrish@post-gazette.com or
412-481-1620.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Rocky, a Kodiak bear at the Pittsburgh
Zoo & PPG Aquarium, devours a cantaloupe.
\ PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Zookeeper Suellen Stanley feeds a grape to
Dweezil, a mandrill. In the dish are Cheerios.
\ PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Fruit treats for Kodiak bears, prepared by
handlers at the zoo.
\ PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Juma, male lion at the Pittsburgh Zoo, gets
excited as he sees a horse bone. Once a week the lions get this particular
treat, and the gnawing is good for their teeth.
\ PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Elephant keeper Willie Theison says that the
elephants at the Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium will take hay that is too dry and
soak it in water to make it palatable. Above, Tasha, a female elephant, digs in.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              283 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DIVIDED TOP COURT UPHOLDS KANSAS DEATH PENALTY LAW

BYLINE: GINA HOLLAND, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court yesterday upheld a Kansas death penalty law in a splintered
ruling that revealed deep division among the justices over the fairness of
capital punishment in America.

New Justice Samuel Alito had been called on to break a tie in the case, which
was argued twice -- first, while Justice Sandra Day O'Connor was still on the
court and again this spring, so Justice Alito could end a deadlock.

The justices wrap up their work later this week, after deciding five remaining
cases, and take a summer break.

The 5-4 outcome in the Kansas case was as much a debate about capital punishment
as it was a ruling on the unique law in that state, which has just eight death
row inmates and hasn't executed anyone in 40 years. The law says juries should
sentence a defendant to die -- rather than serve life in prison -- when the
evidence for and against imposing death is equal.

Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the conservative majority, said, "Our
precedents establish that a state enjoys a range of discretion in imposing the
death penalty." But Justice David H. Souter, writing for the court's liberals,
said the law would lead to death sentences in doubtful cases and "is obtuse by
any moral or social measure."

The ruling overturns a Kansas Supreme Court decision that found the law violated
the Eighth Amendment's protection against cruel and unusual punishment.
Supporting Justice Thomas, in addition to Justice Alito, were Chief Justice John
Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy.

The four liberal members stopped short yesterday of calling for an end to
capital punishment, but pointed to studies finding that dozens of people
condemned to death were later exonerated.

The ruling involved the case of Michael Lee Marsh, who was convicted in the June
1996 killings of Marry Ane Pusch and her 19-month-old daughter. In its December
2004 ruling striking down the death penalty law, the Kansas court also
invalidated Mr. Marsh's capital murder conviction for the child's death, saying
his attorneys should have been allowed to present evidence that someone else was
connected to the murders.

In another case decided yesterday, the court ruled that defendants are
automatically entitled to new trials if their choices of attorneys are wrongly
blocked by judges. By a 5-4 vote, justices said Cuauhtemoc Gonzalez-Lopez has a
constitutional right to the attorney of his choice under the Sixth Amendment's
guarantee of assistance of counsel.

"It commands not that a trial be fair, but that a particular guarantee of
fairness be provided -- to wit, that the accused be defended by the counsel he
believes to be the best," Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority.

In his first written dissent, Justice Samuel Alito accused Justice Scalia of
making "a subtle but important mistake" in interpreting the constitutional
guarantee.

The high court yesterday also agreed to consider whether the Bush administration
must regulate carbon dioxide to combat global warming.

The decision means the court will address whether the administration's decision
to rely on voluntary measures to combat climate change are legal under federal
clean air laws.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              287 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SUMMIT TURNS TO TRADE AT END

BYLINE: DAVID HOLLEY AND JAMES GERSTENZANG, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: STRELNA, Russia


World leaders ending their three-day meeting yesterday sought to energize
international trade talks intended to lower tariffs and make it easier for
nations to sell products in still-protected markets.

The summit of the Group of 8 leading industrialized nations, being held in
Strelna, a suburb of St. Petersburg, concluded with a final session in which
leaders of five major developing countries -- China, India, Brazil, Mexico and
South Africa -- also participated.

That gave the opportunity for balanced discussion of the trade deadlock, as the
needs of industries and agriculture in different regions of the world have
brought a three-way split among the United States, the European Union, and
developing nations.

Key to progress is how much the U.S. will cut its farm subsidies, how much the
EU will lower tariffs on farm imports and how much developing countries will
reduce barriers to industrial and service imports.

The most recent effort to complete the so-called Doha Round of trade talks,
begun five years ago in the capital of Qatar, for which the talks are named,
broke down two weeks ago.

In a statement Sunday, leaders from the Group of 8 -- the United States, Russia,
Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Canada and Japan -- called for negotiators to
try again. They hope to achieve a breakthrough on the talks among World Trade
Organization member within a month and wrap up a deal by year's end.

Speaking during a picture-taking session with Brazil's President Luis Inacio
Lula da Silva, President Bush said, "We're committed to a successful Doha
Round."

Mr. Lula da Silva in turn saluted the G-8 decision to devote attention to the
trade negotiations. "Now is the time for us to make a political decision," he
said.

The negotiators "have done immense work," the Brazilian president said. "But
now, it seems to me that they don't have any hidden card in their pockets
anymore. Now, we're the ones that have to take our cards from the pockets."

As the most recent efforts to overcome obstacles broke down in Geneva earlier
this month, the United States and the EU, two regions where farm interests exert
strong political influence, were wrangling over an acceptable level of
government support for farmers.

Subsidies make it easier for agriculture to try to undercut foreign competitors
by lowering prices.

At a closing news conference, host Russian President Vladimir V. Putin expressed
satisfaction with the results of the gathering. "All the goals we set ourselves
have been achieved," he said. "Not a single issue arose which we failed to agree
upon."

In addition to statements issued Sunday on the Middle East, which dominated the
gathering, on trade and on the three official main topics of the summit --
energy security, education and infectious diseases -- the leaders also issued
documents on counter-terrorism efforts, protection of intellectual property
rights, promotion of African development and fighting high-level public
corruption.

In the statement on energy security, Russia agreed to EU demands to support in
principle transparent and open energy markets.

As for expanding use of nuclear energy and addressing climate change, the
statement simply acknowledged that participants disagreed.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              289 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 7, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ART DOESN'T PAY THE BILLS;
ARTISTS FORCED TO SEEK HELP WITH FINANCES, HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: Dave Carpenter

SECTION: BUSINESS; WORKZONE; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 545 words


Being a struggling artist isn't what it used to be. In fact, it might be worse.

Andrew Falkowski thinks so, and it's easy to understand why. The suburban
Chicago resident and his wife have a combined five art degrees and six figures
in debt because of them.

"Van Gogh was simply broke -- he didn't have $100,000 in debt," said the
32-year-old Falkowski, who makes text paintings but works weekdays as a medical
receptionist to make ends meet. "We all should be so lucky."

Mostly self-employed or relying on part-time teaching jobs, many artists tend to
have shaky finances and scant prospects for improving them aside from going into
another profession. But some institutions have sprung up in recent years to try
to help -- and ideally thrive financially at the same time.

Artist Pension Trust, Creative Capital and Fractured Atlas are among the options
now for artists with talent but limited wherewithal to pursue it. They offer
creative workers financial education, career planning help, health insurance --
even some steady income.

Persistence and patience still are required in large doses.

Cindy Bernard knows. An accomplished artist in photography and video, the
Californian has received a prestigious Guggenheim Fellowship, founded and runs a
nonprofit organization in Los Angeles dedicated to experimental music and has
taught at Art Center College in Pasadena for six years.

But like many artists, Ms. Bernard is still just scraping by at age 47 through a
combination of part-time jobs and art sales. After all, she notes, there are
only so many grants out there, and that source of income eventually dries up.

"It's an extremely marginalized realm of work," she said. "There's not a lot of
appreciation in this country for intellectuals and artists, especially in the
current political climate."

Unlike other countries, which give artists individual grants and will pay to
send them to international exhibitions, there is no direct funding for
individual artists at the federal level in the United States, she noted.

Philanthropic groups and some for-profit ventures have stepped into the gap.

Both Mr. Falkowski and Ms. Bernard are among the more than 300 artists who have
contributed works to Artist Pension Trust, a pension program created to provide
artists with long-term financial security in exchange for their works of art.

The premise is unusual: Selected artists pool their works, contributing 20
pieces over 20 years in exchange for receiving an income stream as the trust
sells the works.

APT was established 2 1/2 years ago by New York-based MutualArt Inc., an
independent company formed to develop new financial service products for the art
world. It has regional trusts in New York, Berlin, London, Los Angeles, Beijing
and Mexico City, with more planned.

The organization also offers financial planning services for artists.

Pamela Auchincloss, director of the New York trust and managing director of
global operations, says the organization fills a collective need for financial
security in an industry that carries few guarantees.

"Artists often see no further than their next exhibition, which may take an
entire year to produce," she said. "While an artist who is selling regularly can
feel secure that their immediate needs are met for the foreseeable future, what
of a change in the tastes and interests of the collectors and curators?"

Mr. Falkowski said he had almost no guidance about money and art before he was
asked to join.

"My financial future remains pretty crummy," he said. "I joined the trust
because it's the only art institution I have seen that even implies artists can
have financial grounding."

Creative Capital, founded in 1999, tries to supply that financial grounding as
it applies the model of venture capital to the arts. Artists are given seed
money for their project in exchange for a percentage of any profit. Since it has
a stake in the project's success, it offers artists support services such as
strategic planning and workshops in managing finances.

The New York-based nonprofit has not only given out over $6 million to 242
artists -- an average of $25,000 to $35,000 per project -- it has trained more
than 1,000 artists in career planning, money and time management and
goal-setting at its workshops.

"There's a lot of mythology around this stuff for artists," Ruby Lerner, the
group's founding CEO and president, said of the financial aspect.

"A lot of what happens in art school is that people aren't prepared for this.
They think 'If I'm really good, things will just come to me.' "

Fractured Atlas, a nine-year-old nonprofit, provides a variety of support
services to individual artists and arts organizations, perhaps most notably
health insurance.

"Artists are really sort of boxed out of the American health care system because
it's an employment-based system and artists are usually either self-employed or
it's very short-term episodic employment," said Adam Huttler, executive director
of the New York-based organization. "You might be in a play for eight weeks,
wait tables for 16 weeks, do something else for another few weeks, be on
unemployment for a few weeks and then be in a play again for six weeks."

The group's leverage enables 2,000 artists to benefit from large group rates on
health insurance coverage. It offers eight health plans, ranging from $10 a
month to $400 a month.

That's something Van Gogh didn't have access to. He might have kept his ear.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dave Carpenter writes for The Associated Press.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian Kersey/Associated Press: Andrew Falkowski, seen above and
below in the basement studio at his home in Lake Forest, Ill., is a struggling
artist. Mr. Falkowski and his wife have a combined five art degrees and six
figures in debt.
PHOTO: (No caption)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              293 of 295 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MCCAIN BUILDING 2008 LINKS WITH BUSH TO SCARE OFF RIVALS

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. John McCain is locking up a cast of top-shelf Republican strategists,
policy experts, fundraisers and donors, a methodical effort to build a 2008
presidential campaign machine that is drawing supporters of President Bush
despite the sometimes rocky history between the two men.

Mr. McCain's effort to woo a diverse lineup of backers and scare off potential
rivals has augmented his travel schedule on behalf of Republicans around the
country -- a schedule that includes trips to Iowa, Louisiana, Virginia, South
Carolina, Ohio and Florida this week and next.

The effort is fueling a fundraising operation that has helped him build loyalty
throughout the party by doling out over $800,000 to candidates since the start
of last year through his political action committee.

Other Republican presidential hopefuls are doing likewise, but Mr. McCain is
widely judged to be further along in assembling the kind of national network
necessary to sustain a long, expensive campaign for his party's nomination to
succeed Mr. Bush.

At a point in the election cycle when policy positions may be less important
than general impressions, the signal Mr. McCain is seeking to send to the
Republican Party is that anyone who wants a place on his bandwagon should jump
on now.

"We are a party that gravitates toward front-runners," said Rick Davis, Mr.
McCain's presidential campaign manager in 2000.

Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has long had a constellation of loyal friends and
advisers, some of them dating to his years as a naval pilot and prisoner of war
in Vietnam, not to mention his failed run for the presidency in 2000.

But as he has tried to claim the mantle of Mr. Bush's natural successor, and
reach out to constituencies like religious conservatives, he has expanded his
orbit to encompass supporters who have been part of Mr. Bush's circle and others
who have not previously backed him.

There is a whiff of opportunism among those signing on early with Mr. McCain as
loyalties begin to migrate from the current president to those who would succeed
him, and Mr. McCain's potential rivals for the Republican nomination are all
scrambling to keep up with him in the hunt for money, expertise and ideological
credentials.

Rudolph W. Giuliani's political action committee recently signed Anne Dickerson,
who ran Mr. Bush's Pioneer and Ranger fundraiser program.

Sen. George Allen of Virginia has lined up Ed Gillespie, the former chairman of
the Republican Party and a Bush backer; Mary Matalin, a close adviser to Vice
President Dick Cheney and to President George H.W. Bush, the current president's
father; and Frank J. Donatelli, a consultant and former Reagan aide.

And Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts is working with Ron Kaufman, who was a
political adviser to the president's father and a major fundraiser for the
current president.

Mr. McCain is leading the effort to recruit big-name supporters, drawing on a
deep vein of contacts from his 24 years in politics and two decades in the
military. "He has the most active cell phone known to the phone company," said
John Weaver, his chief strategist.

Many of Mr. McCain's advisers and money people say it is easy to make the switch
from Mr. Bush to Mr. McCain because they have always admired Mr. McCain, or that
Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush agree on the things that really matter.

Like the fundraisers, some strategists and policy advisers who approach the
McCain campaign from an ideological perspective seem willing to put aside
longstanding concern among conservatives about Mr. McCain.

Dan Schnur, who was communications director for Mr. McCain's 2000 presidential
bid, said that there were potential Republican candidates for 2008 who might be
closer to Mr. Bush philosophically and politically than Mr. McCain is, citing
Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas and Mr. Allen of Virginia. But neither has drawn
the support of a sizable cadre of senior Bush advisers.

"There may be other candidates who are more logical stewards of the Bush legacy
than McCain, but none of them is going to get elected president in 2008," said
Mr. Schnur, who added that he did not expect to be involved in any McCain
campaign. "McCain may stray from the Bush line more than other candidates in the
field, but none of them is going to be in a position ...to do anything about
it."

Mr. McCain and President Bush have grown closer politically in the past several
years because of a shared commitment to wage a decisive battle against terrorism
and the insurgency in Iraq, although it is unclear if support for the war will
win votes in 2008.

But differences remain on a number of issues, including government ethics,
federal spending, stem cell research, climate change and treatment of terrorism
suspects. Those divergences and any future splits could prove problematic for
Mr. McCain, as well as for some of the Bush loyalists who have signed on with
him or are considering doing so.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.
