
                               3 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colder Weather Brings Fish Seeking Warmth

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT, fsargean@tampabay.rr.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words


By FRANK SARGEANT

fsargean@tampabay.rr.com

Anglers depend on an amazing array of electronics, ranging from Global
Positioning Systems to radar to underwater television cameras to side-scan sonar
that can see fish not only below them but many yards to either side.

The one tool that most don't make enough use of in winter, however, is a simple
temperature gauge -- a thermometer.

Water temperature shows a wide spread at this time of year, and species that are
sensitive to cold -- which includes most of them -- follow the warmer water like
Ohio tourists headed down Interstate 75 come December.

On Tampa Bay's south shore Monday, a 44-degree night and strong north winds sent
temperatures on the flats plummeting; I recorded 57 degrees in knee-deep water
on one of my favorite redfish flats.

That temperature in itself doesn't tell you much, but the temperature outside
the bar, where the water was deeper, was more than 3 degrees warmer. That fact,
combined with an extremely low tide, pulled all the fish off the flats and put
them around the runouts on the outside of the bar. I saw more than 50 fish in
one school, got four bites -- one on topwater and three on swim baits -- and
landed one of them, a fat 30-incher. The fish were not eager to eat, by any
means; I had lots of them look the lures over and turn away, and I spooked lots
of fish despite the fact I was wading low and slow.

The bay itself was considerably cooler than the nearby Little Manatee River on
Monday. In the black water inside the river, my digital gauge recorded 66.8
degrees. The combination of spring outflows and deep, black water that acts as a
heat sink regularly causes coastal rivers to stay warmer than the bays in
winter, and that's why cold-sensitive fish such as snook move into these areas
and stay until spring.

In fact, some springs such as Buckhorn and Lithia, both on the Alafia, are noted
snook gathering spots, even though they're many miles inland from saltwater.
Snook and, to a lesser extent, reds and mangrove snapper can tolerate water of
very low salinity. From late December through mid-March, it's not uncommon to
catch snook in water where largemouth bass also are found.

The Gulf of Mexico stays even warmer than the rivers in most winters, and that's
the case this year, with beach temperatures around 68 or a bit less. This
temperature affects the canals and the Intracoastal Waterway that runs inside
the barrier islands along our coast, so these dredged areas are always highly
productive of snook, reds and trout throughout the winter.

The bottom makeup in shallow water also can affect water temperature. Black mud
is a heat sink, and it's common to find big schools of reds stacked up over this
type of bottom in water 1 to 2 feet deep as the sun climbs high on chilly winter
days.

The north shore of a protected bay also can be a winter gathering area. The
coldest winds come out of the north during a winter front, but the waters near
the north shore are protected, typically by mangrove trees or other cover, so
they don't get the mixing that occurs as the wind has a longer "fetch" and
builds up waves. Thus, waters along the north shore stay warmer, and fish seek
out these areas.

The outflow from area power plants is a whole other story. Water pouring out of
the cooling pipes at TECO's Big Bend plant might exceed 80 degrees, and that
plume of warm water is still around 70 degrees a half-mile into the bay. When
bay water is cold, it doesn't mix with the warmed water because of the different
densities, and fish that want to stay warm stack up in the warmer areas. Cobia,
snook, tarpon, Spanish mackerel and pompano are common winter catches near the
power plant outflows.

BOOK SIGNING: Captain Rick Ryals will sign copies of "Sportsman's Best: Snapper
& Grouper" at Fisherman's World, 1312 U.S. 19 N. in Holiday on Thursday from 6-9
p.m. The 256-page full-color book costs $19.95.

SEMINARS: A grouper fishing seminar is tonight at 6:30 at Brandon Boater's
World, 9931 E. Adamo Drive. Captain Anibal Roman will speak about the practice
of catching large grouper in the bay inside of the Sunshine Skyway. Call (813)
620-0997. ... Captain Jesse Pearson presents a free largemouth bass seminar
Thursday at 7 p.m. at The Sports Authority, 11335 Causeway Blvd. in Brandon;
(813) 654-7500.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FRANK SARGEANT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 19, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE TAMPA PROJECT: PART IV Our Pursuit Of Prosperity

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON and GUY BOULTON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6317 words


We are all searching for our place in the sun, but it may stay just beyond our
reach unless our leaders find a way to energize the economy.

By LINDSAY PETERSON and GUY BOULTON

The Tampa Tribune

She was on the No. 2 train when it happened. It had just pulled into lower
Manhattan's Chamber Street station. The only light was from the conductors'
flashlights.

Kathy Boulden moved with the crowd, one hesitant step at a time, making her way
onto the platform, up the stairs and onto the street.

It was a little after 4 p.m. on Aug. 14, 2003. New York had just been shrouded
in another blackout.

Exasperated, Boulden walked to the bus terminal at 42nd Street, where she found
thousands of people trying to flee. They didn't much care where the buses were
going. They just wanted out.

Boulden grew frightened. The terror of Sept. 11 was still vivid. And now this.

I don't want to be here anymore, she thought.

Boulden didn't get across the Hudson River to her home in Newark, N.J., until
midnight, eight hours later. "I got into the shower," she says, "and I cried."

That weekend, she and her husband, Bilal Almutasim, talked about moving.
Almutasim had been to Florida in the Air Force; Boulden had a cousin in
Clearwater and a friend in Kissimmee. They made the decision quickly.

Tampa, they decided -- they would come to Tampa. They would find new jobs and
start over. Their 5-year-old son, Khalil, would grow up safe. He would work hard
in school and go to college. The family would live the American dream.

So it was that the Tampa area drew another family of transplants.

Hundreds of thousands of others have taken the same trail over the past 50
years, searching for their place in the sun and finding open-armed boosters who
see in newcomers the promise of continued growth.

As previous Tampa Project stories have shown, this sturdy, dependable growth has
given us good things. It has provided jobs, fostered entrepreneurship and helped
us survive national economic upheavals. It has carried us to a critical
evolutionary milestone -- the point at which we could tip toward becoming a
world-class city.

But for all the good, there is also bad.

Growth has left us sprawled and divided -- one community from another, one
business sector from the next. It also has given us an illusion of prosperity,
disguising a vulnerable economy that depends on a comparatively undereducated
and underpaid work force. This, in turn, has left us with a tax base that barely
supports our basic needs for things such as new roads and strong schools.

Change has clearly begun. Wages are rising as companies start or move operations
here. The University of South Florida is working with businesses across the
Tampa Bay area to nurture a bioscience sector. And a group called Creative
TampaBay promotes cultural endeavors, educational programs and other projects to
attract the kinds of enlightened newcomers who energize an economy.

But turning this start into something significant will take a shared vision,
sacrifice, consistency and patience. That means breaking a long cycle of
infighting among local business leaders and politicians over where Tampa needs
to go and how best to resolve its shortcomings.

Business leaders say the conflicts are over. They have a plan, they say, and the
commitment of others to make it work.

Cities work at building their economies in a variety of ways. Some involve
ordinary citizens in the planning. Some don't. In Hillsborough County, the
Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce does it through an arm known as the Committee
of 100. The name suggests exclusivity, and its members represent the area's
business elite. Their decisions, however, affect all of us who love Tampa but
wish we could make a better living here -- Boulden, Almutasim and Khalil
included.

Ask the casual observers how we're doing, and they'll likely say just fine. At
first glance, the numbers would seem to bear them out.

On average, Hillsborough County gains about 25,000 residents a year -- nearly 70
a day. Many cities covet this whippet-quick growth because it generates jobs --
jobs building the subdivisions spreading in every direction, jobs in the
supermarkets and stores popping up next to them, jobs in the hospitals that now
are major employers.

It also attracts companies that need workers.

This phenomenon works so much in our favor that in Hillsborough, about 132,000
jobs were created in the 1990s. Despite a national economic downturn, more than
17,000 have been created this decade. Unemployment in the Bay area averaged
about 4.1 percent in June, compared with a national average of 5.6 percent, says
the Department of Labor.

All this has diversified our economy, raised living standards and given the
future more promise, boosters say. Inc. magazine recently listed the best places
in the country to do business. Tampa placed 14th out of nearly 300, largely
because of our job creation rate.

Others looking at different data see something less sunny. Although wages have
climbed, this group says, they still lag behind dozens of places -- the very
places we compete with for new businesses and for the educated and creative
workers so vital to prosperity.

Moreover, we are dangerously dependent on development. It accounts for roughly
13 percent of all jobs here. If construction slows, no matter the reason, the
local economy will tremble.

There is one other trouble spot. Thousands of our most recently acquired jobs
easily could be shipped elsewhere.

Fortune magazine reported a few months ago on the best cities in which to find a
job or run a business. We placed 102nd out of 150. In contrast to Inc., Fortune
looked at several measures, including the work force. In job growth, we ranked
26th. But in the percentage of adults with at least a bachelor's degree, we
placed 105th.

As with most things, the real Tampa probably is somewhere in between, say some
of those at the forefront of development here.

"Are we making progress? Yes," says Tom Wallace, founder and backer of a
collection of local technology companies. "Do we need to do more? Absolutely."

We need stronger schools and colleges, Wallace says. We need colleges to build
stronger ties to local businesses. We need strong local businesses to help
start-ups.

Without those things, people such as Boulden and Almutasim -- whose personal
economics are fragile -- will be the first to suffer.

Although Tampa has what the couple believed was missing in New Jersey, a sense
of peace and safety, they have a new worry. What kind of life will they be able
to build here? More important, what kind of future will they be able to make for
Khalil?

Starting Fresh

It took the family a month and a half to get ready. On Friday, Oct. 3, they
loaded their clothes, two televisions, a few pots and pans, Khalil's bunk bed,
and his Scooby-Doo plate into two vehicles. They left behind or gave away
practically everything else, including most of their winter clothes.

That evening, Boulden, 39, hugged her 81-year-old mother goodbye.

"I'll call you, Mommy," she said.

"Good luck," her mother answered.

Neither wept. Both were hopeful.

Two days later, the family reached Tampa. Boulden and Almutasim began
job-hunting. They knew they would have to settle for smaller paychecks. They
just didn't know how much smaller.

Almutasim, 40, a truck driver licensed to transport hazardous waste, found work
first. The job paid $10 an hour. It was barely what he made more than 20 years
ago, straight out of high school.

Boulden, a college graduate, had a harder time. Eventually she found a position
reviewing claim appeals for an insurance company. It pays less than $30,000 a
year.

Combined, the two now earn less than the $58,000 a year Boulden made in New York
as a manager for an insurance company. (Almutasim made about $60,000 a year with
overtime.)

"You come down here from the East Coast and you find yourself asking, "How do
you support a family on these wages?' " Boulden says.

"Trying to make a buck in Tampa," Almutasim adds, "is pretty hard."

The numbers show he's right.

From 1990 through 2002, the average wage in Hillsborough County rose from 90
percent of the national average to 92 percent, which added $1,066 a year to the
average worker's paycheck.

That left the average worker earning $33,970 that year, about $2,900 less than
his or her counterpart nationally. The comparison is worse across the broader
metro area: nearly 12 percent, or almost $4,300, less than the U.S. average.

Low wages attract more employers and feed growth. But they also represent a
weakness because income influences nearly every part of an area's character and
quality of life.

Imagine what would have happened if we had drawn even with the national salary
average in 2002: All of us together would have had considerably more to spend,
roughly $1.7 billion more.

Much of that, in turn, would have gone into what gives Tampa its character and
quality of life.

Do people have enough money to catch a movie or attend a concert? Can they fix
up their houses and rejuvenate their neighborhoods? Can they pay the taxes that
build roads or hire more police officers? Can they save for their children's
college and their own retirement?

All are governed by income. So is the issue of whether Tampa can join the list
of top-tier cities over the next 10 or 20 years, becoming a place where people
such as Boulden and Almutasim can have a good life and build a solid future.

Four years ago, Wallace -- the technology entrepreneur -- was frustrated with
what he saw as the traditional business community's lack of concern for
homegrown enterprises, particularly technology companies. He helped create the
Tampa Bay Technology Forum to give them a bigger voice.

Today, he says, many business and government leaders have "finally woken up and
realized that we need more than jobs in the hospitality and tourist industry."

"We have the momentum," adds John Ramil, chairman of the Greater Tampa Chamber
of Commerce and chief operating officer of Tampa Electric.

For starters, he says, people are beginning to embrace key ideas -- that Tampa
needs a vibrant downtown, for instance.

And they're trying to build on this. Chamber leaders have created an economic
development plan with five goals:

Persuading more financial service companies to move support operations here, a
successful campaign the chamber began several years ago.

Creating a bioscience sector in cooperation with USF and a family of companies
located mostly in Pinellas County.

Forging links between local product distributors and Caribbean and Latin
American countries and working with the Port of Tampa to help these companies
ship their goods.

Surveying the local light manufacturers, from computer to screen-door
assemblers, to learn what they need to grow.

Luring small to medium-size corporate headquarters here.

Still, it's only a beginning.

And it comes more than 13 years after a consulting firm pointed leaders in this
direction, urging them to support promising local enterprises and strengthen the
community's basic structures.

The firm, hired by the chamber, warned, "Tampa's dependence on in-migration,
corporate relocations, and growth-related service industries has left the
economy vulnerable.

"To become home to a growing concentration of companies with high-wage,
high-quality jobs, Tampa must build strong economic foundations in education,
technology, finance, physical infrastructure, and quality of life," SRI
International said.

SRI called on Tampa's leaders to change direction radically. It singled out
several "clusters" around which to build a new kind of economy -- including
business services, tourism and entertainment, information technology, and health
and biomedical.

SRI also urged local economic developers to quit thinking of neighboring
counties as competitors and begin working as a region.

Progress Stalls

Almost as soon as this report arrived, so did trouble.

A chamber president who began pushing for a regional economic group, Harvey
Schmitt, was forced to resign. He had clashed with local business leaders who
didn't like the idea of sharing the economic development table with other
counties, particularly Pinellas.

Nearly 10 years after the SRI report came out, the chamber hired another
consulting firm, The Wadley-Donovan Group.

By this time, Hillsborough County had joined several counties and cities in West
Central Florida to create the Tampa Bay Partnership, which promotes and lobbies
for the region as a whole.

Beyond that, we had developed only one of the areas singled out by SRI in 1991:
business services. This gave us the call centers and back-office operations that
have been started here by major companies headquartered elsewhere.

In addition, the 2000 Wadley-Donovan report said, Tampa's leaders lack a "vision
of what the Tampa and Hillsborough County community is and in what direction it
is going."

Many chamber leaders weren't surprised. Only months before, they had hired a new
president to help the organization set a more active course. The president is
the top executive. The chairmen and chairwomen are chosen from among the
volunteer members who help set chamber policy.

Then-Chairman Bill McBride, a lawyer and later a gubernatorial candidate,
started his term by using the chamber's power to help solve a budget crisis at
Tampa General Hospital. He also helped line up two successors, local business
owners Sandy MacKinnon, of Yale Industrial Trucks, and Deanne Roberts, of
Roberts Communications, and they began forging a plan that went to the heart of
the SRI recommendations: build up the community from within.

They hit an early snag when the new president, Jay Garner, turned out to be too
confrontational for local tastes and was asked to resign. But, after a quiet
year with former Gov. Bob Martinez as chairman, they acted on their plan. The
staff produced reports about what Hillsborough needed -- better roads, for
instance -- and began to pressure the county commission to pay attention.

They held community meetings. They produced a report card reflecting the
community's attitudes toward local policies and leaders; the grades were nearly
all C's and D's.

When they rated county commission candidates, the incumbents who received a
thumbs down decided they'd had enough. They threatened to cut off county funding
for economic development by the chamber -- $350,000 a year. And they didn't
relent until MacKinnon said it would never happen again. When tempers cooled,
MacKinnon sent a peace offering -- flowers.

Roberts continued the push for better roads and public transportation. She also
played a key role in forming Creative TampaBay, a group that many say could do
more than anything else to transform the area in the long run.

"For the first time, people who want to really do things are coming together to
do and think and get things done to make this a better community," says Beth
Leytham, a marketing consultant who worked with Roberts in the chamber.

It began when Roberts brought in Carnegie Mellon Professor Richard Florida to
explain his idea of a "creative class." A city grows, he says, when it attracts
and develops a core of educated, creative residents, who, in turn, attract
high-wage companies or even start their own.

Also under MacKinnon and Roberts, with Ramil in line as the 2004 chairman, the
chamber got serious about bioscience. It organized visits to cities with highly
developed bioscience and biotechnology sectors. The push strengthened when Judy
Genshaft became USF's president and Bill Dalton took the helm of the H. Lee
Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, both talking about research that
local companies could turn into products.

Genshaft joined a 2002 trip to Baltimore. Afterward, USF administrators applied
for a grant from the state-funded Florida Emerging Technology Commission to
build a biotechnology center.

"We're collaborating with businesses to move our research into commercial
sectors," Genshaft said.

Disappointment followed, however. The commission split its $30 million among
three other state universities.

Call Centers Come

Amid this tumult and change, a number of big companies began moving call centers
and back-office operations here. So many came that boosters proclaimed Tampa
"Wall Street South."

These relocations pumped up the economy. Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, for
example, have invested hundreds of millions of dollars here and are among the
area's largest employers.

Our appeal to them was based not on the area's atmosphere of creativity,
however. It was our low cost of living and pro-business environment -- including
our low wages and taxes. In other words, the relocations highlighted the things
the experts had been telling us to change, perhaps reinforcing the idea that the
old ways worked.

The man credited with recruiting these operations, Robin Ronne of the Committee
of 100, makes no apology for this. "Our role is to market and sell Hillsborough
County," Ronne says.

The march of these operations to Tampa reached a high point in June. Drawn by a
package of state and local incentives, Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
announced plans to move 500 jobs here, paying an average of $72,000 a year.

Then came a sharp reminder that many of these support positions can leave as
easily as they come. Capital One announced plans in July to move out 1,100 jobs,
the kind of portable call center positions that go where labor costs less.

This focus on "selling Hillsborough County" contrasts sharply with the current
trend in economic development -- one that echoes SRI's advice from more than 13
years ago that we build on existing enterprises.

Its core idea is that we should focus less on marketing and more on
strengthening local services: education, recreation, public arts and other
things that make a city desirable. This approach, adherents say, will attract
educated, capable people, and the higher-paying jobs won't be far behind.

"Jobs follow people instead of people following jobs," says Ed Malecki, a
professor at Ohio State University who specializes in economic development.

The scientists, engineers and others prized in today's economy can live
anywhere, adds James Diffley, of the economic development consulting group
Global Insight Inc. They want vibrant downtowns and neighborhoods -- in short,
character.

These are the ideas Roberts and her predecessors had begun to promote.

Making this approach work won't be easy, warns Scott Faris, who ran a technology
company in Clearwater in 2001 before becoming a consultant in Charlotte, N.C. It
requires a fundamental change in thinking that can be short-circuited at almost
any point by politics.

Politicians use new job announcements to show voters they're doing a good job,
Faris says. These announcements grow scarce when the focus is on building
companies from the ground up, which can take years.

"We're talking about a completely different kind of economic culture," he says,
one that requires sacrifice and commitment.

In simple terms, it takes money, usually tax money, to pay for the things needed
to create business sectors -- roads, for instance, and university research
facilities. But as the chamber learned, that's anathema to a politician who has
built a career opposing higher taxes and spending, to a businessperson whose
success depends on low wages and taxes, and to a voter fed up with government
excesses.

Politicians and voters here have a history of cutting down nearly every proposal
to invest in such things. One exception was Tampa International Airport. At
first, it, too, was condemned as a terrible idea that would cost taxpayers a
fortune. It's now one of the region's most valuable assets. Another exception is
the county's health program for the poor, passed in 1991. It's been lauded as a
national model, but supporters have had to fight to keep it from shrinking.

Last year, USF officials returned from a chamber trip to San Diego sobered by
how much it has accomplished while time has been passing us by, but they were
optimistic because San Diego started down its path to prosperity just 25 years
ago. If we could invest in bioscience development now, imagine where we could be
by 2030, they said.

A lesson in sacrifice and commitment came three weeks later. The state had lured
a new division of one of the very San Diego companies the visitors went to, the
Scripps Research Institute. Not to anywhere near Tampa, but to Palm Beach
County.

A key element of the deal was that Palm Beach County put up about $250 million
to match a state investment. Hillsborough County, in contrast, has put less than
0.2 percent of that, $400,000, into USF's new research park.

Local officials put a bright face on the Palm Beach deal, saying that even
there, Scripps will help USF's aspirations.

Another setback followed. Earlier this year, the governor vetoed an $8 million
allocation approved by the Legislature to expand USF's research park.

"We know this is an uphill climb," says chamber President Kim Scheeler. "I think
we'll succeed, but biotechnology will never be huge for us."

The hope, he says, lies in the chamber's current "diversity" strategy,
encouraging growth in several areas. He's convinced that the current leaders,
particularly Ramil and Genshaft, who now chairs the Committee of 100, have the
stamina to stick with it.

"It's like all the stars are aligned," Ramil says. With Pam Iorio as mayor and
Tom Scott as county commission chairman, "I think we have the people who will
put issues of the past aside and really work on this."

But some of our political leaders haven't embraced this movement. Neither have
the pro-growth, antitax forces backing them.

We have no vision for how to propel the metropolitan area forward on all fronts,
including the economy. And although we have people with energy and passion
pushing for change, they're frustrated because no one seems to be able to pull
together all the divergent interests.

For that matter, even some chamber members don't like its new strategy, Scheeler
says. Many protested when he reassigned Ronne as economic development chief and
made plans to hire one with a broader mission.

"Some say we've had success with relocations and we should stick with that," he
says.

We are still a place divided, with the future hanging in the balance.

Hoping For Better

Ask Boulden and Almutasim where they see hope -- in Tampa's recruiting jobs from
the outside or in building from within -- and you'll get a simple answer: both.

Boulden longs for a better job. It's not that she minds the back-office position
she has. Without it, she might have ended up in a tourist job making less. It's
that she can't "make it something of your own" -- can't grow with the company or
climb a career ladder -- because the home office is elsewhere.

For Almutasim -- experienced as he is driving trucks -- either strategy probably
would expand his job opportunities.

The couple love their newly adopted city, the laid-back, open feeling. Others
may complain about services, but their son has parks and public ball fields to
play on, and they feel safer.

In New Jersey, "they don't have baseball fields like they do here," Almutasim
says. The basketball courts are locked up to keep out gang members.

It's different here. "It's comfortable," Boulden says. Khalil is doing well in
preschool. He's playing Pony League baseball. His father is an assistant coach.

But Boulden and Almutasim are uneasy about the future.

When she first saw the apartment they'd found over the telephone from New
Jersey, she cried. It's near USF in a complex that looks like a motel. With the
couple's relatively low pay, she wonders whether they'll ever be able to afford
a house in a better neighborhood. With the exception of their rent, their
household expenses are nearly as high as up North.

If taxes go up, it would become even harder for them to save for a house. She
doesn't want to think about what would happen if rising wages compelled her
employer to leave Tampa for cheaper labor elsewhere.

Almutasim tells a story about one of his job interviews. He asked whether the
company had pension and 401(k) benefits. One of the workers responded, "You all
think you've got rights?"

It distressed him. So did the news that his son's after-school program would
cost $75 a week.

"I'm just a man trying to make sure my kids survive," he says.

If Tampa could develop a broader, long-term strategy with homegrown companies,
as the chamber's consultants say we should, presumably we would all enjoy the
dividends.

First, when a city has more $100,000-a-year jobs, it has more $50,000-a-year
jobs, too, economists say.

Second, these jobs generate more tax revenue, which means more services, such as
after-school care, and other public investments.

Third, we probably would acquire a new generation of business leaders with a
greater commitment to Tampa. They might pay for a zoo expansion, fund concerts
in the park, push for better services. They would want Tampa to shine, and they
would have the money to pay for the polish.

But engineering this isn't easy. It takes not only commitment but a clear view
of the community's strengths.

"You can't pick the kind of growth you're going to get," says Jim Hosler, lead
researcher at the Hillsborough County City-County Planning Commission. "It's
based on your natural advantages in the global scope of things."

TIA is one of these. USF is another. So are Boulden and Almutasim.

Both have skills and drive. Almutasim speaks Spanish and English. And they
understand the sacrifices it takes to succeed: Both have parents who left their
homes seeking opportunity. Almutasim's father emigrated from Haiti; his mother
from Mexico. Boulden's parents moved from rural areas to cities in the North.

Meanwhile, although both have found much of what they were looking for here,
they yearn for more.

"Your parents wanted to give you more than they had," Boulden says. "And you
want to give your children more than you had."

It's the American dream.

The question is whether we can make it more attainable for the Bouldens and
Almutasims of Tampa -- and by the same token, whether we can afford not to.

(CHART) WHAT WE MAKE

On average, people employed in Hillsborough County earn 8 percent less than
their counterparts nationally. Here is a representative sampling:

Job Hillsborough Average National Average

Physician (Internist) $197,080 [$160,130]

Chief Executive $140,192 [$140,580]

Lawyer $107,162 [$107,800]

Police Supervisor $67,121 [$63,200]

Accountant $64,438 [$55,430]

Civil Engineer $61,817 [$64,620]

Computer Programmer $59,280 [$75,750]

Registered Nurse $47,819 [$51,230]

Elementary School

Teacher $42,767 [$44,350]

Real Estate Agent $40,248 [$44,950]

Auto Mechanic $33,654 [$33,320]

Air-Conditioning

Mechanic $33,114 [$36,795]

Heavy Truck Driver $30,555 [$34,330]

Medical Assistant $26,832 [$24,940]

Bookkeeper $26,529 [$28,980]

Retail Sales $24,128 [$22,260]

Hairdresser $22,818 [$34,700]

Construction Worker $20,966 [$28,380]

Security Guard $18,720 [$21,520]

Janitor $16,640 [$20,320]

Waitress $16,203 [$15,780]

Cashier $16,100 [$16,940]

Fast Food $14,851 [$15,260]

Sources: Florida Agency for Workforce Innovation, U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics; Tribune research by DOUG STANLEY

Statistics; Tribune research by DOUG STANLEY

(CHART) A FEW WORDS ABOUT TAMPA

Like most cities, Tampa has never shied away from hyperbole and sloganeering to
sell the area to prospective residents, tourists and businesses. Here's a
selective history of Tampa marketing mantras:

The Metropolis Of The South

Barnett Bank (1921)

Tampa: A City On The Move!

The Tampa Tribune (1979)

Tampa: America's Next Great City

Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce (1985)

Tampa By The Bay ...

Quietly Making A Splash

Tampa/Hillsborough Convention and Visitors Association (1987)

Tampa By The Bay,

The Florida You've Been Looking For

Tampa/Hillsborough Convention and Visitors Bureau (1990)

Tampa Bay: The Climate Is Right

Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce (1990)

Tampa With Me

Tampa/Hillsborough Convention and Visitors Bureau (1992)

Tampa: What A Great Idea

Tampa/Hillsborough Convention and Visitors Bureau (1994)

Tampa: The Heart And Soul Of Florida

Tampa/Hillsborough Convention and Visitors Association (1997)

Tampa Bay ...

No Better Way To Do Florida Tampa Bay Convention & Visitors Bureau (2001 to
present)

I Am Tampa

City of Tampa (2004)

Research by DOUG STANLEY

(CHART) WHAT TO LOOK FOR

If you're looking for signs that the area's economy is becoming more cohesive,
here are some that could signify improvement:

* Business leaders and working people begin collaborating on a vision of where
they want Tampa to be in 20 years and a step-by-step plan for getting there.

* Means are developed to increase investment in new local technology and
bioscience companies.

* Endowments or other incentives are created to attract researchers to the
University of South Florida who think not just about scientific breakthroughs
but about creating commercial enterprises.

* Job retraining opportunities multiply.

* Local companies develop more links with Caribbean and Latin American countries
that want to do business in Tampa and ship products through the Port of Tampa.

* Companies begin moving their entire operations, headquarters included, to the
area.

(CHART) Development's In The Cards

Seven Agencies with varying missions have a hand in economic development in the
Tampa metropolitan area, not including those with similar but often competing
aims in surrounding muncipalities and counties:

Enterprise Florida

PURPOSE: This public-private partnership is responsible for leading statewide
economic development, and it works with regional and local organizations. Its
board is chaired by the governor.

EMPLOYEES: 71

BUDGET: $14.6 million

CONTACT: (407) 316-4600 or www.eflorida.com

Tampa Bay Partnership

PURPOSE: This regional organization globally promotes the combined area of
Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties.
Its focus is marketing and research in support of other local recruiting
agencies.

EMPLOYEES: 12

BUGET: $2.6 million

CONTACT: (813) 878-2208 or www.tampabay.org

COMMITTEE of 100

PURPOSE: This Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce arm is the main economic
development agency for Hillsborough County and the muncipalities of Tampa,
Temple Terrace and Plant City.

EMPLOYEES: 10

Budget: $1.9 million

CONTACT: (813) 276-9447 or www.tampachamber.com

Hillsborough County Department of Economic Development

PURPOSE: It contracts for economic deevlopment with the Committee of 100 and
supervises small business, toursim and agricultural development, among other
responsibilities.

EMPLOYEES: 18

Budget: 1.7 million*

CONTACT: (813) 272-7232 or www.hillsboroughcounty.org/econdev/home.html

Tampa Economic Development Administrator

PURPOSE: This official reports to the mayor and works closely with the Committee
of 100 to recruit businesses. The city can offer new businesses tax incentives
contingent on jobs and payroll. The administrator also oversees a number of
programs not tied to business.

Office of Technology Development, University of South Floida

PURPOSE: This office oversees a 230,00-square-foot research facility that USF
hopes will attract biotechnology companies. It also includes an economic
development office that links government agencies and businesspeople with
universities.

EMPLOYEES: 25

BUDGET: $45 million over two years

CONTACT: (813) 866-3802 or www.research.usf.edu/otd/

Center for Economic Development Research, University of South Florida

PURPOSE: It conducts and publishes economic and demographics research on
national and regional issues. It provides information to the public, government
and private clients.

EMPLOYEES: 4

BUDGET: $40,000

CONTACT: (813) 905-5854 or cedr.coba.usf.edu

(CHART) JOINING UP

If you're looking to influence the region's economy, here are two events that
will link you with people trying to push the area forward.

FLORIDA: EMERGING INNOVATION HUB FOR LIFE SCIENCES, a public forum on
biotechnology developments, will be Nov. 16 at the Renaissance Tampa Hotel at
International Plaza. The keynote speaker is Donn Szaro, global health science
director at Ernst & Young. For information, call Rachelle Legg, (407) 316-4500,
or go to www.eflorida.com/lsforum.

2004 ENTREPRENEUR BOOT CAMP, a Tampa Bay Technology Forum event, will be Oct.
25-26 at the University of Tampa, 401 W. Kennedy Blvd., Tampa. Sponsored by UT
and the U.S. Education Department, the camp addresses how to find funding, hire
strong managers and explore emerging global markets. For information, go to
www.tbtf.org.

(CHART) ECONOMIC HOT SPOTS

Although the leaders of dozens - maybe scores - of U.S. metropolitan would
happily trade economies with ours, a few of similar size are often held up as
models places to follow. They are among our chief competitors for business
acquisitions anmd startups. Here's how they rose to the top and what we might
learn from them:

Austin, Texas

Population: 1.3 million

A concerted effort by the private sector, academia and local government remade
Austin from an oil-patch college town suffering through the 1980s oil bust into
a city with one of the nation's most robust high-tech economies. By combining
economic development and business education with innovative financing for new
ventures, Austin added almost 50,000 high-tech jobs in the 1990s and saw its
population nearly double. It has ranked first or second on the annual Forbes
magazine Best Places for Business and Careers list for four of the past five
years.

Denver

Population: 2.4 million

After losing population during the 1980s oil bust, Denver grew rapidly in the
1990s. It poured money into cultural institutions, including the zoo and art
museum, to catch the attention of tourists traveling to ski resorts. Later, the
city turned its attention to revitalizing its urban core through a combination
of historic preservation and construction projects, including a new baseball
stadium that revitalized an old warehouse district and caused a ripple effect
through downtown. Major industries include telecommunications, information
technology, software development, aerospace, transportation and mining.

Minneapolis

Population: 3 million

A broad-based economy and a well-educated work force make Minneapolis the
Midwest's economic powerhouse. Corporate headquarters include retailers Target
and Best Buy, food manufacturer General Mills, and multinational conglomerate
3M. Entrepreneur magazine deemed Minneapolis the best city for entrepreneurs in
2003, citing the area's penchant for producing stable, growing businesses. A
facet of the area's economic development strategy involves local governments
sharing property tax revenue to balance disparities between affluent and poor
areas. Among major research universities, the University of Minnesota ranks near
the top in spinning off companies that sell products based on university
discoveries.

Raleigh, N.C.

Population: 1.2 million

Raleigh continues to benefit from the vision its leaders demonstrated in the
1950s by creating the Research Triangle Park, now home to 100 research and
development facilities employing 38,500 people with an annual payroll of more
than $1.2 billion. A mild climate, well-regarded health care and proximity to
major universities - including Duke, North Carolina State and the University of
North Carolina - add to Raleigh's appeal. The area ranked third on the Forbes
Best Places list for 2003.

San Diego

Population: 2.8 million

As once-dominant defense-related industries began to decline sharply, San Diego
committed to diversifying its economy. City government slashed business taxes,
reduced utility fees and cut red tape, and the University of California at San
Diego promoted spinoff development. The moves paid off. Led by a strong biotech
sector, San Diego's newly diversified economy helped it weather the recent
national downturn. Emerging growth areas include telecommunications,
electronics, computers and software. San Diego was Forbes' Best City in 2002.

Research by DOUG STANLEY

(CHART) About This Series

If Greater Tampa really is poised to raise itself to the level of a world-class
city, as so many here have said in previous installments of The Tampa Project,
we won't be able to do it just with good intentions.

We'll need the money to pay for and sustain it. And it will have to come from
within - from a vibrant, growing economy. Some say we are well on our way to
this; others say we're deluding ourselves and have miles to go.

This struggle forms the basis for Part IV of The Tampa Project, a yearlong
endeavor examining where we stand as a metro area, where we've come from, where
we're going and what's at stake.

The story is an intricate, ever-changing mosaic, and much is riding on how it
turns out - in this instance what we earn, what we pay in taxes, the
opportunities we have for work, the chance each of us has to realize the
American dream, and ultimately the future that we leave our children.

Part I of The Tampa Project, "Finding Our Place," was published May 16; Part II,
"Our Beginnings," on June 20; and Part III, "Looking For Our Leaders," on July
25. All can be viewed at TBO.com or obtained by calling (813) 259-7405 or
e-mailing backissues@tampatrib.com.

The lead writers for this installment are Lindsay Peterson and Guy Boulton.

We welcome your comments. Write to The Tampa Project, The Tampa Tribune, P.O.
Box 191, Tampa FL 33601-0191; or go to TBO.com, Keyword: Tampa Project.

Senior Editor Pat Minarcin

CREDITS

More than 30 Tribune staff members are involved in The Tampa Project. Those who
worked on this installment:

REPORTERS: Guy Boulton, Lindsay Peterson, Kathy Steele, Dave Simanoff, Doug
Stanley

DESIGNERS: Greg Williams

RESEARCHER: Angie Drobnic Holan

PHOTOGRAPHERS: Carol Cleere, Jay Conner, Fred Fox, Victor Junco, Paul Lamison,
Cliff McBride, Gary Rings

PHOTO EDITOR: Dave Geiger

SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Todd L. Chappel

COPY EDITORS: Corrie Benfield, Stacey Shick

ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Jeff Houck

SENIOR EDITOR: Pat Minarcin

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834. Reporter Guy Boulton
can be reached at (813) 259-7624.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE TAMPA PROJECT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 19 CHART 7
Tribune photo by CAROL CLEERE Kathy Boulden and her husband, Bilal Almutasim,
left New York for Tampa in hopes of starting over and making a new life for
their son, Khalil. Tribune photo by FRED FOX Bilal Almutasim and Kathy Boulden
bring their son, Khalil, for a parent-teacher conference at Lawton Chiles
Elementary in Tampa. "Your parents wanted to give you more than they had,"
Boulden says. "And you want to give your children more than you had." Tribune
photo by CAROL CLEERE Despite the hardships they have faced by moving to Tampa,
Kathy Boulden and Bilal Almutasim love their new city and the opportunities it
provides for 5-year-old Khalil. Kim Scheeler "We know this is an uphill climb,"
president of chamber says. John Ramil "We have the momentum," chamber of
commerce chairman says. Austin, Texas Denver Minneapolis Raleigh, N.C. San Diego
City of Tampa (2) In June, Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio unveiled a civic pride campaign
featuring a theme song, TV commercials and 29 billboards with pictures of city
employees and local celebrities. Enterprise Florida Tampa Bay Partnership
Committee of 100 Hillsborough County Department of Economic development Tampa
Economic Development Administrator Office of Technology Development, University
of South Florida Center for Economic Development Research, University of South
Florida.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 23, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

A Special Interest

BYLINE: ALLISON NORTH JONES, anjones@tampatrib.com; MICHON ASHMORE; Reporter
Allison North Jones can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2655 words


Constitutional amendment critics contend that many initiatives are not the work
of the "little guy" but rather of well-financed special-interest groups.

TALLAHASSEE - Steve Basford used to be a pig farmer.

He borrowed money during the 1990s to build and expand his Panhandle hog-rearing
operation, pushing production to more than 6,000 market pigs annually and
eventually bringing in about $100,000 a year.

It was enough to let his wife quit her job to help out full time at the farm.

The pig barns became the centerpiece of his 300-acre operation in Grand Ridge.

"One reason we bought the hog operation and made it big enough was so that if
one of my sons wanted to they could take it over some day," Basford said.

Then, a few years ago, well-financed animal-rights groups discovered Florida's
citizen initiative process for amending the state constitution and decided to
make a political statement.

In 2002, with a carefully crafted ballot measure, activists persuaded voters to
pass an amendment restricting the use of gestation crates for pregnant pigs.

In an already costly and heavily regulated industry, the amendment was "the
final straw," said Basford, an eighth-generation farmer who figures that he will
be the last in his family.

Florida's climate, along with limited water supplies and tough environmental
rules, made pig farming so challenging that few attempted it.

Before the amendment passed, Basford owned one of Florida's two pig farms. Both
were forced out of business.

Basford says he still owes hundreds of thousands of dollars on loans taken out
to build the rearing operation that now is unconstitutional to use.

It would have cost $600,000 more to build facilities to comply with the mandate.

"I don't mean to be sour grapes - but it's so easy to amend the state
constitution, something like this can slip in," Basford said.

With lawmakers of both parties embracing Republican Gov. Jeb Bush's call to rein
in citizen initiatives, all point to that amendment as Exhibit A that special
interest groups have gone too far.

At panel discussions on the issue, lawmakers and opponents have questioned
repeatedly:

Do pregnant pigs belong in the state constitution?

Moving to Restrict Access

Fiscal conservatives and others who have spent months, even years building a
case against the initiative process say Basford's story spotlights the problems
they see with allowing citizens to directly amend the state constitution.

It's not just pig farmers.

Commercial anglers, with the net-fishing ban; bar and restaurant owners, with
the smoking ban; and legislators themselves, with the passage of term limits,
have seen livelihoods change overnight thanks to citizen-driven mandates.

The state has seen its budget challenged, with caps on class sizes in the public
schools and a mandate to construct a high-speed rail system.

State economists estimate that, in its 10th year, the class-size amendment could
cost as much as $2.3 billion.

They also predict the state will have to spend $11.3 billion to build the first
two phases of the high-speed train, which would include a line from Tampa to
Orlando.

Lawmakers are complaining of a budget drain.

Some, along with Bush, have warned the initiatives could leave state finances
looking a lot like California's - a state many politicians cite as a symbol of
excess.

"I believe the time has come to let people know that amending the Florida
Constitution too easily is not the route to take," said state Sen. Rod Smith, a
Democrat from Alachua who serves as chairman of the Senate Select Committee on
Constitutional Amendment Reform.

Florida is one of 24 states that allow some form of citizen initiative.

It is also one of 16 states that allow citizens to directly propose and adopt
constitutional amendments.

Since 1976, voters have considered 21 citizen-initiated amendments, 16 of which
have passed.

With enough signatures from registered voters, citizens can skirt an
unresponsive Legislature.

Whatever changes in today's process that lawmakers propose, Senate President Jim
King, R-Jacksonville, favors a special election to be held in late summer to
give voters a chance to adopt them.

That, he said, would immediately impose any tougher requirements on the 51
initiatives - fewer than 20 of which are expected to survive - aimed at the
November ballot.

That would also give Republicans a chance to seek repeal of the high-speed rail
mandate or a scaling back of the class-size requirements before any new
restrictions on initiatives.

"Frankly, I would like not to have to face any" of the citizen initiatives, King
told a Senate panel.

"I really don't know how we're going to do it. If we have the same amount of
revenue, I don't know how we can fiscally implement all these constitutional
amendments," King said.

"Citizens have to have access, but these [amendments] can't be so numerous or
easy to do," he said.

The ease with which citizen initiatives reach the ballot is of particular
concern to lawmakers.

Special interest groups, many say, have hijacked the process.

"The idea that this is the little guy's method is a misnomer," Smith said.

"On average it costs $6 million to get on the ballot these days," he said. "This
is big business now."

Political onlookers agree.

"This is no longer a citizen-driven initiative process," said Doug Bailey, a
lobbyist and constitutional scholar.

"There are some, but most of the initiatives are being pushed by special
interests, and it's a bumper sticker and sound-bite process," Bailey said.

One concern of scholars, however, is that making it tougher to get citizen
initiatives on the ballot would, in effect, ensure only monied special interest
groups succeed.

Special Interests Likely To Dominate

Whatever the new hurdles, if any, for the initiatives, it is likely that special
interests, such as the animal-rights activists, would still dominate the
process.

"The best option is always to do a citizen initiative," said Bruce Friedrich, a
spokesman for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

"You can make a moral appeal to legislators. ... [but] there's always politics
to get around," Friedrich said.

If only voters need to be convinced, then an issue, such as humane treatment of
animals, is a "very easy sell for the American people or, in this case,
Floridians."

Despite Basford's best efforts and the endorsements of gestation crates from the
Florida Department of Agriculture, the University of Florida, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture and the American Veterinary Medical Association,
Basford lost the battle.

Millions spent in advertising and a slickly worded amendment title that gave
voters the impression they were ending animal cruelty, overpowered the pig
farmers.

"My wife said she almost voted for it," Basford said.

He will still farm, turning away from the hog operation that he shut down last
summer.

Instead, he will raise perennial peanut hay, which is somewhat like alfalfa and
is sold as horse and cattle feed.

Basford sees the whole experience as one of his favorite colloquialisms come
true:

"There's two things in this world you don't ever really want to know how they're
made: one is sausage, the other is laws."

(CHART) ABOUT THIS SERIES
Florida's citizen initiative process is under attack. State lawmakers want to
curb the power voters have to bypass unresponsive politicians. In this series,
The Tampa Tribune spotlights what's at stake.
Sunday, we explored the events that led Florida to create one of the nation's
least restrictive ballot initiative systems.
Today, we revisit the issues that triggered calls for change.
Tuesday, we look at emerging plans and who would benefit. Coming Sunday will be
Legislature 2004, a special guide to the upcoming legislative session.

(CHART) OTHER STATES
Florida is among 24 states plus Washington, D.C., that allow citizen-initiated
ballot measures. The processes differ greatly state by state.
SIGNATURE GATHERING: The only states allowing more time than Florida's four
years to gather the necessary signatures to qualify for the ballot are Ohio and
Arkansas, which set no time limits. Massachusetts allows 64 days.
AMENDMENTS: Just three states, including Florida, limit citizen initiatives to
constitutional amendments. Most states also give voters the lesser option of
seeking statutes rather than amendments, which can carry long-term and
unanticipated consequences.
LEGISLATIVE INTERVENTION: Nine states give their legislatures the ability to
address citizen initiatives before they reach the ballot in an effort to reach a
compromise. Most, including Florida, give citizens direct access to the ballot
instead.
Source: Florida Senate

(CHART) AIMING FOR BALLOT
The list is long for Florida ballot initiatives seeking signatures and a spot on
the general election ballot. Supporters must gather 488,722 signatures from
registered voters; few make it. Well-financed interests have the advantage.
Likely Contenders
Tax Exemptions: Requires review of most exemptions in Florida's sales tax code
and abolishment of those failing to win legislative re-enactment. Sought by
retired Republican politicians at odds with Gov. Jeb Bush and other GOP leaders.

Medical Malpractice: Limits malpractice damages from noneconomic losses such as
pain and suffering to $500,000. Does not limit damages for economic losses, such
as medical expenses and lost wages. Sought by insurance and the health care
industry.
Patients' Rights: Gives patients who receive negligent medical care the right to
bring civil actions without limits against their medical providers. Sought by
trial lawyers.
Patients' Rights: Gives patients the right to review health care facilities' and
providers' records of adverse medical incidents. Sought by trial lawyers.
Patients' Rights: Allows patients or survivors to sue for harm or death caused
by a managed care organization's unfair competition or deceptive practices.
Sought by trial lawyers.
Safe Medical Care: Gives any person in Florida the right to malpractice
information about any health care practitioner licensed in the state. Sought by
trial lawyers.
Nursing Home Residents: Prevents restriction of nursing home residents' legal
rights to compensation for abuse, neglect or wrongful death. Sought by trial
lawyers.
Repeat Malpractice: Prohibits doctors who have committed three or more incidents
of malpractice from being licensed to practice in Florida.
Physicians' Fees: Requires a physician to charge the same fee for the same
health care services to all patients and requires the lowest fee that the
physician has agreed to accept.
Minimum Wage: Boosts the minimum wage in Florida to $6.15 an hour. Sought by
consumer activists with experience in the political arena.
Vying For Attention
Homestead Tax Exemption: Doubles the state's homestead exemption for property
tax assessments to $50,000.
District Apportionment: Changes the way legislative and congressional districts
are reconfigured each decade.
Slot Machines: Lets voters in Miami-Dade and Broward counties decide whether to
authorize slot machines.
Child Abuse: Increases monitoring of convicted child abusers.
Child Molestation: Tightens monitoring and treatment of child molesters. (Two
identical measures are circulating.)
Universal Health Care: Guarantees the right to health and medical care in a
single-payer health care system. (Two identical measures are circulating.)
Billboard Amendment: Protects trees on public property from being removed to
enhance billboard visibility; gives local governments more authority to force
billboard removal.
Judicial Actions: Calls for certain determinations by jury rather than judge.
Equal Employment Opportunity Initiative: Adds an equal employment opportunity
amendment to the state constitution.
False Representation: Makes false representation punishable by a fine of
$10,000.
Legislators In Public Schools: Requires every lawmaker to spend four days per
year teaching in a public school.
Repeal Of High-Speed Rail: Repeals the high-speed rail system amendment in the
Florida Constitution; Legislature also considering a similar proposed ballot
measure.
Apportionment: Creates a commission to replace the Legislature in its role of
apportioning legislative and congressional districts.
Criminal Detainees: Prohibits the state from using privately operated prisons.
School Bus Rides: Limits school bus rides to a maximum of two hours each way to
and from a public school.
Judicial Elections: Requires all judicial campaign contributions to be given to
nonprofit associations.
Food Labeling: Requires all genetically engineered foods sold in, or distributed
in or from Florida, to be labeled as such.
Voting Age: Lowers voting age to 16.
School Vouchers: Would let parents who send their children to private schools
receive state money to help with the costs.
Repeal of Class-Size Amendment: Abolishes the class-size reductions approved by
voters in 2002; Legislature also considering similar proposed ballot measure.
Comprehensive Land Use Plans: The "Hometown Democracy" effort requires voter
approval for changes to comprehensive land use plans.
Parental Governing Councils: Replaces district school boards with parental
governing councils that would organize schools and determine school district
taxes (two identical measures are circulating).
Insurance Companies: Requires insurance companies in Florida to comply with
state antitrust laws.
Insurance Rating: Prohibits insurance companies from charging consumers a price
for insurance unless the rate is first approved by the state.
Voting Rights: Restores felons' voting rights upon completion of sentence.
Intimate Privacy: Repeals laws banning oral and premarital sex; prohibits
government interference in any intimate acts between consenting adults in
private.
Affordable Health Insurance: Private insurers must charge premiums equal to the
largest, lowest premium, private, group plan in Florida.
Business Opportunities: Establishes the Florida Business and Economic
Opportunity and Employment Authority, which would create new jobs and business
opportunities to Florida residents.
Prompt Medical Service Payment: Requires prompt payment from third-party
providers to medical service providers.
Save Our Florida: Calls for preserving the environment, a positive business
climate, efficient education system, individual rights, lower taxes, limiting
spending on nonFloridians, along with a responsible growth management policy.
Elderly Homesteads: Prohibits any state agency or local government from
foreclosing on the homestead of anyone older than 65 for delinquent taxes that
the owner could not afford to pay.
Claimant's Compensation: Ensures that an injured claimant who enters into a
contingency fee agreement with an attorney in a medical liability claim is
entitled to no less than 70 percent of the first $250,000 in damages paid, and
90 percent of any amount beyond that.
Judicial Accountability: Stiffens penalties for unethical judges.
Safety Belts: Requires the Legislature to provide for the enforcement of safety
belt laws to the same extent as other state traffic laws.
Justice In Courts: Targets what it calls loopholes in the legal system.
Violation Of Oath: Requires any state legislator or elected executive branch
officer found guilty of violating an oath of office to forfeit the position and
be barred from any elected or appointed public office for six years.
City Taxes: Permits the governing body of a municipality to abolish or levy any
tax if it is approved by a majority of the voters in the municipality.
Legalize Marijuana: Permits the state to legalize the growing, selling and
smoking of marijuana.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C) CHART 3
Tribune photo by COLIN HACKLEY

(C) Steve Basford says a constitutional amendment put him out of the pig farming
business. "There's two things in this world you don't ever really want to know
how they're made: One is sausage, the other is laws," he said.
(C) Rod Smith

NOTES: Taking the initiative (Second of Three Parts) RELATED STORY, Page 6:
Florida doesn't want to be California.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 4, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sunset For Shrimpers?

BYLINE: MARK HOLAN, mholan@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2098 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST


Ocean Catch Payout Dwindles As U.S. Workers Battle Imports, Regulations

By MARK HOLAN

mholan@tampatrib.com

KEY WEST - Pink gold.

That's what they called the 1950 discovery of pink shrimp near the Florida Keys.
The prized pinks, which cast off the shrimpers' post-World War II slump, still
anchor Florida's $50 million catch, while brown and white shrimp dominate the
landings of the seven other Southeastern states.

Shrimpers lately wonder whether any ocean-caught variety can compete with the
imported shrimp that have captured 88 percent of the U.S. market.

"You can't call it gold if you can't make any money on it," John DeLong said
last month as his 90-foot boat, the Nancy Joy, chugged through the shrimp
grounds 40 miles southwest of Cape Romano.

He tossed a handful of pinks just plucked from 75 feet of water into a plastic
basket. Soon the vast trawl nets would be lowered again for another three-hour
drag along the sea floor.

DeLong, 47, has spent most of his life trawling for shrimp.

He has hit the docks with a $100,000 catch. Now he and other captains struggle
to cover the cost of trips, even as they cut crews to save money. For this
three-week trip, DeLong brought in a catch worth $18,561 but the company he
works for, Gulf Partners Ltd., lost money.

"I will probably have to look at other options," DeLong said. "I love it. That's
why I'm still here."

But the flagship fleet of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic may be
vanishing.

The U.S. shrimp catch lost more than 50 percent of its value from 2000 to 2002.
Dockside prices for medium-size shrimp have dropped from about $6 per pound to
$2.

Boats are for sale. Fish houses are shuttered.

Imported shrimp are less expensive and more predictably available to giant
wholesalers and restaurant chains. Most are raised in ponds in Asia and South
America, where land and labor are cheap and environmental laws typically lax.

U.S. shrimpers must rely on fishing rather than farming because the climate is
cooler and coastal real estate is highly valued for development. Pond-raised
shrimp accounted for less than 5 percent of domestic production in 2001, the
most recent figure available.

The National Marine Fisheries Service has spent more than a year developing a
business plan to salvage part of the domestic shrimp industry, but the agency is
holding details close to the vest.

"We haven't seen the document," said Sal Versaggi, who runs a fleet of shrimp
boats in Tampa. "It may never see the light of day."

In fact, the federal agency may be counting on the shrimp industry's decline to
meet its conservation goals for saving other marine species such as red snapper,
according to Fisheries Service documents.

But the shrimp industry also may suffer from its own stubbornness.

Last year the Sea Grant program suggested that the industry's resistance to
change and its failure to embrace "the realities of the current global
environment" have resulted in "conflict, confrontation and chaos."

Risky Business

Deep-water shrimp fishing from engine-powered boats began at Fernandina Beach,
in northeast Florida, in the early 1900s.

Fishermen learned to pull their nets at night, when light-shy species such as
pink shrimp emerge from muddy burrows and move out across the sea floor.

"The moon is my nemesis," DeLong said.

So, sometimes, is the ocean.

An average of 57 commercial fishermen die at sea each year.

The latest local fatality, a 39-year-old shrimper working on a boat from Tarpon
Springs, was killed Feb. 1 near Key West.

There also are the financial perils.

Mechanical problems and the whims of weather often mean the difference between
earning a living or losing money.

DeLong's voyage in March from Tarpon Springs was delayed two days because of a
temperamental clutch.

Today's U.S. shrimpers face more obstacles: gear regulations to protect marine
life, seasonal and geographic fishing closures to assure healthy shrimp stocks
and preserve habitat, dock space and support businesses lost to coastal
development, rising fuel and insurance costs.

Owners of smaller boats, who once trawled bays and areas closer to shore, were
the first to feel the effects.

Now, with Americans eating more shrimp than ever, even the big deep-water boats
are in "dire straits," according to the Southern Shrimp Alliance, which
represents fishermen and processors.

Tarpon Springs seafood dealer John Williams of Gulf Partners serves as
secretary-treasurer of the organization.

The alliance asked federal regulators in December for trade sanctions against
six shrimp-exporting countries.

The organization accused China, Vietnam, Thailand, India, Ecuador and Brazil of
selling shrimp in the United States for up to 200 percent less than at home.

"If the unfair practice of dumping continues, many more family businesses will
fail, thousands more employees will be out of work and many coastal communities
will be devastated," alliance President Eddie Gordon said.

The International Trade Commission in February handed the alliance a preliminary
victory by ruling that there is "reasonable indication" the U.S. industry is
being harmed by shrimp imports.

A more detailed determination, which could mean tariffs, is due in June.

The American Seafood Distributors Association, which represents importers, and
allied retail and restaurant groups, opposes sanctions. They say tariffs will
lead to a loss of jobs and higher shrimp prices.

Aid For Shrimpers

A year ago Congress appropriated $35 million in disaster relief for U.S.
shrimpers in response to the sagging prices.

Florida, the nation's third-largest producer, received nearly $7 million to be
split among more than 1,000 shrimpers and 50 fish house owners.

"This is the first time I ever received government aid," said Tampa shrimper
Charles Parrish, 46, whose $15,600 relief check arrived in February.

A little more than $1 million of the relief money is being spent to promote
Florida "wild caught" shrimp, a marketing campaign that kicks off this month.

The idea is to create a niche market for Florida shrimp so consumers demand the
state's fresh catch by name.

Similar efforts have begun in other shrimping states, including Alabama, which
is airing television commercials featuring "Forrest Gump" author Winston Groom.

"If more people would go into the restaurant and ask questions -- 'Is that
shrimp imported or domestic?' -- that would change things," Parrish said.

Industry officials also want consumers to start turning over supermarket shrimp
rings to read the tiny country-of-origin labels on the bottom.

"I want shrimp from the Gulf," said Michigan real estate appraiser Michael
Oakes, 51, vacationing in Key West. "But it doesn't surprise me globalization is
hurting the shrimp industry like everything else."

Environmental Concerns

Imported shrimp began to surpass the domestic catch in the mid-1980s as U.S.
shrimpers were caught up in the debate of regulations to protect sea turtles and
other marine life, known as by-catch.

Turtle excluders in nets became law in 1989, but it was 1998 before federal
regulators required shrimpers working from the Florida Panhandle to Texas to add
openings to reduce the number of unwanted fish collected.

Regulators are most interested in protecting juvenile red snapper, a prized
commercial and recreational fish that swims with shrimp in the western Gulf. But
they also are concerned with the entire web of life at the bottom of the sea.

On Feb. 9 the federal government extended the requirement for by-catch gear to
the eastern Gulf. It now affects all of Florida's west coast shrimpers; only
near-to-shore shrimping had been affected before under state law.

When DeLong emptied his nets on two culling tables aboard the Nancy Joy, as much
as 80 percent of the catch was marine life other than shrimp: crabs, eels,
skates, grunts, porgy, scorpion fish, sea cucumber, even a small shark.

A rusty Pepsi can also was part of the mix.

Some shrimpers still resent the excluders, criticizing the need to poke holes in
their nets and claiming they lose too much catch. Others say they've adapted.

After 20 years of fighting, shrimpers and environmentalists are close to
becoming allies in fighting imported shrimp.

The Gulf Restoration Network, a New Orleans-based environmental group, said the
domestic shrimp catch is less damaging to oceans than imported shrimp is.

Foreign fleets typically don't use gear to protect turtles and other by-catch.
And aquaculture operations have destroyed coastal mangrove habitats to make way
for shrimp farms. The farms also use antibiotics to prevent disease in the
ponds, which some fear creates health risks.

"We feel the domestic shrimpers have made the effort and it has cost them a
lot," Jill Jensen of the Gulf Restoration Network said. "They've worked really
hard to reduce the by-catch and turtle deaths."

Shrimp Business Plan

But the National Marine Fisheries Service wants more by-catch reduction. It also
says the Southeastern shrimp industry has too many boats, thought to number
5,000 or more.

In one document the agency predicts a 30 percent to 50 percent decline in the
shrimp fleet under prevailing economic conditions "without any management
actions due to an inability to make a profit."

An agency spokeswoman said it is premature to discuss the shrimp business plan
since analyses and recommendations aren't complete. The agency did not respond
to written requests for information.

Under current management strategy, the government could stop issuing federal
permits to new shrimpers. Other options under discussion are paying fishermen to
surrender permits or buying up shrimp boats to keep them off the water.

Some shrimp boats are likely to remain on the water. But it looks like sunset
for others.

"Sometimes I sit down and think how it used to be," said Dan Craft, 57, who
shrimped for years from Hudson. "You live out there. It fascinated me. But as a
way of life, it's over with."

(CHART) WHAT'S HAPPENING

* Domestic shrimpers are losing to less expensive, pond-raised imports.

* Shrimpers in federal waters off Florida's west coast now must use nets that
minimize the catch of other marine species.

* U.S. trade agencies are weighing sanctions against foreign pond-raised shrimp.

* The National Marine Fisheries Service is developing a business plan to try to
save the industry.

* Florida has launched a "Wild Caught" campaign to promote the domestic catch.

(CHART) SHRIMPING BY THE RULES

The shrimp boat Nancy Joy returned last week to Tarpon Springs from a three-week
voyage to the pink shrimp beds off Key West. Since Feb. 9, all shrimpers working
the eastern Gulf of Mexico, have been required to use by-catch reduction devices
to decrease the amount of other sea creatures they catch. The rule went into
effect in the western Gulf in 1998. The boats also must use turtle excluders.

By-Catch Reduction Device

Nets

Shrimp boats pull as many as four nets along the bottom, typically at depths of
60 feet to 120 feet. Each net is 55-feet wide at the front opening.

Turtle Excluder

(not to scale)

How Devices Work

As the nets drag across the sea bottom, they trap crabs, fish and other sea life
as well as shrimp. Turtles and fish can swim to freedom through the excluders.
Shrimp don't swim as well, and are forced to the rear of the net.

Shrimping Grounds

Warm-water shrimp are harvested around the Gulf of Mexico and along the Atlantic
Coast. Most of Florida's catch is pink shrimp. Whites and browns dominate the
catch in seven other southeastern states.

By-Catch Reduction Devices required

Western Gulf 1998

Eastern Gulf 2004

Route Of the Nancy Joy

Shrimp Varieties

Three types of shrimp are caught in the Gulf of Mexico.

Brown shrimp are the most common catches in the Gulf and Atlantic Ocean.

White 35.5%

Pink 5.2%

Other 8.1%

Brown 51.2%

Domestic Catch

The Gulf of Mexico provides more than three-quarters of the U.S. catch.

Gulf 77%

Atlantic 9%

Other 14%

Florida Catch

Most shrimp landings are on the west coast. Figures are for 2002.

West Coast 9.9 million lbs.

East Coast 4.2 million lbs.

(See microfilm for details)

Tribune graphic by VAUGHN HUGHES; Source: National Marine Fisheries Service.

(CHART) U.S. SHRIMP CONSUMPTION

Shrimp has become the No. 1 seafood consumed in the United States. Today nearly
90% is imported.

(Shrimp consumption, 1993-2002. See microfilm for details.)

Tribune chart by VAUGHN HUGHES; Source: National Marine Fisheries Service.

RELATED STORY, Page 17:

Industry fades at birthplace.

(Also see related story, page 16)

Researcher Angie Drobnic Holan contributed to this story. Reporter Mark Holan
can be reached at (727) 815-1082.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 8 CHART 3
Tribune photos by ANDY JONES Shrimpers' way of life may be moving into the
shadows as they get tangled in environmental requirements and competition from
pond-raised imports. Other marine creatures find their way into shrimp catches
despite the use of mandated by-catch reduction devices. (2) First mate Walt
Baron, 24, prepares the nets that will be lowered into the Gulf for deep-water
shrimping at night, when the creatures emerge from their hiding places in the
sea. Below, after hours of trawling, Baron is back to work sorting the catch,
picking shrimp out from the other marine life such as crabs and eels caught in
the nets that will be cast overboard. Tribune photos by ANDY JONES In the dim
light of dusk, captain John DeLong keeps an eye on the navigation equipment in
the wheelhouse as an autopilot keeps the Nancy Joy on course. Michael Oakes
Michigan real estate appraiser, vacationing in Key West Shrimp boats such as the
Nancy Joy, Gulf Partners' 90-foot steel-hull boat, are slowly being forced off
the sea by imported shrimp. A rosary hangs in the wheelhouse of the Nancy Joy as
it sails slowly through the Gulf of Mexico on a recent shrimping trip.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 3, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No Walk In The Park Bay Area 2nd-Worst In Pedestrian Safety

BYLINE: DONNA KOEHN and STEPHEN THOMPSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


STUDY GIVES AREA LOW GRADE; EXPERTS BLAME LAWS, CLIMATE

By DONNA KOEHN and STEPHEN THOMPSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- Walking is the most dangerous mode of transportation in the United
States, and it can be particularly deadly in Tampa, St. Petersburg and
Clearwater, a national report released Thursday says.

The Tampa area ranks second to Orlando in having the most dangerous streets in
the nation for pedestrians, with those 70 and older the most likely to die,
according to the Surface Transportation Policy Project's annual study.

That comes as no surprise to Johnnie Mae Garner, 78, who crosses busy Progress
Boulevard several times a week for arts and crafts class and lunch at the
Progress Village Recreation Center.

"I don't take no chances," she said, as she slowly traversed the four-lane road
with her walker. "I have a method. I wait for the light to turn red down the
street, then I walk to the median. Sometimes I have to wait there 10 minutes
before it's safe to get across the other side. It's gotten horrible, just
horrible."

Chris Hagelin of the Center for Urban Transportation Research at the University
of South Florida wasn't surprised either by the report.

"I think there's this mentality that roads here are built for traffic flow, when
we need a paradigm shift," he said. "We need to figure out how to get people
across the road first."

Tampa also was 10th among metropolitan areas with the greatest declines in
pedestrian safety between 1994-95 and 2002-03.

In 2002-03, 3.69 people died per 100,000 residents, the highest rate in the
nation. However, the area earned its second-place ranking because the study used
a number called the "pedestrian danger index" that assesses the rate of
pedestrian deaths relative to the amount people walked.

The West Palm Beach-Boca Raton and Miami-Fort Lauderdale areas were ranked third
and fourth in danger nationwide, and Jacksonville was ninth.

The Surface Transportation Policy Project, based in Washington, is a coalition
of national safety advocacy groups.

Climate, Laws Blamed

Law enforcement and planning officials say Florida's temperate climate causes
more people to be outside year-round and therefore on the streets.

Additionally, several of the fatalities in Tampa this year involved pedestrians
who were impaired through alcohol consumption or because they were wearing
headphones that blocked the sounds of oncoming traffic, according to Tampa
Police Chief Steve Hogue.

"It's important to make the roadways as safe for pedestrians as possible," Hogue
said. "But obviously, people are making it difficult when they're getting
impaired and trying to cross the street."

The state's laws also are not designed with pedestrians in mind, said Pinellas
County sheriff's Sgt. Glenn Luben, a traffic homicide investigator.

For example, pedestrians in Florida have the right of way only if they are in a
crosswalk at an intersection and cars have stopped at a red light, he said. In
other parts of the country, a pedestrian has the right of way even without a
crosswalk or traffic light.

"According to the verbiage of Florida state statute, the vehicles have the right
of way of the roads -- the pedestrians do not," he said.

On Sept. 24, Richard Michaels was pushing his 83- year-old mother in a
wheelchair on Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard in Clearwater when a motorist coming out of
a driveway didn't see them and struck her, knocking her out of her chair. She
died of a head injury.

"The only thing he was charged with was failure to yield the right of way to a
pedestrian -- that's it," said Michaels, 51. "They said under the state of
Florida guidelines they couldn't charge him with anything" else.

Michaels would have preferred a manslaughter charge.

"He took someone's life. He should pay for it, instead of getting a ticket."

Melissa McKenzie, of Tampa, was killed by a motorcyclist Feb. 3 while jogging on
Bayshore Boulevard.

Her husband, Bill McKenzie, called Mayor Pam Iorio's pedestrian safety plan,
announced Wednesday, "a start." Iorio called for the installation of sidewalks
and speed signs on Bayshore and a public awareness campaign for safe driving.

"There's a whole lot of work to do," McKenzie said. "At least [Melissa]
accomplished something."

USF's Hagelin cited the Bayshore fatality as an example of the role politics can
play in pedestrian safety.

"The Bayshore Task Force shows the influence of political power," he said. "How
many task forces have been set up for U.S. 19 in Pinellas or Pasco? Or on
Nebraska Avenue? Where are those task forces? The only way for this to change is
for the citizens to demand that their politicians make a change in the way they
are doing things.

"Look at Bruce B. Downs. There's a horrible traffic situation, with all these
subdivisions feeding that road. What is their solution? Widen it. Create another
multilane road."

He would like to see Florida cities look to Europe for examples of
pedestrian-friendly places. Salt Lake City, which topped this year's list of the
most improved cities, is also a model.

"They're giving red flags to pedestrians to use when they cross the streets," he
said. "Let's try something innovative like this instead of the same old thing."

In Pinellas County, some crosswalks have been widened and painted with brighter
colors or moved out of dangerous intersections altogether. Also, a $15 million
continuous sidewalk is under construction along U.S. 19, said Brian Smith,
county planning director and director of the Metropolitan Planning Organization.

"It's still disappointing to have the numbers up there, with all that you're
doing," he said.

Really Bad For Seniors

Bentley Lipscomb, director of Florida AARP, said the state's heavy presence on
the most-dangerous list erodes its reputation as a good place for retirees.

The fatality rate of pedestrians age 70 and older nationwide is twice that of
other age groups, the study said, because they are more fragile and walk more
slowly.

"We need to do things like install longer signal lights and give older people a
place to stop safely in the median," Lipscomb said.

Florida has done a better job than other states of making use of federal money
for pedestrian and bicycling safety, Hagelin said, using 82 percent of available
funds compared with 74 percent nationwide.

But there has been no public outcry to improve safety, Luben said.

"There's no one out there who speaks for the pedestrian," he said.

Michaels doesn't think motorists care about the walkers who share the road.

"Some people are really oblivious to pedestrians," he said. "It's a
get-out-of-my-way attitude."

(CHART) UPS AND DOWNS

Here are the areas that improved the most and declined the most in pedestrian
safety, comparing figures from 1994-95 and 2002-03. For the full report, go to
www.transact.org.

Improved

1. Salt Lake City-Ogden, Utah

2. Portland-Salem, Ore.

3. Austin-San Marcos, Texas

4. New Orleans, La.

5. Los Angeles-Riverside-

Orange County, Calif.

6. Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas

7. Norfolk-Virginia

Beach-Newport News, Va.

8. San Francisco-

Oakland-San Jose, Calif.

9. Hartford, Conn.

10. Phoenix-Mesa, Ariz.

Declined

1. Orlando

2. Richmond-Petersburg, Va.

3. Memphis, Tenn.

4. Denver-Boulder-Greeley, Colo.

5. Grand Rapids-Muskegon-

Holland, Mich.

6. Columbus, Ohio

7. Pittsburgh, Pa.

8. Buffalo-Niagara Falls, N.Y.

9. West Palm Beach-Boca Raton

10. Tampa-St. Petersburg-

Clearwater

Source: Surface Transportation Policy Project

Reporters Josh Poltilove and Michael H. Samuels contributed to this report.
Reporter Donna Koehn can be reached at (813) 259-8264. Reporter Stephen Thompson
can be reached at (727) 823-3303.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Tribune photo by JASON BEHNKEN Johnnie Mae Garner, 78, says she sometimes has to
wait 10 minutes in the median before she can safely cross Progress Boulevard in
Tampa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 9, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Big Country

BYLINE: Stories and photos by ANDY SCHRADER, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

DATELINE: BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK, Te


Big Bend National Park in southwest Texas offers unspoiled wilderness and open
spaces like Alaska's, but a lot closer to home.

Stories and photos by ANDY SCHRADER

Tribune correspondent

BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK, Texas -- It's like fast food: instant gratification for
wilderness lovers. Big Bend National Park's 800,000 acres include lush forests,
lonely desert and more than 100 miles of the Rio Grande.

Brewster County, which holds the park, covers 6,200 square miles with a
population of only about 13,000. Its wide-open wilderness and solitude rival
Alaska's. But unlike Alaska, this land is accessible to anything with four
wheels. The park is crisscrossed by highways and dirt roads; however, you can
quickly be as alone as if you had hiked for days to get there.

"I like the fact that I'm hundreds of miles away from a Wal-Mart," a park ranger
told some visitors. "It's a chance to leave mechanization, to head off of a
trail and walk into the desert and not see another person for days."

Before you can walk into the desert, though, you have to drive through the
desert. Fort Stockton is the nearest city, and that's more than 100 miles away.

Driving south on U.S. 385 at dusk feels like you're at sea. It's rare to see
other cars. There's nothing but flat sand in all directions, and it's so dark,
so cut off from help, that the dark side of the moon doesn't seem so bad
anymore. I never knew a dashboard light could be so comforting.

The landscape changes dramatically once inside Big Bend. Adjectives become as
useless as day-old roadkill. It's still desert, but it's Chihuahuan desert --
rare in America and full of shrubs.

In fact, Big Bend holds the largest chunk of Chihuahuan desert in the nation,
and it's full of life. How full? The park holds 1,200 species of plants with
about 60 species of cactuses, 40 species of fish, 75 species of mammals and 450
species of birds.

That's more types of birds, bats and cactuses than any other U.S. national park.

On the side of the road, low prickly pear cactuses and shrubs pop out.
Roadrunners and javelinas (pronounced "have-a-leenas"), which are like giant
pigs with long canine teeth, become common. Brown mountain ranges that seemed so
distant surround the car off the ruler-straight road.

Hobbit Hills

They could film another "Lord of the Rings" here for a lot cheaper than in New
Zealand. The elevation ranges from 1,800 feet at the Rio Grande to 7,800 feet at
the tops of the Chisos Mountains. This change in moisture and temperature lets
different climates and animals coexist in one area.

The Chisos Basin, in the center of the park, looks like parts of Pennsylvania:
Bears and mountain lions get along underneath the shade of pine trees. Drive 15
minutes down out of the mountains, though, and the landscape is back to desert
sand.

A half-hour's drive west brings up the Sotol Vista Overlook. The hills below
look like something out of the Hobbits' shire, like basil-dusted step stones I
could bound across as a giant.

The view deceives, of course. Each hill is the size of a football field.

Big Bend gets its name from the "big bend" the Rio Grande makes as it flows
through the park from southeast to northeast. The river provides the southern
border for the park for 118 miles.

I camped (OK, slept in my truck) near the river at the Rio Grand Village
campground. It's one of the more popular campgrounds in the park because RVs can
get full hookups.

Fortunately, though, there is a no-generator zone where tent-dwellers and
car-sleepers who still want showers and toilets can sleep quietly.

The park has backcountry campsites for purists. Only one person or group is
allowed at each site, so they are guaranteed solitude.

My first day there, I hiked near the Rio Grande Village, on the Boquillas Canyon
trail. It's a 1.5-mile round-trip hike and a good introduction to the area.
After hiking a ways and looking over the river, I noticed a lady with a metal
walker baby-stepping up the trail after me.

"Geez," I thought. "If she can get up here, then I'm never going to find any
solitude."

So I climbed up the mountain, off the trail. I found out later I wasn't supposed
to do this.

The park's stance is that if you're driving and you see a hill you want to go
climb, just park on the side of the road, walk into the desert and have at it.
But if you're on a trail, you're supposed to stay on the trail. Otherwise,
repeated strays can create false trails that others may follow and get lost on.

Boy Meets Cactus

Up top, I could see for miles. There was no one around because nobody else
wanted to climb a cactus-covered sand mountain. On the walk down, I slipped and
securely planted my rear on a prickly pear cactus. While trying to get up, I got
some more needles stuck in my arm. It looked like a grotesque shish kabob. When
I plucked out the needles, thick rivulets of blood ran down my arm like a
cartoon oil can shot with bullets. How I envied the lady with the metal walker.

The next day, I attempted to climb 4.5 miles to the top of Emory Peak.
Supposedly, at the 7,825-foot summit, one can see for miles in all directions. I
never found out. I got started late and made bad time all the way up -- possibly
because of imagined prickly pear poisoning, which sounded totally plausible and
like a good story I could tell girls back home. I was tired.

On the way up, I saw a rocky outcropping that looked easy to climb. I scrambled
up the rocks and looked down into the valleys lit by warm sunlight. I stripped
off my shirt and decided to stay there, and just looked out at the mountains for
a long time like some people look at the ocean. My lips were cracked from the
dry air, and whenever I found something to smile about it really hurt.
Unfortunately, I smiled a lot because I was on my own and loving it. I took out
my journal and wrote for a while:

Here it seems impossible to take a picture that doesn't look straight off
Grandma's slide carousel. No single picture, no 300 pictures, can do it justice.
Like William Blake said, "What immortal hand or eye could frame thy fearful
symmetry?"

I get a feeling of comfort watching the mountains. The campsites and ranger
stations seem so temporary; but when everything else is blown away, surely these
mountains will still stand.

Maybe that hope is misplaced, though. Isn't that why the Indians welcomed the
conquistador Cortes in the first place? If nothing had changed their way of life
for 1,000 years, what could one man do? Or 300 men?

Never-Ending Places To Explore

I asked a park ranger why the area needed federal protection. After all, it was
mostly desert -- not like anybody would want to live there or build a factory so
far from supply lines. She admitted that the face of the landscape might not
change a lot. But even if it weren't changed, she said, neither of us would ever
get close enough to see it: Like all the private land in Texas, it would be
cordoned off behind miles of barbed wire.

The sun was near set when I drove back to my campsite. All day, the outlines of
entire clouds had made shadows on the mountains. The ridges seemed to constantly
change outfits, depending on where the sun was. I drove for about 30 minutes,
watching dark fingers creep up and eventually grasp the highest peaks.

When I had arrived two days previously, I couldn't imagine how to keep busy with
five days in the desert. Now I was mentally erasing the rest of my vacation to
eke out more days.

Frank Jones, manager of a cafe just outside the park, told me that it always
happens that way. People stay for three days and realize that's not even time to
scratch the surface of all the inimitable views in the park.

"Tourists ask me, "How long you think it'll take to see all the stuff around
here?' I tell them, "How many years you got?' "

(CHART) AROUND THE BEND

It's a long drive to get anywhere, even within Big Bend National Park. On the
drive there, top off your gas tank at Fort Stockton and again in Marathon to be
safe. Gas is available within the park, but it's expensive. Although some food
and basic items are sold in Big Bend, it's much cheaper to stock up on supplies
at the Wal-Mart in Fort Stockton.

For information on mountain biking and river rafting within Big Bend National
Park, go to www.desertsportstx.com.

For national park information, go to www.nps.gov/bibe/home.htm. Click on
"Planning Your Visit" and then the Interactive Big Bend Map for photos of
popular destinations within the park.

For information on Terlingua, just outside the park exit, go to
www.ghosttowntexas.com.

Andy Schrader of Tampa is a University of South Florida engineering student and
a freelance travel writer.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 MAP
Tribune map by TIM LEE Big Bend National Park (2) Prickly pear cactuses are
nature's way of saying "high voltage" for those who dare to stray too close to
the plants at Big Bend National Park in Texas. They're one of about 60 species
of cactuses thriving throughout the mountains and desert that comprise the
park's 800,000 acres. Amy Mowat, right, works as a law enforcement ranger in the
park with her dog, Anet. Photo by ANDY SCHRADER The Rio Grande snakes along the
southern border of Big Bend National Park, as seen from the 1.5-mile Boquillas
Canyon trail.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 13, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa's Big Giver

BYLINE: DIANE EGNER, degner@tampatrib.com

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1966 words


By DIANE EGNER

degner@tampatrib.com

Businessman and philanthropist Don Wallace, one of Tampa's wealthiest residents
and a key player in the recent Civitas development project, attributes much of
his success to the school of hard knocks.

Born into a poor family in rural Tennessee, his entrepreneurial spirit emerged
in fifth-grade when he discovered that cornmeal combined with powdered glass
could stop a radiator leak. He packaged the mixture for sale and soon began
counting the profits in quarters.

Today he presides over Lazydays RV SuperCenter, a Seffner-based recreational
vehicle dealership with annual sales nearing $1 billion. In May, Wallace
negotiated a $206 million deal with a New York investment firm that will pay the
company's 700 employees $29 million for stock they have accumulated.

He and his wife, Erika, give away millions each year to support their favorite
charities, particularly those that benefit children.

He recently agreed to talk about his business success and community involvement
with Tribune editorial writer Diane Egner.

Here are excerpts from those conversations:

About "giving back":

Q. If you were the wealthiest person in the world, what would you want to
accomplish?

A. I'd want to do what I'm doing right now, only do it on a bigger scale. ...
You can't do it all with dollars or time. To me that's really the hardest choice
that Erika [his wife] and I face around 10 o'clock every night ... the things
we've been asked to do today and what are we going to say yes to and what do we
have to say no to. ...

Q. What is the overall theme in your giving?

A. First, kids more than anything else. We can change their lives one at a time.
Kids and then it's health issues. We're big supporters of Tampa General
Hospital. What they're accomplishing there is absolutely amazing.

Q. Are you an example of the next generation of people who have the financial
ability to give in this community?

A. We'd like to think we could have that effect.

Q. What do you do to encourage others to give?

A. We invite friends to go to a [fund-raising] breakfast or something and they
catch the spirit. ... A lot of them [are] not in a spot where they're able to
"do" as far as dollars are concerned, but they certainly "do" as far as time is
concerned. ... They invite their friends, and it's a joy to see it happen.

Q. What are you hoping to accomplish with your recent $5 million gift to the
Breast Cancer Center at Moffitt?

A. We've had so many friends that have suffered from breast cancer. The first
awareness of breast cancer that we had in our house was a lady named Lisa who
attended the Awareness Ball. She talked about how terrifying it was and then
about her [positive] experience when she went to Moffitt.

About Tampa's future:

Q. How can we in Tampa build a better city?

A. Our city is faced with this incredible opportunity. ... We don't have any
areas that are in terrible blighted conditions that a lot of cities have. ...
What we have is areas that have a lot of vacant properties ... and the people
that are left are for the most part good people. They've got clean little
houses. They take care of them. We're faced with good infrastructure.

We have an opportunity that's almost totally unique. Instead of going 20, 30 or
50 miles out and building subdivision after subdivision, we can come back in the
heart of our city and re-create it with a plan. Our biggest challenge is saying
what we would like all of this to look like.

Q. Do you think there's the political will in the community to change it?

A. The jury's out on that. I hope there is. It's a huge opportunity. To me, the
city and the county are one. I don't know where the city limits start and stop,
nor do I care. ... We ought to all be on the same page and say this is the
destiny of our city; this is where we want to go.

Q. What's the image of Tampa when you go elsewhere?

A. People think it's a really nice city. ... They don't think of our city as
being this really cool place.

That's something to really be concerned about because younger families leave our
city or decide not to live here. Then you get a generation of people who have
grown up here, worked to make the city better and given back -- they get wore
out, and if you don't have that young, creative, inspired group of people to
take over, you've got a problem.

Q. How do you cultivate that image?

A. I think it starts from the city center outward. ... And I'm not talking just
about Central Park. We've got hundreds of acres where we have the opportunity to
do that. You build a community, a place where a mom wants to live. I think
what's happening on Davis Islands is almost magical.

Q. In looking back at the Civitas situation, is there anything that you would
have done differently?

A. Yes. When the housing authority came along to get their grant, we should have
realized that there was not enough time to do this project the way it needs to
be done. We should have left it be. ...

It took a public-private partnership to make it happen. And what a wonderful
thing to do in our city. What saddens me more than anything about it is that we
all didn't have the opportunity to see that. The reason is pretty simple: You
can't do all that in 60 or 90 days. You just can't do it.

Q. What other ideas are you pursuing to improve the city?

A. Central Park isn't a dead issue. It's a dead issue as far as Civitas is
concerned but I don't think Central Park or east Tampa or Tampa Heights are dead
issues. The west bank of our river, West Tampa ... what an opportunity. That is
a really beautiful, cool place. It could really be neat.

ABOUT BUSINESS:

Q. Tell me about the Lazydays sale that you just completed.

A. In 1995, right after I bought my dad [H.K.] out, I started an employee stock
ownership plan. Something that I have always believed in is employee ownership.
One of my favorite sayings is "treat a man as he ought to be treated and he
might just become the man he ought to be."

... In 1999 I sold 74 percent of my stock to a holding company. ... Our
employees at that time owned 9 percent of the company, and they had the
opportunity to own more. ...

Over the last several years, we've grown from $500 million to $750 million. ...
It was a good time for everybody to cash out.

So as a result of that transaction, the [700] employees got checks for $29
million. ...

There's people that got checks that are twice their annual salary. There's
people that got checks that are 10 times their annual salary.

Q. Now your goal is to have $1 billion in sales by 2005. Is that going to
happen?

A. Absolutely. The RV market has been great this year but I think for the next
several months, it's going to be tough. So we've got a lot of work to do.What's
the biggest challenge?

Never forgetting that we do it one customer at a time. We sell close to 9,000
RVs a year now, so we're a great big company. ... but your customers want a
relationship with the people they buy from. ... Treat every customer like it's
your first one.

Q. Do you see things that prevent other businesses from being as successful as
you are?

A. I see things that stop other businesses from growing, and I see things that
make them better than we are.

Q. Give me some examples.

A. A restaurant located in Ybor City that's now out of business. To go inside
the restaurant, you had to go by the dumpster. Every time you walked by the
dumpster, there were always two or three employees sitting around the dumpster
smoking cigarettes. Those were the same people that you knew were going to be
cooking your food. That's one of my favorite examples.

On the opposite side, we were in Frankfurt this past year and ... right in the
middle of downtown in a little square, Mercedes had a coffee shop, like a
Starbucks. You could go in there and get a cup of coffee, and you could walk up
to a touch-screen wall and you could design and build your own car. There were
no salespeople in this place. You could change the color, etc.

So I stole that idea. We're working on it right now. You've got all these
different models and colors and floor plans, and then you're able to get a look
at it. We're going to call it "build your own."


ABOUT THE ECONOMY:

Q. What's your assessment of how the economy's doing?

A. There are an awful lot of reasons why the economy in general should be worse
than what it is. We have the uncertainty about gas prices and how much is it
ultimately going to cost. We've got the threats of rising interest rates. We've
got the threat of terrorism. We're faced with a presidential election where
everybody's always got a wait-and-see attitude. And in addition to that, we're
in a war that we're not able to figure out how to get out of. I think that those
things are having a tremendously negative effect on the economy. What I think is
driving the economy is consumer spending, and I believe where the majority of
those dollars are coming from is home refinance. Last year there was $200
billion that people put in their pocket from refinancing their homes. ... If it
wasn't for such low interest rates and people pulling money out of home
refinance, we'd be in the tank.

Q. Do you have a key piece of advice for a young person, an entrepreneur,
getting into business right now in today's economic climate?

A. Be patient. Do the right things, no matter how tough it is, and one day it
happens.

ABOUT HIMSELF:

Q. If someone who doesn't know you were to ask, "Who is Don Wallace?," how would
you answer that?

A. I know what it feels like to be poor. I'm from Tennessee originally. My dad
was an entrepreneur. He had a series of small businesses. My dad was one of 12
kids. His dad died when he was in the second grade. His mom had tuberculosis. My
dad dropped out of school in second grade and started to work.

Q. Were those roots part of what makes you give back now?

A. Yes. I know what it feels like to be poor.

Q. Did you go to college?

A. No. I graduated from Chamberlain. We moved here when I was a junior in high
school. I know what it feels like to be very blessed. I've had hundreds of
people who have helped me get to where I am today. ... After I got out of high
school, I moved back to Tennessee and I started farming.

Q. Tomato farming?

A. Tomato farming. Plus I was doing everything I could in the world to make a
living. My first real entrepreneurial job was when I was ... in the fifth grade.
My brother and I started making our own radiator stop-leak made of corn meal and
powder. ... We packed it in these plastic sleeves that you put quarters in and
we'd put it on consignment in all these service stations and then every Saturday
we'd go check their supply and they'd pay us for what they sold.

Q. Were you already then setting a goal?

A. My dad taught me to do that. It was very simple: If you want that, this is
what you've got to do to get it.

Q. What's the biggest goal you've reached that you thought it would be
impossible to achieve?

A. I could say marrying Erika. The first day I saw her, I wrote down that I
would marry her. It wasn't about how pretty she was. ... If everything turned
out perfect with my relationship with my family, my spiritual relationship, my
relationships with my friends, my business. ... All the different roles that all
of us play in life. There's only five or six of them [that really matter]: I'm a
husband. I'm a dad. I'm a boss. And hopefully I'm a role model and friend to my
friends.

Q. Any final thoughts?

A. The ultimate responsibility of every one of us is to give back to people,
help other people, change people's lives, make them better. That's a
responsibility because we've all been blessed. Along with that blessing comes a
responsibility. The wonderful thing about it is that it feels good and in
addition to that, I think you get it all back.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune file photo by JIM REED Don Wallace and Dan Lasseter of Lazydays RV
SuperCenter east of Tampa designed the exclusive Crown Club campground for
customers who have spent more than $250,000 on their luxury motor coaches. Don
and Erika Wallace, president-elect of the board of directors at the Spring, a
shelter for victims of domestic violence.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 3, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

War Between The States On Climate

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 550 words


In a fascinating clash of geography and politics, eight states have filed a
federal lawsuit asking that much of the rest of the nation be declared a public
nuisance.

The suit urges a federal judge to slow down the burning of coal in 20 states,
mostly in the South and Midwest, to help slow global warming.

The companies being sued include The Southern Company, fast-growing owner of
Gulf Power, which operates coal-burning plants in the Florida Panhandle.

Attorneys general in eight states -- New York, New Jersey, Vermont, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, Iowa, Wisconsin and California -- say five big power companies put
so much carbon dioxide into the air that they're changing the climate and
damaging public health.

Of the 20 states targeted in the suit, only one, Wisconsin, has a power plant
that might be affected. That suggests the legal maneuver is more a political
stunt than a serious attempt to save the planet.

The states filing the suit are in areas where energy costs are higher and
blackouts more common. Perhaps some interstate jealousy is involved.

The complaining states want emissions cut 3 percent a year for 10 years in the
offending plants. If the power companies lose, a spokesman for Southern says,
they'll have to raise rates about 50 percent. They would have to switch from
coal to more costly natural gas, and using more gas would drive up its price,
hurting other industries.

The filing doesn't point to a law being broken, because carbon dioxide is not
legally a pollutant. It's something every animal emits with every breath. The
action unfairly points to the burning of coal in certain places to be the lone
nuisance while everyone else gets a pass.

The argument rests on the plausible assumption that emissions are trapping so
much heat in the atmosphere that soon seas will rise and many disasters be
unleashed.

The court, no matter how it rules, can't offer much help. Burning fossil fuels
produces only 75 percent of human gashouse emissions; the United States produces
only about 25 percent of the world's carbon dioxide; and of those U.S.
emissions, the target companies are responsible for only about 10 percent.

Shut these companies down and you probably couldn't measure the resulting change
in the global climate. Yet if the problem is as serious as many
environmentalists, scientists and politicians believe, action is overdue.

The challenge is not as hopeless as this outrageous legal gimmick makes it
appear. Gulf Power says it already has managed to cut emissions 71 percent since
1992, while at the same time adding 92,000 new customers.

How To Save Millions

John Browne, chief executive of BP PLC, says in a recent column in Foreign
Affairs magazine that his company cut emissions by 10 percent without any cost.
It simply eliminated leaks and waste, and saved itself $650 million.

Saving energy is good business sense, and improvements can come gradually
through trial and error. What the nation needs is an energy policy from
Washington that moves the nation faster toward greater efficiency.

There is no reason to wait until everyone is sure of the need. As Browne points
out, "Certainty and perfection have never figured prominently in the story of
human progress."

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 5, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Musicians Hit Road In Support Of Kerry Campaign

BYLINE: JON PARELES, The New York Times

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


By JON PARELES

The New York Times

PHILADELPHIA -- Bruce Springsteen began stumping the swing states Friday night
to support Sen. John Kerry.

"We're here tonight to fight for a government that is open, rational,
forward-looking and humane, and we plan to rock the joint while doing so," he
said at the beginning of the concert he headlined at the Wachovia Center.

The concert, which also featured R.E.M., was one of six simultaneous concerts in
Pennsylvania for the Vote for Change tour, a week of benefit concerts in
battleground states.

Musicians including Springsteen, Dave Matthews, the Dixie Chicks, Pearl Jam,
Bonnie Raitt and John Mellencamp are headlining concerts in closely contested
states. The tour features rock musicians, but the lineups also encompass blues,
country and hip hop.

James Taylor and the Dixie Chicks will perform Friday at Ruth Eckerd Hall in
Clearwater. At the same time, Springsteen and R.E.M. will play at Orlando's TD
Waterhouse Center, Pearl Jam will be at the Silver Spurs Arena in Kissimmee, and
Matthews will be at Gainesville's O'Connell Center. Three other Vote for Change
concerts will be in the state that night.

The tour, which began Sept. 27, will reach 11 states and 33 cities, winding up
with a concert by 13 of the headliners Monday at the MCI Center in Washington.
That show will be televised live on the Sundance Channel.

The concerts are benefits for America Coming Together, a voter-mobilization
effort, and they are presented by the liberal MoveOn political action committee.

Some performers, including Pearl Jam and Raitt, have previously done benefits
for political candidates. But this is the first time Springsteen has made a
partisan stand.

"These are people who are the best experts at connecting with the American
public, people who have had an emotional connection with millions of people for
years," said Eli Pariser, executive director of MoveOn. "Politics is a part of
that, and I think it just extends what they do, their art.

"It does take some courage in this climate to stand up and do what they're
doing. A lot of them have been galvanized by the kind of extremist repressive
response that they've seen. They're not going to be silenced."

The Dixie Chicks faced radio station boycotts and a talk show furor in 2003
after lead singer Natalie Maines disparaged President Bush onstage.

"We have nothing to lose at this point, so any sort of fear or inhibition is out
the window," Maines said. "We definitely want a regime change, and now that
we're getting down to the wire, I'm even less afraid to speak out. I just think
things are absolutely life or death right now.

"We sort of weeded out the people who apparently didn't know who we were, though
we never felt like we were trying to hide what we thought. Free speech is not
free. We paid dearly. But we're more determined and stronger now. And from this
point on, what fans we have will be our true fans."

It is a complex enough undertaking to gather rock stars for a one-day event such
as Live Aid or Mellencamp's annual Farm Aid. Arranging six simultaneous weeklong
benefit tours by such popular musicians is probably unprecedented. There is no
comparable undertaking on the Republican side.

The musicians are not playing their standard sets; they are including more
political songs and collaborating with the others on the bill.

After Pennsylvania, the tour moved to Ohio and Michigan. Tonight and Wednesday,
it's in Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Missouri.

Raitte and Jackson Browne opened the tour last week in Seattle.

"It was a very energized, responsive audience," Raitt said. "When we sang Little
Steven's "I Am a Patriot' and the whole audience was standing up, it just
brought me to tears. It's more fun to do this than it is to do my own shows.
It's just so inspirational, and there's so much at stake."

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Associated Press Bruce Springsteen, left, and R.E.M.'s Michael Stipe perform
during a Vote for Change concert Sunday in Detroit. On Friday, Springsteen will
headline in Orlando, one of six simultaneous tour stops in the state.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 16, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Tampa Project Finding Our Place

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5798 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


This series examines the unique and intricately woven blend of ideas, attitudes,
behaviors and customs that define this place we call home. It begins with where
Tampa stands as both a city and a state of mind.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Lorraine Duffy Suarez grew up one block from what seemed to her like
the center of the world. It was a busy main street with a candy store, bakery
and a lot to see from the seat of her bicycle.

So when her family moved from their hometown on New York's Long Island to
Broward County, Suarez, then 11, jumped on her pink banana seat and pedaled the
streets to find that central place again.

But it wasn't there. The whole town, it seemed, was a bunch of houses.

Suarez tells this story to explain why she wants to leave suburban Carrollwood
for a loft in the Channel District, a collection of old warehouses turning into
a neighborhood of homes, shops and eateries at the edge of the Port of Tampa.

"Maybe I'm still looking for that place," she says.

Suarez isn't alone.

These days, Tampa is thrumming with both frustration and hope. Suarez and many
others speak of the city as if it were a teenager -- gangly, exuberant, still
growing and full of potential, but its future uncertain.

They talk about reshaping Tampa, making it more livable, more connected, more
cosmopolitan. They envision, for example, a swath from Hyde Park through
downtown to Ybor City coalescing into a mix of condos and apartments, shops and
cafes.

This movement doesn't end at the city limits. The same combination of
frustration and hope has sparked an effort to link artists and other creative
people in the area. It also has inspired suburbanites across the county to work
with government planners to create town centers and other ways to pull together
their subdivisions.

These changes, some say, could lead to Tampa's transformation from a centerless
spread of houses and office districts to a more vigorous, cohesive metropolitan
area, a place repeatedly ranked as a top-tier city.

But it has a ways to go.

This story marks the first in a series of special reports examining how Tampa
clicks as a city. Its long love-hate relationship with sprawl. Its diverse
culture and economy. Its natural beauty and struggle with growth. Those things
that pull us together. The differences that push us apart.

We call it the Tampa Project. We're not standing in judgment of Tampa -- the
city and surrounding suburbs. Rather, our aim is to illuminate who we are, how
we're changing and where this change might carry us.

Unrealized Dreams

Tampa isn't at the bottom of anyone's best-cities list, or even close to it.
There are reasons people keep moving here: the sun, the water, opportunity. But
we have problems, too -- crumbling neighborhoods, low-paying jobs, roads choked
with cars.

The push to improve these things isn't new. It's rooted in conversations that
began years ago among people who wanted to make Tampa more cohesive and
appealing.

They wanted a lively downtown, including a walkway along the Hillsborough River
where people could stroll and see the work of local artists. They wanted the new
suburbs to have the warmth of Tampa's older neighborhoods, such as West Tampa
and Old Carrollwood.

But many subdivisions still lack sidewalks, links to neighboring subdivisions
and other features that create a sense of connection. The river walk is still
more idea than reality.

And downtown still empties at night as office workers flee to enclaves out in
the county and beyond, leaving behind an anemic core -- and adding to a sense
that we are disconnected, one person from another, one community from another.

Of course, there are other reasons for this feeling of disunity. Many of us were
raised somewhere else and don't have childhood memories to share. We lack a
unifying grasp of this area's dramatic frontier history. Even our roadways
divide us.

Maybe we need more time. Tampa struggled into existence more than 100 years ago
but acquired much of its present form in the growth years after World War II.
People laughed at San Diego 30 years ago after a series of political scandals
and missteps. Now San Diego is on most of the best-places lists.

Or maybe what Tampa needs is for more of us to recognize that Tampa is ... all
of us. We control its fate.

To be sure, more growth is coming. But we have a choice: Harness it for our
benefit, or watch from the sidelines as competition intensifies for limited
space, schools swell with more students, traffic becomes maddening and the
quality of life degrades.

The answer might lie beneath the layers of continuous growth and change, in the
glintings of Tampa's soul -- in the warmth of the hearty banter over cafe con
leche in a West Tampa cafe, in the enterprise of a smoking street-corner
barbecue operation, in the memories of baseball games and Hillsborough River
outings that pull wandering natives back home.

A Lot To Offer

Most of us, natives and newcomers, love it here. And there is much to love.

We have major league sports, a top airport and performing arts center, many
strong neighborhoods.

And the sun. The sight of the sun glancing across the Bay can be stunning.

As part of the spadework for this series, The Tampa Tribune last year polled
hundreds of residents and found that more than 70 percent like living here "very
much."

They praised the area's parks, family entertainment and cultural activities. But
they weren't happy with everything.

More than 60 percent said Tampa's public transportation is worse than other
cities'. Nearly 50 percent said traffic is worse than in other cities.

Suarez disagrees. She says Tampa's traffic is better than other cities'. But she
also says it's worse than it used to be, and her belief is reinforced most
mornings when -- facing Gunn Highway, near Anderson Road -- she waits for her
chance to scoot across the westbound traffic and head east.

She has been watching the pattern develop for years. Two-lane roads clog as
houses fill surrounding fields. They are widened and work well for a while, then
clog again as development spreads.

It's happening to Gunn, Suarez says on a weekday morning as she pulls into the
median strip and stops.

She supervises eight people at the Hillsborough County City-County Planning
Commission, where she has worked for nearly 20 years, putting in many 12-hour
days.

"This is my home now," she says. "I've seen a lot of change, a lot for the
better. But if we're not careful, we'll lose the good stuff here."

As its name suggests, the commission is on the front lines of the struggle among
developers, environmentalists and residents over what we are to become.

"It's a constant tug of war," Suarez says, with a snappy Long Island accent.
"These guys have their property rights and, by God, you can't take those away."
But growth forever alters the landscape, she continues. "People want to have an
identity, but as growth comes in, a lot of people are losing their place."

Suarez, 46, keeps her nails polished, often a deep red, because she uses her
hands a lot to explain things and wants people to pay attention. She's not above
winking to make a point or giving someone a quick tap on the arm.

Suarez often takes her sister to work. Their subdivisions are side by side but
not connected. So Suarez has to pull onto Gunn, drive two-tenths of a mile, make
a U-turn and backtrack to get to her sister's subdivision entrance.

Next comes a 45-minute stop-and-go journey from Gunn to Busch Boulevard, then to
Interstate 275, where she hits a backup, then begins to creep forward again as
it clears. "I'm flying now," Suarez says, accelerating to 20 mph before the
approach to her downtown exit.

"Feels like we might actually get to work today," she says as she nears her
office.

Neglecting The Core

The streets of downtown hum every weekday morning with office workers, lawyers,
bankers, planners and others. They keep the core alive through lunch time,
buying sushi and pizza by the slice from painted lunch wagons along the edge of
Lykes Gaslight Square.

North of Kennedy, however, gloom pervades even the light of day. Buildings stand
abandoned, their windows boarded and weeds growing from their crumbling brick
and plaster walls.

By 6 p.m., cars are pouring through one-way streets toward highways leading back
to the suburbs. On most nights, only the homeless remain.

Jim Shimberg, meeting with a visitor, casts an uneasy glance outside his
glass-walled conference room, 42 stories above the jumble of empty lots and
parking garages that intersperse downtown's office towers.

"We've sort of neglected our core," he says. Shimberg is a land-use attorney
with the law firm of Holland & Knight and is chairman of the Downtown
Partnership, an offshoot of a business coalition formed in the 1970s to revive
downtown.

Shimberg says downtown is full of attractions -- parks, The Florida Aquarium and
the Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center. But they tend to function separately, not
as a whole in which one generates activity for the other. The missing element is
people -- residents who would fill the nighttime void and create a market for
the pubs, pharmacies and other businesses that could connect the pieces.

"Downtown should be vibrant and energetic, a place for people to congregate,"
Shimberg says. "It should give us pride, not remind us of homelessness and
parking problems."

He is encouraged by a new collaboration between the partnership and the city to
create a master plan to guide and promote downtown's redevelopment.

Tampa once revolved around its downtown. The center rang with streetcars and
people stepping up to the counters at Maas Bros. and Woolworth's, doing business
at the locally owned Exchange National Bank, dining in the Tampa Terrace Hotel.

Shimberg remembers visiting downtown with his grandmother when he was a boy in
the mid-'60s. Even then it was slipping. Suburban growth had already begun to
pull people away from Tampa's center.

Sprouting Suburbs

Shimberg's family helped start that process.

Nearly 50 years ago, the elder James and Mandell "Hinks" Shimberg stood at the
edge of a dairy farm and made plans to build hundreds of ranch houses and split
levels. They called the area Town 'N Country.

Tampa's leaders embraced them. "There wasn't a lot of money in Tampa in those
days," the elder James Shimberg says. "They encouraged growth and development."

It was the same statewide. From 1950 to 1970, just after Suarez moved to
Florida, the state's population leapt from 2.8 million to 6.8 million.
Hillsborough County's rose from 250,000 to 490,000 in 1970, with 43 percent
living outside the city limits. The area was still booming when Suarez arrived
in 1976 from Pembroke Pines, near Fort Lauderdale, to attend the University of
South Florida.

The campus was on the edge of town then. Without a lot to do there, Suarez and
her friends spent many weekends exploring, and on these trips, Suarez often held
the map.

She had always been intrigued by the way places were organized. So in her junior
year she signed up for a class on city planning. One lecture hooked her. It
dealt with roads and how they work, how they connect people -- or divide them.

She embraced the idea that there should be an order to cities. It's not just
that cities foster civilization. It's that their design determines the details
of how people live.

"It was this epiphany," Suarez says.

By the time Suarez graduated in 1980, Hillsborough had grown to 647,000 people
-- nearly a third more than 10 years before -- and almost 60 percent lived
outside the city. Suarez aimed for a job at the planning commission, was hired
in 1985 and soon began reviewing suburban developments, which continued to
spread across the countryside.

By 1990, Hillsborough's population was up to 834,000, and more than 65 percent
lived outside the city, even after Tampa annexed thousands of acres in northeast
Hillsborough.

In 30 years, Hillsborough's population had more than doubled. Homes covered
once-open pastures. Strip malls cluttered the roads, which were carrying more
and more cars.

A 1991 Tampa Tribune report declared that the hopeful mid-1980s slogan "Tampa:
America's Next Great City" had become a joke, little more than an expression of
amazement at the area's growth.

But things were changing, the story said. A loose coalition of planners,
architects and young developers was talking about Tampa in the context of what
makes a city work. They took the conversation beyond growth to the idea that
sprawl isolates and alienates.

They blamed not just developers but the conventional wisdom of planning that
said houses and commercial centers should be built in different places. This
stifles interaction, they said.

On the other hand, they said, mixing houses, apartments, stores and offices
keeps people circulating and provides gathering places where they can mingle. It
gives a place energy and life, whether it be a subdivision or a downtown.

This new generation envisioned an in-town rail system and cooperation between
city and county officials to resolve the growth problems and turn downtown into
a day-and-night center of activity.

The first signs of change came downtown. The gleaming towers erected in the
1980s had bolstered Tampa as a business center. But there was no variety. The
early '90s brought the hope of a remedy: a new convention center and hotel, The
Florida Aquarium, a hockey arena and a riverfront park.

"Downtown could really become a people place again," then-Mayor Sandy Freedman
said at the dedication of the park in 1995.

But some projects collapsed. Others failed to work the magic that boosters
predicted. And some turned out to be downright strange. A building the shape of
a stretched-out beer can had risen on the banks of the Hillsborough River, on
land the city sold in the mid-'80s. Near its entrance was a piece of modern art,
a splaying arrangement of metal sheets popularly known as "the exploding
chicken."

A representative with the New York-based Project for Public Spaces visited Tampa
in 1998 and told a reporter, "This is one of the more behind-the-times cities
I've been to in a long time."

Trying To Make A Home

Suarez was a newlywed that year shopping for a house. She and her husband,
David, a high school English teacher, looked all across the county, downtown,
and in south Tampa and found little that was safe, in good repair and in their
price range. She loved the warm neighborhood feeling of Old Carrollwood but
couldn't find the right house.

They finally settled on a tree-covered lot in a new subdivision off Gunn Highway
and Anderson Road where they could afford to build a three-bedroom house with a
kitchen and living room that opened to an enclosed pool.

The house was exactly what she wanted. The area wasn't.

Her subdivision, Carrollwood Preserve, grew into a gated collection of about 75
houses, built side by side, almost identical except for slight color variations.
Only the distant sounds of hammering and heavy trucks in a development recently
under construction nearby breaks the silence. It feels peaceful and safe. It's
heaven to some of Suarez's neighbors, who can't fathom why she wants to move.

"Maybe I'm romanticizing where I grew up [in New York], but it was different,"
she says. As a child, she used to run to the store for older women who lived
nearby. In turn, they helped take care of her -- making her lunch, for instance,
when her mother was busy.

Trying in her own small way to make her Carrollwood house more homey, Suarez
extended her front walkway to the sidewalk. She also built a little front porch,
hoping this would create the impression of welcome missing from so many modern
homes.

But the neighborhood didn't warm up. The people are nice enough, Suarez says,
but, "There's this nonassociating sense of privacy."

By 2000, nearly 1 million people lived in Hillsborough County, 70 percent
outside the city limits.

Suarez had watched the developments spread. Indeed, she had approved most of
them. She had to, as long as they fit the broad growth outlines set by the
county commission.

But as one who remembers the discussions of the early '90s about what makes
communities work, she longed for the developers to do something different.

Even now she nudges and cajoles them to break from the standard model of winding
streets and look-alike houses, where people hang out not in public spaces but in
their fenced-off back yards. She talks about mixed-use communities with town
centers, such as Westchase's West Park Village.

Developers complain that the planning commission pushes these approaches too
hard, she says. But unless a development is part of a separately negotiated
community plan, the law allows the builders to say no -- and usually they do.

Most developers want to stick with what they know, re-creating the subdivision
they just finished. And they argue that's what their customers want, too, a
house away from the crowded city, with a big yard and a pool. It's the American
dream.

It might be, Suarez says. But it's "not what gets you a community. It just gets
you a bunch of houses."

Filling the countryside with separated subdivisions also brings more
fragmentation.

The county's master growth plan calls for roads linking subdivisions, but
builders often win exemptions on the grounds that their customers want privacy.
This pushes more traffic onto the major thoroughfares, turning them into
dividers, like ever-widening, swift-running rivers.

As growth feeds sprawl, political fault lines deepen, especially between the
city and county. And as the subdivisions spread farther out, big chunks of
downtown decay.

Building On Strengths

Tampa's problems aren't unique. Nationwide, many cities are experiencing the
same growing pains. But some analysts say ours are more pronounced.

In 2001, the Washington-based Progressive Policy Institute faulted Tampa for not
managing growth better. We hadn't attracted the variety of high-paying jobs that
cities need to thrive, the institute said, leaving us with a job base too
dependent on development.

"For a long time, Tampa's clearly been on autopilot with its growth," the
institute's Robert Atkinson said at the time. "What does Tampa want to do? Is it
simply going to follow the old strategy of just getting bigger?"

A consultant hired by the Tampa Chamber of Commerce raised similar questions
that year.

Tampa is a leading business center with a large, multilingual work force and
international trade opportunities, said Bill Fredrick, of The Wadley-Donovan
Group of New Jersey. He praised the area's steady progress in recruiting
financial service operations. Still, he said, it lacks vision and direction.

Still others have said Tampa lacks the qualities that set a city apart and give
it ambience and energy in addition to economic power.

Not everyone agrees. To Jim Hosler, the planning commission's lead researcher,
Tampa swirls with its own sort of energy -- and potential.

It's in places such as the Fun-Lan Drive-In flea market on Hillsborough Avenue,
where vendors arrive before dawn to spread out their wares. They peddle surplus
oven burners, baby clothes, hair brushes, canned goods and bags of cereal. The
smell of garlic floats over bins of carrots, papayas and avocados. Rap music
bounces from one boombox, Mexican love songs from another.

A different energy flows on South Howard Avenue, which has evolved into a
pedestrian-friendly row of antiques shops and outdoor cafes.

The link between these two places is enterprise. "We're a town of small-business
people," from landscapers to the people who operate smoking barbecue grills on
street corners throughout the city, Hosler says. This is what we should build
on, he adds.

Meanwhile, Deanne Roberts, former head of the chamber, has been pushing to make
Tampa more interesting.

Last year, she helped bring in Richard Florida, a professor at Carnegie-Mellon
University in Pittsburgh who wrote a book called "Rise of the Creative Class."
In it, he encourages building on a city's natural strengths, such as Tampa's
waterfront and Latin heritage. He says cities that do this attract educated,
creative people who in turn attract the high-paying corporations that seek to
employ them.

The professor has his critics, but many in Tampa have embraced his ideas.

Early in her administration, Mayor Pam Iorio signed on by creating a position
for a manager of "creative industries" and filling it with former Tampa Tribune
reporter Paul Wilborn, a playwright and musician. Then she hired a cultural
affairs director, Wendy Ceccherelli, from Seattle.

Five months after Florida's visit, hundreds of people came to a meeting at the
University of Tampa to launch Creative TampaBay, a group open to anyone
interested in creative ventures, from poets to software designers.

They stay connected through weekly e-mail newsletters and monthly meetings.
During one recent meeting, college students and retirees, teachers and sculptors
packed a coffee shop and art studio in Ybor City to talk about what makes an
area unique.

"There's this idea that we need to define our identity, especially when we're
becoming a more homogenized, corporate chain world," says Wilborn, who was
there. "We have multiple communities here. But everyone wants to make things
happen. They want to be part of something that's going somewhere."

And so it is that some, at least, think Tampa might be on the verge of a
transformation, and among the believers is one Lorraine Duffy Suarez --
transplant, planner, cajoler and spouse.

Shifting Plans

About a year ago, Suarez was showing a group of visiting planners around the
Channel District. While touring one of the new loft projects, a thought hit her:
She and her husband could move there. "We could do this," she imagined.

When she mentioned it that weekend, her husband didn't say much. He likes their
big yard and the suburban life. But they're childless, which puts them in a
growing demographic group of couples and singles who don't need big yards and
homes, and before long he found his wife's excitement rubbing off on him. In
July, they put money down on a loft in the Meridian, an art deco project with 35
units costing $185,000 to $400,000, scheduled to open next year. Theirs was to
cost $289,900.

Suarez says she realized they were taking a chance, that all the pieces of the
Channel District had yet to fall into place, and that it might not become what
she's seeking. She's looking for a friendly neighborhood of sidewalk cafes,
corner stores and people who know each other -- not an exclusive Hyde Park, but
not a rough-edged urban neighborhood, either.

More than 10 years ago, some of the people who wanted to enliven Tampa looked at
the old warehouses and weedy lots of the Channel District and saw a chance to
build a uniquely Tampa neighborhood celebrating its place on the water, a
neighborhood that would help connect downtown to the historic Latin quarter.
They worked with city officials to memorialize their ideas in a plan, and a slow
transformation began.

First came The Florida Aquarium. Although it depends on city money, it has
established itself.

There was a disastrous effort to bring a onetime slave ship here and make it a
tourist attraction. It failed. Then the hockey arena raised hopes again.

Next came cruise terminals and a group of shops and restaurants that opened in
competition with the Centro Ybor complex just a few miles away.

The artists, musicians and suburban refugees who had begun the district's
revival watched nervously as interest in the area rose and fell and rose again.
But one loft development began, then another.

Now, at least 12 projects mixing condos, lofts, shops and restaurants are in
various stages of planning or construction.

Suarez felt the energy recently when she and her husband strolled after a
concert in the park next to the Tampa Marriott Waterside. They bought ice cream
at a Channelside shop and chatted with the youth behind the counter, then walked
to a nearby art studio where people cut and weld steel, and talked to an artist
cooling off out front with a beer.

But the future of the Channel District is foggy. Much depends on the city. Will
it build parks people can use and streets they can walk? Will it try to ensure
that middle- and lower-income people can afford to live there? Will it extend
the electric trolley to link the district to the rest of downtown?

The city council recently exempted some high-rise projects from the district's
height limits. Longtime residents worry that these and other upscale
developments will change the friendly, arty neighborhood they envisioned a
decade ago -- squeezing out the artists and others who aren't rich but who
provide the diversity communities need to thrive.

Suarez began to worry, too. When she heard last year that one of the projects
would include a collection of exclusive shops, she says she thought, "No, no,
no." That's not what she wants. "I don't really want a Wal-Mart, either. I just
want things I can use."

Keeping The Dream Alive

On a chilly morning a few months ago, Suarez and several others involved with
the Meridian project gathered in excitement.

A yellow excavation machine fired up, and its scoop began punching and clawing
at the red bricks of a 1920s warehouse that had stood at 12th and Meridian
streets for 80 years.

The developers of Suarez's loft-to-be had originally planned to restore the
warehouse, but it was unstable, so it had to come down to make way for a newly
designed building.

The machine pushed. Bricks tumbled. Then, with a muffled crack, the roof
collapsed in a roaring, billowing crash.

Suarez and the rest scurried backward to escape the enveloping dust. It cleared
to reveal a pile of bricks, snapped and jagged beams, and shattered window
frames.

After seeing the Meridian depicted only in brochures and architectural drawings,
Suarez was thrilled at these first tangible signs of progress. She waited for
construction to begin. And waited.

The second week of April, she and her husband received a certified letter. The
developers were asking them to return their contracts. They said costs had
risen, largely because soil tests showed the building needed to be better
anchored. The developers planned to redesign some units, refigure prices and
offer the buyers new contracts.

Steve Gardner, one of the developers and a lawyer, says he thinks the step was
both necessary and proper. The cost increases couldn't have been anticipated, he
says, and he and his partners informed the buyers as soon as possible. "We've
been honest and fair," Gardner says.

So now, Suarez and her husband wait to hear what the new price will be and
wonder, with some doubt, whether they can afford it.

She isn't stunned by the turn of events. She has seen glitches and changes with
hundreds of projects over the years. She is disappointed, though.

In her mind, she had already arranged the furniture in her new loft. She had
envisioned dining with her husband at a Channelside restaurant Friday night,
then, on Saturday, buying groceries at one of the stores planned for the area --
all without using their cars.

"I still have my dream," she says.

Other loft and condo projects are rising in the Channel District and throughout
Ybor City and Tampa Heights. Mixed-use town centers are emerging in the suburbs.

Progress is slow, but it's happening. And Suarez believes that one day, sooner
or later, she will find that new neighborhood like the old one where she grew
up.

Maybe in the years to come the rest of us who are restless and looking will find
a place like that here, too.

(CHART) How To Get Involved

* To learn more about Creative TampaBay and events for artists and creative
entrepreneurs in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties, go to
www.creativetampabay.com. You can sign up to receive e-mails announcing events
throughout the Bay area, including festivals, restaurant events and creative
business endeavors.

* To learn more about new residential and cultural projects in downtown,
including the Channel District, go to www.tampasdowntown.com and
www.tampachanneldistrict.org.

* Both Hillsborough County and the Hillsborough County City-County Planning
Commission are involved in community planning projects. To learn more about
this, go to www.hccommunityplanning.com or call (813) 276-8455.

* To learn about Hillsborough County neighborhood and zoning issues, including
service on citizen advisory groups, go to www.hillsboroughcounty.org/onr or call
(813) 272-5860.

* To reach a neighborhood liaison in Tampa, go to
www.tampagov.net/dept_Neighborhood_Liaison/ or call (813) 274-7734.

Lindsay Peterson

(CHART) ON THE COVER

The photographs that border today's front page, clockwise from the upper left
corner:

* Clock tower at Hillsborough High School; Tribune photo by Jay Nolan.

* Former Tampa Bay Buccaneer Warren Sapp kisses the Vince Lombardi Trophy after
the Bucs' 2003 Super Bowl victory; Associated Press file photo.

* Manatee recovery pool at Lowry Park Zoo; Tribune file photo.

* Tampa's "beer can building" at 400 North Ashley Plaza; Tribune photo by Jay
Nolan.

* Sunset from the fishing pier at the Friendship Trail Bridge; Tribune file
photo.

* Trolley in the Channel District; Tribune file photo.

* A boarded building near the Amtrak station; Tribune photo by Jay Nolan.

* Wallace Reyes rolls a cigar at his store in West Tampa; Tribune photo by Jay
Nolan.

* Two men play checkers in a West Tampa park; Tribune photo by Jay Nolan.

* The Florida Aquarium's distinctive roof; Tribune photo by Jay Nolan.

(CHART) How Tampa Rates

An assortment of statistics reflect the Bay area's national rankings:

THE GOOD

2nd among least-expensive major cities for doing business, KPMG, 2004

3rd among best metro areas for projected job growth, Global Insight, 2003

8th among best sports metro area, The Sporting News, 2003

12th among best places to live and work, BestJobsUSA.com, 2003

17th of 25 top travel destinations for richness and variety of visual arts
sites, activities and events, American Style magazine, 2003

27th among best metro areas for singles based on nightlife, culture, coolness,
job growth and cost of living, Forbes magazine, 2003

THE BAD

4th among 50 largest metro areas with lowest percentage of college graduates,
U.S. Census Bureau, 2000

9th among most dangerous cities for crime, Morgan Quitno Press, 2003

22nd of 83 metro areas ranked for most sprawl, Smart Growth America, 2002

23rd among most traffic-congested metro areas, Texas Transportation Institute,
2003

27th among most stressful metro areas, Fast Forward Inc., 2004

INTERESTING

3rd among best large metro areas for golf, Golf Digest, 2002

6th among worst metro areas for allergy sufferers, Multidata/SDI, 2001

8th among worst metro areas for frequent heartburn, National Heartburn Alliance,
2003

14th among hardest-drinking metro areas, National Center for Chronic Disease
Prevention and Health Promotion, 2002

28th among worst metro areas for percentage of people who say they've exercised
in the past month, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion, 2002

74th in the 100 largest metro areas for sleeping, Fast Forward, 2003

Compiled by Doug Stanley, Angie Drobnic Holan

(CHART) (3) QUICK FACTS

35 - Median age

3 - Average family size

52% - Married

27% - Single

15% - Divorced or separated

6% - Widowed

26 - Average commute time in minutes

$40,987 - Median household income

$664 - Average weekly wage

168,155 - Students in county public schools

23,183 - Students in county private schools

8 - Percentage of adults with graduate or professional degree

(CHART) ABOUT THIS SERIES

In cities, as in any living organism, there is no status quo. Everything is
always changing, either growing or declining.

In little more than a century, Tampa has grown from a hardscrabble frontier
settlement teeming with mosquitoes, periodically scourged by yellow fever and
occasionally wrecked by storms into the United States" 21st-largest metropolitan
area.

It is still changing, and at a quickening pace. Many say the region might be on
the threshold of another in an ongoing series of transformations.

The Tampa Project, a special report that will appear in The Tampa Tribune in
nine installments during the coming months, was born of the belief that everyone
living here should be exploring and talking about this change because every one
of us has a stake in it.

Our aim is to examine who we are, where we have come from, where we are going
and what's at stake. We have been working on this project for almost a year, but
even at that have only just begun.

The lead writer for the series is Lindsay Peterson, a Special Projects reporter
for the Tribune who last wrote in these pages about how Florida's Baker Act is
being used to institutionalize children.

But no one person could tackle a subject this large: 20 other Tribune reporters
are working on the project, along with a small army of researchers,
photographers, designers and editors.

Peterson has written extensively about, among other things, the Hillsborough
County school system, the University of South Florida and older people living
here.

Peterson began her research for The Tampa Project by walking Tampa's
neighborhoods and talking to the people about how they see this place. What they
like and dislike. What they want to keep, what they want to change. In all, she
interviewed almost 100 government officials, business and social service
professionals, and ordinary people, both Tampa natives and transplants. She also
studied the importance and history of cities, and how they're evolving.

We welcome your comments. Write to The Tampa Project, The Tampa Tribune, P.O.
Box 191, Tampa FL 33601-0191, or go to TBO.com, Keyword: Tampa Project.

Senior Editor Pat Minarcin

(CHART) ABOUT THE SERIES

The Tampa Project examines the unique and intricately woven blend of ideas,
attitudes, behaviors and customs that define this place we call home.

It begins with where Tampa stands as both a city and a state of mind.

Future installments will explore the influences of Tampa's past, our leadership
and vision, our economic foundation, our relationship with the water, our
diversity, the vitality of the arts, the relationship between Tampa and its
universities, and what the future might hold for our children and grandchildren.

(CHART) CREDITS

More than 30 Tribune staff members are involved in The Tampa Project. Those who
worked on this installment include:

Reporters - Lindsay Peterson, Doug Stanley, Joey Johnston.

Graphics - Andy Dorsett.

Designers - Shane Blatt, Kiely Agliano.

Researchers - Jody Habayeb, Angie Drobnic Holan.

Photographers - Jason Behnken, Carol Cleere, Jay Conner, Fred Fox, Victor Junco,
Cliff McBride, Jay Nolan, Phil Sheffield.

Photo editors - Joseph Brown III, Dave Geiger.

Senior photo editor - Todd Chappel.

Copy editor - Corrie Benfield.

Associate editor - Jeff Houck.

Senior editor - Pat Minarcin.

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE TAMPA PROJECT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 19 CHART 7
Tribune photos by JAY NOLAN "Downtown should be vibrant and energetic," says Jim
Shimberg, chairman of the Downtown Partnership. "It should give us pride, not
remind us of homelessness and parking problems." Vendors such as Hernan Gomez of
The Sidewalk Cafe & Pizzeria keep downtown bustling with hungry office workers
during the lunch hour. But the city's core tends to go dim after dark. Tribune
photo by JAY NOLAN Laura, Edward and Kristen Kenney, 3, grab a bite at West Park
Village in Westchase. Mixed-use communities with town centers such as this have
been praised for the way they encourage interaction among residents. Neighbors
mingle in common places, fostering the sense of community. Tribune photo by
CAROL CLEERE Fred Matthews shows off his wares and his dog at the Fun-Lan
Drive-In flea market on Hillsborough Avenue. Some people say places such as the
flea market, where vendors arrive before dawn to set up their goods, give Tampa
its ambience and energy. Lorraine Duffy Suarez added a front porch to her
Carrollwood Preserve house to make it feel more welcoming. Tribune photo by
JASON BEHNKEN Stephen Smith of Cooper Johnson Smith Architects, right, reviews
the Meridian drawings with Lori Wood, left, Tom Panaseny, Lorraine Duffy Suarez
and John Duffy. The art deco project, which includes 35 housing units, is
scheduled to open next year in the Channel District. Carnegie-Mellon University
Richard Florida, an author and professor at Carnegie-Mellon University, says
Tampa should build on its strengths, such as its waterfront and Latin heritage.
Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN Lorraine Duffy Suarez's long commute to work
symbolizes the disconnection of this sprawling city. Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN
Lorraine Duffy Suarez documents the demolition of a 1920s warehouse at the
Meridian site. Developers were going to restore the warehouse but scrapped that
plan when the building proved unstable. Lindsay Peterson (Scenes of Tampa Bay,
no captions: Trolley, sunset, Buildings, Cigar rolling, aquarium, football
player kissing trophy, residents playing dominoes, traffic, women in Yoga pose,
someone with hands in cuffs)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 26, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BEST IN SHOW

BYLINE: TRIBUNE STAFF

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2153 words


Who has time to listen to dozens of holiday CDs? Well, we do. Check out reviews
before you plunk down your hard-earned cash.

The Beach Boys: Christmas With the Beach Boys (Capitol) B-

"Little Saint Nick" (essential) is available elsewhere. The quirky '70s material
makes this a must for Beach Boys fans who don't have 1998's nearly identical
"Ultimate Christmas."

Curtis Ross

Dean Martin: Christmas With Dino (Capitol) B+

As smooth as a hot toddy on a cold day. If you don't smile while listening to
Dino sing "White Christmas," "Silent Night" and "Winter Wonderland," then you
must be having Christmas with the Kranks.

Kim MacCormack

Various artists: Music From "The OC": Mix 3 -- Have A Very Merry Chrismukkah!
(Warner Bros.) B+

So-hip-it-hurts modern rock acts (like on the Fox show) make this disc a fresh
holiday treat. Highlights: Jimmy Eat World turns Wham!'s cloying "Last
Christmas" into a charming indie-pop anthem, and The Raveonettes contribute a
dreamy "The Christmas Song." Maybe TV isn't useless, after all.

Rommie Johnson

Big Bad Voodoo Daddy: Everything You Want for Christmas (Vanguard) A

This rollicking set will have you swingin' around the Christmas tree in no time.
Things really get hot when the Bad boys light a big-band fire under "Mr.
Heatmiser," from the Rankin/Bass Christmas special "The Year Without a Santa
Claus." Who's your Daddy now?

Mitch Schafer

William Hung: Hung for the Holidays (Koch) C+

Ridiculous but earnest, Hong Kong's Ricky Martin and "American Idol" reject
gives us six holiday classics plus a special "We Are the Champions" bonus track.
Simon Cowell, eat your heart out! Hung's still bangin'.

Peggy Lim

Ray Conniff: Here We Come A-Caroling (Columbia/Legacy) C

If there's a musical equivalent to the deadly combination that only quaaludes,
eggnog and carbon monoxide can provide, it's this collection of Ray Conniff
holiday tunes. "Away in a Manger" could be classified as a narcotic all on its
own.

Jeff Houck

James Taylor: A Christmas Album (Hallmark) B+

JT's vocal perfectionism holds true for this mellow, soft-jazzy assortment.
Pianist Dave Grusin and guitarist John Pizzarelli back him beautifully, and
Natalie Cole sits in for "Baby, It's Cold Outside." Ideal for eggnog and a
fireplace.

Bob Ross

Mannheim Steamroller: Christmas Celebration (American Gramaphone) B+

Ominous, synthesized and computer-generated. It's the perfect soundtrack for a
holiday-themed slasher movie.

John W. Allman

Various artists: The Soulful Sounds of Christmas (Rhino) B

A must-have for the G who wants a little R&B in his Christmas. This is Christmas
with a whole lotta soul! Run-D.M.C., TLC, Usher and Xscape take listeners on one
smooth sleigh ride.

Cloe Cabrera

Various artists: Christmas With the Rat Pack (Capitol) C

Too much somber and too little sass from Frank, Sammy and Dean, who likely
didn't spend their holidays attending Mass. Well, not Sammy anyway.

Curtis Ross

Frank Sinatra: The Christmas Collection (Reprise) A

Put Sinatra in the CD player and the stress of the season melts away. Especially
festive are "I've Got My Love to Keep Me Warm," "Have Yourself a Merry Little
Christmas," "The Christmas Song" (with Bing Crosby) and a personalized "Twelve
Days of Christmas" with Tina, Nancy and Frank Jr.

Kim MacCormack

The Manhattan Transfer: The Christmas Album (Sony) C-

Give them points for trying something different with a disc full of old
chestnuts such as "Let It Snow!" and "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas,"
but the arrangements are so drawn out that some songs seem to never end. This
goes beyond mellow to soporific.

Karla Jackson

Various artists: Ultimate Christmas 2 (BMG) D

Nowhere on the planet should the musical stylings of Barry Manilow, Alan
Jackson, Kenny G and the Santa of Soul, Ruben Studdard, be collected in one
place. Yet, here they are in this sonic train wreck. And because it's some sort
of Holiday Law, there's a Whitney Houston version of "The Christmas Song" back
from when she wore bows in her hair. Lord knows why R. Kelly was invited along
for the ride. The only redeeming track is "Santa Claus Is Back in Town" by Elvis
and The Jordonaires.

Jeff Houck

Trans-Siberian Orchestra: The Lost Christmas Eve (Lava) B-

It's a musical grab bag -- a little choral, a little heavy metal, lots of those
trademark pounding fortes. Some of the vocals are downright creepy, but the
instrumentals -- "Wizards in Winter" and "Wish Liszt (Toy Shop Madness)" to name
a couple -- restore the spirit.

Penny Carnathan

Various artists: All-Star Gospel Hits Christmas Volume 4 (Warner Bros.) A

This compilation cuts to the heart of the season with clever arrangements and
contemporary idiom. Gospel greats Andrae Crouch, Shirley Caesar and The Winans
will uplift your spirit with a joyous potpourri of holiday carols.

Cloe Cabrera

Various artists: Christmas Classics (Capitol) B

Consistent set from Capitol's pre-rock roster. The gem is Julie London's sultry
"I Want You for Christmas," which should inspire much slapping on of bows and
ribbons.

Curtis Ross

Various artists: Christmas With the Kranks -- Soundtrack (Hollywood) C

From Ramones to Raveonettes, Brenda Lee to Brian Setzer, this movie-licensed
assortment has a bit of everything, including Elvis' "Blue Christmas" and an
atrocious "Joy to the World" by The Butties, poorly imitating the Fab Four.

Bob Ross

George Huff: My Christmas EP! (Warner Bros.) B-

Traditional holiday tunes from some guy who was apparently on "American Idol."
Still reading? Then you'll probably enjoy his pleasant (i.e., tepid) and
reverent (i.e., predictable) versions of "Silent Night," "Have Yourself a Merry
Little Christmas" and so forth. Bland beats bad.

Rommie Johnson

Various artists: Maybe This Christmas (Nettwerk) A

Consider this the collection that Elliott Smith should have made for the
holidays before his death. Instead, we have holiday tunes -- originals and
covers -- that sound like they came from Smith's musical spawn. Tom McRae's
version of "Wonderful Christmastime" is so understated, it makes Paul
McCartney's look garish and sophomoric. Which, of course, it was.

Jeff Houck

Heart: Heart Presents a Lovemongers' Christmas (Sovereign Artists) C

Sweet and sentimental originals with a couple of traditional tunes from Ann and
Nancy Wilson and friends.

Curtis Ross

Jesse Colin Young: Songs for Christmas (Artemis) C+

The former Youngblood's voice has matured into rich, folkie reverence. This
traditional carol collection, released two years ago, emphasizes the spiritual,
led by the three Os: "O Come All Ye Faithful," "O Little Town of Bethlehem" and
"O Holy Night."

Bob Ross

Broadway's Greatest Gifts: Carols for a Cure (Rock-It Science) C

The casts of Broadway blockbusters from "Hairspray" to "Wicked" lend their
voices to this two-CD benefit for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS. The music
is a hodgepodge of traditional and strange, with lots of screechy filler. You
may want to just send a check instead.

Amanda Henry

Frank Sinatra: Christmas Songs by Sinatra (Columbia) A

Ah yes, this is the Sinatra we first fell in love with, the man who swooned the
bobby socks off a nation. This disc showcases him at his smoothest, giving Bing
Crosby a run for his money on "White Christmas" and wearing his halo on "Ave
Maria."

Jeff Houck

Various artists: Ultimate Soul Christmas (EMI) A

This is one slammin' holiday CD. The soulful tones on this rich sampler are
smooth, cool and crisp all at once. Ella Fitzgerald, Nancy Wilson and Candi
Staton add some real sass appeal to traditional holiday tunes. And watch out,
Bing Crosby: Otis Redding's rendition of "White Christmas" really cooks.

Cloe Cabrera

Michael Franks: Watching the Snow (Rhino) C

Michael Franks' chatty singing style -- and that naughty, night-clubby vibe --
seem ill-suited to a holiday package. The songs ramble along as if Franks were
talking to himself, working too hard to make tunes like "I Bought You a Plastic
Star for Your Aluminum Tree" work. They don't.

Jennifer Barrs

The Brian Setzer Orchestra: Boogie Woogie Christmas (Surfdog) A

Yes, it's the hottest rock 'n' roll Christmas album of the decade. No, you
probably don't need to replace your 2002 copy just because they added two new
songs this year. Setzer's screaming guitar slows down when Ann-Margret joins him
for a sensuous "Baby, It's Cold Outside."

Bob Ross

Barenaked Ladies: Barenaked for the Holidays (Desperation) A

Truly a holiday record -- there are Hanukkah songs as well as Christmas ditties
-- the Ladies put their ironic, smirky spin on the classics as well as several
originals that should become holiday standards. More fun than watching the cat
climb the Christmas tree.

Jeff Houck

Various artists: Shimmy Down the Chimney: A Country Christmas (Capitol) B

Everyone from Willie Nelson to Dwight Yoakam rides this holiday range, recorded
when these artists were at their peak. Best in the bunch: a hilarious Toby Keith
tune about gift-giving called "Christmas Rock"; a free-for-all version of "Deck
the Halls" by SheDaisy; and the crystalline title cut by Alison Krauss.

Jennifer Barrs

Various artists: Radio Disney: Jingle Jams (Walt Disney) D

Disney Channel stars past and present (Hilary Duff, Christy Carlson Romano,
Raven-Symone', et al.), plus assorted hangers-on, unite for this sterile and
saccharine collection of holiday classics. Makes us long for "Jingle Jams: The
Animatronic Presidents."

Mitch Schafer

Leann Rimes: What a Wonderful World (Curb) C-

Aye-aye-aye-aye-m duh-rea-ea-ea-ea-mi-ing of a wha-ah-ah-aht Christmas ... . The
former teen queen of country syrups up the standards with maximum melisma, then
foists a few cringe-worthy originals ("A Different Kind of Christmas," "I Miss
You Like Christmas") onto a world that feels less wonderful with every warbled
note.

Amanda Henry

Various artists: A Winter's Night: The Best of Nettwerk Christmas (Nettwerk) B-

A Nettwerk compilation with no Skinny Puppy? At least they would've livened up
this sleepy, somber collection of standards and originals. Amid the frozen
tundra, Guster's lighthearted "Donde Esta Santa Claus?" seems like 2:21 by the
fireplace. Where's the cheer, people?

Rommie Johnson

Various artists: Walt Baby Love Christmas Tracks (EMI) B

A treasure trove of Christmas gems. There's something on this one for just about
everybody. Fred Hammond's "His Name Is Jesus" and Luther Vandross' "O Come All
Ye Faithful" are no lie.

Cloe Cabrera

Various artists: Christmas Grass Vol. 2 (Koch) B

Bluegrass purists will cherish this assortment of old-time harmonies (led by
Bobby Osborne, Sonya Isaacs, Rhonda Vincent and the Larkins) and good-time
instrumentals (led by guitarist Bryan Sutton and mandolinist Adam Steffey).
Dolly Parton sings the first song, too.

Bob Ross

Will Downing: Christmas, Love and You (GRP) B

Gotta love Christmas standards with a little flava. Downing does his best to
channel the ghosts of Luther Vandross, George Benson and Earl Klugh in a
collection that's as smooth as malt liquor.

Jeff Houck

Tingstad & Rumbel: Peace on Earth (Narada) A

This best-of album is what Christmas music is meant to be -- sentimental,
elegant, spiritual. These instrumental tunes are played with such delicate
brilliance they will literally make you weep. Warning: Keep the Kleenex nearby
when listening to "O Little Town of Bethlehem."

Jennifer Barrs

Various artists: The Polar Express: Original Soundtrack (Warner Bros.) A

A mix of old and new, this soundtrack offers something for the whole family,
from Aerosmith's Steven Tyler singing "Rockin' on Top of the World" to Bing
Croby's "White Christmas."

Karla Jackson

Royce Campbell: A Jazz Guitar Christmas (Capitol) B+

This swinging collection of instrumentals (no, really) is that rare album you
could play at your Christmas cocktail party and not get laughed out of the
office the next day. Funky arrangements of "We Three Kings" et al. are more
mellow than marshmallow -- which qualifies as something of a Christmas CD
miracle.

Amanda Henry

Rugrats: Holiday Classics! (Nick) F

Imagine spending an afternoon at Chuck E. Cheese with a bunch of screeching,
shrieking kids amped up on sugar. Now multiply that by 10 and you'll barely
scratch the surface of the pain I'm experiencing while listening to this. And
yes, I have two kids.

Mitch Schafer

Trout Fishing in America: Merry Fishes to All (Trout) B+

Original tunes with kid-friendly lyrics combine good-natured holiday humor with
top-notch acoustic musicianship. Singers Ezra Idlet and Keith Grimwood joke
gently about unwanted gifts, Santa, snowdrifts and, our favorite, "The Eleven
Cats of Christmas."

Bob Ross

Vanessa Williams: Silver & Gold (Lava) B

The former Miss America continues to prove why she is still around after all
these years. This is a beautiful CD for early morning listening, while you're
preparing your holiday meal, or during your Christmas get-together to create a
mellow mood. Williams' rendition of "Silver & Gold" will warm your soul faster
than spiked eggnog.

Cloe Cabrera

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4
Tribune illustration by CAROL CLEERE (dog in reindeer ears holding Christmas
stocking) (3) (CD: cover)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 31, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Interns Speak Up For All Youth

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 910 words


EDITOR'S NOTE: The University of South Florida's Collaborative for Children,
Families and Communities, and the Louis de la Parte Florida Mental Health
Institute employed six Tampa students this summer to research social capital and
offer a youth perspective on it. This article was prepared by the interns as a
message to the community. The authors are Chad Bryant, Abigail Crane, Beau
Garrido, Cameron White, Presley Cobb and Kiahhn' Jackson.

As families throughout Florida begin preparing for schools to reopen in the next
few weeks, questions about the most effective ways for students to build and
maintain positive connections with others continue to become increasingly
relevant.

According to Robert D. Putnam, a professor at Harvard University and author of
"Bowling Alone," many individuals in society are withdrawing from communal life
and choosing to spend much of their time alone. Concerned about the negative
effects that this decrease in social networking could ultimately bring about, he
and his colleagues began researching both factors that contribute to
disengagement and methods of reconnecting members of society to one another.

The University of South Florida's Collaborative for Children, Families and
Communities shares these concerns with the researchers in Boston. There exists a
need, however, to connect this somewhat abstract concept to the Tampa area.

And so, through the efforts of Dr. Robert Friedman and Judi Jetson, as well as
the generosity of private donors, six interns -- representing high schools
throughout Hillsborough County -- were hired this summer to study methods of
increasing social capital in our community. Recruited from the secret society
known as adolescence, we were able to provide a greater understanding and
alternative perspective on this issue.

Once we were educated on social capital, we interns decided on two studies that
we believed would provide valuable conclusions about social interactions and
allow us to make recommendations to those in the community who have the power to
make changes.

Apart from time spent at home with one's family, time at school and time
participating in extracurricular activities are the most significant
opportunities for youth to meet and connect with others who become important in
their lives. These are two of the most important sites for social capital
building in any society.

In order to comprehensively study each of these topics, the interns broke into
two subgroups: the first focused on school climate; the second on
extracurricular participation. To gather data, we conducted background research,
analyzed secondary data sources and developed and administered a survey to Tampa
Bay area youth.

The first group developed "The Nine Points," a set of recommendations designed
to make students feel more comfortable in school in order to increase
sociability, extracurricular participation and academic achievement. According
to our research, there are two major areas where significant improvement can be
made:

* Improvements for the educator -- educators must demonstrate commitment to the
students, promote open-mindedness, provide opportunities for active learning,
display high expectations, communicate effectively and provide constant
supervision.

* Improvements of physical setting -- schools should provide proper climate
controls (temperature, proper lighting, etc.), maintain cleanliness, pleasant
decor and manicured landscapes, and decrease in size (to about 100-200 students
per grade is optimum).

It is our belief that, although some of these recommendations provide logistical
dilemmas, their execution could lead to the creation of an environment that
would foster positive social interactions for all youth.

Survey Results

The second group administered a survey to about 120 adolescents at four area
YMCA summer programs. The survey gathered demographic information (including
risk factors found through background research) and then attempted to gauge
students' connectedness with both society in general and within their selected
"favorite" extracurricular activity. The survey results yielded a clear
connection between extracurricular quality and social capital. Based on these
results, the group presented two recommendations to community leaders:

* Ensure universal access -- programs should use financial aid, marketing
strategies and other techniques to reach an at-risk youth population, most in
need of positive social interaction but also least likely to participate in
these beneficial programs.

* Provide a positive environment -- adults, leaders and volunteers are needed
who sincerely care about the well-being and future of the students, and who will
promote positive social interaction among youth in the program.

If these strategies are used, it is our belief that these programs' positive
consequences can be extended to youth throughout the community and that they can
be maximized for all students who are involved.

It is clear that researchers, educators and community leaders have begun to
recognize the importance of the issue of social capital. It is now up to these
individuals to team with adults in the community and -- perhaps most importantly
-- the students in order to make a real difference in the Tampa area and beyond.

For more information about the collaborative, call (813) 974-7318 or visit the
Web site www.usfcollab.usf.edu.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Special to the Tribune Standing from left to right are Beau Garrido (senior at
Jesuit High School), Abby Crane (senior at Hillsborough High School), Kiahhn'
Jackson (sophomore at Plant High School), Cameron White (senior at Tampa
Preparatory High School). In front are Presley Cobb (sophomore at King High
School) and Chad Bryant (senior at Freedom High School).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Weather Can Do Big Damage

BYLINE: Bonnie Dyson

SECTION: NORTHWEST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 189 words


Watch out for Mother Nature. Take it from Michelle Scalera, chief conservator
for the John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art in Sarasota.

"The biggest disaster that has come to me from a private collector has been
storm [damage]. Water intrusion resulting in black mold."

Scalera, who has worked exclusively with the museum's collection for the past 20
years, said the most important thing for collectors to preserve their artworks
is climate control. "Keep climate control at a minimum level," Scalera said,
which means in the comfort range for people, too, at about 76 to 78 degrees.

Make sure that system doesn't fail. Have a friend, neighbor or relative
regularly check your system during vacations or extended absences.

Keep artworks and other sensitive collections such as textiles out of direct
sunlight.

Changes in humidity can affect artworks. Think twice before opening all the
doors and windows when the humidity is high.

A leaky roof not only will cost you reroofing dollars, but restoration dollars
as well.

Bonnie Dyson

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 3, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Need For Industrial Space Grows

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words


COUNCIL SEEKS TO PROVIDE SITES TO ATTRACT LARGE EMPLOYERS

By KEVIN WIATROWSKI

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

On Sept. 17, a group of investors led by James F. Kirk of Trinity bought the
last piece of industrial land in West Pasco Industrial Park.

The purchase ended 17 years of development for the Odessa park, which is home to
heavy-industry users, including Keys Concrete Co., as well as light-industry
users such as a Frito-Lay Inc. warehouse. By taking that last site off the
market, the sale also added to Pasco County's growing need for ready-to-go
industrial sites to attract large employers.

Economic development officials advertise more than 20 industrial parks scattered
across the county. Many, however, remain largely undeveloped spans of pasture
waiting for roads, water lines and other infrastructure.

"This is the biggest issue in every community: having available real estate
where companies can relocate," said economic development consultant Bill Fruth
of Stuart. "I've been to communities that are dead in the water because they
don't have the land available."

On Friday, the Pasco Economic Development Council swore in a new chairman, vice
chairwoman and secretary/treasurer to guide the council for another year. As the
leadership looks ahead, it must concentrate on three issues, say development
experts: Ensuring the county has land ready for industrial tenants to move in;
protecting potential industrial land from encroaching residential growth; and
raising the quality of the county's employees.

With inexpensive land and a commute-weary work force, Pasco is uniquely
positioned in the Tampa Bay region to attract industrial growth and investment
if it can do those three things, experts say.

"Pasco's never had the degree of talent pool that's residing there or going to
be residing there," said Carlen Maddux, editor of the Tampa-based Maddux
Business Report. "So the issue is how do we keep this talent pool home rather
than going down to Tampa or Clearwater or St. Pete?"

Already, Pasco's open spaces have begun siphoning jobs from cramped quarters in
Pinellas County.

Eastern Ribbon & Roll Inc. and A&S Laboratories are among those businesses that
have come to Pasco lately seeking room to grow. Talk America, a Pinellas call
center, also recently added a New Port Richey office, putting it closer to many
of its Pasco-based employees.

"People don't want to commute," said Stuart-based economic development
consultant Bill Fruth. "Workers will change jobs for a shorter commute if the
wage is close to what they had before.

"This is where Pasco County could have the opportunity for quality employees to
move in -- if they have the real estate," Fruth said.

When the opportunity arises, Pasco must have spaces immediately available for
companies wanting to relocate, said Chip Howison, vice president for
manufacturing at Pall Aeropower in New Port Richey and outgoing chairman of the
Pasco Economic Development Council.

"If we want to keep those tax dollars in Pasco, we've got to set aside the space
for the jobs," Howison said.

The EDC's incoming leadership echo many of the concerns voiced by Howison and
Fruth.

"One of the things that we all recognize in Pasco County is that the land uses
haven't accommodated the future employment centers that are going to be there,"
said Keith Appenzeller, incoming EDC president.

Keith Appenzeller, Chairman

One of Keith Appenzeller's first engineering projects in the Tampa area was the
Briarwoods neighborhood in New Port Richey. He helped design it in 1979.

Appenzeller, 51, lives in the East Lake section of Pinellas County with his
wife, Susan, and teenage sons. He grew up on a farm in central Iowa and came to
Tampa in 1976 after graduating from Iowa State University.

In the years since, Appenzeller has worked for three firms, including his own in
the 1980s until it was absorbed by King Engineering Associates Inc. in 1991.

During his years working in Pasco, Appenzeller has watched the county evolve
from an area dominated by retirees and agriculture to its current status as a
bedroom community for Tampa and Pinellas County.

Appenzeller is concerned about the county's shifting land-use patterns --
increasingly toward homes at the expense of other uses -- and the long-range
impact it could have on increase jobs in the county.

"It's only a matter of time before there's a demand for business land,"
Appenzeller said during an interview at his Tampa office.

The EDC is urging county officials to add a new business-only land use to its
latest revision of the 20-year comprehensive plan. That designation would
guarantee land for commerce better than the existing Retail-Office-Residential
and Mixed Use land uses, which largely have been co-opted by home building,
Appenzeller said.

Now is the time for Pasco to make space for business developments, Appenzeller
said, as financial companies strengthen their foothold in Tampa. With large
tracts of land sparse in Hillsborough and Pinellas, Pasco still has the room to
spare for large business parks or light industry, he said.

Heavy industry, which has supporters in northeastern Pasco, is probably fading
from the realm of options as Pasco's population grows, Appenzeller said.

Georgianne Ratliffe, Vice Chairman

Georgianne Ratliffe lives in Temple Terrace, but her heart is in Pasco County.

"If I didn't have a 3-year-old granddaughter who lived around the corner, I'd
probably live there," she said of Pasco.

An urban planner and senior vice president with consulting firm Wilson Miller,
Ratliffe, 60, has been part of Pasco's planning and development since 1988, the
year she helped update the county's 20-year comprehensive plan.

She describes herself as "emotionally attached" to the county she has watched --
and helped -- grow for 16 years.

The walls of Wilson Miller's offices in downtown Tampa display some of Pasco's
most ambitious projects, all of them carrying Ratliffe's imprint: the Connerton
project now getting under way north of Land O' Lakes, Bexley Ranch east of the
Suncoast Parkway and the Cypress Creek Town Center regional mall in Wesley
Chapel.

"I've always had an interest in Pasco County's planning and making sure things
develop there as they should," Ratliffe said. "I've always considered myself
part of Pasco's planning team."

Ratliffe came to the Tampa area from Knoxville, Tenn., in 1978 as a planner for
Hillsborough County. She grew up in Tennessee and the Washington suburbs as a
child of a military family. She's an anthropologist by training, with a
bachelor's and master's degree from the University of Tennessee.

"One thing anthropologists study is the effect of change."

In Pasco, change is bringing thousands of new residents and, lately, hundreds of
new jobs -- many of them migrating north from Pinellas or Hillsborough counties.

During her term as vice-chairwoman -- and, according to PEDC tradition,
chair-in-waiting for 2006 -- Ratliffe said she hopes to see that kind of growth
continue, but with an eye toward balancing the rush for new residential
development with the need for office, retail and commercial space.

It's easy for a rapidly growing area to become thousands of acres of
single-family homes, only too late finding there's no space left for employment
and other purposes, Ratliffe said.

Steve Sacone, Secretary-Treasurer

Steve Sacone knows firsthand what it's like to find space for a manufacturing
business in Pasco County.

Sacone hunted high and low in the county for a site to build a combined
office-and-manufacturing space for VLOC, which grows crystals used to build
industrial and military lasers. Sacone is general manager, a position he held at
Virgo Optics, which merged in 1997 with Tarpon Springs-based Lightning Optical
Corp. in 1997.

Sacone abandoned the count's existing industrial sites to break new ground off
Mitchell Boulevard in Trinity. As a new location, the Trinity site had the
advantage of no trucks vibrating the ground, a potentially ruinous situation
when growing crystals, Sacone said.

Like the crystals it makes, VLOC became the seed around which a thriving
light-industrial area has grown just off Mitchell Boulevard.

Sacone, 50, lives in Palm Harbor with his wife, Phyllis, son and daughter. He
graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy and holds a master's of business
administration from the University of Wyoming.

Sacone's experience with VLOC has taught him a few things about Pasco County's
employee base. Chief among them is that highly skilled workers (about 25 percent
of his staff), such as engineers and chemists, still must come from outside the
county. Technicians and others trained on the job -- 150 of Sacone's 200 workers
-- come from local ranks. Overall, the quality of local workers is improving,
Sacone said.

"Pasco schools and [Pasco-Hernando Community College] have been very responsive
to myself and others doing similar work," Sacone said.

The county still lacks the land it needs to draw small high-tech companies like
VLOC, Sacone said. The situation would improve if landowners, maybe with help
from the county or state, would take the risk of preparing land for users that
may not come for years, Sacone said.

"We don't have any high-end parks where you can just drop in," Sacone said.
Without such land, Pasco risks losing business to its neighbors, he said.

Reporter Kevin Wiatrowski can be reached at (813) 948-4201.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Tribune photo by FRED FOX Council member Keith Appenzeller is concerned about
the county's shifting land-use patterns, increasingly toward homes. Tribune
photo by SCOTT ISKOWITZ Employer Steve Sacone sees about 25 percent of his
company's highly skilled workers still coming from outside the county.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 4, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wrap It Up!

BYLINE: MARY D. SCOURTES, mscourtes@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1694 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Lettuce and cabbage leaves are trendy substitutes for tortillas and taco shells.
Just add your favorite filling, then wrap 'n' roll.

By MARY D. SCOURTES

mscourtes@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Sure, you can fill a tortilla with lots of tasty ingredients, but it's
oh-so-more-trendy these days to fold up a lettuce wrap.

More healthful and refreshing, too, during summer, when everyone is looking for
beat-the-heat suppers.

The lettuce option is a no-carb simple substitute for tortillas, pitas or taco
shells. Most just spoon a choice of filling onto the heart of the lettuce leaf,
then wrap 'n' roll. If lettuce isn't your thing, cabbage and other greens are
options, too.

Tim Alberdi, a Tampa wine merchant, serves wraps as a light meal for friends and
family.

For seasoning, "I throw in a pinch of this or that," he says.

Alberdi makes nam sod, a spicy medley of seasoned ground pork, peanuts and
onions, and wraps it in cabbage leaves. He adds heat with several shakes from a
bottle of crushed red pepper.

"I like to sweat when I eat," he jokes.

Alberdi also grills Korean Beef Romaine Wraps, which start with marinated skirt
steak. They are a hit with his wife, Magda, and daughter, Nina, 4, who has
adventuresome taste buds. Her brother, Tony, 2, is a little too young.

"He isn't ready," his father says.

When hosting guests, Alberdi lets them serve the wraps themselves.

Other wrap fans like to copycat the tantalizing tastes of restaurant versions.

Tampa casting director Rose Rosen duplicates flavors that she first tasted in
Miami. She likes them because she gets to serve something that's healthful.

"My husband is on [the] Atkins [diet], and I'm on healthy," Rosen says,
referring to her style of eating.

Her Boston lettuce wraps start with marinated beef or chicken enhanced with soy
and teriyaki sauces, ginger and honey. She mixes up a dipping sauce, with peanut
butter, hoisin sauce, a little soy sauce and honey. Rosen then adds extra
scallions, bean sprouts and other vegetables.

"Wraps meet the needs of three different tastes," she says, referring to her
husband and daughter as well as herself.

The first wraps were Mexican burritos filled with beef, rice and salsa, says
Mary Corpening Barber, a cookbook author in San Francisco. She says they
included global fillings and gained their "wrap" moniker.

Barber wrote "Wraps: Easy Recipes for Handheld Meals" (Chronicle Books, $14.95)
in 1997. She and her twin, Sara Corpening Whiteford, created an international
collection of ethnic recipes with Lori Lyn Narlock that includes Vietnamese
(mango, rice sticks and basil), Thai (chicken, zucchini, coconut milk and lemon
grass) and Taj Mahal (lamb with Indian seasonings).

"Why not put in the flavors of Provence? Or Japan? Or, an all-American egg
salad?" Barber says.

She advises cooks to pick any favorite filling and wrap it in a big lettuce
leaf.

Low-carb dieters like wraps as a scrumptious dinner option.

Since 1993, P.F. Chang's China Bistro, an upscale chain of 105 Chinese bistros
that includes WestShore Plaza in Tampa, has sold more than 25 million lettuce
wraps.

"They're traditional. Only, in China, they eat them with squab [young pigeon],"
says Laura Cherry, a company spokeswoman in Scottsdale, Ariz. "They are, and
continue to be, our No. 1 selling item."

Chang's chicken wraps have crisp rice noodles, iceberg lettuce and a sauce made
from chili paste and hot mustard sauce.

Tofu stars in vegan wraps, along with water chestnuts, rice noodles, red onions
and fresh mint.

The crunchy bundles have proven popular at mainstream and California-style
eateries.

Asian-grilled chicken strips, seared sushi tuna, portobellos and shrimp are some
options at Ciccio and Tony's restaurants in the Bay area.

"We started them as specials, but they proved so popular we moved them to the
menu," says co-owner Jeff Gigante.

Boston bibb is used because it's easier to work with. Customers go for Make Your
Own Lettuce Wraps. The wraps make up 60 percent of lunch orders.

"They have lots of different vegetables and it's still filling," Gigante says.

Tim Alberdi's KOREAN BEEF ROMAINE WRAPS

3/4 cup soy sauce

3/4 cup Szechwan spicy stir-fry sauce (House of Tsang)

2 tablespoons sesame oil

3 to 4 garlic cloves, pressed

2 tablespoons crushed red pepper, or to taste

2 pounds skirt steak

3 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds

2 limes

1 bunch green onion, chopped

20 large romaine lettuce leaves

Combine 1/4 cup soy sauce, 1/2 cup Szechwan spicy stir-fry sauce, sesame oil,
garlic and red pepper. Add steak and toss to coat. Cover and refrigerate 2 to 4
hours.

Combine remaining soy sauce and sesame seeds with green onion.

Start grill (preferably over charcoal) and wait until briquettes are ashed over.
About 15 minutes prior to grilling, squeeze limes over the steak. Rub in.

Grill steak. Cut into strips and place on romaine leaves. Drizzle with
soy-sesame mixture. Wrap and enjoy.

Serves 8 to 10 as appetizer.


Tim Alberdi's NAM SOD

1 head cabbage

2 pounds ground pork

3 tablespoons sesame oil

Soy sauce

3 to 4 garlic cloves, crushed

Fresh ginger (about 1-inch piece)

1 red onion, sliced

1 bunch chopped green onions

1 green bell pepper, sliced

1 cup dry roasted peanuts

2 tablespoons crushed red pepper (depending on your taste)

2 limes

Cut 1 inch off the bottom of the cabbage. Peel back and discard top two layers
of cabbage. Peel the leaves carefully to keep them intact; set aside. Split
leaves in half to make better shell.

Cook pork over medium heat, breaking up meat with spatula. Drain any excess oil.
Add sesame oil, soy sauce, garlic and ginger. Cook 1 minute. Add red and green
onions, bell pepper and peanuts. Stir thoroughly. Add crushed red pepper and
squeeze both limes into the mixture. Cook 2 more minutes. Spoon pork mixture
into cabbage leaves, then wrap and serve.

Makes 8 to 10 appetizers.


WHAT A JERK!

1 1/4 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch cubes

Kosher salt

1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon

1/4 teaspoon allspice

1/3 cup jerk sauce (liquid, not dry mix or rub)

2 cups cooked long-grain white rice, warm

3/4 cup diced fresh pineapple ( 1/2-inch cubes)

1/4 cup chopped macadamia nuts

3 tablespoons chopped fresh mint

2 teaspoon fresh lime juice

Boston or lettuce leaves

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Combine chicken with 1 teaspoon kosher salt,
cinnamon and allspice in a medium bowl. Add jerk sauce and toss.

Spread chicken mixture evenly in a 13-by-9-by-2-inch baking pan. Bake until
chicken is cooked, 10 to 15 minutes. Add rice, pineapple, nuts, mint and lime
juice. Mix thoroughly.

Wrap in lettuce leaves. Serves 4.

Source: "Wraps: Easy Recipes for Handheld Meals" by Mary Corpening Barber, Sara
Corpening Whitefored and Lori Lyn Narlock


RAPPIN' BIRDS

1 teaspoon cornstarch

1 teaspoon soy sauce

1/2 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast, sliced

1 tablespoon vegetable oil

Finely diced onion

2 tablespoons minced garlic

1/4 teaspoon sugar

Dash salt

1 tablespoon chopped cilantro, or to taste

Julienned carrots, zucchini or other vegetables

Garnish: Commercial peanut sauce or hoisin sauce, Boston or other lettuces

Stir cornstarch and soy sauce in a medium bowl. Stir in chicken and mix well.
Let stand 10 minutes.

Heat a wok on high until hot. Add oil, then onion and garlic. Cook about 30
seconds. Stir-fry chicken 2 to 3 minutes.

Add sugar and salt, then stir in cilantro. Serve with julienned carrots or other
vegetables, hoisin and lettuce leaves. Wrap and eat.

Source: adapted from "Martin Yan's Chinatown Cooking"

FRENCH KISS

4 cups water

Kosher salt and pepper

1 cup sliced green beans (1-inch lengths)

3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

2 teaspoons Dijon mustard

1/2 teaspoon celery salt

1 tablespoon olive oil

6 ounces white tuna in spring water, drained

2 tablespoons pitted and chopped black olives

1/2 cup chopped yellow bell pepper

2 tablespoons chopped red onion

2 tablespoons fresh tarragon

Boston or other lettuce leaves

1/2 cup crumbled feta cheese

Combine water and 1 teaspoon kosher salt in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil
over high heat. Add green beans; cook until beans turn bright green, 2 to 3
minutes. Drain and rinse beans under cold water. Drain completely; set aside.

Combine lemon juice, mustard, celery salt and 1/8 teaspoon pepper in a small
bowl, using a whisk. Gradually add olive oil, continuing to whisk until fully
incorporated. Combine green beans, tuna, olives, yellow bell pepper, onion and
tarragon in a medium bowl. Pour the vinaigrette over the salad mixture; gently
toss with vegetables.

Serve the tuna-vegetable filling wrapped in lettuce and sprinkled with feta
cheese. Serves 2.

Source: adapted from "Wraps: Easy Recipes for Handheld Meals"

CHICKEN IN LETTUCE CUPS

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1 1/2-inch cubes

2 tablespoons sesame oil

1 tablespoon minced garlic

1 tablespoon minced ginger

6 scallions, thinly sliced

1 8-ounce can water chestnuts, drained and chopped

1/4 cup soy sauce

2 tablespoons hoisin sauce

1 tablespoon cider vinegar

1 teaspoon cornstarch

Salt and freshly ground pepper

12 Boston or iceberg lettuce-leaf cups

Chow mein noodles for garnish

Place chicken on plastic wrap, and freeze 15 minutes. Place chicken in a food
processor fitted with the steel blade and chop coarsely, using an on-and-off
pulsing action. Heat sesame oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add
garlic, ginger and 3/4 of the scallions. Stir-fry 30 seconds. Add chicken and
stir-fry 3 to 4 minutes, breaking up the lumps. Cook until the chicken is no
longer pink and is beginning to brown. Stir in water chestnuts, and stir-fry for
1 minute.

Mix the soy sauce, hoisin sauce, vinegar and cornstarch in a small bowl with 1/4
cup cold water. Add to the pan, and when the mixture boils and thickens, reduce
heat to low. Simmer 1 minute, stirring frequently. Season with salt and pepper,
to taste.

Spoon the mixture into the lettuce cups; garnish with the remaining scallion
slices and fried rice noodles, if used. Serves 6.

Note: If needed, prepare chicken up to a day in advance and refrigerate. Reheat
in a microwave oven to serve.

Source: adapted from California Culinary Academy's "Wraps Around The World"

Reporter Mary D. Scourtes can be reached at (813) 259-7635.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE Wrap master Tim Alberdi of Tampa likes his
fillings seasoned with crushed red pepper. "I like to sweat when I eat," he
says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 14, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cards, Yanks Display Dominance

BYLINE: CARTER GADDIS, igaddis@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


LESS-HERALDED LIEBER OUTPITCHES MARTINEZ

Game 2: Yankees 3, Red Sox 1

By CARTER GADDIS

igaddis@tampatrib.com

NEW YORK -- What the Yankees did to Pedro Martinez Wednesday night couldn't be
considered corporal punishment, exactly. Not even a slap on the wrist.

It was more of a lecture, really. A stern reminder of just who it is, young man,
that wears the pinstriped pants around here.

Any Oedipal impulse Martinez may have brought with him to the mound in Game 2 of
the American League Championship Series was squelched by a combination of timely
Yankees hitting and a dominant performance by Pedro's uncle (who knew?), New
York starter Jon Lieber.

Yankees 3, Red Sox 1. New York leads the series 2-0. The clubs now move to
Boston, where Red Sox Nation will be waiting with a much-needed lifeline for
their reeling baseball team in Game 3 Friday.

Wednesday's paternity test proved positive. Martinez, whose utterance last month
that the Yankees were his "daddy" created a favorite new catchphrase at Yankee
Stadium -- Who's your daddy? -- could not deliver when the Red Sox needed it
most.

Still numb in the wake of the news that Curt Schilling's ailing right ankle
probably will prevent him from pitching the rest of the series, Boston needed
Pedro at his Cy Young best. He was merely good, allowing three runs and striking
out seven in six innings.

"If we score five or six," said Red Sox manager Terry Francona, "we come out of
here talking about how well he threw and patting him on the back."

Lieber, meanwhile, made it two nights in a row that a less-heralded Yankees
starter outpitched one of Boston's aces. The former 20-game winner for the
Chicago Cubs, who underwent Tommy John surgery in August 2002, limited the Red
Sox to three hits and one run in seven-plus innings.

It wasn't until he tired in the eighth that Boston's vaunted offense could make
a dent. Through seven, Lieber limited the Red Sox to a pair of singles, by
Orlando Cabrera in the third and David Ortiz in the seventh.

Trot Nixon's leadoff single in the eighth prompted Yankees manager Joe Torre to
call upon reliever Tom Gordon. A double by Jason Varitek and a ground out to
short by Cabrera created Boston's run.

Gordon induced one more ground ball out before giving way to the man who has
taken the early lead in balloting for the ALCS MVP, Yankees closer Mariano
Rivera.

Rivera promptly struck out Boston leadoff batter Johnny Damon, who fell to
0-for-8 in the series with five strikeouts. A scoreless ninth gave Rivera his
second save in two nights, all while continuing to be mindful of his
grief-stricken family back in Panama, where his wife remained one day after the
couple attended the funeral of two recently deceased cousins.

With the inevitable chants of "Who's your daddy?" ringing in his ears from the
moment he strolled to the bullpen for his pregame warm-up, Martinez seemed
off-kilter in the first inning. His first six pitches were balls as Derek Jeter
walked and Alex Rodriguez was hit with a glancing forearm blow on a
high-and-tight fastball.

Tampa native Gary Sheffield immediately drove home the night's first run with a
single. New York's right fielder, who is greeted with chants of "MVP!" each time
he comes to bat at Yankee Stadium, is 5-for-8 with four runs scored in the first
two games.

Martinez is 0-1, but Yankees manager Joe Torre acknowledged afterward that his
team hadn't exactly taken Pedro out to the woodshed.

"The one thing about it, when you play a club as often as we've played the Red
Sox, you know what you have to do," Torre said. "You can't think big against
Pedro. Tonight he was Pedro. All the things about how we manhandled him ...
tonight he didn't give an inch."

New York's other runs came on John Olerud's home run off Martinez in the sixth.
Jorge Posada reached base in front of Olerud on Martinez's fourth walk of the
game.

The Yankees now have history heavily on their side. Since the LCS expanded to a
best-of-seven format in 1985, 13 of the 15 teams to take a 2-0 lead have
advanced to the World Series.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
John Olerud is congratulated by Yankees teammate Derek Jeter (2) after hitting a
two-run homer off Red Sox starter Pedro Martinez.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 30, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Church Presents Fall Festival

BYLINE: DIANE LOEBEL, dloebel@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: HUDSON


By DIANE LOEBEL

dloebel@tampatrib.com

HUDSON -- The Rev. Deborah Allen led worship at Faith United Methodist Church
for the first time June 20.

Allen, who grew up in Seffner, graduated from Temple Heights Christian School in
Tampa. She holds a bachelor's degree in education from the University of South
Florida and a master of divinity degree from Asbury Theological Seminary in
Wilmore, Ky.

Before her appointment to the Hudson church, Allen was pastor of Tice United
Methodist Church in Fort Myers.

"The Faith congregation is a warm and friendly group of people dedicated to
helping each other and the community," Allen said. "I'm so lucky to be a part of
them and their activities."

The church, founded in December 1977, first met at Bells Funeral Home before
moving into two modular buildings on the church's State Road 52 property. A
sanctuary was built and dedicated in 1980. It's now used for a fellowship hall
and classrooms for Noah's Landing Child Care Center. The congregation moved into
its present sanctuary in 2000.

Clifton Bonney is choir director and organist, and Susie Page leads the Praise
Band.

A craft group, the Faith Busters, meets Tuesdays; a quilters group meets
Wednesdays.

The youth group, led by Cliff Robinson and Darin Tate, meets at 5 p.m. Sundays.
Sue Aplin and Becky Tate lead the King's Kids, for elementary school-age
youngsters, one Sunday evening a month.

Through the United Methodist Global Missions, the congregation supports the work
of the Rev. Daniel Terry in Afghanistan.

An annual corn festival is held in May. The October pumpkin patch is in its 14th
year.

The church is having a fall festival and barbecue from 4 to 7 p.m. today. Aplin
is chairing the festival and pumpkin patch activities.

Richard Malloy and the United Methodist Men are in charge of the menu for the
barbecue, which will cost $6 for adults and $4 for children 4 to 12.

Steve Russell and Ken Britton are handling the hay rides at the festival. Crafts
and baked goods will be sold. The church thrift shop will be open, and there
will be face painting and story telling.

The Faith's Praise Band and Beacon Community Church youth group will perform.

In celebration of Fire Awareness Month, a firetruck and ambulance will be on the
grounds, unless called away for emergencies.

A Holiday Bazaar is scheduled for 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Nov. 6 and will feature
members' arts, crafts and other handiwork. Lunch will be available.

The church is five miles east of U.S. 19 and one mile west of Moon Lake Road on
State Road 52.

(CHART) FAITH UNITED METHODIST CHURCH

WHERE: 12128 State Road 52, Hudson

SERVICES/LESSONS: 8 and 10:25 a.m. worship Sunday; 9:15 a.m. Sunday School

CALL: (727) 856-5000

To suggest a Faith in Focus feature, call Diane Loebel, (727) 815-1081; write
her at The Tampa Tribune, 6214 U.S. 19, New Port Richey FL 34652; or e-mail
dloebel@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FAITH IN FOCUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Tribune photo by CHRISTINE DeLESSIO The Rev. Deborah Allen says members are
"dedicated to helping each other and the community."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 4, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers Perform Basics During Another Ugly Session

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 396 words


After two straight years of ugly, bickering sessions, Gov. Jeb Bush desperately
wanted Republican legislative leaders to give a reassuring display of
collegiality this key election year.

Instead, the Legislature bickered its way to a bilious end Friday, leaving many
key issues unresolved. Lawmakers failed to toughen standards for private school
vouchers. They failed to find a way to protect the state constitution from
frivolous changes. And they failed to adopt a budget system that would have
forced lawmakers to plan five years out.

It was another embarrassing session, with the Senate and House feuding to the
bitter end. This during a year when a rebounding economy spared lawmakers some
of the tough choices they faced the last few years.

House Speaker Johnnie Byrd is largely blamed for the acrimonious climate that
kept many key issues from getting heard. For a legislator who wants to represent
Florida in the U.S. Senate, Byrd displayed little talent for building consensus
or winning loyalty. Instead, colleagues and citizens saw him as unbending and
harsh.

For example, Byrd tried to undo legislation he pushed last year that has
resulted in rising phone rates. Republicans who did not support him saw key
projects killed. Among the casualties was a badly needed sewer system in
Mulberry.

Many House Republicans, infuriated by Byrd's tactics, even refused to contribute
to the gifts traditionally given to the outgoing speaker.

Despite the hard feelings and missed opportunities, the session had some
accomplishments. Higher education funding increased for a change. Funding for
the courts was boosted too.

Hillsborough did well, with money allocated for conservation work on Tampa Bay,
improvements for 22nd Street and, of course, funding for the Alzheimer's disease
research center that Byrd championed and will have named after his father.

Hillsborough also will benefit from a revised education funding formula that had
favored South Florida.

As the governor acknowledged in his muted congratulatory statement, lawmakers
accomplished their primary objective of passing a budget -- something they did
not achieve in the regular session last year.

But the political and personal grudges that defined so much of this session,
gave the governor little to brag about.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 26, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mayors Put Bets On Table, Talk Trash

BYLINE: Andy Reid

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


TAMPA -- Trash talking about hockey was about as easy for Mayor Pam Iorio as
describing a guava to a Canadian.

Before the Tampa Bay Lightning and Calgary Flames game Tuesday, Iorio called
Calgary, Alberta, Mayor Dave Bronconnier to make the traditional wager between
cities dueling for a championship.

Bronconnier said he wasn't worried. There's never lightning in Calgary, he
quipped.

Iorio's comeback: "There is global warming. It does lead to climatic changes,
and one of them might be lightning in Calgary."

"We have become a real hockey city," she told Bronconnier. "The fans here could
not be more enthusiastic."

If the Lightning lose in the Stanley Cup finals, Iorio promised a crate of
oranges, a platter of guava pastries and a box of Ybor City cigars.

Bronconnier countered with a wager of three cases of Big Rock beer, Bernard
Callebaut chocolates and five varieties of Spolumbo sausages.

A new city ethics code required Iorio to pay for her tickets to the game. Luxury
box seats for her and her husband cost $700, which she said she paid with
leftover campaign money.

Andy Reid

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Pam Iorio Mayor bet oranges, pastries and cigars on the Lightning series.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 4, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAMPAIGN FOR THE CORRIDOR Precinct's Voters Stand By Their President

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH, bsmith@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1612 words

DATELINE: VALRICO


NATIONAL SECURITY IS CITED AS A REASON

By BRAD SMITH

bsmith@tampatrib.com

VALRICO -- Trudging side by side on twin treadmills, Fred AuBuchon and John
Fleming are all sweated up and hard to tell apart. Both are retired businessmen
who like to work out in the exercise room at River Hills Country Club.

Yet, nudge them about presidential politics, and the schism that divides their
beliefs yawns as widely as the differences over national security that separate
Republican George W. Bush and Democrat John Kerry.

On a day when the Massachusetts senator campaigned in Tampa, blasting what he
portrayed as the president's failure to recruit global allies before attacking
Iraq, voters in Hillsborough County Precinct 814 seemed of a mind to stand by
Bush.

That accurately reflects the more than 3-1 advantage Republicans hold in the
suburban precinct, largely contained behind the gates of the private River Hills
subdivision. Here, huge houses with two-story pool lanais line a lush golf
course, carved out of wilderness next to the Alafia River, 20 miles east of
downtown Tampa.

The population is rapidly growing, with more than 700 new registered voters
since the last census. The demographic is overwhelmingly white and affluent.

AuBuchon, 73, who calls himself a moderate "Harry Truman Democrat, not a George
McGovern Democrat," says Kerry would gather a world coalition to fight terrorism
rather than go it alone as Bush has done. He said Bush "got some bad advice"
before invading Iraq.

"We've got to get a better policy where we're in sync with all our brothers
around the world," said AuBuchon, a retired sporting goods salesman from St.
Louis. "Intelligence will flow a lot better and that will impact national
security."

The resignation of George Tenet as CIA director will hurt Bush, in AuBuchon's
view, because it shows that heads are starting to roll in an administration that
trusted its own faulty intelligence.

"This is the first, and I don't think it's going to be the last," AuBuchon said.

Fleming, 66, a self-professed "Irish-Catholic Democrat" who has voted Republican
since Barry Goldwater in 1964, said Bush would not waver in his resolve and,
therefore, is a better leader on national security issues.

"I like his moral character," said Fleming, a retired manufacturer's
representative born in Iowa. Although he likes Bush, he's not at all sure
invading Iraq was a good idea. He said history will judge.

"I agree with Fred that he's gotten some bad advice," Fleming said, referring to
the president's advisers who argued that Iraq possessed weapons of mass
destruction. He said Tenet's resignation would help Bush.

"But he's sticking the course. The other guy would change his mind Tuesday to
Thursday."

On The Road

Along the Interstate 4 corridor, Bush and Kerry are fighting for Florida, a
critical state in November's election. Each has visited the area multiple times.
Each would love to carry the South's hottest battleground with its prize of 27
electoral votes.

With Democrats and Republicans about equally divided along I-4, the candidates
will have to hold their bases while trying to win over the one-in-five
independent swing voters in the area, analysts say. For Bush, that means holding
solidly Republican tracts such as Precinct 814.

Voter Joe DiVincenzo won't waver.

"I think he's got a much better group surrounding him, and he also draws from
his father's experience with the Central Intelligence Agency," DiVincenzo said.
"He's got a lot more things he could use to our advantage than Kerry might.
Kerry just appears to be political. Everything is politicized."

DiVincenzo, 58, a physical therapist who served in Vietnam as an Army staff
sergeant, said he would vote for Bush again because he thinks the incumbent
president is stronger on national security than Kerry.

The president "may not represent himself as well as some of the more recent
politicians, but I think he's a good man. He has good people around him, and I
hope he gets a chance to continue on," DiVincenzo said, as he played with his
granddaughter, Jackie, 2, in the family pool.

DiVincenzo gives Bush the benefit of any doubts about Iraq. "It's hard for me to
criticize because we really only know what we hear from the media. We're not
privy to a lot of things. "

Precinct 814, like much of the surrounding area, is home to many members of the
military from MacDill Air Force Base and others retired from the service.

Ian Knox, 22, is the son of retired Air Force majors, both Democrats, whom the
son describes as "hippies from the '60s and '70s."

Knox, a history student at the University of South Florida, prefers Kerry as a
leader on national security because of his record as a decorated combat veteran
in Vietnam. He describes Bush as too subservient to giant corporate powers that
profit from war.

"If you're running for office, you have an obligation to serve the people and
not the private sector," said Knox, as he worked out on weight machines at the
River Hills Country Club. His pickup truck bears a Kerry bumper sticker.

"Kerry's track record is much more involved than George W.'s," Knox said. "He
[Bush] went AWOL for six months or so with the Air National Guard, defending
Texas from the Viet Cong. John Kerry was actually over in Vietnam. He's the man
for the job."

Philosophical Switch

Some in the I-4 corridor say they don't know which party to back but then
realize one day they've actually taken a stand.

Eldonna Wing always thought she was a Democrat. Then, as the now-retired
psychotherapist was driving one day, she had an epiphany.

"I realized that my views and opinion largely matched Rush Limbaugh's, to tell
the truth," Wing said. "I was listening to Rush and I was nodding my head and I
thought, "Oh, you're a little more conservative than I knew.' "

Wing said she plans to vote for Bush, but that could change. "Who knows what's
going to happen between now and the election?" she said.

In Wing's view, Bush "has been doing the best job anyone could do, so far. I
think he's made some mistakes, but he's done the best."

Of Kerry, she said, "I don't like that he's not clear on his politics and he's
changed his mind throughout the campaign."

Wing said she doubts that Iraq is ready for self-government on June 30, but
"hates to second-guess [Bush] because he has a lot more information than I do."

Wing "goes back and forth" on whether it was a mistake to invade Iraq in the
name of national security. The continuing casualties "break my heart, but
they're part of getting the thing done."

The last Democrat Dan Ellis voted for was Jimmy Carter. Today, the 57-year-old
former manufacturing manager says he is "very satisfied with Bush's approach to
national security issues and his response to the changing climate."

Although he might take issue with Bush on certain domestic and economic issues,
he agrees with the president's entire national security policy. It's all gone
approximately as Ellis expected.

"War is great until it starts, then it just kind of flows and you stay with it,"
he said.

Ellis said he doesn't know much about Kerry's national security positions. "His
record has shown that he's voted against funding the arms needed, and he's not
been supportive of the intelligence agencies from his position in the Senate. If
that's carried over into a presidency, I don't think that would be a good thing
for us," he said.

Two stay-at-home moms, watching their children in the country club's swimming
pool, said they are staunch Bush supporters.

"Bush would do a better job because he's already doing it," said Krista
Reifschneider, 33, a recent Kentucky transplant and mother of Zachary, 4, and
Nicholas, 20 months. "I don't think Kerry seems as interested in national
security as I feel he should be."

Michelle Quinn, 34, supports Bush's Iraq policy and said she likes how he's
running the country.

"I wish there would have been more leads to what was going on with al-Qaida
before it got to where it's gotten to," she said. "I think Iraq was necessary to
save our country from problems getting much worse. I just don't feel Kerry knows
the ropes enough. Bush has a history."

On the golf course, Valrico State Bank executives Don Weaver and Jerry Ball
battled each other in a round of afternoon golf. The war in Iraq seemed a long
way away. Yet both men said they support Bush because of how he's running things
there. They said they admire what he's done to protect national security.

"I believe Bush has really been a strong president," Weaver, 61, said. "He's
followed his political convictions and he's shown that he's a military leader
and he has strength in that area."

Weaver, a registered Democrat, said he couldn't think of anything to criticize
about Bush. "It's hard to know whether the information he got on Iraq was
accurate. On the other hand, to know what Saddam Hussein was and is, to remove
him from power, I felt that bettered the American way," he said.

(CHART) Defining The Corridor

Interstate 4 runs 140 miles from I-275 in Tampa to I-95 near Daytona BEach. It's
politically important as a swing-voting corridor of population centers from
Sarasota through St. petersburg and north along U.S. 19, Lakeland and central
Polk County, greater Orlando, and the east coast areas north adn south of
Daytona Beach.

Registered voters

(April 2003) 2,168

1,342 Republicans

405 others

421 Democrats

voting-age population

(2000 Census) 1,394

Female - 710

Male - 684

White - 1,311

Black - 34

Other - 49

Tribune graphic; Tribune research by DOUG STANLEY; Sources: U.S. Census,
Hillsborough County supervisor of elections.

Reporter Brad Smith can be reached at (813) 259-7365.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN FOR THE CORRIDOR AN OCCASIONAL SERIES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART MAP
Tribune photo by KATHY MOORE-LENGELL Fred AuBuchon, left, and John Fleming are
both retired businessmen and work out at the River Hills Country Club. Their
political opinions differ. Ian Knox, 22, supports John Kerry. "If you're running
for office, you have an obligation to serve the people and not the private
sector," he says. Playing with his granddaughter, Jackie, Joe DiVincenzo voiced
solid support of the president. "I think he's a good man. He has good people
around him." Michelle Quinn, 34, says Kerry doesn't have enough experience for
her. "I just don't feel Kerry knows the ropes enough," she says. "Bush has a
history." (MAP) Map detail - Hillsborough County Precinct 814

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 9, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WORTH THE RENT New Reporters

BYLINE: Bob Ross

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 625 words


News reporters

Whether they're blow-dried headline readers or ink-stained investigators,
reporters are part of our culture for better or worse. (We think better, being
in the business and all.)

In the movies, journalists range from hardworking heroes (as in "All the
President's Men") to clueless clowns (like Will Farrell's Ron Burgundy character
in "Anchorman," reviewed on Page 10).

According to Hollywood, reporters constantly swap smart quips, cover
prize-winning stories, wear expensive outfits and live in luxurious penthouses.
Just like real life.

But whether it's comedy or crime-fighting, on the airwaves or on a rack,
newsgathering remains a big-screen staple because -- like us -- filmmakers are
always looking for a good story.

Some of our favorite examples:

Groundhog Day (1993): Bill Murray is perfect as a bored Pennsylvania weatherman
who finds himself repeating the same day in an endless, frustrating and
ultimately enlightening loop. Like his day, the movie bears almost limitless
repetition.

L.A. Story (1991): Another amusing TV weather guy, this one played by Steve
Martin as an unhappy misfit in La-La land, where the women are vapid and the
climate never changes. The jokes have held up reasonably well, especially
Patrick Stewart as a snooty maitre d'.

Network (1976): Thirty years before "reality TV" became a national
embarrassment, this fierce satire mocked the medium mercilessly. Writer Paddy
Chayefsky also foresaw the takeover of TV news by accountants and "entertainment
divisions." A brilliant work that holds up with frightening accuracy.

Broadcast News (1987): Which is more important for a TV newscaster: Good looks
or a great mind? Sure, it's a dumb question, but this smart romantic comedy from
director James L. Brooks (who also co-produces "The Simpsons"), makes us think
differently about the answer. William Hurt, Albert Brooks and Holly Hunter lead
the cast.

The Paper (1994): Ron Howard directed this serio-comic ensemble piece about a
dedicated, energetic editor (Michael Keaton) who has problems at his scrappy
underdog tabloid and is considering a job with his duller, snobbier but
higher-paying cross-town rival. Then a big story changes everything. Robert
Duvall, Glenn Close and Randy Quaid lead a superb cast.

Absence of Malice (1981): Sally Field is the reporter, Paul Newman is the
innocent subject of a news story planted by an unscrupulous prosecutor (Bob
Balaban). Strong drama, set in Miami. Raises important questions, ends with a
kick.

All the President's Men (1976): Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman portray
Watergate reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein in a superb dramatization of
how they broke the historic story. What's amazing is that you feel the suspense
every time you watch it.

Foreign Correspondent (1940): Joel McCrea plays an international news hawk in
this Alfred Hitchcock suspense thriller set just before World War II. McCrea
looks cool in his trench coat, but Robert Benchley and George Sanders have the
best lines.

The Front Page: The greatest newspaper comedy of all time is so wonderful that
the story has been filmed at least four times. The 1931 original gave us Adolphe
Menjou as the sleazy editor and Pat O'Brien as the star reporter who dreams of
an easier life. Billy Wilder's 1974 remake gave us Walter Matthau and Jack
Lemmon as the hilariously feuding co-workers. And in 1940's "His Girl Friday,"
the star reporter is played by Rosalind Russell, who is also the ex-wife of the
scheming editor (Cary Grant). A broadcast-setting remake of that version, the
1988 "Switching Channels" with Burt Reynolds and Kathleen Turner, took the tale
to a TV newsroom.

Bob Ross

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune file photo Bill Murray plays a bored weatherman doomed to live through
the same day again and again in "Groundhog Day."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Zambrano Gets Lesson In Toughness From Sheffield

BYLINE: JOE HENDERSON, jhenderson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


By JOE HENDERSON

jhenderson@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG -- Victor Zambrano can turn a pleasant afternoon at the ballpark
sour in just a flash. Like, when he hit Derek Jeter on the hand to start the
sixth inning.

Well, of course.

The Rays led by a run at the time and Zambrano was pitching well, so bringing
the go-ahead run to the plate was probably not the best move for the Rays' human
heartburn to make.

Especially when the go-ahead run is named Gary Sheffield.

The drip, drip, drip is acid tearing away at Lou Piniella's stomach lining.

He's not the only one in pain. Sheffield's left shoulder throbs so much, he's
basically limited to one at-bat each game where he can let it loose. Guess which
at-bat he chose Tuesday afternoon inside the climate-controlled confines of
Tropicana Field?

Sheffield hit a two-run homer on that trip to the plate, the difference in the
New York Yankees' 4-2 win, and it was so darned predictable.

Before the homer, he hit a ball deep and hard, but foul.

Bullet dodged.

The wise pitcher says at that point, "Hummmm ... Mr. Sheffield is up there,
twirling his bat in an extremely menacing fashion, which suggests to me that he
is waiting for a fastball. What say we throw some 73-mph breaking slop off the
plate?"

That would be the wise pitcher.

The pitcher on this day threw a chest-high, please-hit-me-a-long-way fastball
down the middle of the plate.

Not wise.

At least we think it was a fastball.

"I thought it was a change-up," Sheffield said. "The guys on the bench told me
it wasn't a change."

Gary, that pitch was 90 miles an hour.

"That shows how goofy I am," he said.

One Got Away

So the Rays' chance to win both parts of the Yankees' two-game stop in Tampa Bay
evaporated. Compared to the four-game sweep the Rays endured the last time they
played this team, a split isn't all that bad.

In fairness, Piniella has screamed since he got here for Zambrano to trust his
stuff, which is certifiably filthy. But he normally won't. Anyone who watches
this team is usually ready for a rubber room and drool cup after watching a
Zambrano outing.

It's long been believed the only thing separating him from the game's top
pitchers is the moxie to stop nibbling and attack the hitters.

Maybe not this hitter, though.

In the critical sixth inning, Zambrano might have won that battle if he had been
smarter. Throwing something soft away from Sheffield's cocked-and-twirling bat
wouldn't have been the nibbling for which he has been so criticized, it would
have been pitching.

Sheffield agreed. Asked if he was surprised to be challenged in that spot, he
thought a moment, then answered, "Yeah."

He's not a guy you challenge unless you have to. He is about the toughest hombre
on any field. He tore up his thumb in spring training and fought through that
when Yankees manager Joe Torre figured he'd miss half the season.

"We were expecting it," Torre said.

Then about two months ago against Baltimore, Sheffield felt his shoulder pop
while swinging and missing.

"It just kind of jumped out of the socket a little bit," he said.

He keeps playing.

He has taken one cortisone shot so he can stay in the lineup. He'll take one
more soon, then probably one to make it through the playoffs. Doctors told him
he can take only three over the course of a season, so he has to time the shots
right. The shoulder hurts all the time; he had to catch a ball around his waist
last weekend against the Tigers because he couldn't raise his arm to handle the
fly ball.

But he keeps playing.

He was talking to teammate Tony Clark before the game Tuesday, wondering why he
stays out there every day when it hurts so bad. Then he answered his own
question.

"I'm doing it for the guys trying to win a ring," he said.

A New Plan

The Rays have made the leap to respectability this season, but to do better they
need Zambrano to be as good as his God-given ability will allow. They need him
to be a front-of-the-rotation stud.

At times he seems to want that. At times he doesn't.

Zambrano leads the American League in walks, by a lot. He opened this game by
walking Bernie Williams and later threw a wild pitch that put Williams at third.
From there, Williams scored on a grounder hit by, guess who?

Sheffield.

In the Rays' last trip to New York, reliever Danys Baez buzzed Sheffield and
knocked him down. Sheffield got up, glared and finished the at-bat by driving a
pitch toward the George Washington Bridge. So was this homer payback for hitting
Jeter?

"I think that bothered him a little bit," Torre said. "That's his personality.
That's why you want him on your team."

That's why you don't want him up as the go-ahead run. After you've just hit
Derek Jeter. See what happens?

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BASEBALL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida Endures In Climate Of Change

BYLINE: GARY MORMINO, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words


By GARY MORMINO

Special to The Tampa Tribune

Whipsawed by political storms in 2000, Florida was whiplashed by real storms in
2004. The Sunshine State became the Plywood State, the State of Fatigue and the
National Disaster State. A red state in the November presidential sweepstakes,
Florida is now more accurately a blue tarpaulin state, and September, not April,
the cruelest month of the year.

Winds of change have again altered the course of Florida history. The hurricane
of 1559 destroyed the de Luna colony that had settled on Pensacola Bay, thus
allowing the upstart settlement of St. Augustine to lay claim to being the
nation's oldest city. A 1926 hurricane punctured Miami's balloon, inspiring the
nickname for the fledgling University of Miami football team. In 1928, a storm
so powerful that locals swore it "blowed a crooked road straight" killed
thousands on the southern shore of Lake Okeechobee. Hurricane Donna -- the
Weather Bureau assigned feminine names to the storms in 1953 -- roared through
southwest Florida in 1960, leveling many old beach cottages and paving the way
for modern redevelopment.

Modern hurricanes signify geopolitical/cultural markers. In the past, hurricanes
came and went with little warning. When an 1848 killer 'cane roared across Tampa
Bay, engulfing Fort Brooke and the Pinellas peninsula, it took weeks for
Americans to learn about the calamity.

Now, reporting on hurricanes has become the domestic equivalent of covering
wars. Each new approaching system necessitates a familiar cast of characters and
associations: weather maps and sophisticated technology (VIPIR radar) to predict
and chart the storm's path; marathon performances by TV meteorologists, many
(The Weather Channel's Jim Cantore and WFLA's Mace Michaels) becoming media
celebrities; network anchors bent backward by the force of Category 3 winds;
palm trees snapping and tidal surges hammering seawalls; and live camera shots
from emergency shelters.

The hurricanes of 2004 scoured the coasts and soaked the interior, but the
events left more than physical damage. Natural disasters shear the social and
cultural, economic and ecological landscape.

The Ta no Indians of the Caribbean called the destructive storms hurr can.
Compared to the most severe Mediterranean storms, el hur can combined a fury and
power never before seen or felt. Natives learned to read the signs of an
approaching storm: aching bones, premature births and insects and birds behaving
strangely -- all the result of plunging barometric pressure.

The Ta nos attributed a malevolent quality to the hurr can. Modern society and
unreconstructed yellow-dog Democrats -- who see the hurricanes as divine
retribution for the "stolen" election of 2000 -- share a similar outlook,
depicting Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne as evil and aberrational.

But a hurricane is a natural, not a moral, phenomenon. What has changed is not
nature, suddenly unleashed, but that 17 million people now reside in Florida,
most of them on or near the coasts. Consider that the last time four hurricanes
struck a single state (Texas) in one season was 1886. The entire population of
Florida then numbered about 340,000 inhabitants.

"War," went a popular slogan in the 1940s, "is God's way of teaching Americans
geography." One might argue that "hurricanes are nature's way of making
Floridians learn geography."

A state of vast distances and distant strangers, the Sunshine State needs
citizens who care about the welfare of Florida and its people. Millions of
Floridians now know about Lake Wales, Barefoot Bay, Perdido Key, but also Grande
Lagoon subdivision, Ocean Breeze Trailer Park and Cracker Trails RV Park. In
rare gestures of civic communion, strangers helped one another as the National
Guard, emergency workers and volunteers assisted the young and old, rich and
poor. New heroes emerged: utility linemen, paramedics and truckers.

The hurricanes battered and bent, leveled and disheveled some of Florida's
wealthiest neighborhoods and poorest places. Charley, Frances and Jeanne sliced
through Sanibel and Captiva, Jupiter and Hutchinson islands. Ivan left Pensacola
Bay a "graveyard of yachts."

Mansions And Mobile Homes

A diverse, multicultural Florida emerged from the newsreels and front pages.
Only a few miles separate the million-dollar mansions lining the barrier islands
of Charlotte Harbor from the modest mobile home parks of Punta Gorda and the
retirement community of Lehigh Acres. When the storms veered inland and exposed
the migrant labor communities of Zolfo Springs, Bowling Green and Arcadia, the
plight of Florida's invisible poor became painfully visible.

Polk County, situated equidistant from the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean,
seemed blessed for much of the 20th century. Powerful politicians -- Park
Trammell, Spessard Holland, Lawton Chiles -- embodied "Imperial Polk County."
Endowed by nature with rich soil, navigable rivers and rich deposits of
phosphate, Polk earned the title of the citrus and mineral capital of Florida.

Alas, nature and history have left the population shaken and depressed. Historic
freezes and environmental concerns have devastated citrus and phosphate. No
county in Florida suffered more sustained damage than Polk County, in the
cross-hairs of three hurricanes.

Hurricanes may be natural disasters, but they also teach political lessons. For
most of American history, hurricanes were local tragedies. Communities relied
upon neighbors and local charities.

After the Labor Day hurricane of 1935, when hundreds of World War I veterans
died in the waters off Upper and Lower Matecumbe, politicians became more
sensitive to the role of relief. Today, the chief executive and governor also
must play the role of griever, healer and provider.

New Supplants Old

Debates over costs and responsibilities are raging. But there is only one thing
more certain than future hurricanes striking Florida: Class, power and political
influence will triumph. Bigger will replace smaller; new will supplant old.
Mobile home communities that lined lakes and rivers will be replaced by
expensive condominiums and gated communities. It is the most elementary law of
Florida physics. Where will the displaced residents go? Laws of physics do not
help with such questions.

High winds blew across political, class and geographic boundaries.
Million-dollar beach houses and double-wide mobile homes both disintegrated
under 16-foot storm surge and 120 mph winds. But in hurricanes, as in life,
class matters.

Along the Gold Coast, some families escaped danger by leasing private jets
($17,000 a flight). The mangrove islands of the Florida Keys, long a refuge for
Conchs and smugglers, became temporary home to hundreds of expensive craft whose
owners hoped to save the megayachts.

Hurricanes rearrange the landscape. Charley sliced in half the island of North
Captiva. Beaches and dunes took a severe hit, although scientists point out that
one place's erosion is another's gain. The storms also hurt severely endangered
loggerhead and green turtle nests.

Across Florida, barometric pressure and torrential rain played havoc with septic
tanks, sewers and sewage treatment plants. From Pensacola to Broward County, raw
sewage poured out of manhole covers. But ill winds can blow benefits to an
environment (the Everglades and aquifer) that needed flushing and recharging.

To be a Floridian is to be optimistic. Florida is open for business. Within days
after the devastation, real estate speculators were ready to reinvest in
Florida. Millions of baby boomers on the lip of retirement believe sun, water
and palm trees guarantee eternal youth.

But the past is not always prologue. The period between 1950 and the early 1990s
was an era of remarkable prosperity and remarkably few hurricanes. Like biblical
plagues upon a wicked people and an ill-begotten land, the hurricanes of 2004
take their place beside global warming, melanoma, red tide, alien exotics, West
Nile virus and the predictions of new, even more ferocious storms.

Yet the Florida Dream endures, if slightly mildewed, frayed and stressed.

This essay was adapted from Gary Mormino's book "Land of Sunshine, State of
Dreams" (University Press of Florida, spring 2005).

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
AP photo/Florida Today After Jeanne swept through Barefoot Bay, Jeb Bush was
both governor and consoler to 91-year-old Dorothy Dombrow. Tribune photo by JAY
CONNER Gary R. Mormino, the Frank E. Duckwall Professor of History, teaches at
the University of South Florida's St. Petersburg campus.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

An Election With Outcomes Predetermined

BYLINE: RICK BARRY, rbarry@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PINELLAS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


By RICK BARRY

rbarry@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG -- This is the time of year -- Election Eve, not All Hallow's
Eve, though both can be scary -- when we scribes lean back, stare at the ceiling
and opine our fingers stubby predicting who'll beat whom in the upcoming horse
races.

It's fun, involves no heavy lifting, and if we're wrong -- well, no lab animals
are at risk..

But this year, it's way too easy.

None of our congressional, state or local races looks even close. OK, that one
national race looks pretty close, but we've heard entirely too much about it
already.

The bottom of the ballot barely looks interesting. Frankly Farkas versus Liz
McCallum? Karen Seel versus Write In? Not likely. Maybe Jack Day versus Cynthia
Newton for judge?

While this state of affairs is truly unfortunate for people who strew type
across a space such as this, it's a sad indicator of the health of our body
politic.

The Professor Agrees

Darryl Paulson, professor of government at the University of South Florida St.
Petersburg and peerless "usual suspect" on media Rolodexes throughout West
Central Florida and beyond, is saddened as well, as he enjoys a yearlong
sabbatical.

And he is not just mourning the almost total absence of spirited exchanges over
coffee or a Guinness. He worries over the viability of our state and federal
governments.

Of 160 state legislative races, he estimates less than 10 percent of them are
competitive. In roughly 40 percent he estimates legislators have no opposition
at all.

The rest are opposed by Libertarians, Green Partiers, Naderites or write-in
candidates -- not that there's anything wrong with that. The result is that our
representatives lose the one thing that might force them to think twice before
making decisions for the same old reason: Which special interest group are we
massaging this week? There's no need to consider the interests of their
constituents, never mind effective, moral governing.

That one thing? Fear.

"The fear of election defeat is one of the few ways we have of controlling
politicians," Paulson said. "If they don't fear defeat, they feel free to do
anything they want to do."

And our area, where general elections are done deals, "is just a microcosm of
the nation."

Elected officials, especially those in the majority party, don't have to
represent those who elected them. They just have to run unopposed or from a
district custom-designed for them by their party.

Render voters irrelevant and into the void thunder two thousand Bruno Maglis and
matching checkbooks.

With this kind of "independence," members of Congress feel free to pass laws
right before Election Day that bring billions in tax breaks to pharmaceutical
companies, defense contractors and other favored contributors; state legislators
blithely pass huge rate increases for telephone companies and try to muscle out
the courts and insinuate themselves into one family's most intimate decision.

And so much more.

Ah, freedom. Just another word for nothing left to take.

Paulson finds reason for hope in, of all things, changing demographics.

By the year 2020 or so -- this may not help all of us -- 40 percent of Florida's
population will be minorities, he said, mostly non-Cuban Hispanics, and that
could create a climate favorable to change.

"If enough people become upset about enough things," he said, people can make
changes happen. In other words: Hope is on the way.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 28, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Squalor In "The Scrub'

BYLINE: LELAND HAWES, lhawes@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 795 words


The troubles of Tampa's Central Park Village area go back many decades.

By LELAND HAWES

lhawes@tampatrib.com

Settled in the turbulent days following the Civil War, Tampa's Central Park
Village area has seen a number of transitions through the years.

North of downtown and bordering Nebraska Avenue, it has been the site of a
sprawling housing project since urban renewal razed earlier structures in the
1960s.

Central Park Village has been the focus of renewed controversy about its next
incarnation. The Tampa Housing Authority recently postponed a decision on how
many low-income families will continue living there.

With conditions considered deplorable by today's standards, the section once
epitomized the ultimate slum. The pictures on this page show what residents
endured as late as the first half of the 20th century.

A Burgert Bros. photographer climbed a tall Tampa Gas Co. tank at 13th Street
and Fourth Avenue sometime in the 1920s and took the panoramic view above. It
provides graphic evidence of the jammed conditions on both sides of Nebraska.

Later, in the early 1950s, another Burgert photographer took closer shots of the
shanties where hundreds of black people lived, many without indoor toilets,
paved streets or water connections.

The area was known as "The Scrub" to outsiders but commonly called "The Scrubbs"
by residents.

Report Sheds Light

A little-known report from 1927 described living conditions in The Scrub and
other pockets inhabited by most of Tampa's blacks at that time.

Written by Benjamin Mays, who came to Tampa to serve as executive secretary of
the Tampa Urban League, the document became known as "The Raper Report." It was
named for Arthur Raper, a young white sociologist identified with a group called
the "Interracial Commission" who collaborated on the project with J.H. McGrew,
secretary of the national council of the YMCA.

In the 1980s, Mays, retired president of Morehouse College and a prominent civil
rights spokesman, said Raper got the credit because he was white.

In the racial climate of 1927, Tampa's establishment would have paid little heed
to the report if it was attributed to a black author, he said.

Little attention was given to it anyway. A damning indictment of housing and job
conditions, The Raper Report was released at a time when authorities were
concerned by the economic "bust" that followed the Florida Boom.

For example, the original building for Tampa Municipal Hospital (later Tampa
General Hospital) had been financed with a $1.25 million bond issue. When a
follow-up $500,000 bond issue was proposed to include $100,000 for a black
medical facility, it failed.

Instead, black residents had to rely on a 17-bed, makeshift hospital run by
nurse Clara Frye. It received an annual appropriation of $5,800.

Tampa's black population in 1927 was estimated at 23,000 out of a total 150,000
metropolitan population.

"Interracial contacts between the white and colored elements in Tampa, as
elsewhere in the South, are for the most part limited to those of a business
nature," the report said.

The majority of blacks lived in rental units owned by white landlords. The
average weekly rent was $5.28. "A preponderance had no bathing facilities," the
report noted, with at least 3,000 residents using outdoor privies.

In 1927, garbage service was scarce in The Scrub, and there were no storm
sewers. Rainwater collected in ditches along the sandy streets.

Worst Of The Worst

One particularly notorious area, known as "44 Quarters," occupied the property
between the Lafayette Street Viaduct -- today's Kennedy Boulevard overpass just
being demolished -- and Union (railroad) Station.

The area got its name because 44 shacks, with three rooms each, were crammed
into a tract 210 feet long by 215 feet wide.

According to the report, "This patch of ground yields approximately $10,000 a
year -- doubtless a good investment when considered solely in light of monetary
income."

Landlords resisted city cleanup efforts, complying only when forced to do so.
They complained that water and sewer connection fees would cost more than the
value of the houses they owned.

Black residents, earning the lowest incomes and the first to be fired when
cutbacks occurred, were powerless to protest. Under Tampa's White Municipal
Party system, black voters were excluded from voting in city elections.

In a summation of their findings, The Raper Report authors went on record as
saying the conditions they found were "the inescapable responsibility of Tampa's
privileged citizens."

Not until decades later did "privileged citizens" respond to pressures for
change. And, as evidenced by today's Central Park Village, the needs for change
continue.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HISTORY & HERITAGE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
(C) John F. Germany Public Library, used with special permission Living
conditions in "The Scrub," a predominantly black section of Tampa north of
downtown, were poor in the 1920s. Many residents used privies, and garbage
service was scarce. Photos from John F. Germany Public Library Lula Street, with
its sandy, unpaved road, typified The Scrub in the early 1950s. Hundreds of
people lived in shanties, many without water connections. Lula Street no longer
exists. Many women in The Scrub "took in washing" and dried sheets and clothing
on backyard clotheslines. This photograph was taken in 1951.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 10, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court Probation Officers Hit The Street

BYLINE: LISA A. DAVIS, ldavis@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words


HIGH-PROFILE MURDER CASES CITED; SOME JUDGES OBJECT

By LISA A. DAVIS

ldavis@tampatrib.com

Two high-profile homicide cases, including the slaying of 11-year-old Carlie
Brucia, are part of the reason Florida Department of Corrections officials are
removing certified probation officers from the courtroom and putting them back
on the street.

As a test run during the past six months, probation officers have been moved out
of courts in Orange and Duval counties.

As of today, the 6th Judicial Circuit, comprising Pinellas and Pasco counties,
will no longer have its 22 probation officers assigned to courtrooms.

Another 22 in-court probation officers in Hillsborough County will be
transferred Dec. 24, and the remaining counties will follow.

"We want to maximize the officers' time on the street," said Sterling Ivey, a
Florida Department of Corrections spokesman. "The public generally expects our
probation officers to be on the street supervising cases, supervising
offenders," Ivey said.

Despite courthouse rumors that the move is a cost-saving measure, Ivey said that
isn't so.

"It's absolutely not a money-saving issue at this point," he said.

No probation officers are losing their jobs, so salaries are not an issue.

The goal, Ivey said, is ensuring the safety of Florida residents.

Courtroom Duty

Courtroom probation officers attend violation of probation hearings and other
proceedings involving probation cases. The officers can answer questions about
restitution, what drug facilities have openings for offenders and provide
details about defendants' criminal background and probation history.

The officers can immediately direct offenders on probationary requirements.

Probation officers will be available to the courts, but on a case-by-case basis
that is likely to require subpoenas, Ivey said.

Probation is an alternative to jailing offenders.

It costs state taxpayers an average of $4.90 a day for an offender to be on
probation, compared with the $47.36 it costs daily to house a prisoner,
according a report in August by the state Office of Program Policy Analysis and
Government Accountability.

Statewide, 2,611 probation officers supervise about 148,559 offenders.
Supervision can include office and home visits, urine screenings and
administrative tasks such as collecting supervision fees from those on
probation.

Courtroom officers have supervisory duties, but they maintain fewer cases than
those without court roles, Ivey said.

The Brucia case in Sarasota and the Aug. 6 stabbing and bludgeoning deaths of
six people in a Deltona home were not the only impetus for the change, Ivey
said, although the cases played significant roles.

Brucia was raped and killed. Her case made national news when her abduction in
February was caught on a carwash video.

Joseph P. Smith, who faces murder charges in Brucia's death, could have been
been jailed on probation violations weeks before the girl's abduction,
corrections officials have said.

Circuit Judge Harry M. Rapkin, of the 12th Judicial Circuit, contends that
probation officers did not say Smith should be arrested for the violations.

Two months before Brucia's abduction, Smith violated probation when he failed to
pay court costs and fines.

However, the judge did not send the unemployed mechanic to prison.

After the Deltona murders in August, four probation officers based in DeLand
were fired because of allegations that they were lax in supervising Troy
Victorino, who is charged with first-degree murder in the case.

In July, Victorino was arrested on a battery charge, a provation violation.

He was released on $2,500 bail.

The officers were fired for not getting the re-arrest paperwork on Victorino to
a judge in a timely manner before the slayings, corrections officials have said.

Bernie McCabe, state attorney for the 6th Judicial Circuit, said that taking
probation officers out of the courtroom will have an adverse effect on court
cases because most judges rely heavily on the information the officers provide.

"It puts the court in the position of primarily making a decision based on less
information than it's had in the past," McCabe said. "The more information you
have, the better decision you can make"

McCabe also questioned the timing.

"I would think that within the current climate of what's happened in Sarasota or
Manatee counties and DeLand, they'd be anxious to provide more information,"
McCabe said, referring to the Smith and Victorino cases.

Pasco-Pinellas Circuit Judge Michael F. Andrews, who presides over a felony
docket in New Port Richey, said he is not in favor of the move.

"To me they're just completely invaluable," he said. "I need them as much as I
need prosecutors and the public defender's office."

In Hillsborough, 13th Judicial Circuit Chief Judge Manuel Menendez sent judges
there a letter saying those who wish to meet with probation officials to discuss
the move can do so Dec. 13.

When Hillsborough Circuit Judge J. Rogers Padgett sentences a defendant to
probation, the bailiff directs him to the probation officer.

The officer hands the defendant a form that tells him where to go and when to
report.

If the person does not show up, that's a violation.

In those cases, the judge then can call the courtroom probation officer as a
witness. If that person is not in court, however, no one can testify during a
violation of probation hearing that the defendant was told where and when to
show up.

The defendant, therefore, cannot be found to have violated probation when he did
not show up for his initial meeting. "He gets a free pass on that," Padgett
said.

Judge Makes His Case

Chief Judge David A. Demers, of the 6th Judicial Circuit, has asked Department
of Corrections Secretary James Crosby to reconsider the move.

"I know that you are very concerned about the perception created by recent
high-profile cases," Demers wrote in a letter to Crosby dated Tuesday."However,
I urge you not to allow a few horrible events drive the entire system to the
detriment of the vast majority of those in the system, the court and the
public."

Demers said the change could have the opposite effect of what the Corrections
Department desires.

"Removal of the liaison officers will undermine the efficiency of probation
officers and will add to their workload, thus increasing the number of
violations that may go unreported," he wrote.

Reporter Thomas W. Krause contributed to this report. Reporter Lisa A. Davis can
be reached at (727) 815-1083.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COURTS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO The state wants court probation officers, such as
Maureen Watson in Hillsborough County, supervising probationers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 17, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

John Kerry And Porter Goss Have Same Record On Intelligence

BYLINE: Tony Coelho

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 588 words


By Tony Coelho

The Tribune's readers who turned to this space last week were treated to the
latest political mythology in the presidential campaign ("Need Intelligence?
Don't Ask John Kerry," March 10).

Through the selective omission of key facts, my former House colleagues Porter
Goss and Bill Young left readers with the false impression that they opposed
cuts in intelligence that President Clinton and Sen. Kerry endorsed. A closer
look at the facts demonstrates that Kerry has the same record on intelligence
funding that Congressmen Goss and Young have earned.

How can this be?

During the 1990s, overwhelming bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress
approved cuts in funding for intelligence. So strong was this bipartisan
position that often no one called for a recorded vote. Intelligence budgets were
approved on a simple voice vote.

The congressmen are right that "overseas intelligence operations were canceled
... and the core of our overseas intelligence operations declined by about 25
percent." What they fail to mention is that those cuts were ordered by the first
President Bush. They were supported by more than 95 percent of Republicans in
Congress, including Goss and Young. They approved a 17.5 percent
across-the-board cut in staffing during 1991-1997.

For most of the 1990s, Goss and his Republican colleagues were in charge of
writing the intelligence budget in the House and Senate. In 1992 they approved a
6 percent cut in intelligence funding for President Clinton's first year in
office. In 1993 House Republicans on the Intelligence Committee unsuccessfully
sought to cut $30 million for specialized language training at the CIA.

On the heels of the Aldrich Ames spy scandal, Congressman Goss was appointed to
a national commission to study America's intelligence community, on which we
both served. He joined with me in the unanimous finding of the Brown-Rudman
Commission that even further cuts in intelligence staffing after the fall of the
Soviet Union "would not harm national security." Our 17-member commission agreed
that staffing cuts were necessary to reshape our intelligence services in order
to meet the new threats in a new world order.

That was three years after the first World Trade Center bombing. Later, as
al-Qaida and other terrorist enemies of America grew in strength, President
Clinton requested and secured the largest increase in intelligence funding for
15 years in 1999.

We faced a new threat, new enemies and new tactics in the form of terrorism.
Presidents and Congresses of both parties consistently supported these reform
budgets. Each year they were approved in Congress by margins so large as to
almost be unanimous.

That's the way it should be -- members of both parties coming together for
America first.

It is time to set aside the partisanship in the current political climate. These
arguments do a disservice to the American public and detract from the more
important mission of ensuring the intelligence community has all the support
required to protect us.

Tribune readers can rest easy that a President Kerry will be just as vigilant in
defense of our country as Congressman Goss or even President George W. Bush.

Democrat Tony Coelho, a former majority whip of the U.S. House of
Representatives, served on the National Commission on the Roles and Capabilities
of the U.S. Intelligence, March 1996. He also chaired Al Gore's 2000
presidential campaign.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 20, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RARIN' TO GROW

BYLINE: JOHN C. ALLEYNE, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: LARGO


Branch out into trees and sustain the urban forest. It'll help the environment.

By JOHN C. ALLEYNE

Tribune correspondent

LARGO - Sunshine draws people - and industry - to the Bay area, but both can
damage the environment that attracted them.

Research shows that urbanization often results in declining green space and
worsening air quality. One popular way to restore and sustain both is by
increasing the tree canopy. City trees keep temperatures down, slow wind speed
and absorb air pollutants such as carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitric oxide
and ozone.

Florida is home to more than 290 species of trees, but not all will thrive here.
Japanese maple trees, for instance, are better suited to the cooler temperatures
in the Panhandle. Planting one here would doom it. Trees planted outside their
growing zone never attain their full genetic potential and quickly succumb to
disease or other stresses.

The following trees are a few that are well-adapted to West Central Florida.
Keep in mind that within this area, the climate and soil vary dramatically -
conditions in the front yard may even be different from those in the back yard.
Trees should be carefully selected for a specific site.

Any of these trees can be planted now through the summer.

Chickasaw plum (Prunus angustifolia) is a small flowering tree native to
Florida. It grows about 20 feet tall, and its smooth gray bark is interlaced
with horizontal furrows. This "harbinger of spring" produces clusters of small
white flowers while the tree is still bare of leaves. Red to yellow acidic
fruits follow.

Southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora) is a beautiful, large evergreen. The
shiny leaves are covered on the bottom with rust-colored hairs. In early summer,
fragrant flowers with numerous white petals cover the tree. The fruit is
conelike and opens to reveal scarlet seeds. The magnolia blossom is one of the
biggest flowers and is often used as a table decoration.

Bald-cypress (Taxodium distichum) is often associated with wet sites but grows
in a wide range of soil conditions. The thin, flat leaves resemble needles with
pointed tips and prominent midribs. Their delicate, bright green leaves emerge
in the spring and turn a rusty brown before they drop in winter.

Live oak (Quecus virginiana) is one of the grander shade trees. It can attain a
height of 50 feet with a spread of 100 feet or more. It grows well in the Bay
area and can live up to 1,000 years.

Slash pine (Pinus elliottii) is a majestic tree that grows to 90 feet tall.
Slash pine grows rapidly in most Bay area soil types and is often considered the
most important pine in reforestation. Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) may grow
to 120 feet tall. It, too, grows rapidly.

Southern red cedar (Juniperus silicicola) is another evergreen that grows to 25
feet. This species has a natural symmetrical shape. Its dense foliage makes it
ideal as a windbreak or cover for wildlife. It is salt-tolerant.

Red maple (Acer rubrum) has a narrowly cylindrical crown and can get as tall as
80 feet but is generally much smaller in home landscapes. Winter brings a color
change to the foliage, which turns yellow or red before dropping. Red maples
thrive on moist or wet ground.

Allee elm (Ulmus parvifolia), a cultivar of the weeping elm, is a fast-growing
tree and one of few elms resistant to Dutch elm disease (not found in this area)
and leaf miner damage. It grows best in full sun and prospers in a variety of
soil types.

Tree of gold (Tabebuia caraiba) is a showy flowering tree with a crooked trunk
and corky bark. It grows to about 30 feet tall and, in late winter-early spring,
loses its leaves and covers itself with bright yellow, trumpet-shaped flowers.
Purple Tabebuia (Tabebuia impetiginosa), like the tree of gold, blooms in spring
and is useful where a small tree is needed. It grows well in full sun and
tolerates any well-drained soil but responds best to enriched soil.

Jacaranda (Jacaranda mimosifolia) grows quickly to 25 to 40 feet. The soft
fernlike foliage and clusters of lavender-blue, lightly fragrant, trumpet-shaped
flowers make this large spreading tree an outstanding specimen. It thrives best
in well-drained soils in warmer areas.

For information on selecting and caring for trees and other woody ornamentals,
go to the University of Florida's Environmental Horticulture Department Web site
at hort.ifas.ufl.edu/woody. An extensive list of trees can be found along with
photos and fact sheets.

Information on trees and gardening in Florida can be found at the publication
Web site for the university's Cooperative Extension Service at
edis.ifas.ufl.edu.

John C. Alleyne, a commercial horticulture agent with the Pinellas County
Extension Service, can be reached at (727) 582-2100.

Blooming Success is a collaborative effort of The Green Team - Bay area
horticulture specialists who are University of Florida faculty members.

Copyright (c) 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences (TREE OF GOLD:
a showy tree that covers itself in bright yellow, trumpet-shaped flowers.)
University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences The red maple
can grow to 80 feet tall, although it is usually smaller in home landscapes.
Photo by DAVID M. SAVERCOOL The Southern magnolia's blossom is one of the
biggest flowers. It often is used as a table decoration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

5 QUESTIONS WITH ... Alison Morano

BYLINE: Geoff Fox

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 717 words


Alison Morano, a Wesley Chapel Internet marketer who belongs to several area
organizations, including the Greater Wesley Chapel Chamber of Commerce, of which
she is chairwoman of the board; the Pasco Democratic Executive Committee; Women
on the Fast Track; The Internet Business Association of Tampa; and Women
Impacting Public Policy.

A native of Great Neck, N.Y., she has lived in Wesley Chapel with her husband,
Alex, for about five years.

Q. There hasn't been much talk lately about incorporating Wesley Chapel. Is
there still a group of Wesley Chapel residents and business leaders exploring
the idea?

A. While the idea of incorporation has taken a back burner, there is still a
group meeting every few months to discuss Wesley Chapel's future. Additionally,
the chamber is continuing to work on our own vision or "lay of the land" for
Wesley Chapel, mainly from a business point of view.

John Coster, chairman of the chamber's community and government affairs
committee, and I had worked together to write an initial statement of Wesley
Chapel's hope for the future several months ago that was recorded by the county
and presented to the Citizen's Advisory Council. This has served as a blueprint
toward a prosperous Wesley Chapel.

The community and government affairs committee meets twice a month to expand on
the initial report.

Q. What do you like best about living in Wesley Chapel?

A. I love living here. We had moved to the west coast of Florida because of the
growth and the climate. Wesley Chapel is growing in the direction we hoped for
five years ago when we were looking for a home. After doing some research, we
found that this area was ideal for a Florida lifestyle, and the homes and
communities offered all of the amenities we were looking for.

It is close to the beaches, and with all of the business coming into the area,
we now have everything we need right in our own neighborhood. Not to mention
Saddlebrook Resort. As a technology business, we found out that the Tampa Bay
area was one of the top areas in Florida for technology growth. This is all in
addition to the amazing amount of friends I've made here as well.

Q. Do you think county officials are doing enough to preserve the lifestyle that
lured you to the area? If not, what do you believe county commissioners and
other officials should be doing differently?

A. As for my own dealings with county officials, I have always had a great deal
of cooperation for anything I've requested or questioned. As someone who
expected change and growth, I know it's a difficult process to manage. I do hope
that the county and local developers will be able to work together to make the
transitions between a primarily residential area and the growing commercial
developments without having one overpower the other.

As for preservation, whether you were for or against the Penny for Pasco, one of
the top projects that will come from it is the guarantee that we will preserve
land in the county. Hopefully it's enough to keep the beauty of Pasco County
existing alongside daily life.

Q. Why is community involvement important to you?

A. With all of the growth in the area, we truly need the entire community
watching and learning from our current developments. The No. 1 answer I get from
every official when I ask how to get things done is: "You need people to
represent Wesley Chapel. We want to see residents and business owners at the
developmental meetings -- from zoning to development review to the CAC and BOCC
[Board of County Commissioners]. People and community representation make the
difference."

Q. What does Wesley Chapel need more than anything?

A. Aside from new roads and infrastructure (which are coming), we can use a
bookstore (my husband and I spend hours in bookstores) and more retail shopping.
I also hope -- more than anything -- that there is a real commitment from
developers to make sure that this town is built for real people leading
enjoyable lives in Wesley Chapel.

I sincerely hope that incoming businesses take a look at Wesley Chapel, see our
potential and build accordingly. We are not just the gateway to Pasco County; we
are a great community. I would hate to lose that in the rush to develop.

Geoff Fox

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 5 QUESTIONS WITH ...

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Alison Morano

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 27, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Franchisor Buys Out Thrifty Outlets

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON, jfjohnston@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


TAMPA, ORLANDO JOBS ARE SECURE, LAWYER SAYS

By JO-ANN JOHNSTON

jfjohnston@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- A franchise company that operates Thrifty car rental outlets in Tampa
and Orlando is being sold to the corporate franchisor in May.

The buyer, Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group of Tulsa, Okla., is expected to
employ almost all of the 323 people who work in Tampa and Orlando for Laser
Leasing, based in Orlando.

"That was one of the owners' biggest concerns," said Gus R. Benitez, an Orlando
lawyer who represents Laser Leasing.

The 118 Tampa employees run the Thrifty business at Tampa International Airport.
An additional 205 people work for Laser Leasing at three Thrifty outlets in the
Orlando area.

The employees have been notified of the sale, said Benitez, who also alerted the
state's labor department of the impending acquisition, as required by law.

Tampa International Airport also has been notified, said Ted Leslie, director of
properties and contracts at the airport.

The purchase terms were not disclosed.

Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group also owns the Dollar car rental brand, which it
operates at Tampa International Airport. The brands have separate airport
counters.

This purchase will give the corporate owner total control over both brands at
Tampa International Airport, their sales and growth, rather than having an
affiliate company with fewer resources promote the Thrifty brand.

Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group was interested in the Tampa-Orlando franchise
market because of the high volume of tourist traffic, Benitez said.

"This is one of the most profitable franchises Thrifty has," he said.

Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group executives in Tulsa were not available Friday
for comment.

The purchase fits into a pattern. Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group has decided to
buy franchise businesses in key U.S. and airport markets, company news releases
say.

Recent deals include purchases of franchisees in Memphis, Tenn.; Cleveland; and
Raleigh, N.C.

Usually when big companies sign smaller businesses as franchisees, it's because
the larger company wants to get its brand name products or services into more
geographic markets quickly and relatively inexpensively.

But a franchisor might decide to buy out its franchisees if business conditions
change or its corporate strategy evolves, and it can convert the locations into
company-owned stores.

Reporter Jo-Ann Johnston can be reached at (813) 259-7804.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 16, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Schools Grapple With Confederate Flag Issue

BYLINE: STEVEN ISBITTS, sisbitts@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PINELLAS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: LARGO


BOARD'S DECISION ALLOWS DISCUSSIONS TO CONTINUE

By STEVEN ISBITTS

sisbitts@tampatrib.com

LARGO -- Offensive to some and a source of pride for others, the display of the
Confederate battle flag at Pinellas County schools has been a controversial
issue this year among students and administrators.

The January suspension of a Tarpon Springs High School student who protested the
flag's presence and prevalence on campus sparked peaceful, organized debate
among high school students countywide, and passionate dialogue among Pinellas
County School Board members.

And the board wants the open discussions to continue.

After considering a ban on the flag, the board unanimously agreed Wednesday to
continue allowing any symbol to be displayed in schools, if it does not "create
an environmental climate that could be a distraction from learning and highest
student achievement."

The language was part of a slight change to the current code, further specifying
whether a symbol can be prohibited on a campus.

Principals will be the final decision-makers on whether clothing or symbols are
a distraction at a particular school, the same policy in place today.

"Involving students in an all-out campaign to educate them on both sides of
issues is the best way to go," board member Lee Benjamin said.

"I fully understand where the black students would have problems with the flag,
probably from stories they've heard from their parents.

"Thirty-five years ago, I would have said any sign, flag, insignia -- ban it.
Today, I think we have progressed, not perfectly but progress."

Mary Brown was the board member most outspoken against "potentially offensive
and divisive symbols."

"In my mind the only flag that needs to be displayed is the American flag," she
said.

But Brown said she softened her stance in an effort to set clearer guidelines
for principals and continue the work of multicultural committees in each school.

The committees work with students to resolve tolerance-related issues and
conflicts.

"How a principal feels about a particular issue affects decisions in a school,
and we need to work to eliminate that," Brown said. "It's a training issue [for
principals], and they needed a more consistent way from us to address conflicts.

"This language [in the code] is a good, small step."

An official vote on the district's code of conduct, which includes all rules
pertaining to student behavior, is expected May 25. At the suggestion of board
member Nancy Bostock, the code is expected to include a brief summary of the
laws regarding a student's constitutional rights to display symbols in schools.

Reporter Steven Isbitts can be reached at (727) 799-7413

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 25, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Lightning's Incredible Rise

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 490 words


It is hard to believe that just two years ago they were the worst team in the
National Hockey League. The surge that took the Tampa Bay Lightning from the
NHL's cellar to the league's championship finals is nothing short of incredible.

Saturday's 2-1 win over the Philadelphia Flyers for the Eastern Conference
championship will go down as one of the most memorable sporting events in this
area's history. Equally important, people who just a few months ago thought of
"icing" as the frosting on a cake, a "face-off" as a debate and the "penalty
box" as an old south Tampa bar now know the rules and intricacies of hockey.

Many fans of the sport were offended when the Tribune ran a guide "to jumping on
the Lightning bandwagon" earlier this month in BayLife, but many more were
thankful for the familiarization with the game's basics. It is what the
franchise has needed since the first puck was dropped here at the Florida State
Fairgrounds back in 1992.

Hockey has been a tough sell south of the Canadian border since the first league
was formed in 1892. Only about one-third of the United States has enough winter
to actually form ice, which means that kids here, unlike our neighbors to the
north, have little opportunity to take their sticks and skates to the local pond
for a pickup game. That is why the NHL had only six teams until 1967.

So what does a franchise in a subtropical climate do?

"The NHL's primary marketing goal ought to be to drive potential fans to the
rinks," said University of Southern California Professor David Carter, an expert
in sports business and marketing. "NHL hockey is addictive when viewed in person
-- and leaves a lot to be desired when viewed on television. Consequently,
hockey needs to have casual fans and potential fans show up; once they do, they
will thoroughly enjoy the sport, provided it is well-priced and packaged,"
Carter told The Sporting News.

The Tampa Bay Lightning are proof of the professor's theory. Also, such a
marketing strategy is almost mandatory since, as the Tribune's Alan Snel pointed
out, "NHL teams rely much more on gate revenue than clubs in other major sports.
That is largely because the NHL's contract for TV rights is feeble."

The Lightning's Stanley Cup run has surely expanded its fan base. Lightning
General Manager Jay Feaster, President Ron Campbell and their staff deserve
kudos for successfully marketing the sport in an area where football dominates,
and for sticking with coach John Tortorella. Also to be congratulated is NHL
great Phil Esposito for leading the difficult effort to bring a hockey franchise
to the area and sticking with it through those early tough times.

Winning the NHL championship would be a fantastic achievement by a great group
of players who are helping change the way the game is played. We wish them the
very best. Go, Bolts!

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tampa hockey fans, old and new, surely agree with David Devine of Lakeland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 9, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Retaining Players Becomes Priority

BYLINE: SCOTT CARTER, scarter@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


BOLTS HOPE TO BUILD AROUND CORE GROUP

By SCOTT CARTER

scarter@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- The Lightning have done what seemed impossible not so long ago, winning
the Stanley Cup only two years after missing the playoffs. The rebuilding
project Coach John Tortorella and General Manager Jay Feaster envisioned peaked
earlier than expected.

Now comes another nearly impossible task in today's professional sports climate:
keeping the club intact for another run at Lord Stanley next season, or whenever
the NHL reaches peace on the labor front.

"We want to keep our core players around for a long time," Feaster said. "If we
can do that, we think the future of the Tampa Bay Lightning will be in good
hands."

Those core players include Martin St. Louis, expected to be named the winner of
the Hart Trophy as the league's MVP on Thursday at the NHL Awards Banquet in
Toronto. At the top of Feaster's list of things to do this offseason is re-sign
St. Louis to a long-term deal. The Lightning will make St. Louis a qualifying
offer by the July 1 deadline in an attempt to keep the NHL's regular-season
scoring champion.

St. Louis, who made $1.5 million this season in the final year of a two-year
contract, is expected to command a raise that could put his yearly salary in the
$5 million range. Goaltender Nikolai Khabibulin, whose future with the club was
in doubt during an up-and-down regular season, has a one-year club option at
$6.5 million. Considering the way Khabibulin responded in the playoffs, the
Lightning are likely to pick up the option for next season.

Another question mark surrounding the Lightning is whether 40-year-old captain
Dave Andreychuk, now that he has won the Stanley Cup, will return for a 23rd
season or retire on top.

Andreychuk has said he would like to return but also has said that winning the
Cup might change his thinking about the future. Andreychuk is an unrestricted
free agent who can negotiate with any team if the Lightning don't sign him to a
contract by July 1. Defensemen Jassen Cullimore, the club's longest-tenured
player, is also an unrestricted free agent.

Several core players -- Ruslan Fedotenko, Cory Stillman, Cory Sarich, Pavel
Kubina and Fredrik Modin -- are restricted free agents in line for a raise. The
Lightning's payroll, which ranked in the lower half of the league at $33 million
last season, could increase as much as $12 million to $15 million if the club
opts to sign all the key free agents.

(CHART) ROSTER REALITY

Once they stop celebrating, the Lightning have a busy summer ahead to keep the
roster intact:

UNRESTRICTED FREE AGENTS: D Jassen Cullimore, LW Dave Andreychuk, D Darren
Rumble

RESTRICTED FREE AGENTS: RW Martin St. Louis, D Cory Sarich, D Pavel Kubina, RW
Ben Clymer, RW Ruslan Fedotenko, LW Dmitry Afanasenkov, LW Fredrik Modin, LW/RW
Cory Stillman, D Nolan Pratt, D Stan Neckar, LW Chris Dingman, C Martin Cibak,
RW Shane Willis, RW Sheldon Keefe, RW Nikita Alexeev, LW Dwayne Hay, D Timo
Helbling, LW Jimmie Olvestad, RW Eero Somervuori, D Jeremy Van Hoof, D Pascal
Trepanier

UNDER CONTRACT: C Vinny Lecavalier, C Brad Richards, D Dan Boyle, C Tim Taylor,
LW Andre Roy, D Brad Lukowich, D Darryl Sydor, G John Grahame, D Gerard Dicaire,
RW Evgeni Artukhin, C Ryan Craig, D Andreas Holmqvist, C J-F Soucy

CLUB OPTIONS: G Nikolai Khabibulin, C Eric Perrin

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LIGHTNING

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
The Associated Press Coach John Tortorella, right, can expect the Bolts to offer
regular-season scoring champion Martin St. Louis a long-term contract this
summer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 10, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WHAT'S DEVELOPING

BYLINE: IVAN J. HATHAWAY, ihathaway@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: SOUTH TAMPA


By IVAN J. HATHAWAY

ihathaway@tampatrib.com

You Won't Hear "Not In My Back Yard' At This Shop

SOUTH TAMPA - After 15 years in marketing, David Bowles found he was having more
fun stopping by the company's warehouse to help build stage props.

Then there was his hobby of making lawn furniture for family and friends.

"I decided to turn my hobby into a business," Bowles said this week, a few days
after opening The Backyard Connection, 3517 S. Manhattan Ave.

Bowles is working in the bays of a former auto-detailing shop to build his
inventory of Adirondack chairs, lounges, tables, arbors and gazebos.

At his opening Saturday, customers nearly cleaned out his collection.

"I'm a little behind right now," Bowles said. "Of course, that's not a bad
problem to complain about."

Bowles also is selling stepping stones, pots, plants and fence decor.

"I'm into just about anything that goes in a back yard," he said.

He also makes custom-order pieces, such as the wooden lounge he built for a
6-foot-10 customer.

"He was like a kid when he got it," Bowles said. "He said he'd never been able
to use one before because they all were too short."

The store is open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. For
information, call (813) 831-2817.

Bloomtown Florist Blooms In SoHo

In another example of a professional going back to his roots, computer software
programmer Matt Geren is up to his neck in flowers.

Entering a business that his family has been involved in for more than 30 years,
Geren recently opened Bloomtown Florist, 412 S. Howard Ave.

Last year, he opened the first Bloomtown in Largo.

The career change had more to do with where Geren wanted to hang his hat.
Finding bigger jobs in the computer software business probably would have meant
relocating, Geren said.

"I loved the [computer] work, but I like Florida better," he said.

With employees running his Largo shop, Geren is focusing on his new store, which
he bought from the owners of Baskets, Flowers and More.

"We don't want to become a big chain. We want to be a community business," he
said. "We want to be known for our quality, and we have great prices."

The shop, which has FTD service, is open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through
Friday, and from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday. For information, call (813)
254-8181.

Cristina Xavier Fashion Opens On Swann

Fashion designer Cristina Xavier has subleased a major portion of the Well
Heeled Boutique at 3006 W. Swann Ave.

Xavier, from Belo Horizonte, Brazil, came to the United States three years ago
to supply a buyer in New Jersey. By designing and manufacturing her own
products, Xavier was following the footsteps of her mother, aunt and
grandmother. But New Jersey offered neither the climate she liked nor the market
for her tropical line.

Xavier opened her shop last week after working out arrangements with Well Heeled
& Well Dressed owner Kit Stewart, who moved her main shop to Old Hyde Park
Village.

A selection of Stewart's inventory remains in the store, with the remaining
space devoted to Xavier's stock: either her designs, or clothing, jewelry and
shoes from other Brazilian designers.

"Everything that is different, everything that's unique," Xavier said. "That's
my niche."

The store is open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. For
information, call (813) 354-8450.

Opening a new business? Expanding or relocating? Contact reporter Ivan Hathaway
at

ihathaway@tampatrib.com or (813) 835-2103.

Copyright (c) 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 1, 2004 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climber's Life Full Of Ups

BYLINE: GEORGE WILKENS, gwilkens@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words


By GEORGE WILKENS

gwilkens@tampatrib.com

TAMPA PALMS - When it's time for vacation, former fighter pilot Bob Kozyra isn't
at all interested in a sea-level lounge chair. He would much rather ascend to
new heights, testing his mettle on the world's more famous mountains.

A longtime resident of Cambridge in Tampa Palms, the 60-year-old Connecticut
native and vice president at the Tampa office of Merrill Lynch became interested
in mountain climbing 18 years ago after attending a seminar in Alaska. He didn't
start small.

"My first failure," he said, chuckling, was Alaska's Mount McKinley. That
so-called failure was a three-week endurance test that took him and fellow
climbers to subfreezing heights. "I wanted to get to the top; I got to 17,300"
feet, he said.

In addition to the physical challenge of a high-altitude summer climb, each
climber carried a backpack crammed with 60 pounds of food, fuel and other
necessities. Kozyra and each of the others also pulled sleds with additional
gear, adding to the strain.

The climbers' efforts to scale McKinley fell victim to the elements, then time,
as inclement weather forced long delays in their ascent.

"McKinley is so big it creates its own weather," said Kozyra, who served two
tours in Vietnam flying F-4 Phantom fighters. During one extended period of
being "unable to move, just socked in" by fog and snow on the mountain, Kozyra
and the others battled the boredom of 56 hours in their individual tents, which
at least provided protection from the wind.

There was little to do but wait and sleep during that period of around-the-clock
daylight. What little reading material the climbers brought they shared.

Ultimately, terrible conditions forced the party to turn back at 17,300 feet,
short of the 20,320-foot summit of Alaska's highest peak.

Since then, Kozyra has gone higher, reaching the 19,300-foot peak of Mount
Kilimanjaro in Africa.

He also has scaled Mount Blanc in France and Oregon's Mount Hood. This year he
spent two weeks hiking the high altitudes of Patagonia along the border of Chile
and Argentina, including the Moreno Glacier at South America's southern tip. In
late 1998, Kozyra made a 28-day trek through Nepal's upper altitudes, reaching
18,000 feet.

Conditions encountered while climbing, especially on Mount McKinley, Kozyra
said, were "quite miserable at times."

Even the descent is difficult. "It's a tough grind going back down, too," he
said. "In many cases, it's tougher. Usually you're spent to some degree," and
muscles conditioned to climb seem to contract.

"It's a hobby," he said. "I'd rather be doing that than at the beach."

Climbing is a natural extension of his love of mountains and wildlife, he said.
"It's really the challenge of it, pushing yourself and enjoying the outdoor side
of it."

His five-day Kilimanjaro climb in 1990 with a party of six, including two
guides, ascended from Africa's sea-level jungle to savannas and moonlike
topography to reach the glacier at the peak.

Climbing attracts interesting people from all walks of life, Kozyra said. Those
in Kozyra's crews have included a cancer specialist, a psychologist and a
nuclear physicist.

Character and limits are tested during a climb, he said. "You approach it with
discipline; you have an ultimate objective. You may fall short, but at least
you've given it a shot."

George Wilkens can be reached at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 22.

(CHART) MOUNTING CHALLENGES

Bob Kozyra has scaled three formidable mountains:

Mount Kilimanjaro

LOCATION: Tanzania

SUMMIT: 19,336 feet (Mount Kilimanjaro National Park)

FASCINATING FACTS: The climate changes along the ascent and ranges from tropical
to arctic. It's the tallest free-standing mountain in the world and highest peak
in Africa.

Mount Hood

LOCATION: Oregon

SUMMIT: 11,239 feet (World Almanac)

FASCINATING FACTS: The U.S. Geological Survey reports that Mount Hood is a
potentially active volcano. The last major eruption was in the 1790s.

Mount Blanc

LOCATION: Alps. Portions lie between France and Italy.

SUMMIT: 15,771 feet (World Book)

FASCINATING FACTS: It's the highest mountain in the Alps and has several large
glaciers.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5 CHART
Photo from Bob Kozyra Bob Kozyra, a Tampa Palms resident, likes to travel to
such exotic locales as Argentina and the Moreno Glacier. Tribune photo by
CANDACE C. MUNDY Mountain climbing can be "quite miserable at times," says Bob
Kozyra, who has photographs of his climbs all over the world. Associated Press
file photo Mount Kilimanjaro Knight Ridder/Tribune file photo Mount Hood
Associated Press file photo Mount Blanc

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 5, 2004 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

"Relic' Rodent Intrigues Scientists

BYLINE: JIM TUNSTALL, jtunstall@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 392 words


FINDING OF SECOND COLONY HELPS VOLE'S SURVIVAL ODDS

By JIM TUNSTALL

jtunstall@tampatrib.com

It isn't a household name or face.

But the salt marsh vole, a prehistoric throwback, is ever so slowly making its
presence known in Levy County.

How slowly?

In 1982, University of Florida researchers found 15 of the 7-inch, 2.1-ounce
rodents near Cedar Key.

This spring, Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge biologist Steve Barlow and
assistant refuge manager Mike Mitchell trapped three more at what is only their
second known habitat, an area of the refuge that's 12 miles north of the key.

The voles were federally listed as an endangered species in 1991.

Experts think their numbers are so small today that a major storm could wipe
them out.

"That's why finding a second colony is important," Barlow says.

In April, he and Mitchell spent four days conducting the first real search in 22
years.

They trapped, examined, photographed and released three voles -- a female and
two males -- that are members of a species that dates to the Pleistocene period,
which ended thousands of years ago. Toward the end of it, Florida was arid and
had a lower sea level, Barlow says.

"We have fossilized finds that show [meadow voles, a cousin] were here long
ago," he says.

As Florida began to change into a humid climate with a higher sea level, most of
the voles disappeared.

Meadow voles today don't live south of the Carolinas.

Until 1982, their kind was thought to be extinct in Florida.

But the small clan found 22 years ago in Levy County had survived and evolved
into the salt marsh vole, a subspecies.

Florida's vole is slightly larger and has a darker color than its northern
cousin.

It has longer hind feet and smaller ears.

It lives about six months, gets around by forming runways at the base of tall
grass, can swim and survives high water by clinging to the tops of vegetation,
Barlow says. It's active day and night and eats grass, seeds and probably
insects.

"They're a relic, a holdover from another time," says Mel Sunquist, a UF
wildlife ecologist.

"Most have been gone 5,000 or 10,000 years, but this is a little population that
got stuck in Cedar Key and hung on all these years. That's pretty incredible."

Reporter Jim Tunstall can be reached at (352) 628-5558.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Photo by MIKE MITCHELL The salt marsh vole was federally listed as an endangered
species in 1991, nine years after the discovery of the first colony near Cedar
Key.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 14, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words


Keeping Raises Low

Despite an improved economy, cost-conscious employers are granting workers
limited pay raises this year, and plan only slightly larger increases in 2005.
Companies are budgeting pay increases of 3.3 percent to 3.5 percent this year
and plan raises of 3.5 percent next year, two surveys say.

The modest raises will keep workers' pay increasing faster than the rate of
inflation. Higher worker contributions for health care could eat up much of the
pay gains, analysts said.

Employers have seen business conditions improve. However, employers are wary of
taking on the largely permanent costs of big pay raises, said a survey to be
released today by Mercer Human Resource Consulting.

That dynamic is unlikely to change much in the next few years, concludes the
Mercer survey and another last month by the Conference Board.

Deficit Danger Deepens

The government's deficit ballooned to $326.6 billion in the first nine months of
the 2004 budget year, according to a snapshot of U.S. balance sheets released
Tuesday. That's more than 20 percent larger than the $269.7 billion shortfall
for the corresponding period last year. For the budget year which began Oct. 1,
this spending has totaled $1.73 trillion, 6.4 percent more than the same period
a year ago. Revenue came to $1.40 trillion, 3.5 percent more than the previous
year.

So far, the biggest spending categories are programs from the Health and Human
Services Department, including Medicare and Medicaid, $407.1 billion; Social
Security, $397 billion; military, $322.3 billion; and interest on the public
debt, $274.9 billion.

Settlement Hits Duke

Duke Energy Corp. will take a $104.9 million second-quarter charge to help foot
a $207.5 million settlement of claims it overcharged for wholesale electricity
during the California energy crisis of 2000-01, the Charlotte, N.C.-based
company said Tuesday. The balance of the settlement will come from $102.6
million in previously announced reserve and associated offsets.

NET

Yahoo Buys Oddpost

Yahoo Inc. girded itself for Google Inc.'s e-mail invasion by acquiring Oddpost
Inc., a start-up that has gained a reputation for making it easier and more
enticing to communicate on the Web. Yahoo closed the deal at the end of last
week without an announcement. Yahoo and Oddpost confirmed the acquisition
Tuesday without disclosing financial details.

Meanwhile, Google said Tuesday that it has bought Picasa Inc., a company that
makes tools for managing and sharing digital photos. Financial terms were not
disclosed.

A staff and wire report

8 Watch the Tribune's MoneySense report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Listen to the MoneySense Report at 6 p.m. weekdays on WFLA, 970 AM.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 17, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Growth, Environment Can Co-Exist

BYLINE: PENNY FLETCHER, pfletcher@mediageneral.com

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 557 words


What's up in South Shore?

In 1990, there were fewer than 80,000 people in South Shore. In 2002, there were
137,500. Current estimates show that by 2025 about 250,000 people will call
South Shore home.

People flock to the area for its beauty, climate and lifestyle. Then, like the
people who find the "perfect spouse" and immediately try to remake them, they do
everything possible to change the environment that attracted them in the first
place.

While civic groups concentrate on taming the impact of new developments and
providing public transportation and roads, experts say there are two large-scale
detriments to the area's environment that individuals can control: forcing green
lawns in sandy areas and building seawalls along waterways without replacing
natural estuaries at the shoreline.

Driving through communities, one sees fresh-cut lawns with green grass cut to a
1-inch height. Thousands of dollars are spent annually to keep lawns free of
pests, fertilized, trimmed and watered.

The Hillsborough County Cooperative Extension Service Yards and Neighborhoods
program holds various classes to educate residents, and even gives out annual
"Water Wise" awards to people who use native plants that take less work and use
less water.

But instead of availing themselves of these opportunities, many residents
continue to abuse the ground around their homes.

Homeowners associations aren't helping the situation. They often impose
stringent codes that mandate nonnative grasses and penalize residents who do not
"conform" to standardized lawns.

People have even been cited by their associations and harassed by their
neighbors for using native plants in a landscaping method called "xeriscape,"
which uses less water and needs less care.

Another offender to South Shore's natural environment are concrete seawalls that
do not incorporate ways to replace the lost estuarial shoreline.

Miles and miles of seawalls are being built in communities in South Shore. Many
of the new upscale communities boast "waterfront living," and indeed, they have
it and life there is good.

Yet, marine biologists say, unless the mangrove estuaries removed from the
shorelines are replaced, there will soon be nowhere for young fish, shrimp,
shellfish and wading birds to grow.

Before South Shore was developed, natural wetlands abounded. Some have long
since been filled in. Fortunately, stricter land use codes were adopted in the
1980s that offered some protection to wetland areas. But many areas that
constantly flood were once part of those wetlands.

It's impossible to fight nature. When one area is filled in, the water has to go
somewhere else.

Much environmental damage has already been done in South Shore and other parts
of Florida, and it is up to each of us to stay alert for ways to minimize more
damage wherever we can. There are ways to build artificial reefs along concrete
seawalls so oyster bars, which used to grow wild among mangroves, can take hold
and once again become home to fish, crabs and other wildlife.

To find out more about these projects and other ways to improve the environment
in your neighborhood, call the Hillsborough County Cooperative Extension Service
at (813) 744-5519, Ext. 144, or visit hillsborough_fyn.ifas.ufl.edu/.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PENNY FLETCHER SOUTH SHORE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 23, 2004 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Consultant's Study Of Impact Fees Raises Concerns

BYLINE: JOE HUMPHREY, jhumphrey@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


DOCUMENT CONTAINS INCREASE SUGGESTION

By JOE HUMPHREY

jhumphrey@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- A consultant's long-awaited, soon-to-be-debated study on impact fees in
Hillsborough County came with a little something extra -- a document that
appears to call for dramatic fee increases.

Yet much like the Wizard of Oz's warning to "pay no attention to that man behind
the curtain," the county administration said Thursday that observers should
ignore the numbers in the document.

As part of its $94,000 contract with the county and the local school district,
which co-sponsored the study, consultant Duncan Associates of Texas provided a
suggested rewriting of the county's impact fee ordinance.

Rather than skipping where the fee schedule would go, the consultant inserted
numbers that, for a typical single-family home, would nearly quadruple the
assessment that's supposed to help pay for schools, parks, fire rescue and
transportation.

Susan Finch, the county impact fee manager, and her boss, Bruce McClendon, said
Thursday that the figures are not meant as the administration's official
recommendation.

In fact, there is no recommendation.

McClendon, the planning and growth management director, said county
commissioners asked for information, and that's all they will get. The work in
question might be sent back to the consultant, he said, so the numbers can be
replaced with x's.

"We have no hidden agenda," McClendon said. "There's no conspiracy to raise the
rates."

Commissioner Balks

Finch said she didn't even forward the document to commissioners along with the
final phase of the study. McClendon said the political climate at County Center,
though, could make the presence of such a document problematic.

Exhibit A: "It sounds like they're all wimps," Commissioner Jan Platt said
Thursday after hearing about the document. Platt supports higher fees and said
the administration should take a stand.

"I'm disappointed there's not a recommendation from our professional staff," she
said. "I realize in this county it's risky business, but that's what I, as a
taxpayer, pay for."

Impact fees are a hot potato in Hillsborough. They're generally opposed by
builders, who label them an unfair tax on construction that ends up passed to
home buyers. Fee supporters say they're not high enough and argue that growth
"doesn't pay for itself."

Two Options

Hillsborough's typical single-family home generates $2,074 in impact fees, the
consultant's study says. Last year, the county received $21.3 million.

The study shows revenue possibilities for two scenarios.

By updating factors in the existing fee formula "to recognize current costs,"
that typical home would generate an additional $1,305 in fees. Total revenue
then would top $32.5 million.

A so-called full fee, meant to "more accurately assess the impact of new
growth," would quadruple the $2,074 house fee to $8,094. The full fee is what
the consultant inserted into the suggested ordinance.

The county's annual collection then would jump to more than $92.5 million -- an
increase of $71 million, most of which would go to the school system.

The local builders' association supported an impact fee increase last fall, when
it was presented with a broader transportation funding package that also called
for higher gas taxes and a new sales tax.

That plan failed, and the builders group has retreated, criticizing any plan to
boost impact fees.

No decision is expected when commissioners address the issue in a public
workshop at 3 p.m. Wednesday. Any changes to the impact fee structure would
require a public hearing. However, the workshop meeting should offer a glimpse
into where commissioners stand.

Reporter Joe Humphrey can be reached at (813) 259-7691.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: GOVERNMENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 25, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Vegetarian Paradise

BYLINE: PEGGY LIM, plim@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words


Homegrown herbs spice up eatery's many meatless dishes.

By PEGGY LIM

plim@tampatrib.com

Some cook for love of food, others for love of people.

Trang Viet does it for both.

The owner of Trang Viet Cuisine grows a vast array of fruits and vegetables,
herbs and spices on his 5 acres in Lutz.

Part of it feeds his large extended family. The bulk of it goes to his
restaurant, which, despite a low profile at 1524 E. Fowler Ave. in Tampa, has
drawn praise from a broad base of the culinary-savvy.

Viet's fans include Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio, Columbia Restaurant owner Richard
Gonzmart, tattooed 20-year-olds and vegan activists. Ask those in this eclectic
but loyal customer base what draws them to the restaurant and you will hear a
common refrain: They like the freshness of ingredients.

Viet's green thumb gets credit. Many of the menu items come straight from his
garden or bear the subtle flavors of his homegrown herbs.

"Vietnamese food is about herbs," he said. "Without herbs, it's not Vietnamese
food."

In his garden, Viet steps between neatly planted rows and points to stalks of
lemongrass and variations of mint and basil. With quick fingers, he plucks
delicate sprigs of every imaginable fragrance -- from cinnamon scents to fishy
flavors. These are some of the keys Viet holds to unlocking aromas in soups or
stir-fries, or adding zest to ordinary sauces.

Viet's farm, which occupies about an acre of his property, includes a greenhouse
so that he can keep planting during the winter; a grove of 70 pomelo trees; and
a trellis heavy with bitter melon and loofah squash. Numerous other trees of
lime, kumquat and papaya dot the landscape. Viet often uses the fruit to garnish
or season dishes.

Finding His Niche

Viet's knowledge of such plants stems from childhood years growing up on a farm
in South Vietnam. His cooking experience was the result of being the eldest of
15 children.

Viet's siblings -- seven of whom are still alive -- are also why he went into
the restaurant business.

Viet, 58, arrived in the United States in 1973 on a U.S. State Department
scholarship to study engineering at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania. He was
supposed to teach at a South Vietnamese military academy three years later, but
northern communists took over the country first.

Barred from his homeland, Viet worked for the U.S. Navy in Washington and Saudi
Arabia as a computer programmer for 12 years, and gained U.S. citizenship. In
1988, he sponsored his family members to relocate to the United States. Averse
to cold climates, the family chose Tampa.

"They knew nothing about English and American culture," Viet said. "We opened
the restaurant to find something for them to work on."

By 1992, Viet had traded his computer job for work by the stove.

Vegetarian's Paradise

Among those most thankful for his career change are area vegetarians.

Vegetarians, who do not eat meat, poultry or fish, make up 3 percent of the
adult U.S. population, according to the Vegetarian Resource Group. Their
minority status often leaves them with a dearth of choices when eating out.
Viet's restaurant helps fill that gap.

"This place has the best vegetarian menu of any restaurant I've been to in Tampa
or St. Pete," said Brigid Ochschorn, 21, who eats no foods of animal origin,
except honey. "He has five pages of vegetarian foods and desserts. A lot of
people who are vegan or vegetarian are very fond of this place because of the
options."

"You get good entrees, not just a salad or a side dish," said Debbie Rook, 35, a
University of South Florida employee. She and her husband, both vegetarians,
have been coming to Viet's for seven years. "It's healthy. It's always fresh."

"It is very easy for me to develop vegan foods because we are Buddhist," said
Viet, who lives with his family on their farm. As a lay Buddhist, Viet eats
vegetarian foods two days each month and on holidays or the anniversaries of his
parents' deaths.

His versatility with vegetarian menus appeals to groups such as the Florida
Voices for Animals, an animal-rights group that holds annual vegan banquets at
the restaurant.

"He's my favorite because he does things nobody else does," such as a
"to-die-for" veggie fish dish or banh xeo, a rice-flour crepe stuffed with fresh
herbs, bean sprouts and tofu, said Myriam Parham, a registered dietitian in
Zephyrhills and co-founder of Florida Voices.

On The Tampa Map

Viet's subtle seasonings and healthy combinations also have pleased the palates
of numerous nonvegetarians.

"I like the spiciness and marriage of different flavors his food produces," said
Gonzmart, owner of the venerated Columbia Restaurant. "It's a great meal; you
fill up and don't feel like you've eaten anything bad."

Re-creating family recipes in America, however, has not always been easy, Viet
said.

Although most Americans have sampled Chinese, Italian and Mexican cuisines, only
2 percent of Americans have tried Vietnamese food, according to a recent
National Restaurant Association study.

With every new customer for the past 12 years, Viet has had to explain and
re-explain ingredients and how he prepares them. "In the Tampa area, people are
not familiar with Vietnamese food," he said.

"But I'm lucky," Viet said, "because customers stick with me. It's a big reward
when I see people enjoy the food."

(CHART) ABOUT TRANG VIET CUISINE

LOCATION: 1524 E. Fowler Ave., Tampa

PHONE: (813) 979-1464

HOURS: 11 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday; 11 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
Friday and Saturday

MOST POPULAR VEGETARIAN DISH: Vegan chicken drumsticks

MOST POPULAR NONVEGETARIAN DISH: Pho, a traditional beef and rice noodle soup

MOST POPULAR DESSERT: Fried bananas

MOST COMMONLY USED HERB: Cinnamon basil

FAVORITE FRUIT DISH: Fresh pomelo salad (from October through February)

Reporter Peggy Lim can be reached at (813) 731-8135.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART
Tribune photos by CANDACE C. MUNDY Stalks of lemongrass are among the crops
Trang Viet, owner of Trang Viet Cuisine, grows at his 5-acre garden in Lutz.
Viet checks out a loofah squash in the garden where he also grows variations of
mint and basil. Tribune photos by CANDACE C. MUNDY Trang Viet uses some of his
garden's produce to feed his large family. Most of it goes to his restaurant at
1524 E. Fowler Ave. Many menu items come from his garden or bear the flavors of
his homegrown herbs, such as this type of chili.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 29, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mayor Holds The Line On Taxes While Moving City Forward

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words


Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio's proposed $674 million budget for 2005 -- which
represents a 4.3 percent increase over this year's budget -- rightly focuses on
neighborhoods, public safety and basic services.

It also continues to hold the line on property taxes. For 16 years the city's
millage rate has stayed the same -- 6.539 mills. However, the city's revenues
continue to grow because of an increase in property values, fees and economic
growth.

The city council may want to tinker after holding public hearings in the coming
month, but we doubt it will find major changes justified.

Still, what is justified in the coming year is a concerted effort to ensure the
city operates as efficiently and economically as possible.

Iorio inherited an affordable housing scandal, questionable investments from
years past and a perception that city hall jobs had become lifetime
appointments. In such a climate, we would like to see further evidence of
streamlining and tough choices.

To her credit, Iorio has made efficiency and performance a priority. She has
consolidated the parks and recreation department and saved $1.37 million in
salaries by eliminating close to 20 administrative positions. She has overhauled
purchasing practices, reducing the use of paper and printing costs, while
instituting a training program for better purchasing. She has put four police
officers back on the street by hiring civilians to perform their training jobs
at recreation centers. She has appointed a panel of private-sector experts to
review the city's real estate operations. And she's about to launch an
efficiency study of the parking department.

While Iorio and her director of finance, Bonnie Wise, have fashioned a
conservative budget, big-ticket items -- like repairing and updating the city's
stormwater drainage system -- lie ahead. They'll be a lot easier to sell if next
year, along with the budget, the mayor presents an impressive catalog of how
city government has cut costs and improved performance.

Iorio called last year's budget -- her first as mayor -- the "Investing in
Neighborhoods" budget. The label also could apply to this one. It increases by
16 percent city spending on sidewalks, traffic-calming devices, road
resurfacing, sign replacement and other neighborhood investments.

Another major focus is revitalizing east Tampa. The budget provides funds for
sidewalks, landscaping, recreation and stormwater work in the neighborhood.
Iorio wants to attract businesses to east Tampa and other poor neighborhoods by
shoring up infrastructure and clamping down on crime.

Also in the budget are funds for a new art museum and the construction of a
river walk -- both good investments in downtown.

The mayor tells us that a single comprehensive efficiency study would not be
useful because operations vary from department to department. She prefers to
hold each department head responsible for identifying and implementing best
practices that serve citizens while cutting costs.

This seems reasonable. Still, we hope that by the time Iorio submits her next
budget, she can also submit a long list of what the city has done to increase
productivity and streamline government.

(CHART) CITY OF TAMPA BUDGET

The 2005 budget for the city of Tampa is 4.3 percent larger than this year's.
The 2 percent decrease in 2004 occurred after several bond issues ran out.

$Millions

2001 610

2002 649

2003 660

2004 646

2005 674

Tribune Editorial graphic; Source: City of Tampa

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 4, 2004 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pacific El Niño Is Too Late To Curtail Hurricane Season

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Too little and too late.

That's pretty much the assessment of hopes that a new round of warm water in the
Pacific Ocean will short-circuit this brutal hurricane season.

Last month, scientists at the National Climate Prediction Center said an El Niño
had formed in the Pacific Ocean. Temperatures in part of the Pacific near the
equator were above normal for three consecutive months, the threshold for an El
Niño to be present.

An El Niño causes shifts in winds high in the atmosphere moving from the west.
Those shifts make it more difficult for hurricanes to form. The winds cause
shear that essentially lops the tops off the storms.

In 1997, when what was one of the strongest El Niños of the past century was
camped in the Pacific, there were only three hurricanes and four tropical
storms, far below the average of six hurricanes.

We probably won't get so lucky with this El Niño.

"There's not going to be any magic button that will end the hurricane season,"
said David Zierden, assistant state climatologist.

For one thing, this El Niño is weak, especially compared with the one in
1997-98, he said.

It also takes some time for the warm water in the Pacific to have an effect on
the atmosphere and cause the changes in wind patterns needed to reduce the
number of storms.

A more likely effect of the El Niño would be a wet winter, something residents
watching rivers flow past their doorsteps would not want to see.

"We certainly would rather have normal winter rainfall than a wetter winter,"
said Frank Alsheimer, meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Ruskin.

If this El Niño continues -- Zierden said there's a chance it may fade -- it
probably won't bring the torrential rainfall of the El Niño winter in 1997-98.

From Dec. 21, 1997, though March 19, 1998, the last full day of that winter,
rainfall at Tampa International Airport totaled 23.90 inches, compared with 7.56
inches for a normal winter.

"We're not looking at anything like that," Alsheimer said.

A stronger El Niño produces more rain.

"The warmer they are, the more moisture feeds into the subtropical jet [stream]
and that is the main factor in storms here," he said.

Whether rivers will have a chance to recede depends on when the winter's rain
hits and if the coming months remain dry.

Looking at weak El Niños going back to 1950, rainfall in December is a bit less
than average and greater from January through March, Alsheimer said.

"It's going to depend on when in the dry season the rain falls," he said. "If
it's February or March, the water table should recover. If it's earlier, it may
not recover."

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEEM PLAYERS

BYLINE: BAIRD HELGESON, bhelgeson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

DATELINE: BRANDON


Business with Brandon roots has high hopes for this up-and-coming supplement.

By BAIRD HELGESON

bhelgeson@tampatrib.com

BRANDON -- Forgive Vicki Parsons if she gets a little excited talking about
neem.

Parsons and her business partner, Jerry Britner, are the nation's only growers
and importers of certified organically grown neem trees.

The problem is, not a lot of people in the United States know about neem -- yet.
But Parsons says initial interest in neem from the cosmetic, medicinal and
pesticide industries is promising.

"Interest in the product and its benefits are growing every day," Parsons, 48,
said last week.

Neem is a member of the mahogany family and is one of the most widely used herbs
in the world, though relatively unknown in the United States. It can grow to 60
feet tall, spreading like an oak. In bloom neem has honey-scented white flowers
like a locust tree. Fans are so loyal because every part of the neem tree --
leaves, oil and bark -- can be used for products including medicines,
pesticides, soap and beauty products.

Parsons runs the mostly Internet business out of her Brandon home, flanked by
two 20-foot-by-60-foot greenhouses filled with 2-foot saplings. She handles
marketing and sales while a neighbor tends her Brandon greenhouse each morning.

Britner, 63, a retired nurse anesthetist, oversees their 300-acre farm in
Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, where he spends several months each year. They have
about 20 full-time Mayan workers who prune neem trees and pack leaves for
production. The farm, which has the only computer in the region, has become the
largest employer in the area, Britner said.

The business, Neem Tree Farms, so far has been more exciting than profitable.
Since 1992, the business has grown from zero to $300,000 a year in revenue. They
ship about 20 saplings a day, all over the world, from Alaska to Africa.

Sure that's pocket change for the multimillion-dollar neem industry, but herbal
experts and Parsons believe they are on the cusp of a neem explosion.

They dream that neem will become the next aloe vera, a once-obscure moisturizer
for sunburn and other skin ailments that comes from the tropical plant by the
same name. Aloe vera lotions now line the shelves of every major grocery and
convenience store in the nation, and rack up $123 million annually in sales.

Parsons doesn't expect neem to become an overnight sensation in the United
States.

"We're more concerned about promoting neem and its benefits than getting rich
right now," Parsons said.

Their biggest hurdle right now is managing the growth of their business to
ensure it doesn't require taking on heavy debt to fund expansion.

Wholesalers and retailers say neem is about a $10 million industry in the U.S.,
less than 10 percent of aloe vera sales.

Ronnie Cummins, national director of the Organic Consumer Association, a
nonprofit organization that represents more than a half-million organic
customers, said neem producers such as Parsons and Britner are on the leading
edge of a trend.

"Neem stands to become a very popular product in the United States," Cummins
said. "There are more and more products available every day."

He said as more Americans discover all the benefits of neem, the market will
grow.

In India, the world's largest producer of neem and where the tree originates,
the herb accounts for about $10 million a year in sales, according to the
industry.

Pramila Thakkar, founder trustee of the Neem Foundation, said annual sales in
India alone could jump to $100 million in a few years as interest increases in
the United States and Europe.

Neem-based products are creeping their way on to the shelves of local stores,
usually shops that specialize in herbal or organic products. Neem is most
popular in lotions, premium soaps and shampoos.

"It's becoming very popular among people who value natural products," said
Xavier Yrausquin, customer service manager with By The Planet, Inc., a
Gainesville-based natural product company with more than $2 million in annual
sales.

The company sells about 45 neem-based products, including shampoos, soaps and
lotions. Strong demand for neem in the past year has increased the number of
products they carry by 50 percent, Yrausquin said.

Neem Resource Inc., a neem wholesaler in Minneapolis, Minn., started selling
neem products six years ago and now sells dozens of gallons of neem oil a year,
said owner Usha Rao. Her company sells 8 ounces of neem oil for about $9.50.

The markup on the retail market shows the profit potential of the product: An
ounce of neem oil retails for about $10.

In India and among some aficionados in the United States, neem is best known for
its array of medicinal uses. In India, neem is sacred and ancient Indian texts
refer to it as "the curer of all ailments." When a drug company applied for
Indian governmental approval of a new neem treatment for diabetes, it was
granted in less than 24 hours.

According to a report by the U.S. National Resource Council -- which advises
government and the public on topics of science, engineering and medicine -- neem
can cure athletes foot and head lice, and relieve pain and fevers, among other
illnesses. A few years ago, the National Institutes of Health reported
encouraging results from tests to see if neem can block the AIDS virus.

Parsons and Britner are cautious about making medical claims, leery of promoting
benefits not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Many people around the world, including Parsons, feed neem to their pets to cure
digestive problems, eliminate mange and alleviate other ailments. Some studies
say neem is an effective natural male birth control that reduces fertility
without altering libido or sperm production. In India and Africa, many people
use neem twigs to brush their teeth.

Perhaps the most common, but least known, use for neem is as a pesticide.

Certis USA, a leading seller of natural pesticides with annual revenue of $40
million, counts among its most profitable products a neem-based pesticide that
eradicates insects on vegetable and tree crops.

As for Parsons, she planted her first neem tree around 1992 after developing
severe allergies to gardening chemicals. She desperately wanted to garden but
had to find something that would thrive in the climate and be grown organically.

"I could no longer garden like people in Florida traditionally garden," she
said.

Britner initially had 80 acres in the Yucatan Peninsula where he farmed citrus.
When the industry tanked in the 1980s, he looked for a new crop for the
tropical, arid land. Neem seemed the perfect fit. Britner cleaned out his citrus
crop and planted neem trees.

Parsons, meanwhile, had taken to growing neem in greenhouses on her Brandon
property, but couldn't grow large enough quantities to become a profitable
business. Through a mutual client, Parsons and Britner met in 1995 and decided
to merge operations. The only trouble was getting residents and officials in
Mexico to buy into the idea. Organic farming is relatively unheard of in the
Yucatan Peninsula, Britner said.

Local officials thought they were communists at first, he said. Britner brought
the local mayor some neem to convince him they weren't growing marijuana.

Since then, the farm has grown to more than 300 acres of mostly neem trees. They
also grow aloe vera and planted nopal, chaya and other medicinal herbs.

Britner and Parsons said they sense that people are getting tired of man-made
products and medicines, often made and marketed by billion-dollar industries
bent more on profit than good health.

"It might be time for them to take a look at other options," Britner said.

Reporter Baird Helgeson can be reached at (813) 259-7668.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5
Tribune photos by KATHY MOORE-LENGELL (2) Jerry Britner, who operates Neem Tree
Farms with Vicki Parsons, splits his time between their facilities in Brandon
and a 300-acre farm in Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. They have about 20 full-time
Mayan workers in Mexico. (2) Vicki Parsons runs the business out of her home in
Brandon, next to two greenhouses that hold neem saplings, above. Parsons is such
a believer in neem that she supplements her dogs' diet with it, right. Tribune
photo by KATHY MOORE-LENGELL Vicki Parsons' Neem Tree Farms has quietly become a
leading player in U.S. neem production. Neem Tree Farms has a 300-acre facility
in Mexico in addition to two greenhouses in Brandon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 4, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Forecaster Says Next Season Will Produce 6 Hurricanes

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


PROFESSOR SAYS FLORIDA NOT NECESSARILY DOOMED

By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- With hurricane season over for all of four days, a noted forecaster
predicts next year will be busy, too.

But Florida residents should not expect a repeat of the horrific 2004 season,
when four hurricanes flogged the state.

"It doesn't mean Florida will be hit like it was this year," said William Gray,
a Colorado State University professor who has forecast hurricane seasons for 21
years.

Gray issued his first outlook for the 2005 hurricane season Friday. Hurricane
season begins June 1 and ends Nov. 30.

Gray's forecast calls for a season slightly more active than the long-term
average, with 11 tropical storms forming, six developing into hurricanes and
three becoming major storms with winds more than 111 mph.

That compares with the average of 10 tropical storms, six hurricanes and two
major hurricanes.

His forecast said the El Niño in the Pacific Ocean -- which can dampen
development of hurricanes -- won't play a role in the 2005 season.

Gray also said hurricane seasons will continue to be more active than normal, a
pattern started in 1995.

Every hurricane season since has been more active, except 1997. That year, one
of the century's most powerful El Niños dominated the globe's weather.

Despite this year's devastation, relatively few storms have hit the state since
the 1970s.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 7, 2004 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

El Niño Not Expected To Greatly Affect Area

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


SYSTEM WILL BE TOO WEAK TO MUSTER MAJOR RAINFALL

By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- El Niño -- warmer than normal water in the Pacific Ocean -- this year
might be too puny to bring Florida a rainy winter.

As warmer water collects in the Pacific, major shifts occur in winds high in the
atmosphere that turn our normally dry winter into a rainy winter.

The last powerful El Niño, in the winter of 1997-98, dumped nearly 24 inches of
rain on the Tampa Bay area, or almost half the amount that falls on average the
entire year. Typical rainfall for a winter is about 7.6 inches.

Don't expect the heavy rain this winter, said David Zierden, assistant state
climatologist.

This El Niño just isn't strong enough to trigger the changes that turn our
winter weather upside down.

The warm water covers only the central Pacific, Zierden said. "It doesn't reach
the coast of South America like a typical El Niño. You need that warm water to
move to the coast. That pumps heat and moisture that bring our storms."

Scientists at the National Center for Climate Prediction agree. "It should be a
pretty normal winter," said Ernie Jillson, meteorologist with the National
Weather Service in Ruskin. That can mean 2 to 3 inches of rain a month through
March and mild temperatures.

Average afternoon temperatures at the start of December are 75 degrees in Tampa.
By the end of the month, the average high is 70. In January, the afternoons
average 70 to 71 degrees.

That doesn't mean there won't be shots of cold or even freezing weather. Cold
fronts work their way toward West Central Florida about once a week during the
winter.

Not all move far enough south to funnel cold air this way, or they might not
bring the pure, bone-chilling Arctic air.

"It will get down to near freezing. That's going to happen every year," Zierden
said.

Although winter starts Dec. 21 and runs through March 20, the coldest weather
and best chance for freezing in the Tampa Bay area are in late December and
early January.

The lowest temperature on weather service records for Tampa is 18 degrees,
recorded Dec. 13, 1962.

Since 1895, temperatures in Tampa have not dipped below 20 in January or
February.

El Niño's lack of impact also will mean more swings in temperatures than during
winters of a strong El Niño.

"There will be more variability," Zierden said. "There will be a week or two of
colder-than-normal temperatures, then a week or two above normal."

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune file photo (1998) A strong El Niño dumped nearly 24 inches of rain on
the Bay area in the winter of 1997-98. One result was flooding on Manhattan
Avenue in Tampa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 89 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECRUITING NOTEBOOK

BYLINE: IZZY GOULD, igould@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 745 words


By IZZY GOULD

igould@tampatrib.com

Wesley Chapel's Madani Not Sure Of Commitment

He can deal with many of the differences.

The drastic dip in temperature. The sight of his breath. The mountains. The
snow.

The stark December contrast from Florida's subtropical climate doesn't bother
Wesley Chapel's Khalil Madani. He has the Air Force Academy at the top of his
collegiate wish list.

Madani said his visit last weekend to the academy was filled with nonstop
courtesy, making him feel embraced. And he won't soon forget the beauty of
Colorado Springs, Colo.

"It was a one-of-a-kind experience," Madani said. "It's weird, Sunday morning I
woke up, looked out of my hotel room window and I'm looking at Pikes Peak all
covered in snow. Then I wake this morning, look outside and there's nothing.
It's weird."

Madani learned when the temperature drops below 30 degrees, Air Force moves
practice into a large indoor facility.

But he was more focused -- and impressed -- by the faculty's presentation.

Beyond digging in as an Air Force lineman, Madani hopes to be successful enough
to earn entrance into the medical program.

"All weekend while the recruits would eat lunch, I would eat lunch with the head
of the biology department or the head of the athletic trainers department or the
head of the chemistry department to talk about going to medical school," Madani
said.

This isn't a four-year decision.

If Madani chooses Air Force, his schooling will be followed by military service.
Medical school would be followed by residency. Schooling could last 13 years.

Then he must serve an additional 12 years in the military.

For that reason, Madani still will consider schools such as Brown, Cornell and
Dartmouth. They want Madani to raise his SAT score by about 30 points, so he's
considering retaking the test. He also might take the ACT.

"The decision to go to a military academy is not just a four-year decision,"
Madani said. "I might be committed to Air Force if it was a four-year thing, but
it's not. It's such a huge decision to make at 18 years old, I have to take more
time to think about it."

TOLLEY WAITING: Urban Meyer's introduction Tuesday as Florida's football coach
left Wesley Chapel's Danny Tolley wondering if he was still being considered as
a Gator recruit.

Florida is among his top three choices, which also include South Carolina and
USF.

Tolley is scheduled to visit the Gamecocks in late January, and was told to
expect an offer at that time. He already has offers from USF and UCF.

Florida coaches were supposed to visit Wesley Chapel last week, but the trip
never materialized.

"Nothing's come up yet," Wesley Chapel coach John Castelamare said. "Don't
forget, those assistant coaches are probably looking for jobs. They probably
have what they want. They haven't been in touch."

Tolley and his father, Dave Tolley, took a proactive approach Saturday and sent
a new highlight tape to Florida and a handful of other "wish list" schools.

Dave Tolley wants his son to have plenty of options.

"As soon as we found out about the new coach, we put a highlight film in the
mail," the elder Tolley said.

He also has checked mileage and costs for a trip to South Carolina.

"It's only six or seven hours away," Dave Tolley said. "A plane ticket's only
$143. Everything else is close. I'll really enjoy having the ability to go watch
him wherever he goes every weekend.

"But my wife made me promise not to buy a Winnebago."

MUSTANG-TURNED-MIDSHIPMAN? Mitchell fullback/defensive end Spencer Brown will
have a meeting with the Naval Academy on Thursday, and could be offered entrance
into the military academy in Annapolis, Md., Mustangs coach Scott Schmitz said.

The Midshipmen finished their regular season 9-2 with a 42-13 victory Saturday
against Army. The team will play New Mexico in the Dec. 30 Emerald Bowl.

Meantime, Mustangs defensive lineman Casey Smith has been offered a football
scholarship by the University of Nebraska-Kearney, Schmitz said.

Kearney, a Division II program about 130 miles west of Lincoln, finished 5-6
this past season. In 2003, the Lopers were co-champions of the Rocky Mountain
Athletic Conference.

"He's considering that," Schmitz said, "And we have other tapes out. So we'll
see what happens. They love him. He's the No. 2 kid on their board."

Reporter Izzy Gould can be reached at (813) 948-4203. Staff writer Eddie Daniels
contributed to this report.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPORTS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Khalil Madani Tribune file photo by FRED BELLET (2003) Wesley Chapel's Danny
Tolley was supposed to be visited by Florida coaches last week, but they didn't
make it. Tolley isn't sure how UF's coaching change will affect the school
recruiting him.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 15, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

NEIGHBORS

BYLINE: LENORA LAKE, Tribune correspondent; Send news of social activities,
landmark anniversaries, birthdays and other items of community interest to
Lenora Lake at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 24; write her at 15310 Amberly Drive, Suite
102, Tampa FL 33647; fax to (813) 975-9488.

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 805 words



LAMPLighters Fashion Show Features Saks

SOUTH TAMPA - Members of the LAMPLighters, an organization that helps children
in crisis at Metropolitan Ministries Family Residence and Joshua House, are busy
preparing for their annual Luncheon of Light and Fashion Show.

Suzy Lienhart and Bernadette Schurr are chairwomen of the event, set for 11 a.m.
Feb. 19 at the Grand Hyatt Tampa Bay, 6200 Courtney Campbell Causeway.

The show features fashions from Saks Fifth Avenue. Tickets are $75 a person.

Catherine Lowry Straz and Erika Wallace are patron chairwomen.

Committee members are Frances Barksdale, Carolyn Black, Cynthia Conaty, Karen
Conroy, JoAnn Dupperault, Darlene Fowler, Renee Furlong, Donelda Gallagly, Dawn
Greenwood, Shelly Jakes, Vicky McCarthy, Carolyn McMullen, Lila Mulholland,
Sally Ordway, Linda Rodriquez, Joan Schabacker, Barbara Simpson, Emily Watson
and Lois Yost.

The organization will meet at 9:45 a.m. today at the home of past president
Evelyn Bowles, 815 S. Newport Ave.

For information about the organization or the fashion show and luncheon, call
Ordway at (813) 251-9116.

Ophelia Project Founder To Speak

TAMPA - Sue Wellman, founder of the Ophelia Project, will speak to Tampa Prep
parents Friday about "Popularity."

Wellman also founded the CASS Program (Creating a Safe Social Climate for
Children). Tampa Prep, 727 W. Cass St., is using the CASS Program to teach
students how to identify healthy and unhealthy friendships and how to nurture
true friendships.

Wellman will speak at 8:45 a.m. as part of the parent education arm of CASS.

Student Gets Page Scholarship

SOUTH TAMPA - Mallory Scarritt, a junior at Tampa Prep, has received a
Congressional Page Scholarship to study in Washington from January to June.

She is joining about 75 students selected from across the country and living in
a dormitory for pages.

She attends classes early in the morning and works at the House of
Representatives each day.

She will attend lectures by Georgetown University professors and go on field
trips to historical sites.

Scarritt graduated in 2000 from St. John's Episcopal Day School, where she was
the Student Council president.

Musicale Celebrates Founders Day

SOUTH TAMPA - The Friday Morning Musicale will have a Silver Tea and Scholarship
Recital to celebrate its Founders Day.

Melanie Gill, a vocal major at the University of South Florida, will be featured
at the event from 2 to 4 p.m. Friday at the Friday Morning Musicale and
Federated Clubs Building, 809 Horatio St.

Gill was the Tampa chapter's candidate in the Jeanie With the Light Brown Hair
pageant at the Stephen Foster Park in White Springs.

For information, call Linda Rodriguez, program chairwoman, at (813) 254-9177 or
Judith Edberg, president, at (813) 253-3333, Ext. 3376.

Membership Meeting Is Planned

BEACH PARK - The Beach Park Women's Club will have its membership meeting and
luncheon at its clubhouse, 801 S. West Shore Blvd., on Jan. 23.

The event begins with social time at 10:30 a.m., meeting at 10:45 a.m. and lunch
at noon.

Cindy Krueger, a past president of the organization, will present a program on
"Living Safe, Simple and Holistically." She is president of Preservation Inc.
Health Research Consultation and Education Co. of Tampa.

Nanette Krause is the luncheon hostess. Committee members are Amanda NcNabb, Ann
Thompson, Ann Geuther, Francine Dubkin, Eileen Corcoran, Mary Bessent,
Georgienne Kraemer and Karly Jordan. Janice Keetch is in charge of the guest
book.

Encore Theatre Starts Classes

SOUTH TAMPA - Encore Theatre, a drama and musical theater school, will celebrate
its 10th year with a variety of new classes for children, teens and adults.

Greta Aldene, producer and director of the theater, will conduct the programs.

The first class in the new session, "Introduction to Acting," begins Saturday
for children and teens.

For other classes and information, call (813) 839-0861.

Support Groups Set Meetings

SOUTH TAMPA - Michelle Edwards, the patient services manager at Hope Lodge, will
speak at the Sword of Hope Guild's general meeting Friday.

The 10:30 a.m. luncheon meeting will be at 3126 W. Oaklyn Ave. Lunch is $10.

For information, call Fran Jackson at (813) 832-6981.

The Spring Daytime Auxiliary will meet at noon Tuesday at the home of Nancy
Weisman. For information and directions, call Robin Notestein at (813) 254-1172.

Formed in 1993, the Spring Daytime Auxiliary supports the goals of The Spring of
Tampa Bay Inc., the largest domestic violence shelter in Florida.

Neighbors Column Changes Days

SOUTH TAMPA - The South Tampa Neighbors column is moving to Saturdays from
Thursdays to better serve our readers and the organizations. The next Neighbors
column will be Jan. 24.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NEIGHBORS

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 19, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Across the Region

BYLINE: SEAN LENGELL; ELLEN GEDALIUS; DAVE NICHOLSON; TOM BRENNAN; DAVE
NICHOLSON; RONNIE BLAIR; STEVEN ISBITTS; DAVID SOMMER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words



HILLSBOROUGH
East Tampa Redevelopment Meetings Are Planned

TAMPA - A series of meetings regarding a proposed community redevelopment area
for east Tampa will begin at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the Grant Park Auditorium,
3724 54th St.

A CRA is designed to improve the infrastructure of an area by earmarking
property tax revenue for roads, utilities and other projects.

The meetings are sponsored by the city of Tampa and Hillsborough County's
City-County Planning Commission.

Additional meetings are Thursday at the Ragan Park Auditorium, 1200 E. Lake
Ave.; Jan. 27 at the Seminole Garden Center, 5810 N. Central Ave.; and Jan. 29
and Feb. 5 at the Middleton High School cafeteria, 4801 N. 22nd St. All meetings
begin at 6:30 p.m. and are scheduled to end at 8:30.

For information, call Jim Hosler, the Planning Commission research director, at
(813) 273-3774 Ext. 359.


Roosevelt Elementary Raises Money For Covered Court

TAMPA - Roosevelt Elementary School is turning up the heat as parents try to
raise money for a covered court.

Covered courts typically cost about $100,000 and are becoming increasingly
popular in Florida. The Hillsborough County school district often will provide
$50,000 once a school raises $50,000.

The courts are necessary, parents and educators say, because of Florida's
climate. With outdoor shelter, children would be able to stay cooler while
playing sports and dry during assemblies.

Roosevelt's Dads Club has spearheaded the fundraising effort at the Palma Ceia
school this academic year. So far, about $30,000 has been raised, said John
LaRocca, the club's president and project chairman. The goal is to raise
$60,000, he said.

The court will be about 60 feet by 80 feet and would be in the northwest corner
of the school. It would be used when parents pick up and drop off children, and
for sports, the fall festival and other events.


Wedding Bells In The Air For City Commissioner

PLANT CITY - The only unmarried member of the city commission is going to walk
down the aisle this year.

Commissioner Mary Yvette Thomas plans to wed Tony Hunter Mathis on June 4. The
place and time of the wedding haven't been set.

Thomas, 45, and Mathis, 48, went to high school together. He moved back to Plant
City from Alexandria, Va., and the rest, as they say, is history.

"I'm very excited and looking forward to a lifetime with Tony," said Thomas, a
city commissioner since 2000.


Move Over Clay And Ruben, This Show Stars Seniors

BRANDON - Consider it Hillsborough County's version of "American Idol," only for
the generation "S."

The county's Parks, Recreation and Conservation Department will hold auditions
Wednesday for the Bright Star Senior Talent Show.

Tryouts will be at 9:30 a.m. at the Brandon Community Center, 502 E. Sadie St.
Solo acts and duos can enter. Performers must be older than 55 and provide their
own music.

"We know there are a lot of seniors who have talent, we just hope they come out
and share it," said John Brill, parks spokesman.

The program is co-sponsored by the Brighthouse Networks cable television system
and the Florida Department of Aging Services.

Ten winners will advance from the auditions to the main show at 5:30 p.m. Feb.
21 at Hillsborough Community College's Dale Mabry campus. The contest will be
broadcast live on Brighthouse's Channel 47.


Plant City Approves Law Regulating Campers, RVs

PLANT CITY - A deeply divided city commission approved an ordinance regulating
the parking of recreational vehicles and campers in residentially zoned
property.

The law limits the parking of RVs and campers to a maximum of a year with a
permit from the city. Commissioners John Dicks and Richard Gloroso opposed it as
an encroachment on property rights.

The majority, Mayor Bill Dodson and Commissioners Mary Yvette Thomas and Mike
Sparkman, voted in favor of the law, which was prompted in part by people who
were living in recreational vehicles parked in yards.


PASCO
Elementary Students' Rates Of Retention Nearly Double

LAND O' LAKES - The number of elementary students held back a grade in Pasco
County schools nearly doubled in 2003, but high schools experienced a slight
decline in retention rates, a school district report states.

The elementary numbers were driven by a new state mandate requiring
third-graders to repeat the grade if they score poorly on the Florida
Comprehensive Assessment Test.

"It was not a surprise to us," said Peggy Jones, a district supervisor of
research and evaluation.

The Pasco district held back 1,062 out of 25,426 elementary school students in
2003, for a retention rate of 4.2 percent, compared with a 2.2 percent retention
rate in 2002.

Third-grade retentions fueled the increase, with a 16.3 percent retention rate,
compared, for example, with a 0.5 percent rate for fifth-graders.


PINELLAS
New Railroad Crossing Slated For Starkey Road

LARGO - Pinellas County will close Starkey Road between Walsingham and Ulmerton
roads Tuesday to rebuild a railroad crossing.

Cars will be permitted on Starkey Road during the estimated three-week
construction period, but they will not be allowed to drive through the railroad
crossing, said Richard Gildea, an inspector for Pinellas County Public Works.

The county will be rebuilding the roads at the crossing and repairing drainage
and sidewalks in the area.

Southbound traffic on Starkey Road will be detoured using Ulmerton Road, to
Seminole Boulevard and Belcher Road. Northbound traffic will be diverted to
Seminole Boulevard or Belcher Road over Bryan Dairy Road.

Pinellas County school buses and Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority buses will
be rerouted.

Riders can check with bus drivers for route change information or contact their
school or the PSTA for information.


County Powerless Against Annexation

ST. PETERSBURG - The city is poised to annex the 2,600-acre Gateway Preserve and
there appears to be nothing Pinellas County government can do about it.

The preserve, which spreads out along Tampa Bay on both sides of the western end
of the Howard Frankland Bridge, generates no tax money and is home to no voters.

The annexation was approved this month by the state Department of Environmental
Protection, which owns the preserve. City officials say it is a logical
extension of the city's boundaries, but county officials say the city wants the
preserve so it can eventually annex the adjacent Feather Sound community, which
is populous and generally upscale.

The city has not decided whether it wants to annex Feather Sound, according to
Kevin Dunn, managing director for development coordination. He said an ongoing
series of small community meetings with residents is merely a way of gauging
community support for annexation.

County Commissioner John Morroni, who lives in Feather Sound, said the city
wants to take the community's property taxes for its own.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACROSS THE REGION

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 14, 2004, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Gay Floridians Join Marriage Debate

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH, bsmith@tampatrib.com; (CEP)

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words


LONGTIME COUPLES HAVE FEW RIGHTS

TAMPA - Together for five years, one is ready for marriage and the other thinks
getting hitched is antiquated.

Typical domestic standoff?

Maybe, but Tampa's Bill Kanouff and Tony Zannino are gay, so their different
views on how to define their relationship are playing out amid a national debate
over the concept of homosexual marriage.

"I do think we need the term "marriage' to have legal rights, but I think it's a
medieval, archaic institution," said Kanouff, a 46-year-old bookstore owner, as
the issue remained in the spotlight Friday.

The explosive social debate is expected to divide President Bush and his
opponent in the election.

That may be particularly true if the Democrat is U.S. Sen. John Kerry, whose
home state of Massachusetts recently legalized same-sex marriage through a
ruling by the state Supreme Judicial Court.

Gay marriage rallies are being staged nationwide, including one today in Tampa.
The Valentine's Day of Action Rally is scheduled from 1 to 4 p.m. at Lowry Park,
7525 N. Boulevard.

Staging the rallies in 20 cities is a coalition of advocates from
www.dontamend.com who will oppose what is expected to become a Bush
administration initiative to amend the U.S. Constitution to ban same-sex
marriages.

Florida does not permit gay marriage, and a 1997 "defense of marriage act"
declares that the state won't recognize such marriages created in other states.

Frank Mavro, 36, and John "Michael" Schuler, 38, a Largo couple who got married
last fall in Niagara Falls in Canada, say they are Tampa Bay area pioneers in
testing their legal rights in Florida.

The couple's first step will be to try to change Schuler's name on a driver's
license, Mavro said. "His name will become Michael Mavro. It will be a test."

The couple also broke ground in another way Jan. 4 when their "civil union"
announcement was published in the St. Petersburg Times. It drew a firestorm of
critical letters to the editor.

"We wanted to put an announcement in the paper just like anybody," Mavro said.

The newspaper joined The New York Times and a number of others that have begun
publishing same-sex wedding announcements. The Tampa Tribune adopted the policy
Sept. 21, 2002.

Mavro said the couple deemed it important to be considered married, not just
linked by civil union. Their Oct. 29 ceremony in a church was performed by a
Unitarian-Universalist minister.

"We see it as a marriage, no discrimination based on gender, just two people
coming together and making this commitment," Mavro said.

Many of their gay friends are waiting to see whether the Massachusetts ruling
stands before taking steps toward weddings. Massachusetts legislators are
divided, with opponents seeking a constitutional ban.

"I figure we'll have a woman president before gay marriage," Mavro said.


"Issue Of Equality'

Brian Feist, publisher of The Gazette, a gay and lesbian newspaper in St.
Petersburg that reaches 50,000, said many Bay area gay people disdain marriage
as unnecessary.

"But it's not an individual issue," he said. "This is an issue of equality, and
there are a lot of people who are in committed relationships who have no legal
rights."

Feist's newspaper recently featured a Sarasota gay couple together for 50 years
who wonder about their legal rights if one dies.

Feist said pop singer Britney Spears' recent quickie marriage and annulment
illustrated the disparity among rights afforded heterosexual and homosexual
couples.

"Had it not been annulled, it would have given them Social Security and
inheritance benefits, nearly 1,500 rights, responsibilities and obligations that
come with civil marriage," Feist said.

Same-sex couples in Florida can negotiate documents to assure a few rights, but
Feist said those come at great expense for little payback.

Brian Winfield of Equality Florida, an antidiscrimination advocacy group, said
Florida's conservative political and religious climate means same-sex marriage
is unlikely to become legal.


Problems Down The Road

Winfield's group is trying to repeal the 1997 law that voids gay marriages
performed in other states. Florida's image as a retirement haven might suffer if
older married gay couples relocate here and find their rights voided, Winfield
said.

"These people will be married and all of a sudden will cross into Florida and no
longer be considered married," he said. "That's the real danger that we see."

Winfield said his group hopes to educate Floridians on both sides of the debate.

"There are going to be very human, very poignant examples of why it's necessary
to legalize same-sex marriage," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Tribune photo by JASON BEHNKEN

(C) Tony Zannino, right, wants to marry Bill Kanouff, his boyfriend of five
years.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 15, 2004, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

2 Florida Preserves Are Spared From Cuts

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, msalinero@tampatrib.com; Reporter Mike Salinero can be
reached at (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words


BUT MINERAL RIGHTS DEAL RAISES MANY QUESTIONS

TALLAHASSEE - In a year when President Bush is proposing deep cuts in
environmental funding, he has slated two high-profile Florida conservation
projects for more money.

The president's proposed fiscal 2005 budget would slash spending on
environmental programs by $1.9 billion, or 5.9 percent, according to analyses by
several environmental groups. The Environmental Protection Agency would be
particularly hard-hit. EPA's current year funding of $8.37 billion would be cut
to $7.76 billion in the budget.

Despite what congressional sources say is a lean budget year, the president's
number crunchers found $67 million for Everglades restoration. That's an
increase of $28 million above last year's appropriation.

And for the second year in a row, the president has proposed spending $40
million to prevent oil exploration and drilling in the Big Cypress National
Preserve in Southwest Florida. The money would be the first installment on the
$120 million purchase of the Collier family's mineral rights under the preserve.

The increased Everglades funding is slated for engineering projects that are key
to restoring natural water flow through the River of Grass.

"It's very welcome to see that construction funding is finally in the
president's budget because those projects are about four years behind," said
Sean McMahon, a Washington lobbyist for Audubon.

Preserve Is Controversial

Environmentalists were less than excited by the president's proposal to buy the
Collier family's mineral rights. They question whether the potential oil
reserves are worth $120 million - money conservation groups say would be better
spent buying land for the Everglades restoration project.

Some environmentalists suggest Bush is interested more in capturing Florida's 27
electoral votes in November's election than in protecting Big Cypress. Why, they
ask, is the president intent on saving Big Cypress from drilling while he pushes
for oil exploration in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

"I think the senior White House staff honestly thinks that mineral development
in the Big Cypress is a major issue among environmental concerned voters," said
Nathaniel Reed, a board member of the Everglades Foundation.

Gov. Jeb Bush acknowledged the potential political benefits at a news conference
in May 2002. The governor, in the middle of his own re-election campaign, flew
to Washington to hear his brother announce plans to prevent oil drilling in Big
Cypress and off the Florida coast.

"Whenever there is a convergence of good politics and good public policy, I
don't think we should be ashamed of it," the governor told journalists that day.

Mark Pheifle, a spokesman for the U.S. Department of the Interior, scoffed at
the idea that the administration is trying to buy votes as well as mineral
rights in the Big Cypress. He said there is support among Alaskans for drilling
in the Arctic preserve. There is no such support for oil exploration in Big
Cypress.

"Some environmentalists are never happy," Pheifle said. "They're mad if you
protect places like Big Cypress; they're mad if you develop other places using
the toughest environmental rules ever applied in ANWR to develop the energy
America needs."

Bush included the $40 million in his last budget, but congressional
appropriators balked at the price. The deal unraveled in October when the
Interior Department's inspector general launched an inquiry into how the
department arrived at the $120 million price.

There also are questions about the other half of the deal: The Colliers want to
make a charitable donation of the difference between $120 million and what they
think the oil reserves are worth, between $250 million and $700 million. That
donation would be worth a sizable tax deduction.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Miami Lakes, was one of the lawmakers who questioned the
pricing and welcomed the inspector general's inquiry.

"We want to make sure the federal government is paying fair prices to make sure
there's no oil exploration in Big Cypress," Graham spokeswoman Jill Greenberg
said.

With the inquiry ongoing and Congress again dealing with a tough budget, chances
of a deal are iffy at best.

"Last year the budget was too lean and there were concerns about the proposal
and the price tag," said John Scofield, spokesman for the U.S. House
Appropriations Committee. "This year is an even leaner budget year, but it's too
early to tell. We've only had the budget two weeks."

To close the deal, the Colliers have hired Washington lobbyist Jorden Burt and
Jefferson Consulting Relations.

Oil Rigs In Paradise

Big Cypress Preserve looks much like it did in the 1920s when Barron Collier, a
Northern advertising magnate, bought 1.3 million acres in Southwest Florida.

The preserve was created in 1974 with 76,800 acres bought from the Colliers. The
government bought an additional 83,000 acres when the preserve was expanded in
1988. In both cases, the family retained the mineral rights. In all, the
Colliers own more than 800,000 acres of mineral holdings in Southwest Florida,
400,000 of them on federal land.

The 729,000-acre preserve remains a breathtaking wilderness of ancient bald
cypress trees, wild orchids, hardwood hammocks and mangrove forests. Vanishing
Florida panthers and black bears prowl the preserve's swamps and saw grass, and
30 protected species of birds roost in the cypress, slash pine and hardwoods.

But the Colliers said they are ready to tarnish some of that raw beauty with oil
rigs and new roads. The family already pumps 2,200 barrels of oil a day at two
sites in the preserve. Geologists have identified 33 promising sites for more
wells, said Bob Duncan, spokesman for Collier Resources, the family's oil
development arm.

"That means we perceive the exploration potential - the probability of finding
more oil - as being substantial," Duncan said.

Environmentalists are not impressed. They see the Collier plans as an empty
threat meant to get more money than the oil reserves are worth.

"It's not clear at all ... if there's any oil there," said Eric Draper,
conservation director for Audubon of Florida. "Or it's not clear the impact of
drilling would have that much of an effect."

(CHART) THE SPENDING
President Bush has proposed cutting total environmental spending by $1.9
billion. His environmental funding proposals include:
Tripling spending, from $208 million to $635 million, for research on cleaner
ways of burning coal.
Cutting $73 million from biological and environmental science research,
including climate change.
Adding $22 million for maintenance at National Parks.
Eliminating $25 million in grants to rehabilitate urban brownfield industrial
sites.
Eliminating money for land purchases needed for Everglades restoration.
Source: Tribune research

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP (C) CHART
Tribune map

(MAP) (C) Big Cypress National Preserve

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
