
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 14, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Breaking The Ice

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 679 words


Scientists exploring a remote region of the Arctic Ocean say receding ice could
become a factor in global climate patterns.

By KURT LOFT

kloft@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- A pair of ships recently voyaged to the top of the world to study
global climate change, the first to traverse a region of ice-covered sea between
Alaska and the North Pole.

The U.S. Coast Guard's Healy and the Swedish vessel Oden plowed through dense
sheets of ice in their effort to better understand the Arctic's role in Earth's
ocean and climate systems. While much of the research will take years to compile
and publish, one thing was made immediately clear: The Arctic is slowly losing
its chill.

"All indications are that the Arctic Ocean summer ice cover is retreating, with
a rate of about 8 percent per decade," says team member Jim Swift, a researcher
at Scripps Institution of Oceanography near San Diego. "There are still regions
with heavy ice -- we were in some of them -- but this summer continued the trend
of this remarkable retreat."

The trip was arduous. Although the same area -- known as the Canadian Basin --
had been crossed by submarines below the ice, the central Arctic Ocean is one of
the planet's least-explored regions. The heavy concentration of floating sea
ice, often 10 feet thick, makes travel dangerous and often impassible.

Ships carrying early explorers have been crushed by colliding ice floes, and
their crews left to starve or freeze to death. Even in the late summer and early
fall, temperatures can dip to 0 degrees Fahrenheit at night, which translates to
minus 26 degrees with a 30 mph wind.

At these temperatures, frostbite can occur within a half hour. Winter is out of
the question, when temperatures dip to 90 degrees below zero. The crews of both
ships, however, enjoyed basking in the relative warmth of 10 degrees Fahrenheit.

"We were at the end of summer," Swift says. "The big factor in terms of comfort
is wind chill. One must really bundle up, in a serious way, when the wind gets
blowing, and you have to be on deck for a long time."

Swift and his colleagues spent nearly six weeks on the trip and collected a
wealth of data about sea ice, ecosystems, extreme northern climate and marine
life. Scientists are concerned about the slow thaw of ice because they need to
better understand how it might affect sea levels. Just as important, the melting
ice could alter global ocean circulation and the amount of solar energy absorbed
or reflected back into space.

The Earth's ice caps are like enormous mirrors; if they were to shrink, more of
the sun's energy would be absorbed by the sea.

"Ice is highly reflective to incoming solar radiation, and the days are long in
summer," Swift says. "What if the ice cover began to severely retreat each
summer? With the long summer days, there could be a change in the heat balance
of the polar regions. This could affect the steering of and interactions with
the weather patterns in temperate latitudes."

Slowly receding Arctic ice may present another problem, Swift says: "Permafrost
holds large reserves of greenhouse gases, which might get 'burped' into the
atmosphere as the Arctic warms, potentially accelerating the greenhouse gas
portion of atmospheric warming over the globe."

The Healy and Oden often worked side by side, especially in thick ice. The
conditions forced the ships to combine their power and weight on single ice
floes, breaking them apart at high enough speeds to keep from stalling. If a
ship runs too slow, it can become trapped and unable to ram over the floe.

The Healy breaks ice by riding its heavy bow above the ice, then lowering it and
breaking the floe into chunks.

"A big factor is whether the ice is 'compressed' or not by the wind," Swift
says. "If the ice is not under compression, it's easier for the icebreakers. If
the ice is under compression, there's nowhere for it to go and even a large
icebreaker can get stuck for a while."

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813) 259-7570.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5
U.S. Coast Guard photos Researchers spent six weeks collecting data on the
Arctic ecosystem, and observed a polar bear feasting on a seal. The crew of the
Healy takes a break on the ice, basking in the relative warmth of 10 degrees
Fahrenheit. Arctic summers are much warmer than winters, but temperatures can
still freeze deck ropes solid. (2) The U.S. Coast Guard icebreaker Healy and the
Swedish vessel Oden make the arduous trip through the ice of the Arctic Ocean's
Canadian Basin, where they encountered pancake ice, below. The journey was to
study how receding ice could affect global climate patterns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 23, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


Sweating It Out

Not long ago on this page, we wrote about a condition called hyperhidrosis, or
excessive sweating. Those who suffer from this often-embarrassing condition have
few medical options, but physicians are learning more about treatment.

In the May issue of Mayo Clinic Proceedings, dermatologists say botox is
effective in treating certain types of hyperhidrosis, particularly for the
underarms. Other treatments, including surgery, are helping people with severe
sweating on the face, palms or feet.

Researchers think hyperhidrosis is linked to a problem in the parts of the brain
that control body temperature and sympathetic, or emotional, sweating responses.
For reasons unclear to scientists, the emotional component is in overdrive. The
result is typically a healthy individual who perspires excessively, even in
mildly stressful situations, such as a handshake or job interview, according to
the Mayo report.

For information, go online to www.sweathelp.org.

Plants Affect Warming?

As the Earth continues to warm, changes in vegetation may influence extremes in
weather, according to a Purdue University climatologist. If vegetation
significantly affects weather, the research could add a new piece to the global
warming puzzle. Noah S. Diffenbaugh has found that storms and heat waves can
vary in intensity and frequency depending on how vegetation responds to global
warming.

"Earth's climate is all about relationships, and this study shows that ground
cover plays a significant part in determining changes in climate extremes," he
said. "We are accustomed to hearing that greenhouse gases affect climate, but
they are not the only factor."

Running Low On Oil

World use of oil surged 3.4 percent in 2004, to 82.4 million barrels per day.
This represents the fastest rate of increase in 16 years, according to the
Worldwatch Institute, an environmental advocacy group in Washington.

China and the United States were the main engines driving fossil fuel markets in
2004, accounting for nearly half the increase in world oil demand. China's
consumption soared 11 percent in 2004, cementing its position as the world's No.
2 user at 6.6 million barrels per day. The United States uses 20.5 million
barrels each day, the report says.

Does a fuel crisis loom? A growing number of geologists question whether oil
reserves are sufficient to keep up with rising demand, and experts say annual
production could fall short of consumption within 10 years.

Science Stumper

Eric Vlahov was the first of many readers to correctly answer our last trivia
question: Why is aluminum foil shiny on one side and dull on the other? Answer:
During manufacturing, the shiny side comes in contact with polished steel
rollers.

Now for today's stumper: People who are afraid of doctors suffer from a
condition known as what? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone
calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
(Oil rigs)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 17, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dry Spell

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


More land around the world is suffering from severe drought, scientists say, and
it might be self-induced.

By KURT LOFT

kloft@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Planet Earth could use a stiff drink.

The percentage of global land area hit by serious drought has more than doubled
over the past 25 years, according to scientists at the National Center for
Atmospheric Research. The reason, they say, can be traced to rising
temperatures.

Devastating droughts have occurred in Canada, Asia, Europe, Africa and
Australia. Could this be part of the normal, long-range climate cycle or the
influence of people?

Much evidence points to the latter, specifically the greenhouse effect, says
Aiguo Dai, lead author of a study released last week at the American
Meteorological Society's annual meeting in San Diego. The research appeared in
the Journal of Hydrometeorology, with data supported by the National Science
Foundation.

"Global climate models predict increased drying over most land areas during
their warm season, as carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases increase," Dai
says. "Our analyses suggest that this drying may have already begun."

The study says land hit by severely dry conditions rose from about 15 percent in
the early 1970s to about 30 percent by 2002. Almost half of that change is due
to rising temperatures rather than decreases in rainfall or snowfall, Dai says.

While more land area is drying up, water vapor appears to be increasing in the
atmosphere. The average global rainfall has also risen slightly. Even so,
"surface air temperatures over global land areas have increased sharply since
the 1970s," according to the study. As surface temperatures rise, more moisture
evaporates from land.

The Earth also is getting slightly warmer, and 2004 was the ninth-warmest year
of the past quarter-century. The global average annual temperature was 0.19
degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the 20-year baseline average, according to the
Earth System Science Center at the University of Alabama in Huntsville.

The United States is one part of the world that doesn't seem to be affected by
the drought. The country has become wetter overall during the last 50 years, Dai
says. The moistening is especially notable between the Rocky Mountains and
Mississippi River. Other parts of the world showing moistening trends include
Argentina and parts of western Australia.

Scientists want to better understand droughts, Dai says, "because they are among
the world's costliest natural disasters and affect a very large number of people
each year."

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813) 259-7570.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Associated Press file photo A woman in search of water walks across a dry
riverbed in the drought-ravaged state of Kerala in southern India. The
traditionally low-rainfall region has had an alarming decrease in rainfall in
the past decade. Scientists say the severe conditions are nearly as much a
result of rising temperatures as a decrease in precipitation. The Los Angeles
Times After five years of record-breaking drought, a ring of mineral salts left
by the dammed Colorado River circles man-made Lake Powell, where the water level
dropped more than 100 feet in 2004. A houseboat motors across the lake on the
Arizona-Utah border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 23, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warm Up To The Rising Cost Of Comfort

BYLINE: B.C. MANION, bmanion@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


By B.C. MANION

bmanion@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - The good news: Central air and heat systems are cranking up efficiency.

The bad news: That will crank up costs.

The silver lining: The equipment will cost more at the outset but will be
cheaper to operate. And it will keep your house more comfortable.

At least that's how experts in the air-conditioning industry and an associate
editor for Home Energy Magazine are characterizing a regulation that takes
effect in January.

"It's going to mean greater operating energy savings, particularly for people in
warmer climates," says James D. Cavallo, associate editor for Home Energy
Magazine. "The folks in the South and the Southwest are going to feel the
particular benefit of this.

"The energy efficiency level is going to be 30 percent greater."

The new rule applies to the Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio.

An air system's SEER rating is what miles per gallon are to a car, says Paul
Stalknecht, chief executive officer for Air Conditioning Contractors of America.

It's important because air conditioning is such a large portion of people's
utility bills, Stalknecht says.

Despite the impact on their utility costs, most people -- 90 percent -- have no
idea what the SEER rating of their air conditioner is or that the rating rules
are about to change, says a survey commissioned by Emerson Climate Technologies
released in June.

The Department of Energy's minimum efficiency standard for central air
conditioners and heat pumps has been 10 SEER since 1992. Beginning Jan. 23,
manufacturers must produce central air conditioners with no less than a 13 SEER.

Consumers won't be forced to buy the more efficient models until the existing
inventory of central air conditioners is exhausted.

But Tampa Electric Co. customers may want to upgrade now because the utility
offers a rebate of up to $250 for people who upgrade their unit to a 12 SEER or
higher, spokesman Ross Bannister says. It likely won't be offered once 13 is the
minimum, he noted. (For information, go online to www. tampaelectric.com.)

Experts estimate the more efficient system will yield an annual savings of $22
for a one-ton air conditioning unit and $110 a year for a five-ton system.

Those savings were calculated based on comparing costs for operating a 10 SEER
and a 13 SEER using an energy cost of 8 cents per kilowatt hour.

The typical residential TECO customer uses about 1,200 kilowatt hours a month,
Bannister says. Though heating and cooling account for the biggest part of that,
it's hard to guess how much a customer may save with a 13 SEER system.

"There are a lot of variables -- how big the home is, how well insulated it is,
where you set the thermostat," he says.

A big energy-waster is ductwork that isn't properly sealed. As the ductwork
ages, joints can spring leaves and ducts even fall away from registers,
Bannister says.

Through another TECO program, customers can get their ductwork inspected and
sealed for $79 -- a savings of more than $200. For information, call TECO at
(813) 223-0800 or search for "ductwork" on the company Web site.

Think Ahead When Buying

In choosing a heating-cooling system, consumers should take the long view and
consider their personal circumstances, advises Karl Zellmer, vice president of
air-conditioning sales for Emerson.

"How long are you going to be in the house?" he asks.

Buying a less-efficient model may be fine if the homeowner doesn't plan to stay
there long.

He also suggests getting a model that can handle Puron, a new environmentally
friendly refrigerant that will be a replacement for Freon.

After 2010, new air cooling systems will not be allowed to operate on Freon,
which means parts and the refrigerant itself may get hard to find.

It's impossible to predict how much more the new systems will cost, Cavallo
says.

In recent years, efficiency requirements have increased for various appliances.

"For refrigerators, there was no noticeable increase in cost because of the
competition in the industry," Cavallo says.

"People ended up paying the same price," he says, because the industry either
absorbed the additional costs or found ways to produce their products more
efficiently.

Even if the front-end costs are more, consumers eventually will recoup that
expense in energy savings, Zellmer says.

That's particularly true if they are replacing an old model.

"If their unit is 15 years old, and they're going from an 8 SEER to the new 13
SEER, it's going to be a 62 percent improvement," Zellmer says.

Get The Correct Size

The more efficient system should improve comfort levels, but that's not
guaranteed, Cavallo says.

"There will be a comfort improvement if you have a properly sized unit."

Air conditioners do two basic jobs, he explains. They cool the air and reduce
moisture.

When a unit is too large for a home, it cools it too quickly without having time
to take out the moisture, Cavallo says.

The best way to get the right size is to hire a qualified air-conditioning
company and ask for a Manual J load calculation for your house, Stalknecht says.

Many things influence how big the system should be. How big is the house? How
much insulation does it have? How many windows are there? How thick are the
walls? How much shade is there? What type of roof does it have?

Be sure to hire a qualified contractor and a technician with North American
Technician Excellence certification.

(CHART) ENERGY-SAVERS

o Install and use a programmable thermostat.

o Keep drapes and shades closed on windows facing the sun.

o Keep windows and doors closed when air conditioning is on.

o Clean or replace the air filter on a regular basis.

o Keep return registers and grills clear of obstruction.

o Trim shrubbery near outdoor unit to prevent airflow obstruction.

o Keep the outdoor unit clean by spraying with a garden hose.

o Make sure the outdoor unit is level.

o Have the system inspected and serviced annually.

o Use contractors whose technicians are certified by the North American
Technician Excellence.

o For information about the new SEER regulation, go online to
www.getseerious.com.

Source: Emerson Climate Technologies

Reporter B.C. Manion can be reached at (813) 259-7150.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 26, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climbing 'Killy'

BYLINE: KAREN HAYMON LONG, klong@tampatrib.com

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1286 words

DATELINE: APOLLO BEACH


By KAREN HAYMON LONG

klong@tampatrib.com

APOLLO BEACH - After their elegant wedding in January at the Don CeSar Beach
Resort, Leta and Dave Hardy went to the opposite extreme on their honeymoon.
They flew out the next morning to Africa to climb Kilimanjaro, the highest
freestanding mountain in the world.

Instead of plush beds with down comforters, they hunkered down in minus-zero
weather as their tent was covered by sleet and snow. Rather than champagne and
caviar, they ate porridge and shriveled chicken jerky, suffered nose bleeds and
windburn. But they made it to the 19,340-foot summit after eight days of hiking.

Now safely back in their waterfront home, Leta Cherry Hardy says climbing
"Killy" was euphoric, "the coolest thing we've ever done."

"The hardest part is coming back and trying to plan our next vacation, when we
have been to the pinnacle of heights," her husband adds.

Their honeymoon trip to "The Roof of Africa," in Tanzania in northeast Africa,
grew out of a longtime yearning. Leta's cousin, a Roman Catholic priest, had
summitted Kilimanjaro and his vivid descriptions made her want to climb it too.
She became more determined when she visited Africa on a vacation.

"It was on my checklist of things to do before I turned 40," says Leta, who
celebrated her 38th birthday on Kilimanjaro.

After Hardy proposed to her on a giant banner she saw while plummeting during a
skydive in Zephyrhills - skydiving was also on her checklist -- she suggested
they climb Africa's highest mountain on their honeymoon.

"Done," Dave answered.

They trained for five months by hiking 12 miles on weekends around Busch Gardens
and then around their neighborhood on week nights. To pay homage to the park,
Leta wore her Busch Gardens cap up Kilimanjaro.

On the summit, she posed for a photo holding a Mel's Hot Dogs bumper sticker, in
honor of the Busch Boulevard eatery. They often ate lunch at the popular hot dog
restaurant next to Busch Gardens after their walks.

While training, Leta, who is marketing director of Advanced Handling Systems in
Lakeland, and Dave, an engineer, lost a combined 50 pounds.

Company Of Guides Stresses Safety

Even tougher than training was finding a company to guide them to the summit.
They read books and magazines and searched the Internet, but it wasn't easy to
determine which would offer a safe, successful climb. They settled on Tusker
Trail & Safari Co., since its Web site strongly emphasizes safety precautions
and its climber-porter ratio appealed to them.

Their group had five climbers and 25 porters, who carried all the tents, food
supplies, clothing and other gear, including oxygen, cell phones and portable
hyperbaric chambers in case of an emergency.

The climbers carried day packs of water, food and personal items on the 55-mile
round trip.

Both marvel at the beauty of the snow-topped mountain -- an extinct volcano --
and at the five climate changes to the summit.

They started out in a rain forest of ficas and palm trees where it was muddy,
slippery and humid. Then they moved into fields of heather, moss and orange
flowers. Next came the moorelands, where it was rocky and filled with giant
lobelia, succulents that collect water in the daytime and close tight at night.

Higher up, they came to an alpine forest, which Leta describes as like being on
Mars. It was dusty and rocky, with giant black birds flying overhead.

The summit crater is 1.5 miles across, rocky and covered with snow and ice.

Time For Solitude, Togetherness

On the climb to the top, Leta listened to James Taylor, Sting and Metallica on
her MP3 player. Dave, 34, didn't want music interfering with his solace.

"I just liked being out there alone," he says. "The hike was spectacular."

At night, they slept in a yellow tent pitched away from the others. Since they
were on their honeymoon, the porters thought they would like privacy and joked
with them by hanging a sign on their tent that said, "The Love Shack."

Camping at the base of a breach, they noticed an outhouse that had been smashed.
Leta remembers thinking how odd for someone to commit vandalism on the mountain.
Porters told them the outhouse was crushed by a giant boulder that fell on it,
not by vandals.

"Then, we worried about rock slides," Dave says.

Grueling Hike Takes Toll

Hiking got tougher the higher they climbed because of the altitude. At times,
they had low-grade headaches and bleeding noses. Dave says he wasn't prepared
for its effects or that he had to rest 10 times longer than he expected along
the way.

Leta got sick the day before they reached the summit after a grueling 11 hours
of climbing, using footholds carved by the porters into the snow and ice. She
felt nauseous, had a headache and was exhausted.

"After 10 hours of climbing, I was spent emotionally," she says. "Every 100 feet
looked like 2 miles."

Once in camp, porters convinced her to rest in her tent by telling her, "A woman
five years younger than you died of a heart attack last week."

Every year, 15 to 25 people die while climbing Kilimanjaro, some of them
experienced climbers and porters. Knowing that, the newlyweds made a pact before
their hike. They agreed to go down with the other if one got sick and had to
give up. But after one point in the climb, there is no way back. It is too
dangerous to descend. Hikers have to keep going to the summit and go down
another way.

The End In Sight

On the morning they headed toward the summit, their eighth day of hiking, they
had only 1,000 feet of elevation remaining. It took two hours to make it.

"It was one step, breathe, one step, breathe," Leta says. "That lack of oxygen
and being so tired messes with your brain."

They were so exhausted once they reached the summit, they posed for pictures,
then headed down immediately.

Descending the mountain -- which they did all in one day -- was much harder than
they had imagined. Wearing helmets lit with head lamps, they made their way
among rocks of all sizes and shapes.

Their legs felt like lead. They hadn't taken showers in 10 days. They were
exhausted when they got to the bottom as they signed the official book reserved
for those who make the summit.

Later, on their way home, they stopped in Amsterdam, where their legs ached so
badly it hurt to step across a quarter-inch marble ledge into the hotel
bathroom.

"You can't prepare for that descent," Leta says.

A Learning Experience

Both say the climb was more mental than physical, that their determination,
their "summit fever," gave them the strength to make it.

The mountain taught them many things, they say. She doesn't worry about the
house not being spotless like she used to. He doesn't let petty problems get to
him anymore. They both still think about the porters who carried 50 pounds on
their heads for $8 a day. They and others on their climb gave their porters most
of their gear and a $1,000 tip when they parted.

They stay in touch with one of the porters and some climbers by e-mail. They're
even planning to meet up with one climbing couple in Machu Picchu.

As a gift, her parents had their summit certificates and their photos on the
summit framed, along with a poem that ends with a line from T.S. Eliot: "Only
those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go."

(CHART) TO THE SUMMIT

Climbing Kilimanjaro

GUIDES: The Hardys' trail company, Tusker Trail & Safari Co., is based in Reno,
Nev.; www.tusker.com, 1-800-231-1919.

COST: They paid $2,600 each for their climbs, but the price has since gone up to
$2,880. Their air fare was $1,500 each, which has remained about the same. They
gave their porters and guides $500 in tips.

Karen Haymon Long can be reached at (813) 259-7618.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 11 CHART
Photos by DAVE and LETA HARDY (6) Mount Kilimanjaro, a 19,340-foot peak, above,
looms over the landscape of Tanzania in Northeast Africa. Leta and Dave Hardy of
Apollo Beach, left, spent eight days climbing to the summit on a guided trek
after their wedding in January. Hikers go through five climate changes on their
way up and see creatures such as a male horned chameleon, top left, and plants
that grow only on the mountain, second from left. The challenging rocky terrain
affords views of lava towers, third from left, and snow and ice above the cloud
line. That high up, climbers feel as though they could look into airplane
windows, they say. Photos by DAVE and LETA HARDY On the eighth day of scaling
Mount Kilimanjaro, an extinct volcano in Tanzania, the climbers took about two
hours to traverse the last 1,000 feet of elevation to the summit. They were so
exhausted, they posed for pictures, then headed back down immediately. In one of
the climate zones, the moorelands, giant lobelia plants collect water in the
daytime and close at night against the cold. Blue ice looks cool but makes for
tough climbing. Porters carve footholds into the snow and ice. Members of the
expedition sleep in tents carried up the mountain by guides. Leta Hardy, left,
takes each step carefully on the breach of the mountain.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 3, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Forecasters Predict Torrent Of Storms

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


7 TO 9 MORE 'CANES EXPECTED THIS SEASON

By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Hurricane experts said Tuesday that a near record 18 to 21 tropical
storms could form this season.

With an unprecedented seven storms so far, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's forecast calls for 11 to 14 more tropical storms in the
remaining four months of the hurricane season.

Seven to nine hurricanes could develop from those tropical storms, NOAA
scientists said. Three to five of the hurricanes could become major, with winds
more than 111 mph.

A tropical storm may form today -- the National Hurricane Center identified the
season's eighth tropical depression off Bermuda on Tuesday. The storm would be
named Harvey. Forecasters expect it to remain at sea and pose no threat to the
United States.

"We've already had a remarkable season with June and July. Everything indicates
it should be busy for the rest of the season," said Max Mayfield, director of
the National Hurricane Center in Miami.

The prediction does not say how many storms could hit Florida or the United
States. Conditions that change daily affect a hurricane's path.

An average of two or three storms hit the mainland during seasons with a high
number of storms, said Gerry Bell, hurricane expert with the National Center for
Climate Prediction.

If the forecast proves accurate, the 2005 hurricane season would produce twice
the number of storms seen in a typical year.

The prediction comes about two weeks before the start of the hurricane season's
busiest two months.

"The peak of the season is the middle of August to the middle of October,"
Mayfield said.

Conditions in the tropical Atlantic are nearly perfect for hurricanes.

Ocean temperatures are in the mid-80s, or 2 to 3 degrees above normal, providing
fuel for hurricanes. Also, the jet stream that can disrupt hurricane formation
is far to the north and not affecting growing storms.

"We keep looking for some unfavorable conditions and can't find any," Mayfield
said.

Five tropical storms and two hurricanes have formed this year. Both hurricanes
grew into intense storms.

Hurricane Dennis struck the Florida Panhandle in July. Last year, four
hurricanes hit Florida.

The latest prediction is a sharp increase from NOAA's forecast in May of 12 to
15 tropical storms.

If scientists are right, 2005 would be the most active season since 1995, when
19 named storms formed.

Hurricane experts think the 1995 season marked the start of 20 to 30 years of
increased hurricane formation. That followed a period of fewer storms in the
1970s, '80s and first half of the 1990s. On average, Bell said, "we can
certainly expect to see more hurricane damage" as the active cycle continues for
the next 10 to 20 years. "We expect more hurricanes striking the United States."

Major climate conditions, including salinity, ocean temperatures and winds high
in the atmosphere, fluctuate over decades. The changes produce periods favoring
the formation of hurricanes, then switch to periods generating fewer storms. The
NOAA forecast is close to the record for the number of named storms, hurricanes
and major hurricanes.

In 1933, before storms were given names, 21 formed. The season in 1969 had 12
hurricanes, and in 1950, eight major hurricanes formed.

Twenty-one storms would exhaust the list of storm names available for this year.
Once Wilma forms, the hurricane center would turn to the Greek alphabet with the
season's 22nd storm called Alpha.

"It's easy to humble a forecaster, and I hope I am," Mayfield said. "I hope the
media folks come back and ask me why we blew the forecast. I'll take the blame."

(CHART) STORM FORECAST

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicts 11 to 14 more
tropical storms, of which seven to nine could become hurricanes, by the end of
November. Seven storms have formed so far this season.

95' - 19

96' - 13

97' - 8

98' - 14

99' - 12

00' - 14

01' - 15

02' - 12

03' - 16

04' - 15

05' - 7*, 18-21 projected

* Through Aug.

Tribune graphic; Source: National Hurricane Center

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report. Reporter Neil
Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 28, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1055 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Drilling Ignores Reality

Regarding "Drilling For Time" (front page, June 26):

Of course we can drill ourselves out of oil dependence (addiction?). Just like
we can build more highways to solve the road congestion problem!

Just like we can solve a lousy education system on the cheap with FCAT and No
Child Left Behind!

When will citizens of this country - and our so-called leaders - learn that more
of the same is not how we solve the daunting problems challenging us? When will
Florida come to grips with the fact that we are no longer a rural backwater
agrarian state where each of us can pull our oar any which way we choose?

These problems require dealing with the realities of planet Earth in the 21st
century, not sexual orientation and intelligent design.

Lord, deliver us from the reality-challenged!

MIKE MACDONALD

Clearwater

Now He's Remorseful?

Regarding "Dark Mind Tells Of Deadly Crime" (front page, June 24):

Reading this article angered me. Here is a man who admits what he has done to
that little angel of a child, and now he wants to act as if he is remorseful. Or
he's trying to play on some sick fantasy that everyone and everything else is to
blame in hopes that people will feel sorry for him.

Anyone who feels sorry for this man needs to seek professional help. There is a
thin line between sickness and murder.

Being a single mother, I pray to God that I never have to go through this
horror. I envy Mark Lunsford for his courage, bravery and spirit.

GINA M. NAPPI

Brandon

Accused Is "Pure Evil'

John Couey is pure evil. When I read about the latest details of his vicious
crime, I felt like I had to throw up. How can this man go to trial after this
confession, and how can any normal human being defend that monster?

Anyone who believes the others in that trailer didn't know Jessica was there
those three days is nuts. Those three should be charged as accessories.

My heart goes out to Mark Lunsford and the rest of his family. Knowing that
people as evil as Couey walk among us, I hug my 3-year-old daughter a little
tighter every night.

JENNIFER PIOLI

Riverview

No Need For Details

I can speak only for myself as a mother, but I am sure plenty of parents feel
the same as I do. We all know that Jessica Lunsford suffered a terrible fate.
Why the broadcast and print media feel we want to know these further horrific
details of how she was alive when the police first came to the house or how she
was buried alive, I just don't know. Why give that evil man any more press than
is necessary?

We are all more vigilant about our children. Why don't you just stamp "National
Enquirer" on your cover and news programs and be done with it? The only people
who want to read about this are those who seek gruesome details and people like
the accused.

Stop! Is this about selling papers and ad time on your programs, or is it the
news we really want to hear about?

RENEE LOCICERO

Lutz

Senators' Next Project

Thank you for your editorial "A Market Approach To Clean Air" (Our Opinion, June
21). The Tribune is in good company supporting the Climate Stewardship Act.
Earlier this month the bipartisan U.S. Conference of Mayors unanimously passed a
resolution supporting the legislation and pledged numerous actions to curb
global-warming pollution in the nation's cities.

Prior to the conference, 13 mayors from Florida cities -- Miami, West Palm Beach
and Tallahassee among them, but none from the Tampa Bay area -- and 160 mayors
from across the country called on Congress to reduce America's global-warming
pollution. Specifically, they endorsed the Climate Stewardship Act with its
clear pollution-reduction targets and pollution-credit trading system.

The U.S. Senate will consider several global-warming proposals as part of the
energy bill. Given the economic and human health implications to Florida, Sens.
Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson should band together, as they did to protect the
coast from oil drilling, to support the original McCain-Lieberman Climate
Stewardship Act (S 342).

SUSAN GLICKMAN

Indian Rocks Beach

Free Market Is Answer

Your editorial "A Market Approach To Clean Air" (Our Opinion, June 21) appears
to be a private-sector solution to an environmental problem. Actually, it is
more of the same -- an attempt to clean the atmosphere by air-conditioning the
great outdoors. Politicians of all stripes cannot conceive of environmental
improvement through other than political forces.

The private sector has already solved the problem by heating, cooling and
conditioning the air we actually breathe. Central heating became universal
toward the beginning of the 20th century. Air cooling and conditioning evolved
during the last half of that century. The process made us more comfortable and
productive, particularly in the American South. It has been far more effective
than attempts at reversing global warming.

The free market, which has produced these results, could similarly adapt to such
slow changes as melting ice and ocean levels. The same process in time will
benefit poorer countries.

HARRY LEE SMITH

Sun City Center

Tired Of Federal "Pork'

Regarding "Fiscally Irresponsible" (Letters, June 26):

Jim Newsome's letter prompts me to write my own feelings regarding "pork" in the
federal budget.

If articles published in previous editions of The Tampa Tribune are to be
believed, the $1.6 million for the bus stop in Alaska is a drop in the bucket,
considering the millions of dollars of pork in other appropriation bills. I
would like to know: Where is the outrage of the American taxpayer? I wonder if
the offices of our representatives and senators have been deluged with letters
of complaint. I doubt it.

So what can be done to make our representatives in Congress realize that they
are working for the people who elected them, not for special interests and not
to curry favor and obtain money for re-election campaigns? Vote them out of
office? Never happens! By the time election time comes around, we forget their
irresponsible actions and they are re-elected time and time again.

GERALD BANGS

Plant City

Correction

Professor Steve Freedman's affiliation is with the University of Florida; an
incorrect identification appeared with his commentary Sunday about the
Hillsborough County HealthCare Program.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 16, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tort Reform Backers Rally

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH, jstockfisch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


LEGISLATIVE LEADERS, GOVERNOR ON HAND

By JEROME R. STOCKFISCH

jstockfisch@tampatrib.com

TALLAHASSEE -- The annual grudge match over Floridians' right to sue businesses
flared Tuesday with Gov. Jeb Bush telling a Capitol rally "this is the session"
for changes to the state legal system.

The issue commonly referred to in Tallahassee as "tort reform" traditionally
pits two of the capital's most powerful groups -- the business and trial lawyer
lobbies -- against each other in debate over frivolous lawsuits versus the
rights of victims.

With business owners now presiding over both legislative chambers, strong
Republican majorities in each and the governor's staunch support, a series of
bills addressing legal issues appears to have a receptive audience this year.

That was certainly the case in the Capitol courtyard on Tuesday, where a
business coalition invited Bush and legislative heavyweights to make the case
for change.

Bush called Florida an "entrepreneurial heaven." However, he added, "the one
thing about our business climate that is not where it needs to be is the tort
system."

A representative of the Academy of Florida Trial Lawyers called the tort reform
campaign "more of the same."

"There's a constant erosion of individual rights that empower big corporations
and empower insurance companies to make more money," said Scott Carruthers, the
academy's executive director. "It has no benefit to consumers in this state."

With the governor's early blessing, bills have been introduced that seek to:

Eliminate "joint and several" liability, which allows plaintiffs to collect
damages from multiple defendants based on ability to pay rather than degree of
fault

Free retailers from lawsuits against defective products because they sold it

Protect property owners when a third party intentionally injures someone on
their property.

Bills also would limit class-action suits, restrict asbestos litigation and
insulate members of law enforcement involved in vehicle chases.

The Legislature last tackled tort reform on a large scale in 1999, giving
businesses caps on economic damages, statutes of limitations on legal action,
protection against negligent hiring claims, and other revisions.

Bush was joined by House Speaker Allan Bense, R-Panama City, and Senate
President Tom Lee, R-Brandon. Both are successful builders.

Despite the pro-business tone of the rally, Lee was cautious in remarks
afterward.

"I'm not for blanket immunity for anybody from prosecution or claims,"Lee said.
In attempting reforms to stop frivolous litigation, he said, "you also stop a
lot of meritorious claims from people that really do need redress in the court
system."

Reporter Jerome R. Stockfisch can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LEGISLATURE 2005

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by COLIN HACKLEY Gov. Jeb Bush, right, and House Speaker Allan
Bense share a joke in the Capitol courtyard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 28, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words


Coral Reefs In Peril

Florida's coral reefs face serious threats to their survival, according to a
biologist at the University of South Florida. Although reefs around the world
are in peril, those off the Florida coast are near death, said John Ogden,
director of the Florida Institute of Oceanography. Reefs are dying for four
reasons: overfishing, climate change, pollution and coastal overdevelopment.

"Our most degraded reefs are little more than rubble, seaweed and slime," he
said. "Single actions, such as reducing fishing or restricting pollution, tend
not to work. Only combined actions that address all levels of threats can help
reverse the steepening trajectory of coral reef death."

Extinction Theory

Scientists have explained how the atmospheric residue formed in the aftermath of
an asteroid impact 65 million years ago that triggered the extinction of the
dinosaurs. The study, published in the April issue of the journal Geology, draws
a detailed picture of the chemistry of the fireball produced in the impact.

The residue consisted of sand-sized droplets of hot liquid that condensed from
the vapor cloud produced by the asteroid, according to teams from the American
Museum of Natural History and the University of Chicago. When the asteroid
struck, it rapidly released an enormous amount of energy, creating a fireball
that rose far into the stratosphere.

"This giant impact not only crushes the rock and melts the rock, but a lot of
the rock vaporizes," said Lawrence Grossman, a geophysicist at the University of
Chicago. "That vapor is very hot and expands outward from the point of impact,
cooling and expanding as it goes. As it cools the vapor condenses as little
droplets and rains out over the whole Earth."

Numbers In Perspective

Number of people who died in Tampa in the week ended March 12: 202

Number of people who died in St. Petersburg in the week ended March 12: 64

Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Science Stumper

Mike Talbot of Tampa was the first reader to answer our most recent trivia
question: What country is named after a chemical element? Answer: Argentina
takes its name from the Latin word Argentum, meaning silver. The chemical symbol
for silver is Ag.

Now for today's stumper: Roughly how many bee stings does it take to kill a
healthy, 150-pound person? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone
calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
(Bee) The Associated Press (Coral reef)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No Sequel Needed For Storms Of '04

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON, tjackson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words


By TOM JACKSON

tjackson@tampatrib.com

Here, apparently, we go. Again. Back to the land of the Cone of Uncertainty,
storm tracks, eye walls and storm surges.

The season of watching, wondering and worrying has arrived in earnest, with the
prospect of Gulf states being tortured by two tropical systems within days of
each other. It's the sequel nobody wanted to see.

Bonnie and Charley. Cindy and Dennis. First comes a soaking. Then comes the
hammer.

Thanks, Lord. We get it. Enough of Old Testament meteorological fury. We promise
to repent, right after we board up the windows.

OK, guys. No more high-rise condominiums on beaches, and everybody into
gas-electric hybrids. Get Robert Levesque on the phone. Stick a fuel cell motor
in his little space shuttle car, and it's Pulses for everyone.

Climate change. It's not just for tree huggers anymore.

The more pressing question for us is this: To batten down, or not to batten
down? Wobbly as a crowd at the end of a Jimmy Buffet concert, Hurricane Dennis'
Caribbean stagger keeps us guessing. We're in the projected path, now we're out.
In. Out. In. Out.

It's Deja Vu All Over Again

And, as if we need reminding, remember Charley's stunt last year, when it veered
sharply east to pummel Port Charlotte and south-central Florida just hours from
a projected landfall right around Clark's Landing?

Then there was 1985 and Elena, which stalled for three days in the Gulf, lashing
the coasts of Pinellas and Pasco before it pushed on toward Alabama and
Mississippi.

We could go on, but the message is plain. Yogi Berra had it right again: It's
never over 'til it's over.

Thus do we watch, hour by hour, as the massive storm depicted on radar as a
Technicolor blob pinwheels across Cuba and into the Gulf of Mexico, threatening
to submerge the Florida Keys. From there, it's anybody's forecast.

At the very least, we can expect to get wet and windblown for much of the
weekend. Even as this is written Friday afternoon, feeder bands flare across the
state, early warning signals for procrastinators. Got tie-downs?

Long Off-Season, Please

Sadly, many of those whacked hard by the Storms of '04 have not fully recovered.
Alarmingly, some roofs remain unpatched, some debris is yet uncollected, some
homeowners are still in "temporary" quarters. Heaven knows the county hasn't
fixed all the drainage problems exposed last year, and shelters may yet prove to
be in insufficient supply.

Clearly, just like the NBA, the hurricane "off" season is simply too darn short.
Worse, we don't even get training camp. One day it's May, all quiet and pleasant
with a hint of winter's chill in the air. The next day it's Armageddon, with
rain flying sideways and stinging like needles, and anything that isn't stored,
stowed or pinioned with straps, rope or chain may become a deadly missile.

Friday, trees rustled and swayed gently, scarcely hinting at the soggy, howling
monster on our doorstep. Meanwhile, prudent humans collected the usual items:
bottled water, nonperishable foodstuffs, batteries and beer by the six-pack.

They gassed up their cars, swapped empty propane tanks for full ones, grabbed
cash from the ATM, plotted evacuation routes and made plans for their pets.

All the while, they -- we -- guiltily hoped Dennis would go somewhere else.
After all, we've seen this show before.

Columnist Tom Jackson can be reached at (813) 948-4219.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 8, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hurricane Forecasters Say Season To Be Busy

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


GRAY PREDICTS 11 STORMS, 2 MAJOR

By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Hurricane season forecasters agree that the 2005 season could be an
active one.

The best known of the forecasters, Colorado State University Professor William
Gray, is calling for the season to generate 11 tropical storms, with six
becoming hurricanes and two growing to major storms with winds exceeding 111
mph.

The average season has nine tropical storms, with six becoming hurricanes and
two reaching major storm strength. An even less cheery outlook comes from a
group based at University College London. It started issuing hurricane season
forecasts in 1998.

That group, called Tropical Storm Risk, expects 14 tropical storms. Eight will
become hurricanes, with four growing to major storms of Category 3 or higher.

Unlike Gray, who does not predict where storms will hit, Tropical Storm Risk
predicts the United States will be struck by two tropical storms and two
hurricanes this year.

"That is similar to what we forecast last year," said Mark Saunders, lead
scientist for Tropical Storm Risk.

The number of storms hitting this country is based on records dating to 1950,
comparing the number of storms that formed and the number striking the United
States.

Two main climate conditions indicate an active hurricane season, June 1 through
Nov. 30, Saunders said.

The water in the tropical Atlantic is warmer than normal. Winds high in the
atmosphere blowing from east to west are weaker than normal. Both, he said, make
conditions better for hurricane formation.

Warmer water strengthens hurricanes. Weaker winds help create more spin for the
forming storms, Saunders said.

Gray and Saunders agree that climate conditions are ripe for more hurricanes.

"Since the mid-1990s, the pattern has favored increased hurricane activity,"
Saunders said.

Gray thinks such patterns last decades, then change to favor less hurricane
activity.

Though offering a slightly different forecast, Florida State University also
sees a 2005 season with more than the normal number of storms. The long-term
average is one or two storms a year hitting Florida.

FSU issues forecasts for the next six seasons but doesn't pinpoint a number of
storms.

The forecast for the coming season is for six to seven hurricanes to form.

"It's slightly above average," said Jim Elsner, FSU professor of geography.

No one is predicting four hurricanes hitting Florida this year.

"It's highly unlikely, but the probability is not zero," Elsner said.

An active season does not mean more storms will hit Florida, but a quiet season
is no guarantee the state will be spared, said Frank LePore, spokesman for the
National Hurricane Center in Miami.

There were only four hurricanes in 1992, but one was Hurricane Andrew.

The hurricane center and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will
issue their forecast May 16.

Gray and Tropical Storm Risk will revise their forecasts before the season
begins.

LePore said the forecasts increase people's awareness of hurricanes but that
they shouldn't base preparations on the number of expected storms.

"It's best to prepare for one storm, then you're prepared for all the storms,"
he said.

(CHART) 2004 PREDICTIONS VS. REALITY

Named Hurricanes Major

storms* hurricanes

William Gray: 14 8 3

TSR: 13 7 3

2004 season: 14 8 6

* The National Hurricane Center gives tropical storms a name when winds reach 39
mph.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Colorado State University Professor William Gray says conditions are right for
more Atlantic storms.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 22, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Academic Freedom Bill Faces Skeptics

BYLINE: GARY HABER, ghaber@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


SPONSOR MAKES PITCH TO COLLEGE CHIEFS

By GARY HABER

ghaber@tampatrib.com

TALLAHASSEE -- State Rep. Dennis Baxley made his case for the rights of
conservative college students Thursday with Florida's university presidents and
the Board of Governors.

They are the people running schools where, he says, the political climate leans
so far left, conservatives often are ridiculed for their views.

Baxley, R-Ocala, is the sponsor of House Bill 837, which would guarantee
students are not graded based on their political and religious beliefs.

The bill also would require professors to present a broad range of ideological
views.

Baxley told the State University Presidents Association he has heard from
conservative students across the state who say they have been discriminated
against for their opinions.

"We want diversity," Baxley said. "We're not talking about quotas, but we're
getting too lopsided."

Baxley got a warm reception from the presidents and from the Board of Governors,
but he acknowledged that getting his bill passed into law might be a long shot.

"It might be on life support," Baxley told reporters. "It may have a feeding
tube in it."

He told the university presidents about a student at Florida State University
who said a professor there told him he does not give A's to Republicans.

Baxley declined to identify the student or the professor.

Baxley said "leftists" had taken control of the state's universities, and
conservative, pro-abortion rights Christians especially were being targeted for
their views.

"If you fit that profile, God help you," Baxley said. "Nobody's defending you.
You're on your own."

The university presidents told Baxley they, too, want an open debate on campus
and will review procedures to ensure students who think they are treated
unfairly can have their complaints addressed.

"Universities really do believe we're the marketplace of ideas on all ends of
the spectrum," said John Cavanaugh, president of the association and president
of the University of West Florida.

Florida State University President T.K. Wetherell said today's students are not
afraid to speak out when they think a professor is unfair in grading.

He said that in his two years at FSU, he has not heard of any students who
complained of receiving a poor grade because of their political views.

Wetherell, a former House speaker, said voting patterns and strong student
conservative groups show liberals do not outnumber conservatives on the state's
college campuses.

"I don't think you have this bastion of liberalism," Wetherell said.

Stanley Marshall, a Board of Governors member and a former FSU president, said
he doubts faculty routinely give students poor grades because they do not agree
with a professor's political views.

"I think you know I don't favor this bill as written," Marshall said.

"If we can do something short of legislation, that is preferred."

Howard Rock, a history professor at Florida International University and a
former member of the Board of Governors, said Baxley's bill isn't needed because
professors encourage open debate and want students to speak their minds.

"It's a phony issue to push a conservative agenda," Rock said.

Baxley said that even if his bill doesn't become law, it has gotten people
talking about an issue he says needs to be addressed.

"I'm looking for climate change," he said.

Reporter Gary Haber can be reached at (813) 259-8285.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDUCATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Associated Press Florida International University Professor Martha Palaez
and Rep. Dennis Baxley chat after a meeting Thursday with university presidents.
In the background is IUF Professor Howard Rock. Universities really do believe
we're the marketplace of ideas on all ends of the spectrum. JOHN CAVANAUGH
President of SUPA and the University of West Florida

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 1, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Landscapers Want Rules Pared

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY


CRITICS TAKE AIM AT ORDINANCE

By KEVIN WIATROWSKI

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

NEW PORT RICHEY -- They came Tuesday afternoon to criticize the county's
landscaping ordinance, not to praise it.

From across Pasco and Hillsborough counties, landscape architects,
horticulturists and residents took the county up on its offer to vent their
frustrations and concerns about the county's Landscaping and Irrigation
Ordinance. The county law has found little favor among many who must work under
it.

The rules were written in 2002 to soften the hard edges of Pasco's runaway
development and to curb water use at a time of drought.

Since then, though, interpreting and enforcing the ordinance has raised the
price tags on projects and the hackles of developers.

The number of people seeking exemptions to the rules doubled from 2003 to 2004
as a result.

"For small-business people like ourselves, it's really onerous," said Frank
Naples, owner of Pro-Tech Custom Cabinets in Hudson.

Naples said he spent $98,000 for 10 acres he planned to develop, then spent
$36,000 to landscape the first 3 acres. Developing the rest of the land will
cost $250,000 or more, he said.

Complicating matters, Naples said, landscapers have had trouble finding the
plants listed as acceptable in the ordinance, some of which won't survive in
Pasco's climate.

A chief criticism by landscapers of the ordinance is its rigidity, the way it
spells out specific plant sizes and placements, leaving little room for
creativity.

"What we're going to get is more "codescape' than landscape, and that's wrong,"
landscaper Stan Geda said.

Landscapers also complained that inspectors will hold up a project at the last
minute if plants are an inch too short.

Earlier attempts at flexibility met with resistance from county residents who
demanded inspectors stick to the letter of the law, Development Review Director
Cindy Jolly said.

County Commissioner Jack Mariano lined up the workshop, the second after one
attended largely by developers.

He declined to blame anyone in particular for the current state of the
ordinance.

Mariano said county staff is likely to start revising the ordinance this month
with an eye toward changes that address landowners' complaints.

Those changes will go back to the public for comments.

"We'll have a much better landscaping ordinance that will not cause a lot of
issues for business people," Mariano said.

Reporter Kevin Wiatrowski can be reached at (813) 948-4201.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 10, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ill-Mannered Storms Cries "Liar! Liar!" Much Too Much

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words


Once again, Hillsborough County Commissioner Ronda Storms has accused someone of
lying. She made the claim during Ron Reagan's television show on MSNBC, poorly
representing how people in Hillsborough County talk to one another.

Storms said a local gay-rights website misrepresented her position by saying
gays were banned from Hillsborough. It didn't. But that didn't stop her from
suggesting that if her opponent's position had any validity, "She wouldn't have
to rely on lies!"

Citizens expect elected leaders to ask tough questions, guard tax money like a
bulldog and challenge facts for spin. We don't expect them to be name callers.

It's time to call out Ronda Storms for bad behavior, for polluting the public
discourse, for labeling people as liars.

"That turns out, my friends, to be a lie. L-I-E, lie." -- Ronda Storms, March
17, 2004

Name calling, like flag burning, is protected by the First Amendment -- an
inalienable right worth fighting for because free speech, even repugnant speech,
is a cherished freedom.

Most of us honor an honest debate unvarnished by political correctness. Still,
we recognize a civilized culture has its norms.

In other words, drop the attitude. People will hear you better.

"Let's just cut to the chase, Mr. McCrae. The allegation apparently is you're
lying. Are you lying in your letter?" -- Ronda Storms, Oct. 25, 2003

We see coarse incivility in our national politics all the time. A Google search
identifies 927,000 Web sites with the line "Bush is a liar." Another 192,000 Web
sites say "Hillary is a liar." Topping both, with more than 1.9 million Web
sites, is, "Are you calling me a liar?"

Clearly, cultural norms are deteriorating and most of us are at a loss to stop
the decline.

"I'm just going to lay it out there. I was just flat lied to." -- Ronda Storms,
Oct. 2, 2002

Jack Shafer, editor-at-large for the online magazine Slate, describes the
erosion this way: "The best way to gain the momentary advantage in a debate is
to call your opponent a liar. ... Your sucker-punched foe will gasp, the
audience will move to the edge of their seats, and the flustered moderator will
struggle to regain control. ...

"If liar-liar fails, your next fallback is to call your foe depraved,
unpatriotic, or immoral."

Such is the climate facing people who appear before our county commission, which
spends more than $3 billion of our tax dollars. It is not a climate where people
feel free -- let alone encouraged and expected -- to express themselves in a
candid, perhaps non-perfect, way.

"If you are lying (to) this board, there should be some sort of penalties."

-- Ronda Storms, Oct. 3, 2001

More than one person has expressed reluctance -- bordering on fear -- about
approaching the county's podium. It's like going on the Jerry Springer show,
knowing that the loudest mouth attracts the camera. The dialogue is not about a
search for the truth, it's about winning.

"That's patently false. It's not true. That's otherwise known as a lie."

-- Ronda Storms, Nov. 4, 2004

Storms' commission colleagues do little but roll their eyes, seemingly inured to
the venom of her hateful speech. They accept her angry tone, her gotcha
approach, like a battered woman who thinks abuse is normal. That's how abusers
-- including verbal abusers -- behave, like what they're doing is right and
normal.

"Asking somebody, "Are you telling the truth?' doesn't chill (people) unless
they're lying." -- Ronda Storms, Feb. 21, 2002

If you, as a citizen of Hillsborough County, agree that basic values -- like
civility, etiquette and good graces -- should be restored to our public square,
now's the time to speak out. We may not be able to change the tone of the
national conversation, but we can call out bad behavior at home.

Tell Storms that the ends don't justify the means, that she is disrespectful and
that we expect a higher standard of conduct. Tell her that we want our leaders
to represent us with dignity. Tell her that we honor constructive, respectful,
productive dialogue.

Tell Storms that her liar-liar strategy embarrassed us before the nation.

(CHART) DON'T CALL NAMES

Let Ronda Storms know you object to name calling.

Office phone: 813-272-5740

Office fax: 813-272-7049

Email: Stormsr@hillsboroughcounty.org

Address: Hillsborough County Commissioners

Post Office Box 1110, Tampa, FL 33601

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 CHART
(Ronda Storms) MSNBC via News Channel 8 During an appearance on MSNBC, Ronda
Storms (right) wrongly accused Nadine Smith, executive director of the
gay-rights group Equality Florida, of lying. Show host Ron Reagan chided Storms
for her language, saying, "Let's not call names, now."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 24, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Developer Rethinks Ballyhooed Condo Plan

BYLINE: SHANNON BEHNKEN, sbehnken@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


UNION-LABOR SCARCITY, RISING COSTS CITED

By SHANNON BEHNKEN

sbehnken@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Rising construction costs and pressure to find union labor could change
the scope of the O2 condominium project in the Channel District.

The development, known as much for its high-end image marketing as for its
association with a 10-year plan for a Space Needle-like tower next to the
property, is being retooled and could go in several directions, a joint partner
in the deal said.

Tim Morris, chief executive officer of Corvus International, said the project
probably will include another condo building and possibly a hotel to spread the
financial risk.

Other options include selling out Corvus' stake in the property. If the project
is sold or downsized, the developer may refund deposits to people hoping to buy
a unit.

"It's a pretty tough climate now for construction," said Morris, whose
Birmingham, Mich., company is a joint partner in the project. "We're going
through site development again to see how we can build more cost-effectively and
make sure we deliver the quality we're known for."

The twin 41-story condo project is being redesigned because of rising
construction costs and recommendations by the Federal Aviation Administration
that could require the developer to build lower, Morris said.

Another potential sticking point is labor. The project is being financed in part
by union pension funds, which require the developer to hire as much union labor
as possible. The company typically builds its projects with 100 percent union
labor. That's difficult in Tampa Bay's soft union climate, Morris said.

Ed Dees, president of the Gulf Coast Building Trade Council, made up of 15 Tampa
Bay area construction unions with 20,000 members, said he could find enough
union labor to do the job.

"There's plenty of union workers in the area, and it's easy to get workers to
come down from the North," Dees said.

The 02 condominium project is part of the original plan for the proposed 12-acre
Pinnacle Place, a mix of condos, retail stores, an amphitheater and a 624-foot
observation tower. The site is on Channelside Drive, west of Meridian Avenue.

Frank DeBose, president of Pinnacle Group Holdings, brought in Corvus about 10
months ago to develop the condos. The condos would take up 6 acres. Pinnacle
Group is working on plans for the other 6 acres, which it owns outright, DeBose
said. He declined comment of whether the needle is still planned or on the
status of the condos.

"We're working on stuff on the east side of the property, and it will be bigger
and better and brighter," DeBose said. "The 02 condos don't have anything to do
with Pinnacle Place."

No matter what is built, Dees hopes union labor is used. Projects such as the 02
condominiums, he said, give unions the opportunity to boost their workers'
pension plans and create union jobs.

The Gulf Coast Building Trade Council is financing four other building projects
in Florida, he said.

Construction of the 02 condominiums was supposed to start this year. If Corvus
moves forward on the project, Morris said he hopes to present new plans to city
officials in November and start construction early next year.

Other Corvus projects under construction include Bel Mare, a complex of three
15-story condominiums and a waterfront shopping village in Palmetto, and
Positano on the Gulf, 28 luxury condominiums on Longboat Key.

Reporter Shannon Behnken can be reached at (813) 259-7804.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP
Tribune map 02 CONDOMINIUMS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 12, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Vision Renewed

BYLINE: CANDACE J. SAMOLINSKI, csamolinski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2387 words


Temple Terrace plans to redevelop a blighted shopping center and its surrounding
area in hopes of realizing a dream that has eluded the city since its founding
-- a downtown.

By CANDACE J. SAMOLINSKI

csamolinski@tampatrib.com

TEMPLE TERRACE - It was the vision of wealthy Northerners, who wanted to build a
city rich with civic spirit, a vibrant downtown and strong family values.

Some 80 years later, Temple Terrace has two out of three. Many of its 23,000
residents are active in local politics, churches and schools, and its tree-lined
streets are home to some of the highest-priced real estate in Hillsborough
County.

Yet the city has struggled to find an identity as repeated attempts to create a
downtown have failed.

"When people think of Temple Terrace now, they think of Carrabba's and Burger
King or all of the traffic along 56th Street and Busch Boulevard," said Ralph
Bosek, the city's community services director. "We just want to build a core,
someplace that can be the heart of Temple Terrace, and put a prettier and more
interesting face on it."

On Thursday, the city embarks on its latest effort to do just that, when it
unveils a redevelopment plan for Terrace Plaza Shopping Center and surrounding
areas.

How Temple Terrace remakes itself may set the stage for other communities in the
Tampa Bay area, said Ray Chiaramonte, assistant executive director of
Hillsborough's City-County Planning Commission. The city's plan to use "new
urbanism" design principles to incorporate shopping, entertainment and
residential elements is in line with a national trend.

"Temple Terrace represents a certain period of development that's very common,"
he said. "It's a development from the 1950s, '60s and early '70s, and it is all
over Hillsborough County. So I looked at it as a model for Town 'N Country,
south Tampa, Brandon and other areas.

"We have a lot of these strip centers that have outlived their usefulness, in a
sense. So they are going to get redeveloped and how are we going to do it, other
than just putting a new canopy over it all?"

The design concept has been used to revive ailing shopping districts such as
Fifth Avenue South in Naples and Main Street in Dunedin. It's the foundation of
new developments such as West Park Village in West Tampa, the Garden District at
FishHawk Ranch in Lithia and Old Hyde Park Village in south Tampa.

Chasing The Dream

Blighted Terrace Plaza, along 56th Street between Bullard Parkway and Riverhills
Drive, didn't start out as an eyesore. In 1967, when the city experienced its
biggest building boom since 1913, a $730,000 shopping center was under
construction. Terrace Plaza was billed as a destination that would give
residents a place to buy necessities and luxuries and visit with neighbors. It
was in line with the 1922 town plan.

Residents eventually got a shopping center in keeping with the times. The strip
shopping center sits on land set aside in the plan for a downtown. The plan, now
displayed in the Temple Terrace Public Library, is a reminder of the founders'
intentions to have a place where people could shop, do government business, be
entertained and live.

As the Great Depression stopped early development of the city, soaring inflation
in the 1970s had the same effect. As traffic increased, 56th Street became a
major thoroughfare that most residents viewed as a way to get from their homes
in Temple Terrace to their jobs in Tampa, and the shopping center was a means to
an end rather than a place to linger.

"If you look at the neighborhoods that are most desirable in most communities,
you're going to find most were neighborhoods designed before [World War II],"
Chiaramonte said. "It's almost like we've engineered our cities to accommodate
cars. You try walking along 56th Street. It's not a pleasant experience or
someplace you want to stay."

A decade after Terrace Plaza was built, the dream of having a downtown was
renewed. In 1977, then-Mayor Joe Bondi proposed building a civic center on the
site, beautifying the shopping area and creating office space for civic groups.
A year later, Bondi left office and the proposal was dropped.

The city did build a city hall with a police department on the third floor and a
family recreation center, all outside the town center, during Bondi's tenure.

The current city government wants a new police station in the redevelopment
area, despite some residents' protests about including government buildings. The
city council has split on including a city hall or a performing arts center.

It also is grappling with how to include existing plaza tenants, such as Burger
King, Kash 'n Karry and Regions Bank. Drive-up windows are something the city
doesn't want, but some council members worry about pricing out lower- and
middle-income families by doing away with fast food.

"We need to build a city for all," said Councilwoman Linda Shattles.

These days, Bondi, who is retired, is keeping a close watch on redevelopment
plans. He is critical of the plan from Unicorp National Developments of Orlando
that was released in July and had a $300 million price tag.

The plan, created through a series of workshops in 2004, was shelved after a
failed Aug. 2 bond referendum to pay the city's $20 million share. The plan that
will be presented Thursday is a scaled-down version, but no cost estimate has
been released.

Voters' rejection of the referendum was disappointing, said Austin Simmons, vice
president of retail development for Unicorp in Tampa. But the revised proposal,
he said, although less grand, is viable.

In recent years, the city has spent nearly $25 million buying property in the
scaled-down redevelopment area. The loans come due in 2008. City leaders and
some residents say it's time to face reality.

Bondi and others who voted against the referendum say the city has neglected
other services in favor of revitalization.

"I say you need to redirect some of the tax dollars into stronger code
enforcement and tougher police protection," Bondi said. "Unless they do
something about the rest of the city, the only businesses we will have in the
redevelopment area will be check-cashing stores, blood-selling stores and dollar
stores."

City Faces Change

Unlike the days when wealthy entrepreneurs lived in winter homes and spent their
days golfing and hunting, today's Temple Terrace is home to varied socioeconomic
classes, races and creeds.

It has one of the largest Muslim communities in the Tampa Bay area, estimated at
6,000 people, and many of those residents own businesses along 56th Street north
of the redevelopment area.

Not everyone has embraced the changes in the city's makeup, and some fear the
redevelopment will come at too great a cost.

"I'm not against poor people or low income. It's just that there are all of
these other factors that we're not paying attention to," Bondi said. "Temple
Terrace was always middle- to upper-income. Now we have multifamilies living in
apartments made for single families. We need to encourage high-income housing
rather than low-income."

The revised redevelopment plan calls for building about 300 residences, many
along the Hillsborough River, Simmons said. The city wants another developer to
buy Doral Oaks, an aging apartment complex at Bullard Parkway and Sunnyside
Road, and to convert it into upscale condominiums.

"If I build 300 residences, that's a big number for Temple Terrace. Those are
going to be middle- to upper-income and probably will sell as soon as they're
offered," Simmons said.

"There is an element there of 'not in my back yard.' I'm not going to pretend
that it's easy. You are never completely able to integrate and we won't aim to
do that with the architecture, but we will with the retail tenants."

Publicly, city leaders have said getting minority groups involved in the
redevelopment effort is a priority. By all accounts, feelings are mixed about
whether the message is reaching those groups.

"We have a great resource in our diversity," Bosek said. "I would love to see an
upscale Middle Eastern restaurant in the redevelopment area. We have a major
university nearby [University of South Florida], but we don't look like a
college town. We aren't capitalizing on what we have here."

Bridging the gap with the Muslim community might be the biggest challenge.

"Traditionally, given the climate that we're in, Muslims are reluctant because
they are concerned about how they will be perceived," said Ahmed Bedier,
director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. "Different groups have
different ways that you have to reach out to them. Not everybody reads the same
publications or goes to the same meetings."

As the city moves forward with its plans, Bosek and the city council said there
will be difficult choices. Regardless of whether they support or oppose the
redevelopment, one thing is certain: Residents will be watching.

(CHART)THE PLAN

Planners recommend three changes along 56th Street and Bullard Parkway to ensure

Temple Terrace's redevelopment succeeds:

Tame traffic on 56th Street to make the street safer, more interesting and more
walker-friendly.

Transform Doral Oaks Apartments from a lowerincome housing complex into a more
desirable community where residents can walk to amenities in the redevelopment
district.

Attract quality retailers by working with Terrace Plaza tenants to figure out
what businesses are the best fit.

Source: Temple Terrace Community Services

THE COMMUNITY

Temple Terrace was founded in May 1925 as a golf course community catering to

the wealthy.

It grew from a 1922 town plan created by a team of notable architects. Economic

hardships stalled the plan in 1929, and projects for the same area now being
targeted for redevelopment were abandoned.

Today's population is about 23,000.

The 2000 census found whites accounted for 80.5 percent of the population,

followed by blacks at 11.2 percent and Asians at 2.6 percent. Of the total
population, 11.3 percent identified themselves as Hispanic, which includes
whites and blacks. English was the only language spoken in 82.8 percent of
homes; 17.2 percent of residents spoke other languages.

It is home to about 6,000 Muslims, one of the largest concentrations in the
Tampa Bay area.

The median age was 35 in 2000, and the median family income was $56,809.

More than 90 percent of residents were high school graduates, and 43.5 percent

held a bachelor's degree.

The census reported 8,671 housing units were occupied. Of those, 61 percent were

owner-occupied and 39 percent were rentals. The households were home to 5,346

families and 2,502 people living alone.

Reporter Candace J. Samolinski can be reached at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 28.

(MAP) DOWNTOWN TEMPLE TERRACE PROPOSAL

This scaled-down version of the Temple Terrace downtown redevelopment project is
to be completed in two phases within six years. The first phase would stretch
from Bullard Parkway and 56th Street south to Chicago Avenue and would include
mixed-use buildings for shopping and residences. A second phase would stretch
from Chicago Avenue south to the Hillsborough River at Riverhills Drive and
could include condo-style residences along the waterway.

Tribune graphic; Source: Temple Terrace Community Services

Photo credit: Tribune photo illustration by CAROL CLEERE and Tribune photos by
CANDACE C. MUNDY

Photo: (Repainting Temple Terrace billboard)

Photo: "I liked the idea; I just didn't like the price tag." ANN DAMIS Owner of
Ann's Flower Mart, in business 39 years across North 56th Street from Terrace
Plaza Shopping Center

Photo: "I think we have a better project here before us, and the project will
grow itself." EDDIE ADAMS JR. Former Temple Terrace City Council candidate, who
ran for office to get minority groups involved in the redevelopment effort

Photo: "We're unsure about the details - whether it's because we haven't done
enough homework on it or the city hasn't been reaching out enough." AHMED BEDIER
Council on American-Islamic Relations

Photo: "It looks bad over there and that reflects on all of the businesses in
this area, but no one has ever asked me what I think." SANTA SANCHEZ President
of Vimaheisa's Multi Services

Photo: The redevelopment plan's design concept has been used to revive ailing
shopping districts such as Fifth Avenue South in Naples, above.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by CANDACE C. MUNDY

Photo: The usual heavy traffic along 56th Street would be replaced with fewer
cars and more pedestrians if planners have their way.

Photo: The town's 1922 plan, located in the Temple Terrace Public Library, is a
reminder of the founders' wishes for a place for shopping, government business,
entertainment and living.

Photo: Now in disrepair, Terrace Plaza was billed as a destination that would
give residents a place to buy necessities and luxuries and visit with neighbors
when it was built in 1967.

Photo: "We are looking for a sense of place here. You could drop here out of the
sky and then we could go up to Bruce B. Downs and there would be no difference.
I really think that this time we are going to make it work." PATRICK FINELLI
Chairman of the Revitalization Task Force, who has been involved with
revitalization efforts since 2001

Photo: "I think it's a good idea, not only for myself, but for others. We are
from Europe, and in Albania when there is a plaza like here, people can walk.
It's fun. Especially like on weekends, people can walk, stop and drink coffee or
whatever. It's different." JOSIF BINJAKU Owner of Stefano Greek and Italian
Restaurant, across North 56th Street from Terrace Plaza for 10 years.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by CANDACE C. MUNDY

Photo: Traffic travels into Temple Terrace after crossing the bridge over the
Hillsborough River. The grassy area could give way to upscale condos as part of
a redevelopment effort.

Photo: A bank in Naples is an example of how businesses that rely on drive-up
windows can be built in otherwise pedestrian-friendly areas.

Photo: An existing Regions Bank wants to be part of the new Temple Terrace, but
some officials are opposed to allowing drive-up windows.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Upscale town homes are going up in the garden district in Fishhawk. They
are an example of the "new urbanism" design that Temple Terrace hopes to
incorporate in its redevelopment.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 15 CHART MAP
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 7, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Prepare Now For '05 Storm Season

BYLINE: CARL ORTH, The Suncoast News

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY


RESIDENTS ARE URGED TO GATHER SUPPLIES

By CARL ORTH

The Suncoast News

NEW PORT RICHEY -- Like the proverbial ant preparing for hard times while the
grasshopper played, smart people should begin getting ready for the 2005
Atlantic hurricane season, even though it's three months away.

For example, now is the time to install shutters or gather items for disaster
supplies, urged Michele Baker, Pasco's director of emergency management.

If residents wait until the hurricane season officially starts June 1, they
might find that many contractors already are booked with jobs to install
shutters or other window protection.

Contractors typically need some lead time to measure a home and order materials,
Baker said.

"A typical replacement project of 10 to 12 windows takes four to five weeks,"
according to a news release from PGT Industries, a Florida manufacturer of
custom windows, doors and patio rooms.

The same weather pattern that helped steer four storms in six weeks across
Florida in August and September remains intact, Baker cautioned.

That "Bermuda high," the warm trade winds from the Gulf Stream, contributed to
the path of destruction of the four hurricanes.

In addition, some climate scientists say the Pacific-based El Niño weather
system remains weak, which makes tropical storm activity in the Atlantic Basin
more likely.

So forecasters are predicting a slightly more active hurricane season this year,
Baker said.

"It doesn't have to be the big one to have an impact," she said.

The county and residents had their hands full just keeping up with emergencies
from tropical-storm-force winds, Baker observed.

A weakened Hurricane Frances still packed enough of a wallop to damage 782 Pasco
homes and leave some 45,000 people without electricity for up to a week.

Jeanne destroyed 16 homes, pounded another 500 homes with major damage and
inflicted at least minor damage on 2,800 other residences. About 110,000 people
lost power for up to four days.

Baker also advises people to begin stocking their disaster supply kits.

An entire kit might cost hundreds of dollars if purchased at one time. So she
tells people to buy one item on each visit to the supermarket.

For a disaster supplies list, visit www.pascocountyfl .net/oem/supplies.asp
.net/oem/supplies.aspon Pasco County's Web site.

Meanwhile, Baker traveled to Tallahassee recently for the first meeting of a
statewide task force about sheltering people with special needs, such as oxygen.

Peg Thomas, Pasco's special-needs coordinator, will attend future task force
meetings.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 20, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hudson's Ladimir Resigns

BYLINE: JOEY KNIGHT, jknight@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: HUDSON


HUDSON -- After seven seasons as Hudson's boys tennis and soccer coach, Ron
Ladimir no longer can take the heat associated with those jobs.

Nor the humidity.

Desiring a change of scenery, and seasons, Ladimir, 29, has resigned to relocate
his family to North Carolina. A 1993 Hudson graduate, he leaves next month for
Union County, where he'll teach math and coach boys and girls soccer at Porter
Ridge High, set to open next fall.

The new school is only miles from Wingate University, where Ladimir evolved into
a Division II All-American soccer player in the mid-1990s.

Though the opportunity to establish programs intrigued him, Ladimir reaffirmed
one of his primary reasons for moving was North Carolina's milder climate.
Ladimir is a New York native, and his wife, Cynthia, is from Cleveland. The
couple has a 9-month-old son, Nathan.

"I'm from the North, my wife's from the North, and [the change of seasons] is
something we wanted our son to experience," Ladimir said Tuesday at the Class
2A-District 8 boys tennis tournament, where his Hudson coaching career formally
ended.

"It's too hot [in Florida]."

Both of Ladimir's programs at Hudson enjoyed considerable success during his
tenure. His soccer teams won four district crowns and reached a region final,
while his tennis teams won a pair of conference and district championships.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Ron Ladimir

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Copying Original

BYLINE: Ted Jackovics

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


By going his own way, Chairman Tom Johnson has built Global Imaging Systems into
the fifth-largest U.S. office technology company.

TAMPA -- Global Imaging Systems Inc. is considered the fifth-largest U.S. office
technology distributor behind Xerox, Ikon, Danka and a Canon unit and among the
top 10 in companies based in the Tampa Bay area in revenue.

The Tampa-based company is on target to surpass $1 billion in sales this year,
but founder Tom Johnson turns elsewhere to define success.

"We have never looked to be the biggest company, but we have looked to be the
most profitable," said Johnson, 59, who is chairman and chief executive. "A
billion dollars in sales is a nice round number. We hit $1 billion in capital
and market value and that, too, is an important milestone."

Johnson discussed some of his thoughts on management with Tribune reporter Ted
Jackovics on the eve of Tuesday's release of Global Imaging's year-end fiscal
results -- its 10th full year of operation. Answers were edited for brevity.

Q: Why did you choose Tampa as Global Imaging's headquarters?

A: This is my home, I was born in Tampa and grew up in Dade City. When I moved
back to Florida to start my business, it was normal to return home. Over the
years, it has not been much of a sell to convince people to move to Tampa. We
only have 45 to 47 people here, but when we need to hire for various skilled
positions ... the climate is good, the cost of living generally lower ... and we
have no problem recruiting.

Q: Global Imaging has acquired dealerships in 30 states, seeking successful
companies with the notion of improving them while preserving their identities as
independently operated businesses. What is your outlook for Florida, where you
have no outlets?

A: There are a dozen good businesses in Florida and two or three that could
become core [outlets] for us, places where I know the management well enough. We
have not had a meeting of the minds yet. We would not buy a business for the
sake of buying one. That is when you tend to overpay.

Q: Imagine a business that made no changes in its office technology equipment in
the past 10 years. What would it find that is new today?

A: Ten years ago, copy machines were analog and stood alone, over in a corner or
down the hall behind an administrative assistant's desk. You had to walk over
there, haul the originals in and the copies out, take them back to the desk and
staple or three-hole punch them and put them in a folder. It wasn't very
productive.

Today the equipment is digital, attached to the PC in the office and attached to
the Internet. You can transfer images anywhere in the world and print them
there, rather than printing and shipping copies.

We used to sell copiers with features. Now we sell copiers, attach them to the
network, and we sell software to do specific functions to help control a
business's costs.

Today, it is more about software than electromechanical systems. If you are not
software savvy, you are missing the boat in helping customers get the maximum
productivity from their office technology. That is the biggest difference.

Q: The middle market has been Global Imaging's primary niche, businesses with
between 15 and 1,000 employees. Any change in that strategy on the horizon?

A: We compete against Xerox, Danka and Ikon for the middle market, but over the
years they have become focused on Fortune 500 and Fortune 1000 companies and
seemed to have [lost] their focus on the middle market. That is where we came in
and why we have real internal growth [growth that is self-generated instead of
coming through acquisitions] every quarter while the others have not over the
past five to seven years.

Q: Last year you told shareholders that Global Imaging realized $225,000 in
revenue per employee, compared with $212,000 for Xerox and $140,000 for Danka.
How do you maintain the performance in production with a far-flung network of
independent companies?

A: It gets back to the culture of our company and maintaining it. Our culture is
based on profits and productivity, not sales and size. I worked for someone [at
Ikon] who said he could not wait to run a $10 billion company and after I left,
they focused on size, not on profits and performance. As a result they lost
their culture. They are struggling to get back and are doing much better.

We have a very few layers of management between the teams in the field and
myself, three or four levels, that's it. That way, we can better communicate our
culture.

What we do is we coach our companies up to what we want to achieve. We look to
who is doing it best on the smallest microcosm. If that becomes a trend that can
be sustained, we try to revise our [overall] model on what we are trying to
achieve.

If we put an [under-performing] company on our watch list, we focus experts here
on that company to help them recuperate, kind of like doctors of business. I am
not talking about a company making zero profit. I am talking about a company
that made 15 percent profit -- our model -- and slid down to 13 percent. We have
never had a business lose money.

Our model used to be 10 percent profit. Then 12. To 13. To 14 and now 15. At the
same time, we are doing more with the same number of people and that allows us
to pay them better.

Q: What are the greatest challenges for your dealerships, given the tight
economy that requires customers to watch expenses, while office technology
continues to advance?

A: The bigger companies that are not doing well bid down prices pretty
aggressively. What we try to do to fight that is show our track record with a
customer, sell value rather than price, provide great service. Then if we show
them how to stay productive and competitive, price becomes less of an issue.
Because we keep [expenses] down, we can make a profit on deals where our
competitors cannot.

Q: What challenges do you face in terms of continuity and leadership in your
company? Must you consider grooming potential successors at this point?

A: My contract runs through 2008. That does not mean I might not continue beyond
that. We have been able to create the next generation of senior management
[primarily] from within, something I started two years ago.

Q: You maintain a low profile in the local community, although there are
business people and organizations who are very aware of your contributions. Are
you basically low-key?

A: We get pleasure out of contributing rather than receiving accolades. I
[generally] do not go to award dinners. That is not what I am about. The company
contributes each month to four organizations -- Metropolitan Ministries, the
Joshua House, the Centre for Women, and the University of Florida, primarily the
Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation. I generally match those
contributions. We were able to bring in Arnold Heggestad, the director of the UF
center, to put together a two-day program for our management on
entrepreneurship. That is important as we move from entrepreneurial management
to professional management over the years. I want to preserve our
entrepreneurial verve.

Q: You have academic degrees from the University of Florida and Harvard's
business school, but do you have any athletic eligibility left for your Gator
football team this fall?

A: I have never met Gator football Coach Urban Meyer, but I like everything I
have heard about him. He is all about discipline, and that is what we are all
about in acquisitions and operations.

He will establish his culture and his mind-set. He has his idea of how to run a
team. We are doing the same thing here successful coaches are doing.

(CHART) GLOBAL IMAGING

* Global Imaging Systems Inc. sells and services copiers, printers, faxes, PCs
and PC networks and creates network integration systems for its automated office
equipment.

* Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnson founded Global Imaging in
1994 with three employees working at his Tampa home. He previously had been an
executive for Danka Business Systems and a division of Alco Standard Corp.

* Now, Global Imaging has 4,250 employees in 180 distributorships in 30 states
and the District of Columbia. It has about 45 people working at its headquarters
in a Tampa Northdale office complex.

* Global Imaging set records for quarterly revenue of $233.5 million, net income
of $14.9 million and earnings per share of 59 cents for the third quarter ended
Dec. 31. Shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market.

Source: Global Imaging

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
Tribune photos by JASON BEHNKEN "Our [company] culture is based on profits and
productivity, not sales and size," Chairman Tom Johnson says. An award in
Johnson's office demonstrates his quiet corporate and personal support of local
charities and social service agencies. A University of Florida graduate, Tom
Johnson says, "We are doing the same thing here successful coaches are doing."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 12, 2005 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Progress Announces Pollution Initiative

BYLINE: WILL RODGERS, wjrodgers@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


ST. PETERSBURG -- Progress Energy Inc. plans to invest $1 billion over 10 years
in Florida to cut air pollution, including improvements at a coal-burning plant
in Citrus County that environmental activists claim is one of the worst
polluters in the nation.

Bob McGehee, Progress Energy chairman and chief executive officer, announced the
plan in response to environmental concerns by shareholders and others at the
company's annual meeting in St. Petersburg, where its Progress Energy Florida
Inc. subsidiary is based.

"We will take this very seriously," McGehee said at the morning meeting. He also
said the company is making a like environmental investment in plants in North
Carolina, Progress Energy's headquarters state. "It's very important that we
understand the risk going forward. We owe it to our shareholders and our
customers."

McGehee's pledges came after a group of shareholders and environmental advocates
said earlier that Progress Energy ranks sixth among U.S. polluters contributing
to global warming.

Stephen Smith, a shareholder and executive director of the Southern Alliance for
Clean Energy, said Progress Energy Florida is one of the worst emitters of
carbon dioxide.

A report released Wednesday by the Environmental Integrity Project, a
Washington, D.C.-based environmental advocacy group, asserts that Progress
Energy Florida's coal-burning power plant at Crystal River in Citrus County
emitted 15.9 million tons of carbon dioxide in 2004, ranking it the 20th worst
in the U.S.

Some studies contend that carbon dioxide contributes to the so-called greenhouse
effect, the idea that emissions from automobiles, power plants and other sources
are slowly warming the earth's climate.

"The track record on this issue is not one of leadership at Progress Energy,"
Smith said.

Still, Progress Energy Florida -- which generates and delivers power to about
1.5 million customers in all or part of 35 Florida counties -- has avoided the
kind of federal regulatory enforcement undergone by its counterpart across Tampa
Bay, TECO Energy Inc.

In fact, when considering the pounds of carbon dioxide emitted per megawatt-hour
of electricity, Crystal River drops out of the top 50 worst polluters. But Tampa
Electric Co.'s Big Bend power station is ranked No. 42 nationally by that
measurement, according to the report from the Environmental Integrity Project.

Nonetheless, Tampa Electric, a subsidiary of TECO Energy, is credited by
environmentalists for helping clear the air over Tampa Bay by investing $1
billion in pollution-control technologies, including work under way at Big Bend,
near Apollo Beach.

Tampa Electric's antipollution efforts came after the federal government sued
Tampa Electric, once considered one of the dirtiest utilities in the country. By
contrast, Progress Energy has not been sued by the government to force an
environmental cleanup.

Progress Energy's latest look at its environmental stance was prompted when
Boston Common Asset Management, on behalf of Brethren Benefit Trust, filed a
shareholder resolution asking Progress Energy to assess its environmental
position. In March, the company reached an agreement with Brethren Benefit Trust
to study its environmental impact, noting that federal carbon dioxide
regulations could tighten. The report is due March 31, 2006.

Smith applauded Progress for doing the study but said the utility can show it is
serious about helping clear the air and slowing global warming by pushing for
comprehensive federal energy legislation, starting a renewable energy program
and working to cut emissions.

During the annual meeting, McGehee responded to a letter he received from Smith.
He said the company will spend $1 billion in Florida and $1 billion in the
Carolinas to cut emissions. The company also is involved in a reforestation
project and is studying renewable energies, which to date have proven to be
cost-prohibitive, McGehee said.

"We take very seriously the impact of our power plants," he said. "We believe we
need to address global warming at the national level."

Aaron Perlut, Progress Energy spokesman, said the company meets the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's standards for clean air. But the company still
must do more, including looking at fuel cell and hydrogen technology to generate
electricity, he said.

"We are crawling before we can walk," Perlut said.

Reporter Will Rodgers can be reached at (813) 259-7870.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2005



CORRECTION: Boston Common Asset Management, on behalf of Brethren Benefit Trust,
filed a shareholder resolution asking Progress Energy to assess its
environmental position. A story in Thursday's MoneySense section named the wrong
shareholder group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Bob McGehee CEO answers concerns with pledge to clean air.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 19, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bean's Reshuffling Criticized

BYLINE: MARK HOLAN, mholan@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


CHANGES HAD BETTER WORK, COMMISSIONERS WARN HER

By MARK HOLAN

mholan@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- Hillsborough County commissioners on Wednesday blasted Administrator
Pat Bean's proposed reorganization of a dozen departments and questioned the
resignations of two top managers this month.

Some commissioners suggested Bean could lose her job if the reshuffling
jeopardizes county services or poisons the workplace.

"I am becoming concerned about the climate and the working environment here at
County Center," Commissioner Tom Scott said. "I want to make sure we have an
atmosphere where people don't feel threatened or intimidated."

Scott criticized Bean's proposal to place the Public Safety Department under
Hillsborough County Fire Rescue and reassign the Water Resource Team from the
Environmental Protection Commission to the Water Department.

Bean agreed to place both moves on hold for further review. Switches such as
placing the human resources and the management and budget departments under the
administrator go into effect today.

Commissioner Ronda Storms said fairness and equity in hiring and promotions are
becoming a concern.

"If I continue to see it, then it does become a job performance issue for you,"
Storms said to Bean.

Commission Chairman Jim Norman suggested that the reorganization, if
unsuccessful, would have a negative effect on Bean's next evaluation.

Last month, Commissioner Brian Blair said he would not vote to renew Bean's
contract because of her comments in a Tampa Tribune article that detailed
Blair's campaign contributions from the health care industry.

Recently, Blair has supported Bean on other issues.

Bean announced the reorganization May 9 after about a year and half as the
county's top manager. She said the changes would save the county $163,000
annually.

Bean said the reorganization was designed to reflect commissioners' priorities
and done in consultation with county staff.

"I did not make these decisions in a vacuum," she said.

Scott questioned the link between Bean's reorganization and the unexpected
departures of Stan Motley, director of the county Parks, Recreation and
Conservation Department, and Daryl Smith, director of the Department of Solid
Waste.

Bean said both directors resigned after discussions about her management
philosophy and reorganization plans. She said Motley will receive six months'
severance and Smith will get nine months' pay.

That should total about $157,000, based on each manager's salary.

In another personnel issue Wednesday, Blair said a new report detailing costly
problems related to hiring temporary workers and leaving vacant positions
unfilled justifies an expansion of the internal performance auditor's office.

The 32-page report by internal performance auditor Kathleen Mathews revealed
that the county spent more than $1 million more than budgeted for temp workers,
unnecessarily paid $200,000 to the Florida Retirement System and allowed
managers to divert money from unfilled jobs to unauthorized payments.

Blair's colleagues rejected his effort this year to expand the two-person
auditor's office.

Blair vowed to bring the issue back to commissioners in two weeks as the board
considers a new budget.

RELATED STORY, Page 3: Fire rescue fiascoes trouble commission.

Reporter Mark Holan can be reached at (813) 259-7691.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
Pat Bean She announced reorganization May 9. Tom Scott Work conditions worry
commissioner. Ronda Storms She questions fairness in hiring, promotions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 28, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Plan Now For Fall Bowling

BYLINE: LEE DIEKEMPER, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: LUTZ


Don't wait until the last minute to make sure your equipment is ready to roll.

By LEE DIEKEMPER

Tribune correspondent

LUTZ -- July remains days away, but it's not too early for bowlers to begin
thinking about the upcoming fall leagues.

Generally, fall leagues begin around Labor Day weekend, but pro shop managers
suggest league or recreational bowlers spend a few minutes checking their
equipment before competition starts.

Bowlers who haven't picked up their ball since the winter leagues ended may
discover some significant changes too late.

"Make sure that if you lost weight or gained weight over the summer, that the
holes still fit," said Dave Titer, manager of Cat's Pro Shop at Royal Lanes in
Lutz.

"You don't want to wait to the last minutes before you bowl and come to a pro
shop and say the ball doesn't fit any longer. That doesn't work too well."

Titer explained if the holes of a bowling ball no longer fit, it could cause
discomfort in the best-case scenario, injuries in the worst case.

"If you lost weight and the holes are too big, you tend to squeeze the ball,"
Titer said.

"And when you do that, the ball feels heavier and it will cause blisters and it
irritates the fingers and thumbs, mainly the thumb. And you won't have a good
time bowling when that happens."

It could be worse if the holes are too tight.

"Let's say you went to too many barbecues over the summer and you gained weight.
Then your thumb sticks," Titer said. "When your thumb sticks, you tend to throw
the ball or the ball will not come off of your hand. And that could cause
serious injuries."

Titer said bowlers can avoid this by a simple, quick check of the ball. He
maintains bowlers who have had the same ball for a number of years also should
check to see if the ball fits.

"A lot of people like the same ball and have had it for years," Titer said.
"Some people brag they have had the same ball since they were in high school.
And now their kids are in high school. Our bodies change over the years. It's
natural."

At the very least, Titer explained, a bowler should check the surface of the
ball for cracks or divots.

"Not everyone has good maintenance habits," Titer said.

Bowlers who have finished winter leagues and kept all of their equipment in the
same bag in an area where the climate is not controlled -- like a trunk of a car
or garage -- could discover damage not only to the ball, but to other equipment.

"If you had a pair of bowling shoes in that bag, it could be bad," Titer said.

"Bowling balls [which pick up lane-conditioning oils] can sweat when they are
hot. If you have a pair of shoes in the same bag, the sweat from the bowling
balls could ruin the shoes. The shoes are glued and the heat [and chemical fumes
from the oil sweat] can have the shoes fall apart."

Titer suggested if bowlers aren't sure their equipment is in working order, a
quick test of the equipment at any pro shop can answer any questions.

"It only takes a few minutes to come in and have things checked out," Titer
said.

So long as the test isn't the same week as the fall leagues begin.

SUNCOAST SENIOR: Senior bowlers have slightly more than two weeks to register
for the 28th annual Suncoast Senior Regional at Hudson Bowl, 14523 U.S. 19 in
Hudson. The tournament will be held three successive weekends (July 30-31, Aug.
6-7 and Aug. 13-14).

Senior bowlers have until July 15 to register. Entry fee is $17.50 per bowler,
per event. Last year, the tournament paid $11,670 in total prize money. For
information call Hudson Bowl at (727) 863-5481 or Mickey Maxwell at (727)
847-6153.

TOP SCORES: Darren Baginski bowled a perfect game -- and 816 series -- June 21
at Lane Glo Bowl in New Port Richey. Others with recent 300 games were Frank
Barnett, Craig Anderson, Keith Martin, Mark Hoppe and Allan Micalizzi.

YABA bowler Kyle Shriro rolled a 300 game at Lane Glo North, as did adult
bowlers Jody Vaccaro, Allan Clark, Jerry Merlo and Billy Ferrie. Micalizzi had a
perfect game while rolling an 809 series. Rob Cox had a 299 game.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BOWLING NOTEBOOK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES Darren Baginski practices his game at Lane Glo
Bowling Center. Now is the time to check the condition of your equipment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Storm Season's Early Pace Not Likely To Slow Soon

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- During the 1997 hurricane season, five storms formed before the end of
July. Only three formed in the following months, making it the quietest season
in the past decade.

Don't count on that this year, experts say.

Instead, the fast pace set by five tropical storms or hurricanes by mid-July is
expected to continue through the peak of the season in August and September.

Although weather conditions might change, many of those storms could head toward
Florida.

"What we're seeing now, the Atlantic basin this year is extremely favorable for
tropical cyclone development," said James Franklin, hurricane specialist at the
National Hurricane Center in Miami.

Scientists point to several signs that the storms will keep coming.

Water in the Atlantic and Caribbean has reached about 84 degrees, a temperature
more like August and September.

The jet stream, a band of wind 20,000 feet high in the atmosphere moving east at
55 mph or faster, is farther north than normal and not affecting this season's
storms.

Another key indication is where the season's first five storms developed.

Early in the season, hurricanes and tropical storms typically grow from the
remains of cold fronts or stalled low-pressure areas over the Gulf or off the
Carolinas, well north of the steamy tropics.

This season's five storms came from tropical waves, boiling masses of
thunderstorms that move off the African coast about every three days. In August
and September, those waves rolling across the Atlantic become the seeds of
hurricanes.

"It isn't the number of storms so far. The key is we're seeing development in
the Caribbean and tropical Atlantic. Normally, you don't get storms down there
this time of year," said Gerry Bell, climatologist with the National Climate
Prediction Center in Maryland.

Scientists may confidently predict the tropics will produce a large number of
hurricanes, but they can't predict whether the storms will pummel Florida.

This year, an area of high pressure, called the Bermuda High, has pushed storms
far to the west before they can turn northward. Florida sits in their path.

The same conditions caused four hurricanes to hit the state last year.

"We're seeing that right now. It's difficult to predict if that feature will be
there in August and September," Bell said.

Hurricane Dennis' path, affected by this area of high pressure, hit the
Pensacola area Sunday with 120 mph winds and an 8- to 12-foot storm surge. Two
insurance consulting companies have estimated insured losses at up to $3 billion
nationwide.

The ridge of high pressure normally sets up farther east in the Atlantic,
letting many storms turn north before striking land.

That ridge can move from month to month, so it's impossible to say where it will
be, said Chris Landsea, scientist at the Hurricane Research Division in Miami.

The location of the high-pressure ridge this year and its reluctance to shift
shows it might persist, said Jim Elsner, a professor of geography at Florida
State University who studies climate.

"All those tracks toward Florida are somewhat ominous," Elsner said.

Bell said conditions in the Atlantic and Caribbean, prematurely ripe for
hurricane development, will be even more so in the next two months.

Normally, a busy June and July indicate a quiet August and September, Landsea
said.

That proved true in 1997, when five storms formed in June and July. None formed
in August, one in September and two in October.

One of the eight storms, Hurricane Danny, struck near the mouth of the
Mississippi River as a Category 1 hurricane.

"If conditions are good in higher latitudes for storms, they are not good in the
lower latitudes," Landsea said.

Not this year.

Even rain in the Pacific Ocean will affect the number of storms.

In the complex system of global weather, lack of rainfall over the tropical
Pacific from the coast of South America to the International Dateline
contributes to a nurturing environment for growing hurricanes, Bell said.

The reduced rainfall causes the path of the jet stream to move northward away
from the tropics and cuts the flow of high-level winds that normally hinder
hurricanes early in the season.

The jet stream usually drifts to the north in August and September, allowing
hurricanes moving across the Atlantic to develop.

When the season hits those peak months, a string of hurricanes can stretch
across the Atlantic.

"Instead of an isolated system, there can be a lot of hurricanes," Bell said.

(CHART) HURRICANE ACTIVITY

The number of tropical storms and hurricanes that formed each month since a
period of active hurricane seasons started in 1995.

1995 17 total

1996 12 total

1997 8 total

1998 13 total

1999 12 total

2000 15 total

2001 15 total

2002 12 total

2003 13 total

2004 15 total

2005* 5 total

*Through July 15

WHY SO MANY HURRICANES?

Scientists point to several indications the rest of the season will be busy:

1. Water temperatures in the Caribbean Sea and tropical Atlantic are about 2
degrees higher than normal, about the level expected in August.

2. There is little rainfall near the equator in the central Pacific Ocean. The
lack of rainfall decreases winds high in the atmosphere that hinder hurricane
development.

3. In August and September, the peak of hurricane season, those winds diminish
further and allow more storms to develop.

4. All five storms this year formed in the tropical Atlantic or Caribbean,
indicating conditions there are ripe for hurricanes. Normally storms in June and
July form farther north in the Gulf of Mexico or off the Carolinas.

Tribune graphic; Source: National Hurricane Center

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP CHART
Tribune map; Sources: Accuweather, National Hurricane Center STORM PATHS The
Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico have seen five tropical storms and hurricanes this
season. Here is a look at their paths.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Intelligent Design Debate Brews

BYLINE: RONNIE BLAIR and ALLYSON BIRD, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


By RONNIE BLAIR and ALLYSON BIRD

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - When the Pinellas County school district's science supervisor, Bob
Orlopp, met with his science teachers before the school year began, he made sure
they had one thing clear: Intelligent design is not science.

Three days later, on Aug. 1, President Bush endorsed intelligent design -- the
view that life is too complex to have happened by chance -- as a supplement to
evolution that should be taught in school.

With the president weighing in, a trial over intelligent design taking place in
Pennsylvania and science standards coming up for review next year in Florida,
debate about what students learn in biology class isn't expected to go away
soon.

It's an argument that has been around since the 1925 Scopes trial, when a
Tennessee teacher was tried for teaching evolution.

In the 2005 version of the battle, those on the intelligent design side say they
aren't asking for much. They simply want schools to "teach the controversy."

To which proponents of evolution respond: What controversy? They say that within
the scientific community, people may quibble over details, but there is no
debate about the overall concept. Evolution is a fact, no more controversial to
scientists than gravity or the orbits of the planets.

Evolution holds that life on Earth developed over millions of years through
natural selection, a process through which some life-forms survive and reproduce
because they adapt to environmental pressures.

Intelligent design is the teaching that life on Earth didn't happen randomly but
was determined by a rational being.

Intelligent design differs from creationism in not explicitly naming God as that
guiding hand, though its critics find the difference negligible.

Courts have ruled against efforts to teach creationism as science in public
schools.

Orlopp said intelligent design likewise is best left outside the classroom.

"It's faith-based, and parents can choose to teach those things to their kids at
home," Orlopp said.

Standards Up For Review

So far, the movement to inject intelligent design into public schools hasn't
risen to the forefront in Florida.

Within the next year, though, state Department of Education officials will
review science standards with the possibility of revisions.

Right now, the standards allow for teaching evolution but don't include
intelligent design or creationism.

Education Commissioner John Winn, in a statement Tuesday, said it would be
premature and compromise the review process for him to comment on whether
intelligent design might come up.

"For me or anyone else within the Department of Education to state a personal
belief on this subject or to presume what may or may not be included in the
revised science standards would be nothing short of negligent," Winn said. "It
would destroy the integrity of the open process we have worked hard to
establish."

Jennifer Fennell, a department spokeswoman, said that during the review the
department will seek comments from a variety of sources, including teachers,
parents and community leaders.

The state Board of Education is expected to vote on revisions in fall 2006.

Rebecca Steele, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's West Central
Florida office in Tampa, said her organization will monitor what happens. She
had not heard anything indicating intelligent design will enter the mix, but she
did not rule it out.

From the ACLU's view, teaching it would be a mistake.

The ACLU lists the creationism and evolution debate as one of the top 10
church-state issues in Florida and is ready to mobilize if any school district
tries to teach intelligent design.

That happened in Dover, Pa. The school district there began teaching intelligent
design, and the ACLU's Pennsylvania chapter provided legal expertise to 11
parents who challenged the move. That case is in court.

Barbara Rapoza, president of the Florida Association of Science Teachers, said
she has no more information than anyone else about whether intelligent design
will come into play when the state reviews the science standards.

"I do know there's a lot of talk," she said. "Whether it's coming up in the
meetings, I don't know."

Rapoza declined to discuss her views but said her organization has adopted the
National Science Teachers Association's position statement.

Favoring Evolution

The national organization's statement firmly opposes teaching intelligent
design.

"There is no longer a debate among scientists about whether evolution has taken
place," the statement says.

The statement lumps intelligent design with creationism and adds, "Scientific
creationist claims have been discredited by the available scientific evidence."

Thomas Woodward, a Bible and theology professor at Trinity College in Pasco
County and author of "Doubts About Darwin," labeled as "utterly false" the
statement that there is no debate about whether evolution has taken place.

Woodward, like many in the intelligent design movement, makes a distinction
between microevolution and macroevolution. Microevolution refers to small-scale
changes within a species. Macroevolution deals with the emergence of a new
species.

"No one questions microevolution," Woodward said.

Macroevolution, though, is another matter for those within the intelligent
design movement. They say there is evidence that points to fault lines in
Darwin's theory.

"Natural selection is in a meltdown," Woodward said.

Some scientists see little distinction between microevolution and
macroevolution, holding that the difference is essentially one of scale,
according to Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia.

Even science teachers can be conflicted on evolution and intelligent design.

Yvonne Whatley, a biology teacher at Hudson High School in Pasco County, said
her students should understand evolution even if they don't agree with it.

Whatley doesn't buy into it herself.

"There's so much detail down to the cell level," she said. "In my opinion, it
would be impossible for this to all have been a coincidence."

Whatley believes in intelligent design, and her students often suspect that
coming into her class because she sponsors the Christian club on campus.

The state's science standards for high schools don't mention evolution by name
but do specify that students should "know that Earth's systems and organisms are
the result of a long, continuous change over time."

Randy McGonegal, who teaches biology at Palm Harbor University High in Pinellas
County, thinks that's a good way to put it.

"Half of the people who have a problem with evolution just have a problem with
the name," McGonegal said. "If we just said 'changing over time,' people
wouldn't have a problem with that."

McGonegal has taught biology for 30 years, and he said he has never had a
student or parent complain about the subject.

Nancy Marsh, secondary science supervisor for Hillsborough County, though, said
she occasionally gets complaints from parents who want teachers to give equal
time to creationist teachings.

" 'Both sides,' they use that term," Marsh said.

A willingness to present both concepts is one advantage a private school has
over public schools, said Don Mayes, superintendent of Indian Rocks Christian
School in Pinellas County.

"We do a compare and contrast with evolution and intelligent design," he said.
"From a Christian school perspective, we will side on intelligent design as
being more plausible, but we don't exclude evolution."

He said intelligent design serves as an indirect recruiting tool. Although it's
not mentioned in promotional efforts, parents know the subject is taught, and
that's one reason they might choose a Christian school.

"I think it's understood we are going to be for intelligent design," Mayes said.
"We aren't constrained by, 'You can't talk about this or you can't talk about
that.' "

A Social Studies Approach

Education Week, a trade publication, reported last month about a different
approach to intelligent design at a high school in Columbus, Ind.

Intelligent design is discussed not in science but in a social studies class
called Human Origins. That class also deals with creationism and evolution as
well as various cultures' accounts of human origin.

Woodward isn't sold on that alternative, questioning how well a social studies
teacher could answer students' questions about science.

He likened it to having a physics teacher teach the Constitution.

"I think it's silly and puzzling ... that [intelligent design] can't be
presented in the biology class," Woodward said.

Science teachers remain mindful that the subject can raise hackles.

Next month, the Florida Association of Science Teachers will hold its annual
convention in Orlando.

Among the workshop topics: "Darwin Under Fire: Classroom Strategies for Teaching
Evolution in a Climate of Controversy."

Reporter Ronnie Blair can be reached at (813) 948-4218.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
Tribune photo by CHRIS URSO Hudson High School biology teacher Yvonne Whatley
gives a lecture during class. Whatley says students should be taught evolution
even if they don't agree with it. Tribune photos by CHRIS URSO Evolution is
taught in Florida schools as fact, but backers of intelligent design say both
should be taught. Yvonne Whatley, a biology teacher at Hudson High School,
teaches evolution in her classroom, though she says she believes intelligent
design more accurately explains life on Earth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ACROSS PASCO

BYLINE: Tribune staff

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words


DADE CITY

U.S. Flag From Kabul Coming To Sheriff's Office

Come Thursday, a flag that flew over the Army's Camp Phoenix in Kabul,
Afghanistan, will be hoisted at the Pasco County Sheriff's Office District II
headquarters.

Staff Sgt. Derrick Reedy, a Dade City native and Pasco High School alumnus, will
present the flag to the sheriff's honor guard at 8 a.m. at the Charles "Bo"
Harrison Building, 36409 State Road 52.

The flag flew over the camp Sept. 11, on the fourth anniversary of the terrorist
attacks on the United States.

Reedy, 40, is the noncommissioned officer in charge of Camp Phoenix's medical
clinic and has served 15 years in the Florida National Guard. He is at home on
leave.

Lisa A. Davis

NEW PORT RICHEY

Hospital Donates Money For Police Defibrillators

The city's police department recently received a potentially lifesaving donation
from a local hospital.

A check for $5,000 from Community Hospital will be used to buy four automated
external defibrillators -- portable devices used to give an electric shock to
the heart to help restore its normal rhythm.

The donation comes less than a month after the police department received a
check for $5,560 from the Rotary Club to purchase three defibrillators.

The fire department will train police officers to use the devices, which will be
carried in patrol cars, city officials said.

Some cash-strapped police agencies can't afford to buy the devices, which cost
$1,000 to $3,000, so many have been donated by civic organizations.

According to the American Heart Association, more than 350,000 people who aren't
in hospitals go into cardiac arrest each year. Ninety-five percent die, mainly
because they are not treated with defibrillators.

Christian M. Wade

Scientist To Discuss Global Warming At PHCC

Geophysicist Caren Garrity will talk about her expedition to the North Pole to
investigate global change on Thursday at Pasco-Hernando Community College's West
Campus.

"The Quiet Limit of the World: A Journey to the North Pole to Investigate Global
Warming" is from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Performing Arts Center on the campus at
10230 Ridge Road.

The audience vicariously will cross the Arctic Ocean with Garrity -- from York
University's Centre for Research in Experimental Space Science -- as she shares
lessons from the "Loneliest Lab."

Garrity made the expedition with a group of scientists traveling on two
icebreakers.

The symposium will provide insight about the effects on climate created by
global warming that extends beyond the polar regions.

The hurricanes of the past two seasons are an example, some scientists say. It's
possible Florida could be partially flooded some day because of global warming,
changing the appearance of the coastline and the continent, a news release on
the symposium says.

A staff report

Realty To Host Auction For Warrick Dunn Foundation

Prudential Tropical Realty will host "Escape to the Tropics," an auction and
cocktail party to benefit the Warrick Dunn Foundation's Homes for the Holidays
program.

The fundraiser is from 6 to 9 p.m. Thursday at Seven Springs Golf & Country
Club, 3535 Trophy Blvd. Tickets are $25 per person.

The tropical evening will feature Latin and Caribbean-themed music and dancing;
a Tampa Bay Buccaneers ticket giveaway; a disc jockey provided by co-sponsor A
Sunset Entertainment Inc.; food and drinks from co-sponsors Beef O'Brady's
Family Sports Pub, Boulevard Beef & Ale, Carrabba's Italian Grill, Pit Boss
Bar-B-Q, Seven Springs Golf & Country Club and The Grand; and live and silent
auctions with Thad Lowrey.

Prudential Tropical Realty is the 2005 title sponsor of the home giveaway
program, started by Atlanta Falcons running back Warrick Dunn when he played for
the Bucs.

Homes for the Holidays helps single mothers own their first home by providing
the down payment and then filling the house with necessities such as furniture,
food, linens, a lawn mower, gardening supplies, washer, dryer, dishes, pots and
pans.

To make reservations for the fundraiser, call Cindy Fargo or Diana Cammaratta at
(727) 847-4444.

To find out more about Homes for the Holidays, visit www.prutropical.com or
warrickdunnfoundation.org.

Diane Loebel

COUNTYWIDE

Honorees To Be Hailed On National Philanthropy Day

Community Aging and Retirement Services will laud philanthropists, volunteers
and business leaders Wednesday to celebrate National Philanthropy Day.

The event, with the theme "Change the World With a Giving Heart," recognizes 20
individuals, businesses and organizations that support CARES and other Pasco
County charities by donating money and time.

Here are the honorees:

o Outstanding Philanthropist -- Joseph Brooks, Theresa Machlan, Greg Burkett,
Geraldine Hall, Rao Musunuru and Walter Reich;

o Outstanding Community Business Leader -- Jeff and Kevin Butts, Delbert
Downing, Carolyn Hersh and Robin Schneider;

o Outstanding Volunteer (or Volunteer Group) Fundraiser -- Tammy Coffey,
Daybreak Rotary of Zephyrhills, Mary Fuller, Lorraine Jackman, Betty Mease, Paul
Lembo, Rita O'Connor and Sunshine Christian Home;

o Outstanding Youth in Philanthropy -- New Port Richey Marine Institute Class of
2006 and Ridgewood High School Class of 2006 Interact Club.

Lawyer Alfred Torrence, Jr. will be master of ceremonies. Susan Arnett,
president of United Way of Pasco County, is the keynote speaker. Wednesday's
luncheon, hosted by Carrabba's Italian Grill, is by invitation only.

Diane Loebel

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES She Just Has To Face It: This Boxer Has Her Licked
Debbie Callegari, of Holiday, meets Jaxie, a boxer, at the Boxer Bash on Sunday
at the Gulf Highlands Civic Center. Jaxie's owners are Chris and Ellie Burt,
background left, and it looks as though their other dogs Buffie, on the floor,
and Maggie want a piece of the action. The event featured food, music and even a
boxer kissing booth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          November 23, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Political Climate May Save Student Aid

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS and ADAM EMERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


By KEVIN BEGOS and ADAM EMERSON

The Tampa Tribune

There's plenty of talk in Washington about huge federal budget deficits, and
student aid programs seem to be high on the list of targets.

The U.S. House of Representatives passed a proposed budget last week that calls
for cutting $14.5 billion from student loan programs over the next five years.
That came after House Republican leaders ordered the committee that oversees
federal student aid to find more cuts than any other committee, The Associated
Press reported last month.

But even as education groups sound alarms about the proposed cuts, experts say
any meaningful attempts to deal with budget deficits might have to wait until a
new president takes office in 2009.

"This is an extra-early election year," said Larry Sabato, director of the
University of Virginia's Center for Politics. Republicans "are already very
nervous. I doubt that we're going to be seeing a ton of sacrifice."

The Senate isn't asking for such large cuts, Sabato noted, and a conference
committee would have to agree on a final deal.

"I'll be very surprised if the Senate goes along" with the proposed cuts to
student aid and other programs such as Medicaid, Sabato said. "I think it's
going to be up to the next president."

But punting political hot potatoes into the future makes planning difficult for
local education officials.

Following the U.S. House and Senate on the issue "is like watching a roller
coaster," said Leonard Gude, the University of South Florida's financial aid
director.

Gude has been waiting nervously for Congress to take action on the student aid
proposals. Among his questions: What will happen to private lenders? Will
changes affect their ability to award federal loans, such as Perkins or Stafford
loans?

"We would like to see something passed," Gude said, noting some positive aspects
of the proposed reforms, such as authorizing higher Stafford loan limits of
$3,500. He understands the need to balance the budget but worries that lawmakers
may be balancing on the backs of students.

U.S. Rep. John Boehner, R-Ohio and chairman of the House Education and Workforce
Committee, said last month that the budget reforms will reduce waste and place
higher education systems on a more stable financial foundation.

"Just as important, these reforms also serve the interest of American
taxpayers," Boehner said.

Seventy-six percent of USF's 42,000 students receive financial aid from federal,
state or school sources, Gude said.

Of the $228 million awarded in aid last year, $151 million of that came from
federal sources. In the state university system, 234,087 students got $887.87
million in federal aid during 2003-04, according to the Board of Governors.

Kendra Gambrell, 23, a pre-med junior at USF, spent Tuesday trying to land more
financial aid so she could go to school next semester. She missed last semester
because she didn't receive enough to cover tuition and fees, and she refused
help from her mother.

Jessica Kennedy, a 21-year-old senior biology major, pays for her education from
a mix of federal loans, state and USF scholarships. Any change in student aid
will be painful, said Kennedy, who works part-time as a Publix cashier.

Florida faces a particular quandary in helping people find good careers, said
Lance deHaven-Smith, a professor of public administration at Florida State
University. Even though the state has had great job growth, those jobs vary
widely in their quality.

"This is a sort of chicken-and-egg problem," deHaven-Smith said. "We have the
jobs that attract low-skilled workers, and we want to upgrade, but to do that we
have to have a better labor force and frankly more support for occupational
skills training."

Reporter Kevin Begos can be reached at (850) 222-8382 or kbegos@tampatrib.com.
Reporter Adam Emerson can be reached at (813) 259-8285 or
aemerson@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Jessica Kennedy USF biology major needs federal loans to be able to afford
school.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 1, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

5 QUESTIONS WITH ... Mary Jane Stanley

BYLINE: Kevin Wiatrowski

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words


Mary Jane Stanley, president and chief executive officer of the Pasco Economic
Development Council.

Q: The Pasco Economic Development Council announced recently its first $10,000
investor, New River Partners, which got an automatic seat on the board of
directors. What role do you expect New River and other investors to have in
shaping the PEDC and its position in the community?

A: I expect New River Partners to assist the PEDC with fulfilling our mission to
improve the economy in Pasco County through attracting, retaining and promoting
the expansion of business and industry that create high quality jobs. They will
also serve on the board of directors that sets policy for the organization. PEDC
board members represent companies that are actively involved in improving the
economic climate of Pasco County.

The PEDC is a strong partnership supported by both corporate and public
investment. The PEDC board is comprised of investors in both the major and
general investor categories. All investors in the PEDC are eligible to run for
the board and are elected by the investors.

Q: The PEDC has recruited several new employers and millions of dollars in new
investment to Pasco in recent years. How have recruitment strategies changed
over the years in terms of the companies being recruited and how they are
recruited?

A: The PEDC has a local marketing plan that includes advertising and editorial
placement in major regional business publications. National marketing is
conducted through the Tampa Bay Partnership (the regional economic development
marketing organization for the seven counties in the Tampa Bay area) and through
our state partner Enterprise Florida Inc. Both of these organizations market
primarily to the state's Target Industries List.

In 2001, a new effort was undertaken and a Target Industry Study and Goal
Setting Study were conducted to determine the types of industries that would
best fit in the Pasco economy and those that would raise the overall wages of
the county.

The PEDC concentrates its efforts on recruiting "primary contributory
industries." These are companies that produce a product locally and sell 51
percent of that product out of Pasco County. Primary industries bring new
dollars into the local economy. During late 2001 and 2002, the PEDC conducted a
direct mail campaign to targeted industries in four major areas of the country.

The PEDC has made it a point to get the word out about the business advantages
of being in Pasco by reaching out to commercial real estate professionals,
developers, engineers and the like throughout the Tampa Bay market. I speak
regularly at many of these professional organizations. We want these
professionals to understand the advantages of locating their clients to Pasco.

Q: Last year saw a dramatic tightening in the supply of available slots for
light-industrial development along State Road 54. What do the next five years
hold in terms of opening up new land for industrial growth?

A: New office and light industrial sites are being developed throughout the
county every day. Several major developments are under way or are about to be
under way that contain employment center components. A sampling of those include
Connerton, Bexley Ranch, North Pointe at Suncoast Crossings, Cannon Ranch now
called Bella Verde, Wiregrass, New River Township, Comas Trust, Wesley Chapel
Corporate Park, North Suncoast Industrial Park, Tampa Executive Airport now
Trinity Corporate Center, and Dade City Business Park.

The PEDC understands the increased need for business employment centers and has
played a role by having me appointed in August 2001 to the Pasco Comprehensive
Plan Citizen's Advisory Committee. The PEDC established an internal committee
that proposed 12 possible business employment center sites to the consultant for
further evaluation.

Pasco County has a great challenge to balance its employment center growth and
residential growth. It is extremely important that jobs be created to reverse
the net out-migration of residents to our surrounding counties for job
opportunities.

Q: In Tennessee and other states, county governments have been very aggressive
in preparing land for industrial development. What could Pasco County do to
ensure there is land ready for future employers when they need it?

A: The county can assist by preserving land through the comprehensive plan
process for business employment centers. The county and the PEDC can also work
with local landowners and developers to ensure that infrastructure such as
water, sewer, utilities and roads are in place. Many companies want land that is
both "approved' and "improved" for development; companies are usually on a quick
timeline, and time is money to them. The PEDC has been working with the county
to streamline the permitting process, and progress is being made in this area.

Q: The 2000 census reported more than 60,000 Pasco residents commute out of the
county for work. Given the growth in both population and employment centers
projected for Pasco, how do you expect that figure to change by the next census
in 2010?

A: For the short term, which would be the 2010 census, I expect the figures to
continue to increase for the number of residents commuting out of the county.
However, I do believe that the number will start to decline as new employment
centers are developed. Please keep in mind that in excess of 6,200 residential
building permits or around 13,000 to 15,000 residents are moving into Pasco and
it would be difficult for businesses to create 15,000 new jobs each year.

The PEDC will continue to do everything that we can to put the right framework
in place for companies to create more jobs in Pasco. This is accomplished
through the expansion of existing businesses and through the recruitment of new
businesses.

Kevin Wiatrowski

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
(Mary Jane Stanley)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Northwest Wineries Grow Quality Reputation In Short Time

BYLINE: KEN COLLURA, winespeak@elmontesagrado.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 681 words


By KEN COLLURA

winespeak@elmontesagrado.com

With so much emphasis placed on the world-class wines from California, folks
sometimes forget there is other vino made in the United States.

Oregon and Washington are the states with the most notoriety, and rightly so.
I've recently tasted bottles from these two that could sit proudly on any table.
This was not always the case as both have checkered pasts (especially Oregon). I
remember being touted on wines from the Northwest, only to find thin, pale
pinots from Oregon and meager, muscleless cabs from Washington.

Time and knowledge have brought strength, and today's offerings are the best
yet.

Oregon's best pinots come from a core of about 20 wineries. More vibrancy and
lush finishes are noted in the available 2002 vintage than any I can recall,
although there are still insipid, overacidified wines available. With pricing
edging up toward the Burgundy region level, astute choices must be made to avoid
disappointment.

As for Washington, I've always enjoyed the crisp, varietally correct whites and
the cooler, tempered feeling I got from the cabs and merlots. Once again, higher
prices have pushed the wines into a crowded marketplace, and values are tougher
to come by. When the opportunity presents itself, taste them as often as you can
to discover which style you appreciate.

Oregon

Oregon achieved its reputation for quality in a relatively short time. The first
vinifera grapes since Prohibition were planted in 1966 by David Lett at Eyrie
Vineyards, where the initial vintage was in 1970. At the time, there were only
seven wineries and fewer than 100 acres were under vine. Today, more than 70
wineries have 5,000-plus acres planted primarily for pinot noir (the major
varietal), chardonnay, riesling and pinot gris. Most of the vineyards are in the
Willamette Valley, southwest of Portland.

Growing conditions dictate the grapes be of the early ripening type. Many of the
vineyards are in the western part of the state between the coast and Cascade
mountains, where the climate is cooler, wetter and more variable than in other
grape-growing states.

Wines labeled as a specific varietal must contain at least 90 percent of the
variety named on the label, and generic names such as chablis or burgundy are
not permitted.

Favorite wineries include: Archery Summit, Bethel Heights, Carabella, Chehalem,
Domaine Drouhin, Elk Cove, Ponzi, Rex Hill, Domaine Serene, Willakenzie and Ken
Wright.

Washington

The first commercial wines made from European vinifera grapes were produced in
Washington in 1967 by two wineries, Columbia Wineries and Chateau Ste. Michelle.
In 2002, there were more than 65 wineries and more than 10,000 acres under vine,
the largest such planting in the country outside of California. Although a
number of vineyards are situated west of the Cascades, virtually all of the
state's wineries are located east in an irrigated desert known as the Columbia
River Basin.

Cool nights followed by sunny days permit the grapes to ripen fully while
retaining sufficient balancing acidity.

Riesling is the most widely planted white grape in Washington, followed by
chardonnay, chenin blanc and sauvignon blanc. When combined with other white
varieties, the total acreage accounts for about 70 percent of the vines planted
in the state.

The reds are led by cabernet sauvignon and merlot. The Yakima and Columbia
valleys in the southeastern portion of the state provide the most balanced
fruit. The better offerings from Washington seem more "European" in style than
their Southern cousins in California. They carry less "heft," that is alcohol
levels are in unison with the fruit and tannins and are often beautifully suited
for the table.

Favorite wineries include: Canoe Ridge, Chateau Ste. Michelle, Covey Run,
L'Ecole No. 41, Hedges, Hogue, Leonetti, Pepperbridge, Quilceda Creek, Andrew
Will and Woodward Canyon.

Syndicated columnist Ken Collura is wine director and sommelier at El Monte
Sagrado Resort in Taos, N.M.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Training, Placement Service On Campus

BYLINE: STEVEN ISBITTS, sisbitts@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PINELLAS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS


FACILITY IS OPEN TO THE COMMUNITY

By STEVEN ISBITTS

sisbitts@tampatrib.com

TARPON SPRINGS -- WorkNet Pinellas, the county's job training and placement
service for employers and prospective employees, launched its first "one stop
career center" on a college campus last week.

The 4,500-square-foot facility is at 38500 U.S. 19 N. in the St. Petersburg
College complex acquired about two years ago from Flextronics International Ltd.

The new WorkNet center's staff of 10 is familiar with the needs of college
students, but the office is open to the community.

Complete with training rooms and rows of computers, the location is the first
full-service center in north Pinellas.

"We list jobs for about 284 employers [in north Pinellas,] and we're trying to
have a stronger presence in that area, especially with our employer services,"
said Jerome Salatino, WorkNet's director of planning and development.

Businesses have representatives recruit at WorkNet career centers on a regular
basis, and about 25 percent of all Pinellas employers utilized one of WorkNet's
services to hire someone last last year.

Ed Peachey, WorkNet's executive director, said his organization's goal is to
have a presence on every St. Petersburg College campus by June 30.

The decision to open a center in Tarpon Springs is unrelated to changes in the
county's economic climate, Peachey said.

The Pinellas unemployment rate has been stable at about 3.5 percent for about a
year.

For information on WorkNet Pinellas services, call (727) 524-4344, or visit
www.work netpinellas.org. netpinellas.org.

Reporter Steven Isbitts can be reached at (727) 451-2336.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP
Tribune map One Stop Career Center

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 23, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hernando County Planners Suggest $10,000 Impact Fee

BYLINE: FRED HIERS, Hernando Today

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE


IF APPROVED, COST MORE THAN DOUBLES

By FRED HIERS

Hernando Today

BROOKSVILLE -- Hernando County planners submitted their recommendations Tuesday
to more than double the amount of impact fees commissioners should charge
property owners wanting to build new homes in the area.

If approved by the board this summer, the cost of impact fees for new homeowners
would jump from $4,894 to $10,124.

Impact fees are a one-time tax imposed on property owners who build a home. They
are designed to offset some of the service costs that new homeowners require
from the county.

Impact fees do not affect those who buy previously owned homes.

The last impact fee hike was approved in late 2002 by Hernando commissioners.

Pasco Increase Also Proposed

Last week in neighboring Pasco, the board of county commissioners and the Pasco
County School Board, at a joint workshop, agreed impact fees should be increased
to pay for schools.

Consultant Tischler & Associates Inc. of Bethesda, Md., which studied Pasco's
impact fees, recommends in a report that the charge for single-family detached
homes increase from about $1,600 to about $4,300. Fees for mobile homes,
multifamily houses, town houses and duplexes also would increase based on
demands they create for new schools.

"It's the cost of doing business when you're in a [building] climate like this,"
said Hernando County planner Paul Wieczorek, who tabulated Hernando's impact fee
proposals.

"We've had such a change in the real estate market, that's why we're saying such
a significant increase in impact fees are warranted," he said.

Two of the most significant factors driving up impact fees are land and
construction costs, Wieczorek said.

Just as residents must contend with property value increases and hikes in
construction prices, so does county government, he said. Those cost factors are
considered when calculating impact fees that more realistically reflect the
price to the county of providing park, school, library and law enforcement
services.

Wieczorek uses equations that have been successfully defended in court to
develop cost estimates that commissioners will consider this summer when a vote
is expected.

Planners this month proposed increasing school impact fees from $2,406 to
$4,982.

On Tuesday, Hernando planners proposed increasing road impact fees from $1,845
to $3,950.

If approved by commissioners, library impact fees would jump from $95 to
$154.39.

Impact fees for public buildings would rise from $192 to $230.

Law enforcement impact fees would increase from $131 to $205.98.

Fire service impact fees would see a modest decrease of $1 from $112 to $111.

The largest increase would be the park impact fee. It will would go from $113 to
$500.73.

Although the increases would be hefty, Wieczorek said the costs are in
proportion to the general increase in land values and the construction cost of
homes.

The Hernando County School Board collects about $6.7 million annually in impact
fees. That number would double if school impact fees were raised by
commissioners to levels proposed by planners.

Governmental Windfall

The impact fee increase, if approved by the board, would also represent another
windfall for the rest of county government.

Hernando County collects another $8.6 million with its current impact fees, not
including school impact fees, and a doubling of those figures would allow the
county to rake in another $8.6 million of its own.

Those increases represent nothing more than what county government already pays
to supply its residents with the services they want, said County Planner Larry
Jennings.

Commissioner Robert Schenck said the county should move prudently on the issue.

"While I understand government's needs, we should try to remember all these
costs are passed on to consumers," he said. "The last thing we should do is
inhibit home ownership."

That is what the board will do, however, if it more than doubles impact fees,
one local real estate agent said.

"To put all this burden on people coming into this county is too much," said
Gary Schraut, who also sits on the board of the Hernando County Association of
Realtors.

"Impact fees of $10,000 can be absorbed when your building $200,000 or $300,000
homes," he said. That is not the case for first-time home buyers wanting a home
well under $100,000, he said.

Those first-time home buyers are already finding it difficult to find a
contractor when most are busy building houses costing $200,000 or $300,000,
Schraut said.

"The county is pricing the average taxpayer right out of the market," he said.
"I just hope the board doesn't over-do it."

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Improving Image Among City's Priorities

BYLINE: MICHAEL DUNN, mdunn@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: TEMPLE TERRACE


MAYOR, COUNCIL ATTEND GOAL-SETTING SESSION

By MICHAEL DUNN

mdunn@tampatrib.com

TEMPLE TERRACE -- Improving Temple Terrace's image and identity ranks among the
top goals city leaders have set for 2005.

The mayor and city council met for their annual goal-setting session last week
and came up with a half-dozen priorities for the year. With community
redevelopment providing the framework, city leaders hope to paint a prettier
picture of Hillsborough County's smallest municipality as it grows into a
regional player.

"Too many people have an image of Temple Terrace as 56th Street, which is not a
good image. It's a congested, horrible-looking area," Councilman Ken Halloway
said.

The city should build on its natural assets, such as the riverfront, oak trees
and golf course, to cultivate an image of "a pedestrian-friendly area, friendly
to retailers, with a good economic climate," Halloway said.

Once the $300 million town center is built, it will become the centerpiece of
the city's new identity, he said. Mayor Joe Affronti agreed.

"It will enhance our visibility and our recognition in the whole region,"
Affronti said. "I think we've got a good image now, but what we're trying to do
is get the message out there about what we're doing and how it's important not
just to Temple Terrace, but to the whole region." Making sure everyone's voice
is heard is integral to the process, Affronti said.

"One thing we talked about, which I think is important, is to get total
community involvement," he said. "We're a pretty diverse community, and we need
input from the Muslim community, the African-American community, the Hispanic
community. We need as much input as we can get. The more involvement we get, the
better off we're going to be as a city."

Councilwoman Glenda Venable said she has noticed more residents stepping
forward.

"I think we're just realizing how much talent we have in our community, how much
people are willing to be volunteers to get things done, and I think that's a big
improvement," she said. "For a while, I think, there was a lot of apathy, but I
think people realize we're at the point we need to get things done, and people
are coming up to the plate. I think that's very encouraging."

Other city goals are in various states of progress.

* Continue progress on community redevelopment: The city has asked three
companies to submit proposals on how they would transform the 225-acre
redevelopment area, with an initial focus on the proposed town center southeast
of Bullard Parkway and 56th Street. City leaders are preparing for a municipal
bond referendum later this year, which will ask voters to approve a 1-mill
property tax increase.

The city hopes to have a contract with a primary developer by the end of the
year, perhaps as early as Sept. 1, with construction on the town center
beginning in 2006.

Halloway said he would like to "turn ground" this year.

"Perhaps it's not possible, but if you reach for the stars you'll hit the moon,"
he said. "We ought to be leaning forward in our foxholes here and getting ready,
because it's the most important thing the city's ever done, and will ever do."

* Update the city's annexation strategy: In February, the city adopted an
ambitious annexation plan that could add more than 1,320 acres to the city
during the next few years. Six priority areas have been targeted, including
several residential neighborhoods.

* Continue with administrative improvements: The city has hired a public
information officer and plans to beef up programming on Channel 20, its
government information channel. Plans also call for enhancing the citizens
academy, a public-participation program to familiarize residents with city
services.

* Conduct a city charter review: That process also has begun. A five-member
committee began studying the charter in January. It will decide whether changes
to the charter are needed, then make recommendations to the city council later
this year.

* Continue support services for seniors: Plans call for renovating the Lightfoot
Recreation Center, which is used for many senior activities; providing support
for Lifepath Hospice of Temple Terrace, which will open to patients May 5; and
expanding affordable-housing options in the redevelopment district.

Reporter Michael Dunn can be reached at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 28.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
Joe Affronti Seeks involvement from community Ken Halloway Wants city to build
on natural assets Glenda Venable Sees more residents coming forward

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1030 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Remember Golden Rule

Thanks for your extensive and balanced coverage on the life and death of John
Paul II. After remembering some of his many accomplishments, I was struck by the
contrast of his philosophies with those of many self-proclaimed Christian
conservatives who are working to take over the Republican Party and the U.S.
government.

Religious extremists seem to have made themselves experts on what God and Jesus
Christ would want in today's world - much of which is the opposite of what I
know to be true of Christianity. I've been Christian all my life, and I don't
remember reading about Jesus despising homosexuals or any other group. Jews,
Gentiles, prostitutes, sinners - they were all welcome if they loved and
followed God. He was the ultimate pacifist, liberal and lover of all mankind.
Many of today's purported Christians seem to forget that. They should remind
themselves of the Golden Rule, which he also taught us.

CARL SALAZAR

Tampa

"A Big Boo-Boo'

I had to read your article "Martinez Aide Wrote Schiavo Memo" (front page, April
7) at least twice. I was fascinated by the senator's explanation of how he
happened to deliver the infamous memo listing the political reasons to support
the legislation in the Terri Schiavo debacle to Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, when he
really meant to deliver another memo detailing the "Incapacitated Persons Legal
Protection Act." Quite a big boo-boo.

Martinez goes on to explain that said memo "that at some point along the way
came into my possession" was entirely the work of a senior aide and that, he,
Martinez, "vehemently condemn[s] this memo's sentiments." He didn't say how the
memo came to be in his coat pocket.

This definitely confirms my belief that politicians who run sleazy, negative
campaigns do not change once they get to Washington.

BARBARA KRAMER

Tampa

Mel's "Lame Excuse'

Mel Martinez's incredibly lame excuse that he didn't know what was in his own
pockets as he peddled copies of the unsigned Schiavo memo on the Senate floor is
every bit as unbelievably preposterous as his claim, "It was never my intention
to in any way politicize this issue."

The memo makes it abundantly clear that his Weldon-Martinez bill was nothing
more chivalric or noble than a callous, craven and predatory exploitation of the
suffering of Terri Schiavo's family for crass political advantage. His behavior
in this matter has been absolutely despicable beyond words. He has even further
debased the Senate, poisoned the climate of American political discourse and
demonstrated unmitigated contempt for the Constitution and his constituents.
That, when compounded by his unblushing prevarication regarding his role in the
memo's promulgation, is damningly indicative of a sociopathic opportunist so
completely devoid of personal honor and integrity as to be patently unfit to
hold public office.

EMMET BONDURANT

Clearwater

Toeing The Hard Line

Nothing good will come out of Mel Martinez. He started out of the gates an
extremist and will only continue in the egomaniacal footsteps of his buddy Tom
DeLay. He toes the new Republicans' hard line of religious intolerance, and I
find it hypocritical that Martinez was in Rome showing the world what a good
Catholic he is while supporting Medicaid cuts by a conservative $14 billion,
supporting the death penalty (great pro-lifer that he is), refusing to create
universal health care (infant mortality rate is up to 28,000 deaths a year;
they're poor kids anyway), and refusing to pass effective gun control laws.

Martinez will only continue to fight for the path his party has established:
delivering the once-strong and free America into the promised land of the Middle
Ages, when church and state were one. Glory, glory -- unless you are divorced,
homosexual, non-Christian, or middle- or low-income.

CHRISTOPHER PICCONE

Oldsmar

A Lesson From Castro

Depicting Sen. Mel Martinez as imitating TV's inept Sgt. Schultz (Our Opinion,
April 8), you also could have compared his brazen political propaganda tactics
to Fidel Castro's. Except the uncanny Cuban dictator cleverly makes political
hay, having manipulated 10 U.S. presidents on puppet strings. In contrast,
hoof-in-mouth Martinez's blunders portray a politician dangling from a hangman's
rope he strung around his own neck. And while Castro boldly accepts
responsibility for his actions, Martinez cowers behind and disposes of a lowly
aide.

Blessed to have been permitted to flow to freedom through the refugee faucet
controlled by the wily Cuban dictator, now Martinez uses copycat butcher tactics
attempting political gain. If he must persist, perhaps he could take another
lesson from Castro -- how to do it silky smooth.

ARNOLD FULTZ

Tampa

How About A Recall?

Who does Mel Martinez think he's fooling? Does anyone really think this aide
wrote a position memo without Martinez's request or knowledge? How does a memo
that "was unapproved by me or any other member of my staff" get into his lapel?
What competent person hands out memos without reading them first?

If it was a mistake, why wait so long to admit it? Martinez is either a buffoon
or a phony. Either way, he does not deserve to represent the people of Florida.
How about a recall?

CHARLES STORM

Tampa

Plenty Of Company

For the sake of completion, may I suggest that you add the names of former CBS
anchor Dan Rather and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan to your "know no-thing"
list? They, too, didn't know what in the world went on under them!

SAM BABU

Wesley Chapel

"Shame For Our State'

What a shame for our state is our junior U.S. senator, Mel Martinez, already
known as the "I know no-thing" senator. He was the president's choice for the
position, and in spite of his already known missteps, he was preferred over such
dignified candidates as Bill McCollum and Betty Castor. He would do anything to
be elected, and now he is doing anything necessary to be on the front page of
the nation's newspapers -- only as a laughing item. Unfortunately for Florida,
we will have to tolerate his embarrassing missteps for six long years. What a
pity!

J.R. MANDONADO DELGADO

Tampa

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 16, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

First-Aid Month Encourages Preparation

BYLINE: KRISTEN LEVINE, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1231 words


By KRISTEN LEVINE

Tribune correspondent

With no 911 number for pet emergencies, what would you do if your pet became
injured or suddenly ill?

April is National Pet First-Aid Awareness Month and a great time to prepare for
an emergency.

"If a human gets injured or ill, we can rely on the emergency medical system to
help us out," Joy Zukauskas of the American Red Cross writes in a prepared
statement. "It's important for pet owners to know how to handle emergencies
until they can get their friend to the veterinarian."

Warmer weather and longer days translate to outdoor activities, cookouts,
gardening and travel -- fun family events that expose pets to more outdoor

threats. Keep a pet firstaid kit along with the family first-aid kit and taking
a course in pet first aid are two smart way to prepare for problems.

Here are some tips for dealing with common home health emergencies. They don't
replace veterinary care but can help your pet get safely to the clinic.

Home Accidents

Most accidents -- for people and pets -- happen at home. Pet poisoning is among
the most common problems. The American Poison Control Center provides an
emergency hot line. Trash, certain foods, medications, soaps, detergents and
cleansers should be kept secure and out of a pet's reach. Outdoors, be sure to
safely stow antifreeze, gasoline, insecticides and herbicides.

If your pet ingests a toxic household substance, do not induce vomiting unless
recommended by a veterinarian. Grab your pet and the package it got into and get
to the vet's office as quickly as Possible. The product label will have critical
information to help your vet determine treatment.

Lawn and garden tools can be a source of injury. Dogs or cats are accidentally
cut or hit with shovels, rakes or hoes. If your pet sustains one of these
injuries, take the following steps:

* Examine the wound, and stop the bleeding. Small, superficial wounds should be
kept clean with running water or mild soap and water. Antibiotic cream can be
used, but watch that the pet doesn't ingest the medication. Don't use on small
pocket pets or rabbits.

* Apply direct pressure to deeper wounds and transport immediately. Nonstick
pads or an Ace bandage can serve as a pressure wrap when transporting your pet.
Deep puncture wounds should be kept clean and open if possible.

* Campfires and barbecues cause hundreds of dog and cat injuries each year, says
a database maintained by the Banfield veterinary hospital chain. If your pet
sustains a small first-degree burn (red skin but no deep tissue damage), cool
the area with water and watch for blistering. If the burned area is large or
blisters develop, have your pet seen by the veterinarian immediately.

Seasonal allergies can also lead to pet emergencies.

"We see an increase of allergies in pets that directly relate to the change in
climate," says Fred Martin, veterinary technician at Brandon Veterinary
Specialists. "Contact allergies, flea dermatitis and ear problems are more
common this time of year."

You may not think itchy skin and earaches are an emergency, but they can be
painful and worsen if left untreated.

Safe Car Travel

Two-thirds of pet owners take pets along for the ride. Although children are
almost always safely strapped into car seats, pets rarely get the same

safety measures, according to a 2002 survey by the American Animal Hospital
Association.

Couple that with the National Highway Traffic Administration's finding that
driver distraction contributes to 20 percent to 30 percent of all motor-vehicle
accidents. An unrestrained pet can be the source of those distractions.

Crash testing shows a pet's weight is multiplied by 30 in a 30-mph crash. In
other words, a 10-pound dog would generate 300 pounds of force in a 30-mph
crash, enough to cause severe injury or death to the pet or others in the
vehicle. Even minor accidents can frighten pets into jumping from open doors or
windows into traffic.

For everyone's safety, restrain pets while traveling. Smaller pets may ride in
crates that can be secured to seats with safety belts. Pet-safety harness
systems are available in various sizes and attach to a car's seatbelt system.

If a pet is injured in a car accident and human injuries are the first priority,
ask emergency medical professionals to contact a family member or friend to
transport the animal to a veterinary hospital.

Protect Yourself

Injured pets are often confused and in pain and may bite or scratch a and that
helps.

* Always approach a sick or injured animal slowly and cautiously.

* Watch the body expressions and sounds your pet makes to warn you. Even your
own pet can be aggressive when in pain or frightened.

* Do not make quick, jerky or loud movements. They might further scare your pet.

* When necessary, use towels or blankets to subdue cats or small dogs.

* Have someone help restrain the pet or apply a muzzle, if necessary.

After-Hours Emergencies

When accidents happen during weekdays, we can race to the vet. At night or on
weekends, you will have to transport your pet to the nearest facility offering
emergency services.

Ask your family veterinarian where he or she refers afterhours emergency cases.
Make note of the number and address and post it where any family member can
locate it quickly. Also, learn the location of the hospital.

(CHART) BE PREPARED

Animal Poison Control Center:

1-888-426-4435 (a consultation fee may apply)

Family veterinarian's phone number:

Emergency veterinary hospital phone number, address:

(CHART) EMERGENCY NUMBERS

Hillsborough County

Animal Emergency Clinic, Brandon, (813) 684-3013

Animal Medical Diagnostic Center, Valrico; (813) 654-6222

Brandon Veterinary Specialists; (813) 571-3303

Florida Veterinary Specialists, Tampa; (813) 933-8944

Tampa Bay Veterinary Emergency Services, Tampa; (813) 265-4043

Hernando County

Animal Emergency of Hernando, Spring Hill; (813) 666-0904

Pinellas County

Animal Emergency Clinic of St. Petersburg; (727) 323-1311

Animal Emergency of Countryside; (727) 786-5755

Tampa Bay Veterinary Emergency Services, Largo; (727) 531-5752

Pasco County

Animal Emergency of Pasco, Port Richey; (727) 841-6575

(CHART) LEARN MORE

In print: "Pet First Aid,'' by veterinarian Bobbie Mammato, is published by the
American Red Cross. It teaches emergency care for cats and dogs. The softcover
book is $12.95 and available by calling the American Red Cross, Tampa Chapter,
at 1-877-741-1444, or ask for it at your local bookstore.

Classes: The Tampa Red Cross also offers Pet First Aid courses throughout the
year. Contact the chapter for a schedule. The SPCA of Pinellas County will host
a free Pet First Aid seminar at 7 p.m. July

20 at the Humane Education and Training Center, 9099 130th Ave.N., Largo. Call
(727) 586-3591 to reserve a seat.

(CHART) FIRST-AID KIT

Keep a pet first-aid kit handy (assemble yourself or purchase at a pet supply
retailer):

* Ace bandage or Vet-Wrap

* Medical tape

* Nonstick cotton pads

* Scissors

* Cotton or bandage padding

* Disinfecting solution

* Benadryl

* Antibiotic cream

* Hydrocortisone cream

* Pepto-Bismol (for dogs)

* Hemostatic Powder

* Towels for splints or to wrap around animal

* Muzzle or narrow strip of cloth to serve as muzzle

* Veterinarian's phone number and emergency number

If traveling, add:

* Pet's medications

* Health records

Note: Never give human medication to a pet unless directed by veterinarian.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PET CETERA

GRAPHIC: CHART 4

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 24, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fair Districts? It's A Fine Idea, But Not Soon

BYLINE: RICK BARRY, rbarry@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PINELLAS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


By RICK BARRY

rbarry@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG -- State Sen. Jim Sebesta has gone boldly forth to break new
ground, taken the bull by the horns while biting the bullet, blazing trails
where no man has dared venture.

He wants us to give state legislators four more years at the trough.

That's right: Call it "Eight Is Not Nearly Enough." Sebesta, R-St. Petersburg,
wants to see term limits "extended" so our senators and representatives get to
stay in Tallahassee for 12 years.

This will allow these tireless public servants to obtain the necessary
"institutional knowledge" needed to survive in the treacherous capitol, where
everyone is out to manipulate them.

Lobbyists, for sure, know lots more than legislators, he notes, as do staff
members and the entire executive branch, where employees seek wisdom for a
working lifetime.

Legislators have merely eight short years to figure it all out.

The lobbyists are a particular problem. They're smarter, better dressers, get
paid a lot more and many of them served in the Legislature for a whole lot more
than eight lousy years.

Not A Fair Fight At All

Ah, but with 50 percent more experience, a 12-year term -- 24 if they can follow
House service with a turn in the Senate -- we'll have one really knowledgeable
institution up there in the Panhandle.

Then they will stop getting tricked into meddling in families' end-of-life
disputes, trying to end the public's ability to force change through
constitutional amendments and sneaking tax breaks for campaign donors into
appropriations bills.

I believe term limits have lowered the quality of our Legislature. The churning
is not good for the institution, and some of these people in their last years in
office turn mean, or more venal, and pass legislation to make supporters even
richer -- perhaps so they will remember them should they have to earn a living.
Sure, turning them out automatically sounds good, but there seems to be no
shortage of glad-handers to replace them.

Re-Election Guaranteed

They shouldn't get longer terms so long as those terms are assured, as they are
now, by guaranteed re-election.

They run in districts drawn to make their defeat at the polls all but
impossible. Last year, not a single incumbent was defeated. Sprawling, ink-blot
districts link heavy concentrations of Democrats -- and excise them from
Republican fiefdoms. Those fiefdoms, in turn, are drawn to ensure huge
Republican majorities.

If elections were contests won by the better candidate -- and the quality of our
pols improved -- maybe a "contract extension" would be a fitting reward.

But so long as they aren't beholden to voters, I urge readers to vote against
this "extension amendment," should it pass.

Sebesta says he agrees strongly that districts should be drawn fairly. But he
says the political climate is just not right for geographically sensible
districts drawn by computers and nonpartisan programmers. To ask legislators to
do that now, too, "would be taking too big a bite at one turn."

"Look, Democrats did it this way for 100 years. Now that Republicans are in
power, how do you ask them to do it differently?"

In other words: Sure, statesmanship is fine as a concept. But not while I'm
getting mine. Maybe a couple of terms down the road.

And then, Betty Castor is leading a campaign for fairly drawn, competitive
districts, Sebesta notes.

She's a Democrat. She might be up to something. Better think about this one for
awhile.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 5, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study May Pay Off For Deputies

BYLINE: CANDACE J. SAMOLINSKI, csamolinski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words


Overall, Pasco sheriff's employees earn thousands of dollars less than their
counterparts in surrounding counties.

A study by Cocoa Beach-based consulting firm Cody and Associates, hired last
year by the county to assess salaries, found it will take roughly $6.6 million
more in Sheriff Bob White's budget to even the field. In 2001, taxpayers gave
the agency an additional $3.8 million following a similar study that raised
deputies' salaries by 13 percent.

The $8,500 study recommends increases for employees in jobs ranging from
administrative to investigative and includes raises for lieutenants, captains
and majors. When raises were handed out in 2001, higher ranking employees were
excluded.

The recommendations average to about a $3,000 increase in starting salaries for
most positions, but some could see a $5,000 annual bump. Among the largest
increases could be the starting salary for a major's job, which would go from
$66,056 to $88,000.

When making any changes, the agency will tread lightly, said Undersheriff Col.
Al Nienhuis. Cody suggests adjusting employees into their recommended pay ranges
based on years of service and freezing the salaries above the maximum
recommended levels.

"We have parameters in our current system that we have to maintain. Our steps
typically are 2 1/2 percent," he said. "In the sheriff's opinion, it may cause
grief if you just move the people on the bottom up and then people in the middle
are making the same as those who are starting. That probably doesn't go a long
way toward giving people credit for their time here."

According to the Florida Price Index Study, Pasco ranked 28th out of 67 counties
for cost of living, which is 3.43 percent below the statewide average.

Before anyone will see more in their paycheck, county commissioners must approve
White's overall $74.8 million budget request. It includes a 5.5 percent increase
for the salary increases and insurance benefits and an 8.08 increase for
operating expenses. The Sheriff's Office is asking county commissioners to
approve a $6.5 million budget increase for employee salaries and benefits. Of
that amount, $3.6 million is based on a salary study and the remainder comes
from cost-of-living and longevity pay increases. Whether that will happen will
be the subject of debate in the coming months.

Changing Times

The political and hiring climates are different than they were in 2000 when the
last study of the agency was done. At that time, the sheriff's office had a high
turnover rate and a sheriff at odds with commissioners who were pressing him for
answers.

Today, the agency has a 6.6 percent turnover, which is down from 40 percent
since 1999, said Brian Corley, personnel director. In 1999, then-Sheriff Lee
Cannon blamed a strong economy for the inability to keep employees, but near the
end of his term he hired a new batch of patrol deputies who have helped boost
the roster.

In recent years, the agency has had a waiting list for deputy and other
positions, Corley said. But keeping good people and a strong hiring pool
requires competitive salaries.

"The most important part of the pay plan is to make sure your pay is
commensurate with the other areas you are trying to hire in," he said. "I like
the fact that the numbers that have come in will help us keep our turnover
down."

Some Recommendations Nixed

Aside from pay scale recommendations, agency officials didn't agree with many of
the Cody study's suggestions.

Some of the items nixed from consideration are: changing the pay structure from
a step system to a minimum-maximum system; giving employees at the top of their
salary levels a lump sum merit raise that wouldn't be included in their base
pay; a six-month probationary period for promotions before raises are enacted;
creating a performance-based raise system; and re-evaluating an annual
cost-of-living increase.

Nienhuis said he wants to avoid a system that, among other things, rewards
deputies for the number of tickets they write annually.

"How would you rate their performance? When you start putting money toward it,
it tends to skew the evaluations even more so than maybe they are now," he said.

The agency has a system where if an employee earns a longevity raise but
receives a poor evaluation, they have 90 days to turn things around or lose the
money, Nienhuis said.

"For a short period of time, it's about 90 days, we put them on a plan, and they
either come up to meeting standards or some action is taken to remove them from
their jobs," he said. "They don't get to keep their longevity if they don't keep
their job."

(CHART) SALARY SUGGESTIONS

A salary study recommends new pay Here are some examples of proposed starting
salaries for the Pasco County Sheriff's Office:

DEPUTY: current $33,945, proposed $35,669

CORPORAL: current $35,669, proposed $37,452

DETECTIVE: current $35,669, proposed $37,452

SERGEANT: current $41,327, proposed $49,500

LIEUTENANT: current $53,238, proposed $68,800

CAPTAIN: current $60,045, proposed $75,700

MAJOR: current $66,056, proposed $88,000

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC INFORMATION: current $43,617, proposed $50,564

CRIME PREVENTION SPECIALIST: current $26,582, proposed $29,328

COMMUNICATION SUPERVISORS current $27,934, proposed $30,804

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: current $22,921, proposed $24,086

MECHANIC SUPERVISOR: current $35,588, proposed $39,020

DETENTION RECORDS CLERK: current $18,824, proposed $19,718

FACILITIES MAINTENANCE COORDINATOR: current $22,921, proposed $29,328

ACCREDITATION COORDINATOR: current $30,804, proposed $33,945

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 7, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Love It Or Hate It Hey, Joe: You Do Know It Gets Hot Outside, Right?

BYLINE: JOEY JOHNSTON, jjohnston@tamaptrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


JOEY JOHNSTON

jjohnston@tamaptrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG -- The other day, a friend learned about the theme of this little
missive. He sighed and shook his head.

"Well, you've definitely got a hard job."

Indeed, I do.

Defending Tropicana Field? That case work would be summarily rejected by Perry
Mason.

But I arrive willingly, even enthusiastically. You won't catch me performing one
of the world's easiest jobs.

Bashing the Trop.

That task could be executed by a trained monkey. Trop punch lines are
mind-numbing exercises. Besides, they completely miss the point.

It's really inexcusable, but eight seasons into the Devil Rays' existence, we've
rarely seen the joint at its best. The first Opening Day. The night of Wade
Boggs' 3,000th hit. Maybe Lou Piniella's initial game, when Carl Crawford beat
the Red Sox with a walkoff homer.

Other than that?

Crickets.

The energy is most often provided by fans of the opposing team, usually the
Yankees, Red Sox or, as we saw recently, the Cardinals.

Don't blame the stadium for that. Blame the franchise itself.

Lots Of Positives

In the late 1980s, the most miserable place in baseball was Atlanta-Fulton
County Stadium. One Braves player mockingly suggested a team promotion --
"Section Night" (every fan gets exclusive use of an entire stadium section).
There seemed no end to the gathering gloom.

A few seasons later, the place was jumping. Braves fans, once used to sitting on
their hands, were chanting in unison while waving those foam-rubber tomahawks.
It was loud. It was intimidating.

Did the stadium change? No. The team started winning!

Build it, and they will come? Not exactly. Build a respectable team, then they
will come.

My colleague, Joe Henderson, likes to rip the Trop's look, comparing it to a
bland warehouse. That predictable approach will get you home in time for dinner,
while playing well for the chorus of haters who have never actually been to the
Trop.

If Joe ever left his press box perch, he might discover the following:

The Trop's sightlines are good. Its food (while way overpriced, like any
ballpark's) is diverse. The new left-field scoreboard enhances bright and
colorful surroundings. The music is cool, and the public-address announcer has
personality. There are places to park, and it's not that difficult to hop back
on a main thoroughfare.

And the best part of all? It's indoors.

No Humidity, No Rain

That, of course, is heresy for traditionalists who see baseball as a Metaphor
For Life.

Personally, I don't go to a ballpark looking to smell the grass, see the clouds,
write a sonnet or experience rebirth. I just want to watch a game. Call me
spoiled, but I'd prefer to be comfortable.

Nothing against Yankee Stadium, Fenway Park or Wrigley Field (been there; loved
all three), but a summertime visit can be withering. So in Florida's searing
heat, give me the modern Trop and its climate-controlled convenience. For the
record, I also prefer movie theaters with stadium seating and supermarkets with
wide aisles.

And you have to like this bit of practicality: Even with the region's
late-afternoon summer weather, we know the game will be played. Rain delays are
no fun, particularly when you've driven 50 miles and you have a day job.

The catwalks? Weird enough, but a quirky imperfection in a game that embraces
lots of them, such as a sloped outfield, flagpoles in play and a 37-foot-high
Green Monster. You would prefer a cookie-cutter, multipurpose facility? Please!

OK, let me throw you a bone. One quick punch line.

The best place to read a best-selling novel is:

A). A library.

B). A soundproof room.

C). A midsummer Rays-Royals game.

The correct answer, of course, is C.

Yes, there are many nights when the Trop seems like the quietest place on earth.
Blame that on the never-ending stream of bad baseball -- not the stadium.

The Trop shouldn't be confused for a sports paradise. It was built on the cheap,
in a politically charged location, then renovated to a functional facility. But
really, it's a perfectly fine place. The clunker reputation is undeserved.

If the Rays ever find themselves in a real pennant race, you might even find
yourself saying, "You know, this isn't such a bad ballpark. What were all those
people complaining about?" Think Metrodome, where postseason baseball once had
the rollicking atmosphere of college football. The Trop actually could provide
one of the great homefield advantages.

Unfortunately, given the current state of Ray affairs, that's a pretty large if.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 23, 2005 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Principal Ready To Help Usher In A New Day

BYLINE: COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR, cpastor@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NORTHWEST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words


SCHOOL MAKES MOVE TO IDLEWILD CHURCH

By COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR

cpastor@tampatrib.com

Tom Stoup paused as he walked through the doors of a building that soon will
house his new school.

"This part is just phenomenal," he said.

The entrance opens into a hallway with vaulted ceilings that draw the eye up and
toward windows where sunlight spills in between trees. To the left are dozens of
classrooms, a cafeteria-style kitchen and a fellowship hall that will become a
dining room for students when they are not eating outside.

To the right, more doors open into a church sanctuary that will have new life as
an auditorium for student performances. Behind it are offices, storage and a
music room.

Carrollwood Day School will make the sprawling Idlewild Baptist Church its home
this fall when the church leaves 1515 W. Bearss Ave. for a new facility on Van
Dyke Road. Stoup represents one of the biggest changes that move will bring -- a
new high school. He took over as its first principal this month.

The private school leased 14 acres in Odessa for its elementary and middle
school programs and bought the Idlewild site last year for $10.9 million. With
nearly 38 acres, the new property will hold elementary through high school
students -- the younger grades moving in possibly as early as December.

The 24-year-old early childhood program that the school grew out of will
continue at Casey Road.

Stoup will oversee the 50 to 60 high school freshmen and sophomores arriving in
the fall, a number that will grow to about 400 as grades are added.

With a background in administration and teaching in public and private schools,
Stoup always wanted to go into education but assumed he could "coast" by age 55.
He helped found a boarding school in Connecticut in 1995 and four years ago
moved to Miami as math department head and lead adviser at the private Palmer
Trinity School.

Now he's 55, a father to three, a stepfather and a grandfather and is taking on
more work opening a new school. Administrators need to flesh out the curriculum,
hire faculty, establish policies and promote the school to the community.

"It'll be difficult," Stoup said, smiling. "It's the people business. It's a
labor of love."

The buildings won't require much work. Officials may need to tweak traffic
patterns, and the school may build a gymnasium for future sporting events. The
other rooms easily fit a school. Younger pupils will fill classrooms in the main
building, and the high school students will attend class in a separate building
on the property.

Academically, the high school curriculum will reflect the themes of character
and global understanding the day school's elementary and middle programs
promote.

The middle school International Baccalaureate curriculum runs through 10th
grade. Students after that will have a chance to enroll in an intensive
baccalaureate diploma program, which involves teaching subjects in the context
of universal themes and helping students understand different cultures and
points of view.

The high school also will follow "Smart and Good High School" standards,
research-based principles that promote ethics, hard work and good character.

"There's going to be a very strong integration between ethics and academics,"
said Head of School Mary Kanter. "We're really looking to develop students who
will be ethical leaders as well as professional leaders."

Character encompasses performance, such as striving and having a positive
attitude, and morals, such as integrity, justice and cooperation, Kanter said.

The faculty drives the curriculum, said Stoup, who will provide training and
help teachers learn from each other. Teachers will encourage older students to
lead younger students. Stoup wants a climate where students take risks and try
subjects and activities without fear of failure.

"Every single student should have the courage to work and try their best," Stoup
said. "You want to get fear out of it."

Reporter Courtney Cairns Pastor can be reached at (813) 865-1503.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CARROLLWOOD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 1, 2005 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gay Influx Into Neighborhood Tends To Raise Property Values

BYLINE: ALLYSON BIRD, abird@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


TAMPA -- Another drug deal, Jeff Norman thought, stopped in 15th Street traffic,
watching a kid on a bike pass a baggie to a man in an old Caddy. Another day in
Seminole Heights paradise.

The kid turned to Norman. "[Mess] with me and I'll kill you," he threatened.

Norman would remember sitting exposed in his red Sunfire convertible, that
incident with the kid one more on top of yelling at guys puffing joints behind
his house, finding prostitutes' underwear there in the morning, listening to
neighbors scream profanities in the middle of the night.

Instead of reconsidering his decision to move from St. Petersburg to southeast
Seminole Heights, he would finish what he had started on the dilapidated 1925
bungalow purchased in 2000. Norman, now 42, and other gay homeowners rushed in
where so many others feared to buy.

Norman's property value has tripled from the $49,000 he paid five years ago. He
became a full-time property investor in 2003, the same year southeast Seminole
Heights was named USA Neighborhood of the Year.

And the real estate agents were watching. They know the trend.

They put up their "For Sale" signs while whispering the worst-kept secret in
real estate: Buy it fast once gays move in, because prices will soar.

It happened at Logan Circle in Washington, Midtown Atlanta, Chicago's Boystown.
And it's happening in Tampa.

Tampa ranks 26th out of 49 metropolitan areas with populations exceeding 1
million people in the "Gay Index" -- a measure of the concentration of gays used
in Richard Florida's 2002 book, "The Rise of the Creative Class." The book
examines creativity as an economic driving force and names gays as a barometer
of a city's creativity.

Creative Tampa Bay Inc., a nonprofit group inspired by the book, works to foster
that creative climate in Tampa. President Peter Kageyama stresses gays aren't
the only ones rejuvenating neighborhoods. It's also artists, college-educated
young professionals and DINKS -- dual-income households with no kids, Kageyama
said.

But gays, simply by living in same-sex households and often displaying pride
symbols, happen to be the most recognizable group.

They're the ones real estate agents talk about, and everyone has a theory.

Diverse Reasons

It boils down to financial freedom, said Aaron Berger, a real estate agent with
the CDR Group of Keller Williams Realty. "Frankly, they have a lot of money,"
Berger said. "They don't have a lot of children, so they have a little more
disposable income."

Greg Burton, a real estate consultant with Realty Executives in St. Petersburg,
said gays look for neighborhoods with architectural interest and proximity to
downtown culture -- shops, restaurants and parks.

But Brian Longstreth, a real estate agent with Your Neighborhood Realty Inc. in
St. Petersburg, thinks the gentrification trend is more complex. "Some of the
criteria they use are different from straight people with children, and I think
the biggest one is crime," Longstreth said. "They don't have to worry about
their children or their schools."

Before launching a project, one national developer visits the prospective site
in search of his bellwether -- rainbow flags, the classic gay pride symbol.

Bob Silverman, a trustee with the Urban Land Institute -- a nonprofit real
estate forum that tackles land use practices -- has been speaking about gay
urban pioneers since the 1990s. Chairman of the Winter Group of Companies from
Atlanta, Silverman turns run-down historic buildings into loft apartments and
offices.

Gays "are not afraid of diversity, when what some people see as an unsafe
neighborhood is one with Latinos or African-Americans," Silverman said in a
telephone interview from Greenville, S.C.

Real estate agents here say Tampa Heights and Seminole Heights are today's hot
landing spots for gay urban pioneers. But it all began in Hyde Park, now an
upper-class area with a shopping village.

"A Tolerant Place'

Leesa Moore, 44, moved to Hyde Park in 1989. While her friends were renting
sparkling new apartments north of downtown for a pittance, Moore settled for the
first floor of a bungalow so she could be in the city.

Back then, lawns weren't perfectly pruned with security system signs popping up
between the tulips. There were no condos, and plenty of the homes hadn't been
renovated.

Moore, a self-employed real estate agent and Rhode Island native, remembers the
familiar homeless man on the corner of Morrison and Howard avenues, neighbors
growing fresh herbs on DeLeon Street, the "Hyde Park Zoo" house on the corner of
Packwood and Inman avenues, which was filled with animals and falling into
disrepair.

"I miss the characters," she said, sitting in her home around the corner from
Tampa Bay. She and her partner, Carolyn Kurtz, bought the place in 1998 and
fixed it up piece by piece. They took down the partition in the living room that
had divided two families. And they took down the air conditioner that sat atop
the roof.

They couldn't afford to buy the house today, now that Hyde Park has exploded
into a distinct community with all the necessities, plus a movie theater, fine
dining and rows of boutiques. Moore knew this place was hip before the
developers caught on, but that's not the only reason she moved there.

"To get into the less than lovely part of our lives, the gays are used to being
in dangerous situations," she said, remembering sneers in an Ocala restaurant
and trekking through dangerous parts of town to get to gay bars in both Rhode
Island and Florida.

Moore landed in her current neighborhood because, she said, "Hyde Park seemed
like a tolerant place." Neighbors don't seem to care about two women living
together and raising a 4-year-old boy.

That welcoming attitude is one of the most noticeable trends in these
up-and-coming neighborhoods, where neighbors are more than what they drive or
where they work.

Finding Common Ground

Tampa Heights couple David Purnell and Steve Johns meet up with their neighbors
at semimonthly porch parties and with their old neighbors from Old Seminole
Heights every Wednesday for family dinner night.

The neighbors come bearing pizza, sushi, fruit and cake. They introduce
husbands, wives, partners and children and talk about work and family and the
neighborhood. Those who have lived there for years have been through a lot
together.

For two years beginning in 2001, 15 or so neighbors would gather Fridays,
Saturdays and Sundays between midnight and 4 a.m. for what Johns, an extroverted
public-speaking instructor, liked to call "the hoe down." They'd drive down
Nebraska Avenue together, shining flashlights on prostitutes trying to work and
writing down their customers' license plate numbers.

Living in an up-and-coming neighborhood fosters that community pride and
closeness. If all the houses are brand new, there's no need to ask neighbors for
referrals to good roofers or plumbers, said Purnell, 41.

"The thing that brings people together is property, the common interest in
making it better," said Johns, 43. "Then we come together and think, "Oh my God,
I like you' about people we would not have spoken to otherwise."

Purnell and Johns' surroundings are full of people who look nothing like them. A
colorful banner hangs on the front of their house, a sage Victorian trimmed in
amber and yellow: "Tampa Heights. Established 1898. National Historic District."

They live directly across North Florida Avenue from a red brick building with
its own sign: "Metropolitan Ministries. Providing answers for poor and homeless
families. Faithfully."

Within three blocks of Purnell and Johns' home, a Baptist church shines a neon
cross over North Florida Avenue, and a sign outside a Hindu mandir on Palm
Avenue asks visitors to remove their shoes and turn off their cell phones and
pagers.

While strong community is one common thread in these growing neighborhoods,
diversity is another. These neighborhoods aren't black, white, Hispanic, gay,
straight, young or old, though they once might have been.

Corey Thomas, who has been working as park director at Robles Park in Tampa
Heights for 17 years, has watched this place change. The park sits between I-275
and one-story homes with fenced yards. The peach-colored project down Avon
Street is its next-door neighbor.

Thomas sees project kids and Tampa Heights kids, and now gay couples taking a
stroll through.

"Once upon a time, 10 years ago, when gays came over here, a lot of people would
talk," Thomas said, his gold tooth catching the fluorescent lighting. "Now,
nobody seems to notice."

Reporter Allyson Bird can be reached at (813) 259-7827.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2005



CORRECTION: Richard Florida wrote "The Rise of the Creative Class." A story in
Monday's Nation/World section had an incorrect first name.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN Jeff Norman, left, and Aaron Chu have a home in
southeast Seminole Heights, an area well known for crime. Tribune photo by FRED
FOX David Purnell, right, carries a plate of food during a dinner party for
friends at the home he shares with his partner, Steve Johns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 8, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chemistry Experiment

BYLINE: BART O'CONNELL, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY


Ridgewood football coach Chris Taylor has his varsity players working harder
than they've ever worked to build toughness and camaraderie.

By BART O'CONNELL

Tribune correspondent

NEW PORT RICHEY -Gasping for breath and needing a little more time than usual to
decide what to say, Ridgewood sophomore quarterback Charley Minichino isn't
complaining. He's confident.

It's noon on Friday afternoon, the end of a weeklong series of two-a-day
practice sessions, and the entire Rams varsity has just finished a series of
sprints across the practice field.

Along with his assistants, new coach Chris Taylor makes sure each player runs
full speed for every one. The players seem eager to comply. Minichino and senior
John Walsh say they're working harder than they ever have before at Ridgewood.

According to Walsh, many practices last year included "outbreaks," a nice way to
describe two players fighting. Under the previous Rams coaching regime, Walsh
said the arguments rarely got resolved and players were frustrated.

The quarrels, he says, led to bad chemistry, a bad record (1-18 over the past
two seasons), and Coach Troy Cornwell's dismissal.

But Walsh and Minichino agree that Taylor's fresh attitude has changed the
practice climate at Ridgewood. With a background playing for what he called
"powerhouse teams," Taylor said his plan is to do whatever it takes to get
tougher.

He already has increased the emphasis on the weight room and practice field.
He's also not worried about losing.

"We're going to worry about working hard," said Taylor, a standout lineman and
eventual assistant at Bettendorf (Iowa) High, which won a state title his
sophomore year and reached another state title game while he was on the staff.

"We're making sure we're practicing correctly. We want to get something out of
every minute, and we want to do it with an intensity that keeps building up to
the game. Practice should be harder than what the actual game itself is like."

As far as play calling, don't expect a drastic change from last year's run-first
offense. Although Minichino may not be throwing much more, he said his arm is a
lot stronger after a lot of offseason conditioning.

Last year, he often was forced to scramble and throw off-balance. He doesn't
expect as much of that this year.

"I bet we'll be more efficient," he said.

Minichino's encouragement seems widespread throughout the team, but there's
still plenty of work to do. With classes beginning today at Ridgewood, that work
will be limited to one practice a day for the rest of the season. Still, Taylor
is planning a full-squad scrimmage, weightlifting competition and cookout at the
end of this week.

The goal is to continue building chemistry and camaraderie in a team that has
desperately needed it in the past. What he doesn't need to build is belief. He
seems to have already earned that.

"All of our coaches have been through this before," Taylor said. "We're going to
put them through the ringer, but they understand that we know what they're going
through.

"Our eyes are straight ahead. We're focusing on becoming competitive, and if we
can do that we have a chance to win every game.

Toughness and competitiveness aside, linebacker Ben Perry pointed out another
attribute he has learned this summer.

"I'm meaner than I've ever been before," Perry said. "Why? I think it's because
of the coaches."

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPORTS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES Chris Taylor, head football coach at Ridgewood High,
hopes to make his team tougher by focusing on working hard and getting the most
out of each practice.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sharing Suite Digs

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON, jfjohnston@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: ST. LEO


Saint Leo's New Residence Halls Offer Scenic Views, More

By JO-ANN JOHNSTON

jfjohnston@tampatrib.com

ST. LEO -- Saint Leo University junior and seniors this weekend are moving into
what might be some of the most desirable apartment suites in Pasco County.

The furnished digs would draw envy from young first-time renters anywhere.

"I haven't seen anything so beautiful. It makes our campus stand out that much
more," said Regina Forbes, a senior majoring in English at Saint Leo.

Because she was on campus early in her role as a resident assistant, Forbes beat
the rush and moved in last weekend. Most of the 323 new occupants of Buildings 3
and 4 were scheduled to move in between Friday and today, for the start of the
fall semester Tuesday.

They're quickly learning that new college dormitories -- at Saint Leo and
elsewhere -- aren't what they used to be.

Oops. Did we say dormitories?

"Residence halls," said Frank Mezzanini, vice president and chief financial
officer at Saint Leo. "They're not dorms anymore, not when they look like this."

The newest halls follow the Spanish mission-style architecture and courtyard
design of neighboring Saint Leo Abbey, a monastic community.

The view from these five-story towers is spectacular: Lake Jovita and the twin
oaks on its shoreline, giving the buildings an edge over their courtyards, which
are set farther back from the lake.

"I have the most beautiful sunset," Forbes said.

Each floor offers social and study lounges where students can take in the views.

Living Well

Suites house four students in four-bedroom units. Each student has a furnished
bedroom with individual climate control and Internet connection (each student on
campus is furnished a laptop). Residents have phone lines for
voice-over-Internet telephone service.

Two in-suite bathrooms each are equipped with two sinks and vanity areas, one
for each student.

The common areas of the suite are a living room and fully-equipped kitchen with
a countertop eating area furnished with four raised chairs with full backs, not
stools.

"We have a dishwasher, even," said senior and elementary education major Catie
O'Connor. "We're really not missing anything."

Even the microwaves have been selected with college occupants in mind. They're
big enough to handle standard-size pizzas.

"It makes you feel like an adult," said Mark Walker, another senior majoring in
elementary education. "You're able to cook for yourself."

Occupants are not expected to do all their own cooking, however. Saint Leo
requires residents to purchase a meal plan that provides at least five meals a
week in a dining hall, which students often use for lunch.

There's another touch Mezzanini takes pride in showing visitors. Before
Buildings 3 and 4 went up, he asked students who lived in Buildings 1 and 2
whether any amenities were lacking in their suites that should be incorporated
into the new buildings.

Doorbells, they said. Sometimes, when you're in your bedroom with the door shut,
you can't hear someone knocking on the suite door that leads to the hallway.
Doorbells would fix that. That's why the new halls came with bells on.

College Competition

Mezzanini takes such details seriously because, he said, the living environment
colleges and universities provide factor into the competition for students in a
contemporary market. Those who grew up among affluence enjoyed by many in their
generation come to college with certain expectations, he said.

"Students want a resort," he said. "Most of them haven't shared a bedroom. They
have their own phones, and/or cell phones. They've got their own TV and cable.
And then they come to college and they're looking for the same type of
experience. And we need to give it to them, because if we don't someone else
will."

A little research on comparable private Florida universities bears him out. The
University of Tampa's newest apartment-style halls opened in 2003 with similar
quarters -- shared living room, kitchen and bathroom space and four individual
bedrooms, according to the UT Web site.

Barry University, which like Saint Leo, is a Catholic institution, offers
juniors and seniors halls with double and single rooms with private bathrooms at
its campus in Miami Shores.

The traditional, hall style dormitories with rows of double rooms and big common
bathrooms will remain on most campuses for the time being, Mezzanini predicted.
But newer construction will follow the apartment-style format, he said.

Freshmen new to college will be assigned to the older dorms, and the privilege
of living in the nicer suites will go to upper-level students.

The newest halls are still referred to with the plain names of 1, 2, 3 and 4.
That will change eventually, Mezzanini said, and the residences will bear the
names of significant donors to Saint Leo and other luminaries in the university
world.

(CHART) SEMESTER FACTS

Classes at Saint Leo University start Tuesday.

Incoming freshman class has 440 students representing 24 states and 17
countries.

Forty-one academic programs are available, including bachelor's degree, master's
degree and preprofessional programs.

(CHART) HOUSING COSTS

This semester, Saint Leo University is housing 1,163 students on campus.

A spot in a suite in Saint Leo's new residence halls on Lake Jovita is $3,180 a
semester. The minimum required five-day a week meal plan is $597.

A double room in a traditional-style dormitory such as Marmion or Snyder halls
is $1,960, and a single dorm room costs $3,020. The meal plan for these students
is $1,770 a semester.

Source: Saint Leo University

(CHART) (Floor plan)

Tribune graphic

Source: Craycroft Price Architects

Reporter Jo-Ann Johnston can be reached at (352) 521-3062.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 CHART 3
Tribune photos by CHRIS URSO Buildings 3 and 4 are ready for the 323 students
they will house. Many students are moving in this weekend. Regina Forbes, a
resident assistant, moved into her furnished room last week. Tribune photo by
CHRIS URSO Each floor has social and study lounges, but the suites also have a
living area and kitchen where roommates can hang out.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bolts' St. Louis Goes From MVP To No. 3

BYLINE: ERIK ERLENDSSON, eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 625 words


SLUMPING STAR PUT ON THIRD LINE

By ERIK ERLENDSSON

eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -- Posted next to the locker room door inside the Flyers
Skate Zone facility Tuesday, the message was written and taped onto the wall.

On a yellow piece of notebook paper fastened against the backdrop of the dingy
white wall were the line combinations for Tuesday's Lightning practice. The
third line down, written in black marker, was "25-27-26," the line of forwards
dressed in black practice jerseys normally reserved for the checking line.

Coach John Tortorella hopes it's the right combination to unlock some of Tampa
Bay's early offensive woes and the key to opening up the struggles of MVP Marty
St. Louis.

"He has to start scoring," Tortorella said. "Marty is one of our best offensive
players, but he has to be one of our better defensive players with the amount of
ice time that he has been getting. He needs to be a complete player, or he won't
keep getting that type of minutes."

Through the opening seven games of the season, St. Louis has one goal and two
points. The new offensive-friendly NHL was supposed to benefit speed and skill
players such as St. Louis, but he has found the new climate tough to navigate.
His only goal came during a 5-on-3 power play against Florida on Oct. 8. Since
then, he not only has missed a breakaway with five minutes remaining in a tie
game against Buffalo, but he has failed to convert on both chances he has had in
the Lightning's two shootout losses.

Dmitry Afanasenkov will replace St. Louis on the second line with Brad Richards
and Fredrik Modin when Tampa Bay faces Atlanta on Thursday, while St. Louis will
be alongside Dave Andreychuk and Tim Taylor on the checking line.

"Those are the lines," Tortorella said. "That [Richards] line hasn't done
anything, they haven't created any scoring chances and it's not working so we
need to change things around. ... Richie's line isn't working so we have to find
something that is working. You can only wait so long, and we'll see where it
goes from there."

St. Louis hopes it's a return to the form that made him league scoring champion
and MVP during the 2003-04 season when he set career highs with 38 goals, 56
assists and 94 points.

"To put my finger on it, you [would] need a big finger to put for all the things
that are going wrong," St. Louis said. "It's a lot of things. I'm fighting it,
I'm trying too hard. I think I've gone through this every year at a different
time, and I'm going through it right now. Obviously, it sucks because with the
success that we've had and the success that I've had, I was hungry to pick up
where I left off and I'm nowhere near that right now."

That MVP season earned St. Louis a six-year deal worth $31.5 million during the
summer, of which he is earning $6.5 million this season. While that deal is
somewhere entrenched in the back of his mind, he said trying to live up to the
contract is not foremost on his mind.

"It's not so much playing up to the contract, it's my name and playing up to
what I know I can do," he said. "It's not like playing for the contract I got,
I'm playing for what I know I can do and I haven't done that. It's not so much
the money, it's the lack of performance that is really bothering me."

St. Louis believes one good game can snap him out of this slump and get him
going. In the meantime, he's not looking to place the blame on anybody but
himself for his play in the first two weeks of the season.

"I think I'm working hard, it's just ... I'm not going to make excuses and say
it's the puck, it's the stick, it's the glove and it's the skates," he said.
"It's between my ears right now."

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Associated Press Lightning forward Martin St. Louis, who has missed both of
his shootout attempts this season, will play with the checking line. Lightning
coach John Tortorella is trying to prove that anyone, even Marty St. Louis,
needs to earn his minutes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 21, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Muslims Look To Islamic Traditions

BYLINE: JULIE PACE, jpace@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


TAMPA MEETING FOCUSES ON RENEWING FAITH

By JULIE PACE

jpace@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- With their religion analyzed and discussed in courtrooms and school
board meetings, many Muslims are trying to get in touch with the traditions of
Islam.

Nearly 400 Muslims, including some who traveled from as far as Michigan and
British Columbia, gathered in Tampa over the weekend for a two-day workshop
called "Agenda to Change our Condition." The program was presented by two Muslim
converts from the Zaytuna Institute, an educational center in Hayward, Calif.,
that emphasizes the traditional teachings of Islam.

The workshop focused on attaining taqwa, or God consciousness. Presenter Imam
Zaid Shakir said service and civic involvement is an integral part of reaching
taqwa, and encouraged Muslims to take that teaching seriously.

"Let us be the community that's known for service and sharing and giving
preference to others," Shakir said.

Workshop organizer Basim Ahmed said gaining a better understanding of their
faith is an increasing priority for many Muslims, as Islam in the United States
competes daily with secular life. Secularism and religion clashed this fall in
Hillsborough County, when the school board took Christian and Jewish holidays
off the school calendar after local members of the Council on American-Islamic
Relations asked to have Eid Al-Fitr added. Christian and Jewish holidays were
reinstated, but a Muslim holiday was not added.

Ahmed said being stronger in their faith helps Muslims deal with setbacks like
the calendar issue, as well as events like the trial of former University of
South Florida Professor Sami Al-Arian, who is accused of involvement with a
terrorist organization.

The trial presents a different challenge to Muslims who want their religion to
be recognized as one that emphasizes peace and service, not terrorism, Ahmed
said. Still, he said, the trial doesn't dominate discussion in the local Muslim
community.

"The Al-Arian issue is important, but it's not the underlying thing in most
people's lives," Ahmed said.

USF student Danya Shakfeh, 19, said the trial provides an insight into the
judicial system that should be important to Muslims and non-Muslims.

"Regardless of your opinion of Sami Al-Arian, he deserves a fair trial and human
rights," Shakfeh said.

The jury begins its second week of deliberations today.

But beneath the diplomatic attitude many Muslims have about the trial is a
climate of fear, said Muna Al Aseer, who is Palestinian.

"There is enough out there when they hear of things or see things that are
covered in the news that they become convinced they're going to be attacked,"
she said.

Not speaking out only increases the fear and perpetuates stereotypes, Al Aseer
said. She's confident that younger Muslims will speak out not only in words but
also through service.

Finding ways to fill the need for positive words and actions is what brought
Sarah Quadri, 21, of Fort Lauderdale, to the workshop.

"Let's take it back to traditional Islam," she said. "Make it a religion of
peace, which is how it's supposed to be."

Reporter Julie Pace can be reached at (813) 865-1505.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Tribune photo by MARK GUSS Muslims take a break from the program to pray on
Sunday. The weekend workshop focused on giving attendees a better understanding
of their faith. Tribune photo by MARK GUSS Ahmed Howeedy takes some notes on his
laptop computer during a workshop presentation Sunday on attaining God
consciousness, or taqwa, which involves service and community involvement.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 25, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bulls Get Out Their Woolies For Road Trip

BYLINE: BRETT McMURPHY, bmcmurphy@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words


GAME MIGHT BE COLDEST IN SCHOOL HISTORY

By BRETT McMURPHY

bmcmurphy@tampatrib.com

TAMPA -- For the past week, there's been nothing but blizzards in Tampa. The
University of South Florida was hit by a freak snow storm, blanketing the campus
with waist-high snow drifts and freezing temperatures.

At least that's what USF senior defensive end Terrence Royal has envisioned.

"In my head it's been snowing on the field every day during practice," Royal
said. "I'm getting ready for it. I'm getting my mind prepared for it."

The Bulls (6-3, 4-1 Big East) and Royal are preparing for the coldest game in
school history at Connecticut (4-5, 1-4) on Saturday. While snow appears
unlikely in East Hartford, forecasts are for a high of 41 with lows dipping into
the 20s.

"It's only cold when you stand around," USF senior strong safety Johnnie Jones
said. "Once you start playing, it's the same for everybody. We've got things to
help -- jackets, warm-ups, heat packs, but football is football."

Historically, Tampa's football teams haven't fared well in the cold. The Bucs
lost 21 consecutive games with temperatures below 40 degrees until winning at
Chicago (28 degrees) and Philadelphia (26 degrees) during the 2002 Super Bowl
season.

USF never has played a game below 46 degrees, although USF has won both games --
at Memphis in 2003 and at Connecticut in 2000 -- when temperatures were in the
upper 40s.

"You've got to get bigger shoes, because you're going to need two pairs of
socks," USF senior running back Andre Hall said. "You get in the mind-set of
playing in a cold game, but so what?

"You've got to play. You've got to get used to it. Usually I don't go out in
pregame, but I'll go out in the pregame when it's cold."

To help combat the cold, the Bulls will have eight heaters on their sideline.

"Some of these guys played at Memphis [in 2003] and it was a cold, cold day,"
USF coach Jim Leavitt said. "I could talk about [the weather], I could scare
them to death and keep telling them how cold it's going to be.

"But by the time we get to the game, I don't know what they would do. It is what
it is."

Junior quarterback Pat Julmiste, like a lot of USF's 90 players from Florida
high schools, has never seen snow. He said he's considering wearing gloves like
NFL quarterbacks Tom Brady and Donovan McNabb.

"If I don't like them, I won't wear them," Julmiste said.

USF offensive coordinator Rod Smith said Julmiste will not wear a glove on his
right throwing hand, but could wear a glove on his left hand if he wanted.

"He's not going to wear your typical Nike tackified glove," Smith said.

USF senior defensive end Jon Simmons, a Clearwater Central Catholic graduate who
was born in Maryland and lived there until he was 11, is one of the few Bulls
who have seen snow.

"If it snows, it would be a big change," Simmons said. "But if it's just cold,
we'll be able to handle that."

A victory Saturday sets up next week's game with West Virginia. An unofficial
Big East championship game between the so-called skunks of the BCS and the
12th-ranked Mountaineers.

"I don't know if skunks like the cold," USF senior linebacker Jason Allen said.
"But the South Florida Skunks are going to be ready to play."

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by KELVIN MA Andre Hall and his teammates are used to warm
weather, but the running back says the Bulls must get into a mind-set for
playing in cold climates.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Passion Drives Downs Owner

BYLINE: STEVEN ISBITTS, sisbitts@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: OLDSMAR


TRACK FOSTERS THAYER'S LOVE OF HORSE RACING

By STEVEN ISBITTS

sisbitts@tampatrib.com

OLDSMAR -- Tampa Bay Downs owner Stella Thayer remembers standing on a car to
watch thoroughbred races from the parking lot of the racetrack. She was 7 years
old, peering over fences to see her favorite sport.

"I rode horseback when I was 5," Thayer said Friday. "Racing and horses have
been a lifelong love of mine."

Thayer's early memories of live racing came about 20 years before she first
invested in the track the 1960s.

In 1986, Thayer, a lawyer and Tampa native, bought the track with her brother,
Howell Ferguson.

On Saturday, Tampa Bay Downs opens its 80th season of live racing. The 94-day
meet boasts 26 stakes races worth more than $2.3 million. Under Thayer's
hands-on leadership, the track has grown during the past 10 years from a
small-time racing facility to one with national acclaim.

Out-of-state bettors now wager an average of millions per day on the track's
full, competitive cards. Horsemen love the track's horse-strengthening dirt
course, the pristine turf course, which opened in 1998, and annually increasing
purses. And local fans have responded.

While many tracks nationwide have had attendance decline in recent years, Tampa
Bay Downs has grown in popularity. In March, a record crowd of 10,246 attended
the track's Festival Day, which featured the $250,000 Tampa Bay Derby and three
other stakes races.

This season has attracted a record number of trainers who applied to stable
horses at Tampa Bay Downs, and Thayer expects the 2005-06 meet to set a new
standard.

Last week, Thayer talked about racing and the state of Tampa Bay Downs.

Q. What do you love most about racing?

A. The thrill of that speed and acceleration and stamina and the spirit of the
horse in a competitive athletic environment. And the jockeys themselves are
incredible athletes. ... The whole pageantry and excitement of a race is really
what I really love about it. And the people that come to a track all have a
rooting interest, and there's an excitement to that.

Q. What are you most proud of in your 20 years as owner of Tampa Bay Downs?

A. We've evolved to much higher-quality racing. And with the turf track, we're
able now to present a terrific experience. It's exciting to have horses come
here and then watch them run in stakes across the country. Today you go to
tracks in New York, Kentucky, and a stakes race and see a past performance [in
the program] that includes Tampa, which is a wonderful step for this track.

Q. How important are stakes races for Tampa Bay Downs, which will have a
record-high $2.3 million stakes program this season?

A. It's critical. Fans everywhere want to see stars. When you can put the stakes
money out there you're more likely to draw the talent, and that's exciting. Not
that horses that run everyday are not exciting, but the stakes program adds a
dimension. And we see now horses running here and then running in stakes
throughout the country. ....That ties the fan further, to watch a horse that was
here and see them competing at high levels elsewhere.

Q. What improvements or upgrades do you have planned for the track?

A. We've been putting money in on an annual basis to upgrade. That will
continue. The big investment was the turf course [in 1998]. Going back years,
track quality has always been top priority for us. ... If there is anything
technologically we can add that would expose fans through media to a fuller
experience, we would do that quickly. We're also committed to more entertainment
options. We added the golf facility next door, and the poker room has expanded
this year.

Q. What are the biggest challenges facing horse racing?

A. From my perspective, we're looking at a changing landscape in terms of
competitiveness. Many racetracks have been given some sort of alternate gaming,
which of course gives them an additional revenue stream that we don't have to
add to purses. Now with Broward County having approved [slot machines] for
Gulfstream Park, which races at the same time we do, it's a new challenge. We're
hopeful that we'll be able to have some kind of assistance from the Legislature
in that regard.

Q. Why are slot machines or other gaming so important to Florida racing?

A. If other states permit slot machines, it changes the competitive environment
for us. And horsemen will not be anxious to come here, even out of the northern
climate, if they can run for stronger purse money in the Midwest of Northeast or
wherever. We've been very fortunate [at Tampa Bay Downs] because we offer an
amazing variety of horses that come from different parts the county. From a fan
or bettor perspective you get to see horses competing in a different circuit
rather than the same circuit all the time. But with Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and
New York adding gaming, plus Delaware, Louisiana and others with it, it's a
rapidly changing scene out there. And now South Florida having something within
the state that's unequal is a new challenge. If you can only sell vanilla ice
cream, and your competitor can sell chocolate or peppermint, you're not going to
have the same product offering as your competitor.

Q. How does horse racing rank among professional sports in the Tampa Bay area?

A. We'd like to see it much more appreciated and known. That's just something
culturally. ...

Racing is more remote from the culture from what it used to be, when we were
more of an agrarian society and horses were more a part of everyone's life. But
I think a movie like "Seabiscuit" brought back to popular understanding a lot
about horse racing, made it more front and center for a younger generation. ...
We have been improving. We're known more now; in terms of location, we're
accessible. People who come out here tend to repeat. Our demographic has become
a bit younger on the weekend. ... We'd love to have as many fans as the
Buccaneers do on our big day for the Tampa Bay Derby. That would be something to
strive for, for that to be a day that generates huge excitement in town.

(CHART) TAMPA BAY DOWNS

WHAT: Thoroughbred racing

WHEN: Dec. 10-May 7 (first race post time 12:25 p.m.)

WHERE: Race Track Road in Oldsmar (mile north of Hillsborough Avenue)

ADMISSION: $2 grandstand; $3 clubhouse

PARKING: Free for general lots; $2 preferred lots; $4 valet

INFORMATION: (813) 855-4401

Photo credit: Photo by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE

Photo: Under Stella Thayer, Tampa Bay Downs has grown from small-time facility
to national acclaim.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO

Photo: In March, a record crowd of 10,246 attended the track's Festival Day,
which featured the $250,000 Tampa Bay Derby.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 20, 2005 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obituaries

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1203 words


BOGDANOWITZ, Carol B., 75, of Holiday, passed away October 18, 2005, at Gulfside
Regional Hospice in New Port Richey. She was born January 9, 1930, in Jamaica,
N.Y., and came to Florida 28 years ago from Massapequa, N.Y. She was a legal
secretary and homemaker. She was a member of St. Vincent dePaul Catholic Church,
and member and secretary of the Tobay Yacht Club in Massapequa, Long Island,
N.Y. Survivors include her husband of 56 years, David; sons, David and
Johnathan, both of New Port Richey; daughters, Niki Brown, Sally DeMaria and
Diane Williamson, all of New Port Richey; and six grandchildren.

Morgan Funeral Home

and Cremation Services

6025 Trouble Creek Road

New Port Richey

(727) 847-3999

CROSS, The Rev. Patricia "Pat," 80, of Bayonet Point, died Tuesday, October 18,
2005, at Windsor Woods Convalescent Center in Hudson. She was born in Flushing,
N.Y., and moved to Florida from California 17 years ago. She worked for the L.A.
Times as a writer, was a metaphysical minister, writer, lecturer, teacher and
workshop facilitator. She is survived by several nieces and nephews. Prevatt
Funeral Home in Hudson is in charge of arrangements.

FROST, Hazel E., 88, of New Port Richey, passed away October 18, 2005, at
Marliere Hospice Care Center. She was born June 14, 1917, in Hillsboro, Ohio,
and came to New Port Richey 13 years ago from Orlando. She was a real estate
agent with Don Asher Real Estate in Orlando. She was a member of Global Family
Fellowship Church in Clearwater and a World War II Navy veteran. Survivors
include a daughter, Marcetta Dyer of Palm Harbor; a brother, John Higgins of
Cocoa Beach, Fla.; a sister, Alice Vanwinkle of Leesburg, Ohio; one grandchild
and one great-grandchild. Date and time of service are not confirmed.

Morgan Funeral Home

and Cremation Services

6025 Trouble Creek Road

New Port Richey

(727) 847-3999

GREEN, Edward "Ed" Joseph, 61, of New Port Richey, Fla., died Tuesday, October
18, 2005, at home in New Port Richey. He was born in Yonkers, N.Y., and moved
here from Toms River, N.J., in 1978. He was retired after 11 years as
circulation sales manager at the St. Petersburg Times, a Navy veteran and of the
Catholic faith. He is survived by his wife, Irene Green of New Port Richey;
three sons, Edward Vaughan (Robin) of New Port Richey, George Warm (Yvette) of
New Port Richey and Michael Warm (Tracey) of Sheboygan Falls, Wis.; and
grandchildren, Amanda, Alicia, Kayde, Jayden, Zachery and Thomas. Visitation
will be noon-8 p.m. Thursday, October 20, 2005, at Dobies Funeral Home, New Port
Richey, where the service will be at noon Friday, October 21, 2005. Burial will
follow at Meadowlawn Memorial Gardens, New Port Richey.

Thomas B. Dobies

Funeral Homes

Congress Street Chapel

New Port Richey

GRZEGOREK, Edwin "Ed" J., 64, of Port Richey, Fla., died Saturday, October 16,
2005, at home in Port Richey. He was born in Swickley, Pa., and moved here from
Penn- sauken, N.J., in 1996. He was retired after 42 years as a U.S. Army
captain, attended St. Martin Episcopal Church, Hudson, was a member of American
Legion Post 79, New Port Richey, and Knights of Columbus, 4th Degree, Father
Farrell. He was an avid computer technician, bowler, and military and history
buff. He is survived by his wife of 4 1/2 years, Janet Grzegorek of Port Richey;
a son, John Hoffman of Port Richey; a daughter, Marie Ann Saul of Sicklerville,
N.J.; a brother, Father Joseph Grzegorek of Erie, Pa.; two sisters, Suzanne
Fronczek and Mary Anne Lasko, both of Bellmar, N.J.; and seven grandchildren.
Memorial services will be 11 a.m. Friday, October 28, 2005, at St. Martin's
Episcopal Church, 15801 U.S. Highway 19, Hudson. His final resting place will be
Florida National Cemetery, Bushnell.

Thomas B. Dobies

Funeral Homes

Hudson Avenue Chapel

Hudson

KEEGAN, Robert "Cueball" Joseph, 81, of Hudson, Fla., died Monday, October 17,
2005, at home in Hudson. He was born in Watertown, N.Y., and moved here from
there in 2000. He was retired after 26 years as an information officer for the
U.S. Postal Service, and was a U.S. Army veteran of World War II, 3rd Division,
serving in Africa, Italy, France and Germany. He was a member, past exhalted
ruler and past state vice president of Elks Lodge 496, a past commander of
American Legion Post 61, a life member of Northside Improvement League and a
member of Veterans of Foreign Wars and Lions Club, all of Watertown, N.Y. He was
preceded in death by a son, David. He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Betty
Keegan of Hudson; four sons, John (Laurie) Keegan of Sackets Harbor, N.Y., James
Keegan and R. Michael Keegan, both of Chaumont, N.Y., and Edward Keegan of
Largo, Fla.; three daughters, Patricia Miner of Watertown, N.Y., Nancy Keegan of
Dexter, N.Y., and Susan Keegan of Springfield, Va.; a sister, Mary Doyle Dermady
of Chaumont, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.

Thomas B. Dobies

Funeral Homes

Hudson Avenue Chapel

Hudson

MITCHELL, Walter Lee, 64, of Lacoochee, Fla., passed away Tuesday, October 18,
2005, in Dade City under the care of Hernando-Pasco Hospice. He was born May 28,
1941, in Campbell County, Va., to Robert Mitchell and Irene Bailey Mitchell. He
was a retired carpenter. He is survived by his wife, Verna L. Mitchell,
Lacoochee; one daughter, Cindy Lee Mitchell, Murfreesboro, Tenn.; one son, Barry
Mitchell, Alavista, Va.; one stepdaughter, Lauritha Langel, Post Falls, Idaho;
two stepsons, John Oliver, Live Oak, Fla., and Garnett Oliver Jr., Murfreesboro,
Tenn.; two sisters, Jean Rowlan, Hurt, Va., and Sue Blackstock, Alavista, Va.;
three brothers, Jack Mitchell, Alavista, Va., Billy Joe Mitchell, Alavista, Va.,
and Arthur "Dunk" Mitchell, Virginia; and one grandson, Logan Mitchell. Funeral
services will be held 2 p.m. Friday, October 21, 2005, at the First Baptist
Church of Lacoochee with the Rev. Eldridge Parrish officiating. Burial will
follow at Lacoochee Cemetery. Friends may call 6-8 p.m. Thursday at Hodges
Family Funeral Home on Highway 301 (formerly Oakley Funeral Home).

Highway 301 Chapel

Dade City, Florida

352.567.6100

www.hodgesfuneralhome.com <http://www.hodgesfuneralhome.com/>

PULLING, Marie "Dolly" L., 72, of New Port Richey, passed away October 19, 2005,
at Marliere Hospice Care Center. Born August 3, 1933, she came here 11 years ago
from her native Cleveland, Ohio. She was retired from the Berea school district
and Pasco County school district food service department. She was a member of
St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church and women of the Eagles. She was an avid
bingo player. Survivors include her husband of 53 years, Kenneth; sons, Kenneth
Jr. of Medina, Ohio, and Michael of Port Richey; daughters, Nancy Hinkle of New
Port Richey and Mary LaGuardia of Medina; a brother, Michael Stanik Jr. of Ohio;
sisters, Pauline Repickey, Jaye Kacsandi and Geraldine Mauser; 12 grandchildren;
three great-grandchildren; and many nieces and nephews. Services will be held in
Ohio. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested donations be made to
Hernando-Pasco Hospice.

Morgan Funeral Home

and Cremation Services

6025 Trouble Creek Road

New Port Richey, FL 34653

(727) 847-3999

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 6, 2005 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DUTY CALLS

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words


But Tampa's 'The Place We Want To Call Home'

Brig. Gen. David "Tanker" Snyder turned over his command of MacDill Air Force
Base on Thursday, having earlier briefed Tribune editors on the changes he has
overseen. He and his wife, Tammy, are moving to his new assignment in Hawaii.

Q. How did you get the name Tanker?

A. I never flew a tanker until the day I showed up at MacDill just over two
years ago. My father was in the military. He retired as a colonel and passed
away in 1990. He was a West Pointer. He became a paratroop company commander,
and he nicknamed my older brother Trooper. Then about two years later he was
driving tanks. My father sent a telegram when I was born: "Operation Little
Drop. Off-load one Tanker. Flight rough. Landing smooth."

So I got the name Tanker ... and it stuck.

Q. Where else have you been in the Air Force?

A. I've been all throughout the world. I initially flew C-141 aircraft, cargo. I
used to have a map with pins in it of all the places I went to, but I stopped
doing that when it got too crowded.

Q. How has the Tampa area twice won an Air Force award for community support of
MacDill?

A. Tampa is known throughout the military as being a very warm and friendly
town. The only reason we only won it twice is that they don't like to give it
back-to-back.

The people are just genuine. Honestly, they just want to help the men, women and
families of the military. ... It's a major city with a small-town feel. If you
want beaches, if you want the arts, if you like sports, world championship Bucs,
Stanley Cup-winning Lightning, Devil Rays. Busch Gardens and Disney. Young men
and women in the military get to go to those events. Bayshore Patriots are out
there on Bayshore every Friday. Just want to wave the flag because they
genuinely care about supporting the men and women in the military. And we're
able to document all that support.

There is no other community like this in the military that has that genuine
sense of partnership and wanting to help out.

Q. How does it feel to be leaving?

A. A combination of pride and sorrow. You don't want to leave this position --
being commander of 6th Air Mobility Wing, host wing to all our important mission
partners. But I also feel immense pride that I was part of this team -- U.S.
Central Command,

Special Operations Command, the airmen that are deployed.

This is the place we want to call home. We'll retire here. As I'm being
reassigned to Hawaii, to U.S. Pacific Command, it's a comfort knowing we found a
community that we want to be part of.

Q. How big is the base now?

A. There are 19,000 people on base. It's hard to give an exact figure. There are
52 mission partners. A lot are on temporary duty, including coalition folks.
About 12,000 military and about 7,000 civilians and contractors, and you also
have families. ... About 250,000 retirees and their dependents live here.

The value is over $3 billion -- property, planes and equipment. The economic
impact is $5.6 billion. The wing's budget was about $120 million. When we
contract for all the things we support, it's $320 million annually.

Q. What are you buying with that money?

A. Over $500 million worth of projects are either completed or funded and
ongoing. Just in December we received approval for a 450-room hotel and club
complex. We put about 1,000 people a night downtown. A lot of people come to
MacDill on temporary duty -- coalition people.

MacDill dedicated the Davis Conference Center last year. It's a mission planning
center that's cleared for the highest level of conferences. It's the premier
conference center in DOD.

We're putting fitness paths through MacDill. All the housing is going to be
rebuilt. There will be better access to Tinker Elementary School.

There will be a total of 485 new homes. We had 650. We're going down in number
but increasing quality. Five historic homes will be renovated. We're doing it
right, so that 50 years from now, people are living in a world-class community,
not just some houses that were put down piecemeal.

Another improvement is the new hospital. It will be what we call a super clinic.
It will be in front of the base, so you don't have to drive all the way through
the base. We're about to complete a new tower and a new crash fire-rescue
station.

Q. What is the your military role here?

A. We provide air base support for MacDill, for the two combatant command
headquarters. The mission of the 6th Air Mobility Wing is providing global air
refueling, with the 12 KC-135 tankers, and airlifts with the three C-37s, the
Gulfstream 5 aircraft.

And we provide combat support overseas. About 10 percent of the wing personnel
and probably a greater or equal number of CentCom and SoCom personnel are
deployed at any given time. We have over 400 people deployed.

We airlift four-star commanders and their staffs. Rapid transportation with
secure communications. We will drag fighters overseas. They'll carry their
equipment inside the tankers. And we'll refuel them on the way over to Europe.

And we're in the homeland defense business. I think one of our strengths is the
relationship we have with all the other law enforcement agencies. We share
information; we share resources.

Q. Who else shares the base?

A. One is the Naval Reserve facility that was in the Port of Tampa, on prime
real estate. The port paid to build a 500-person Naval Reserve training facility
on MacDill. And we just opened that up.

Two coalitions are housed here, 64 different countries. One for Enduring Freedom
and one for Iraqi Freedom. Some are only in one coalition. Some are in both.

We have a Joint Communications Support Element, about 1,000 people who deploy
and provide secure communications. Underneath them is the Florida Air National
Guard, 290th Joint Communications Support Squadron. In times of crisis, like the
hurricanes, they worked for the governor and provided secure communications to
disaster relief.

The 622nd Air Medical Evacuation Squadron is one of the two largest medical
evacuation squadrons in the entire Air Force. We've got the Department of
Commerce, NOAA. We have the primary shooting range for Hillsborough County
sheriff and Tampa P.D.

Q. Are your tanker planes too old?

A. Most thoughtful people agree that we need to recapitalize the tanker fleet.
It's on average 44 years old. The KC-135 doesn't have the modern safety and
conveniences. We don't have a good air conditioner that works on the ground. ...

We're looking at what's the best long-term solution to provide one of the key
things that make us a superpower: ability to project power. We do that because
we can air-refuel fighter and bomber aircraft and bring that combat power to
provide influence around the world.

Q. What is the future of MacDill?

A. We probably have about 25 percent too many bases. That's money paying for
electricity and upkeep of a base, not into combat power or people programs or
making what we have more effective.

We have taken the approach, independent of the Base Realignment and Closing
Commission, of doing the best thing for the current mission and building a
foundation for future missions. Things that close at certain bases have to have
places to go to.

Secretary of Defense [Donald] Rumsfeld is looking for where you can get
synergies out of joint operations. If there was such a thing as a dictionary of
joint bases, you'd open it up and there'd be a picture of MacDill. Fifty-two
mission partners. The only base with two combatant command headquarters. An
important Air Force mission. NOAA. Important flight operations. MacDill is the
new wave of what bases are.

There's a lot of command and control infrastructure that's very difficult to
move. You just can't pick up classified lines and computer systems and satellite
communications and different things that a military needs. MacDill is a great
place to move missions that are realigned.

During my tenure as wing commander, I never worried for a second about MacDill
closing or downsizing. I worried about too much coming too quick, before we had
time to build the infrastructure to support all the people.

This is a national treasure, this peninsula in Tampa Bay. And it's got a rich
history. The base has been here 64 years. It had been the premier
fighter-training base for the Air Force. It had been a bomber base in World War
II.

It has changed the world, what's happened at MacDill. We want to build the
infrastructure and facilities for 64 more years. To make it a world-class place
to live and work.

Q. Any advice for your replacement?

A. Just congratulations. Col. Maggie Woodward is going to be fantastic. She will
be a tremendous asset to the MacDill community and the Tampa community. She
knows what a great team it is.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4
Photos from MacDill Air Force Base (Brig. Gen. David "Tanker" Snyder)
Outstanding community support for MacDill earned Tampa the Abilene Trophy,
presented last July. Brig. Gen. "Tanker" Snyder boasts that Tampa, a 2001
winner, is the only community recognized twice by the Air Mobility Command and
the Military Affairs Committee of Abilene, Texas. Tribune photo by FRED FOX A
ceremony Thursday marks Brig. Gen. "Tanker" Snyder's transfer of command to Col.
Margaret Woodward. Tribune file photo by CLIFF MCBRIDE (2002) The 6th Air
Mobility Wing's C-37A airplanes transport commanders and high-ranking visitors,
sharing MacDill's runways with aging KC-135 air-refueling tankers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

100 Hunt For Girl Missing In Ruskin

BYLINE: JILL KING GREENWOOD and ANTHONY McCARTNEY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN


SARAH LUNDE LAST SEEN EARLY SUNDAY MORNING

By JILL KING GREENWOOD and ANTHONY McCARTNEY

The Tampa Tribune

RUSKIN -- In a scene that drew haunting parallels to February's disappearance of
Jessica Marie "Jessie" Lunsford, law enforcement officers fanned out across
southeast Hillsborough County on Tuesday searching for a missing 13-year-old
girl.

Hillsborough Sheriff David Gee said foul play is suspected in the disappearance
of Sarah Michelle Lunde, a Beth Shields Middle School student who has not been
seen since early Sunday. The investigation has led detectives to the doorsteps
of 24 registered sex offenders and predators living nearby.

One of those offenders had a relationship with the teen's mother and had
frequently visited the family's Ruskin home.

"We are very concerned about the whereabouts of this child," Gee said Tuesday
evening outside a command post at First Apostolic Church of Jesus Christ in
Ruskin, where Sarah attends services.

Sarah returned to her home on 30th Street Southeast on Saturday evening from an
overnight trip with her church to Apopka. She was last seen when her adult
brother left to get something to eat shortly after midnight, Gee said.

Her brother came home at 4 a.m. and found the front door of the family's mobile
home open and Sarah gone, Gee said.

Sarah's mother, Kelly May, was out of town over the weekend and returned Sunday
night. May's son told her Sarah had been home but left again. May, 40, thought
the teen was staying at a friend's home, Gee said.

On Monday morning, May began calling Sarah's friends. When she couldn't locate
her, May called the middle school and discovered her daughter had not shown up
for classes that morning.

May alerted sheriff's officials about 1 p.m. Monday, and detectives began
canvassing the neighborhood. They questioned family, friends, neighbors and
those who attend the girl's church, Gee said.

By noon Tuesday, a command post was up and running in the church parking lot,
and a team of 70 deputies and 30 volunteers had gathered.

Ponds, wooded areas and homes within several miles of her home were searched.
Tracking dogs and helicopters were used in the search.

Gee declined to identify the registered sex offender who knows the girl's
mother. Detectives interviewed the man on Tuesday and also talked to 20 of the
other sex offenders and predators nearby. They have been unable to locate three
of them.

Sheriff's spokeswoman Debbie Carter said officials aren't focusing solely on the
sexual predator angle.

"We're looking at everything and everyone in an effort to find this child,"
Carter said.

Friends Try To Help

As neighbors, friends and strangers flocked to the command post to help look for
Sarah, her mother was outside pleading for her daughter's return.

"Sarah, if you're listening to this, please call, please come home," May said.
"We're all searching for you. We love you and miss you very much."

Gee and other officials said Sarah's father has not been involved in his
daughter's life in more than 10 years.

Sarah has disappeared from home in the past, Gee said, but usually for a few
hours. She spent time in a foster home when she was 9 and was briefly held in a
hospital under a state Baker Act.

But friends said the child they described as bright and funny would have come
home by now.

"She is not a runaway," said Melissa Carter, who has known Sarah and her family
for years and spent hours Tuesday walking through woods and searching ponds with
deputies. "Something is wrong. If she could get help, she would come here. She
wouldn't be gone this long."

Tammy Groce, who attends church with Sarah and whose children are about the same
age, said Sarah is a "typical 13-year-old girl, always laughing and joking and
spending time with her friends."

"It's not right," Groce said. "There's no way she would be gone this long unless
something is preventing her from coming home."

Kim Dodgen said she frequently waved to Sarah when she saw her walking along
30th Street South East

"I used to see her every other day walking with her friends," Dodgen said.

She said Sarah is the youngest of five children and used to come by Dodgen's
house to play with her three dogs and ride four-wheelers. She has three brothers
and one sister, Dodgen said.

Sarah recently was hit by a car outside her home and had a lime green cast put
on her arm.

Dodgen and Croce both said they rarely let their children out of sight, and the
disappearance of Sarah and the February disappearance and slaying of Jessie
Lunsford in Citrus County have heightened their fears.

"There's too many weird people," Dodgen said. "You just never know these days."

Focus On Sex Offenders

While deputies said it is too early to tell whether a sexual offender is
involved in Sarah's disappearance, there are 24 known sexual offenders living in
her ZIP code.

Deputies said there were three offenders in that area they had not been able to
locate by Tuesday night.

Legislation has been introduced in the Florida Legislature and in Congress to
better track sexual offenders and predators in the wake of the slaying of Jessie
Lunsford in Citrus County.

In that case, deputies say sexual offender John Evander Couey, who was living
across the street from the girl, confessed to killing her.

Jessie disappeared from her bedroom on Feb. 24 and Citrus County deputies
conducted massive searches for the girl before arresting Couey on March 17 in
Augusta, Ga.

Two days later, the girl's body was found buried on property across the street
from her home -- near the home where Couey had lived before leaving for Georgia.

Last week, U.S. Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Crystal River, introduced the Jessica
Lunsford Act in Congress, requiring sex offenders to report their addresses
twice a year. It also would force those who fail to report two or more times to
wear ankle bracelets, impose stiff fines and prison time for failure to register
as a sex offender, and provide probation officers with more information about
offenders in their jurisdiction.

The act also would establish a national registry to help track sex offenders.

The state legislation, which has passed committees in both chambers, would let
courts order life in prison or lifetime supervision via global
-positioning-satellite monitoring for people convicted of lewd and lascivious
molestation of a child younger than 12.

It also would create a third-degree felony for people convicted of harboring a
sex offender or predator.

Reporter Jill Greenwood can be reached at (813) 657 4534. Reporter Anthony
McCartney can be reached at (813) 259-7616.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5
Sarah Lunde She is described as warm and fun-loving. Tribune photo by JIM REED
From left, Melissa Carter, Aaron Wilson, Mike Pippy and Bill Wilson gather
outside the command post at a Ruskin church. News Channel 8 photo by WALLY
PATANOW Deputies and volunteers mount up Tuesday to search in Ruskin and
surrounding communities for Sarah Michelle Lunde. News Channel 8 photo by WALLY
PATANOW Sheriff's deputies scour a fish farm in Ruskin for the missing girl. The
search was scheduled to resume at 7 this morning. News Channel 8 photo by WALLY
PATANOW Helicopters and tracking dogs joined the hunt for the 13-year-old.
Volunteers and officials focused on ponds, wooded areas and homes within several
miles of the girl's home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 15, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Elegant Chamber Music Draws Crowds To Festival

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words


By KURT LOFT

kloft@tampatrib.com

SARASOTA - Sold-out concerts for chamber music? Impossible.

Not at the La Musica International Chamber Music Festival, which continues to
pack the Sarasota Opera House this month with a stream of elegant performances.
Wednesday night's program was no exception: Listeners rubbed elbows while a
global cast of musicians revealed hidden beauties in Prokofiev, Schubert and
Mendelssohn.

Chamber music is a hard sell, especially in the less intimate halls. But La
Musica, now in its 19th season, generates enough magnetism to support three
weeks' worth of concerts. Musicians come from Russia, Italy, England, the
Netherlands, Ireland, Sweden and the United States, relishing the interaction as
much as the weather.

Although Wednesday's conservative midpoint program needed more tension and bite,
it flowed offstage with fluid professionalism, most notably in Mendelssohn's
precocious "Octet." The eight musicians displayed impeccable textures that
supported -- rather than shrouded -- individual voices. Here was a performance
full of grace and unfettered lyricism, with each note coddled like a cup of warm
tea.

The evening opened with Prokofiev's rare "Overture on Jewish Themes," for
Clarinet, Strings and Piano. Although the composer resisted writing it --
borrowing musical ideas was anathema to him -- he created a gem. The sextet made
play of the dance, toying with its augmented intervals, and clarinetist Jon
Manasse cut loose in a fragmented klezmer-style romp.

Schubert's Trio in E Flat Major anchored the night, a massive work spanning
nearly 45 minutes that melts melodies into a soundscape of twirling harmony.
Violinist Jennifer Frautschi and cellist Ronald Thomas created an archlike
symmetry in their playing, supported by Derek Han's luminous arpeggios on the
keyboard. The team played musical pingpong with the scherzo -- a true canon --
and in the finale, introduced a pair of blissful themes that, like all good love
stories, ended up in marriage.

La Musica continues Saturday with works by Haydn, Hindemith and Dvorak, and
concludes the festival Tuesday with Boccherini, Schnittke and Brahms. For
tickets, call (941) 366-8450.

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813) 259-7570.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CONCERT REVIEW

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
La Musica Violinist Jennifer Frautschi performed in Schubert's Trio in E Flat
Major.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 13, 2005 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 461 words


Childhood Obesity

Overweight children will be the norm in the United States by 2044, according to
biomedical researchers at the University of Missouri at Columbia. The team cites
statistics that demonstrate up to a fourfold increase in the percentage of
overweight children since the mid-1980s.

UM's Frank Booth says the increase in obesity may be due to an incompatibility
between human genes and societal pressures. Human genes evolved to support a
great deal of physical activity, yet in the past 20 years, physical activity has
decreased dramatically in the United States.

"If all the work we are doing to promote physical fitness is working, than why
does the problem continue to get worse?" Booth says. "We have increased
sedentary activities for children by 4.5 times since 1950. Children and
adolescents now spend 45 hours each week watching television, working on the
computer, playing video games or watching movies."

Disappearing Lakes

Lakes in Siberia are shrinking and disappearing at a steady rate as the Arctic
climate warms and permafrost thaws, according to a Washington Post report. None
of the lakes has been refilling.

Using satellite photos of north-central Siberia taken from 1972 to 1998,
researchers say the number of large lakes in a 220,000-square-mile region had
declined by 1,170, or more than 11 percent. Each of the lakes studied was larger
than 100 acres.

Writing in the journal Science, the researchers say, "The ultimate effect of
continued climate warming on high-latitude, permafrost-controlled lakes and
wetlands may well be their widespread disappearance."

Science Stumper

Janet Hamilton of Citrus Park was one of many readers to offer the correct
answer to our last trivia question: It takes sound about five seconds to travel
a mile through the air. How long does it take to travel that far in water?
Answer: one second.

Now for today's stumper: What ubiquitous office implement was patented in 1900?
Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Supernova Mystery

In 1987, Earthlings enjoyed a rare sight: an exploding star. Supernova 1987A
offered spectacular evidence of one of nature's most violent events, and
astronomers were eager to study its remains.

Unlike other supernova, this one appears to have left no core behind. New images
by the Hubble Space Telescope show no sign of the dense neutron star scientists
had expected. Observations detect no body or source of radiation in the center
of the circle of gas left from the explosion.

"We think a neutron star was formed," says astronomer Genevieve Graves of the
University of California at Santa Cruz. "The question is: Why don't we see it?"

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: (Star)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Refueling Tanker? Rumsfeld Can't Say When

BYLINE: RICHARD LARDNER, rlardner@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 634 words


By RICHARD LARDNER

rlardner@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Nearly a year ago at Camp Buehring in Kuwait, the man in charge of
America's military found himself on the defensive after U.S. soldiers at a
town-hall style meeting complained about their aging war-fighting equipment.

In Tampa on Tuesday, there were no such awkward moments as Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld spent nearly an hour fielding questions from an auditorium
packed with military personnel who are stationed at MacDill Air Force Base.

The topics ranged from the esoteric to the geopolitical, but at no time was
Rumsfeld -- who describes himself as "genetically impatient" -- on the spot or
at a loss for words.

At times, however, the crowd was. After Rumsfeld finished answering one
question, there was no one ready to ask another, prompting the secretary to
jokingly call the audience "docile."

Following a warm introduction by Air Force Col. Maggie Woodward, the base
commander, Rumsfeld listed what he said are the signs of progress in the global
war on terrorism. Critics of U.S. involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan miss the
mark, he said.

"America is not what's wrong with this world," he said. "What's wrong with this
world are the terrorists, the beheaders and the hostage-takers. They're what's
wrong with this world."

The following are paraphrased versions of questions Rumsfeld was asked at the
MacDill town hall meeting and his answers.

Is Iran aiding terrorist organizations in Iraq?

"It is true that we have found weaponry from Iran of recent vintage in Iraq
recently. The weapons didn't just walk in there. They were brought in. With what
degree of complicity or lack of complicity of the government is something that
one can't know with certainty at this stage. But there is a clear concern about
the fact that weaponry is coming out of Iran."

When will the United States field a new refueling tanker to replace the aging
aircraft used by the 6th Air Mobility Wing at MacDill?

"The short answer is 'I don't know.' Confession is good for the soul. We've been
wrestling with this for four or five years. My personal view is that we're
getting closer. . . . and a recommendation will be made to Congress."

Will military personnel in combat support positions be without jobs as the
military transforms into a more agile fighting force?

"I would guess that's not true. ... So who's ever whispering in your ear that
kind of thing, I would get a second opinion."

What is the status of a proposal to make elements of the Marine Corps part of
U.S. Special Operations Command?

"They've got a role for the Marines ... where elements of Marines would be
chopped [temporarily attached] to special forces people on occasion, for
assignments, and go through a training process that would enable them to be ...
interoperable for sure but integrated on order."

With the recent establishment of a director of national intelligence, how far
off are substantial improvements in U.S. intelligence-gathering capabilities?

"We are the major user of intelligence, the Department of Defense, and people
are getting killed out there for the want of it."

"I think it's coming. You say, 'How's it going?' I don't know how it's going to
end up, but at the moment I think it's coming. I think there's a lot of good
people that are sensitive, that are trying to do it right."

"My hope is that when this all shakes out, we'll have an improved intelligence
capability."

Does the military's system for maintaining and sharing medical records need to
be improved?

"I can't imagine why we don't do a better job. . . . You can't pull up an X-ray
at Walter Reed [Army Medical Center] from anybody at Bethesda [Naval Medical].
It's crazy. It's inexcusable."

Reporter Richard Lardner can be reached at (813) 259-7966.

Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
