
                               3 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Where Have All The Glaciers Gone?

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


A new database that compares old and new photographs of the world's ice sheets
shows alarming shrinkage in most of them.

By KURT LOFT

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Slowly but surely, the ice is melting.

Like some great natural bloodletting, the glaciers are disappearing and with
them a vital source of fresh water. From Alaska to the Alps, the massive, frozen
ice sheets are receding at what scientists call an alarming rate.

The cause, many researchers say, is an overall warming of the atmosphere, with
some theories postulating a greenhouse effect from fossil fuel emissions. Others
argue that global warming is the result of long-range climate cycles and that
more studies need to be done to better understand them.

Whatever the cause, no one doubts the striking contrasts between glaciers now
and those from the recent past, shown in the photographs on this page. The
images are part of the historical record kept by the National Snow and Ice Data
Center/World Data Center for Glaciology in Boulder, Colo., which maintains a
database of more than 3,000 glaciers.

Experts say glaciers are indicators of climate change, one reason the center
created a new collection of "long-term change pairings" - past and recent images
of the same glacier. In many cases, the glacier has disappeared altogether.

"It's a graphic signal of global warming," said Richard Armstrong, a researcher
with the Boulder center. "It's something the average person can see and
understand."

When glaciers melt rapidly, rain and snow can't replace their ice mass, and they
fall out of equilibrium. To establish equilibrium, some glaciers advance. But a
shrinking glacier affects the seasonal influx of fresh water so important to
ecosystems, wildlife and people, says Harvey Leifert, a spokesman with the
American Geophysical Union in Washington, D.C.

"The loss of water normally stored in ice packs high up in the mountains is
released gradually into streams and rivers," he says. "But if you melt away the
ice quickly, you don't have that cushion during a drought."

Glaciers cover 10 percent of the planet's land mass and are part of Earth's
cryosphere, from the Greek "kryos," meaning cold. The cryosphere encompasses
saltwater and fresh-water ice, snow, glaciers, permafrost and deep frozen
ground. Losing a significant part of the cryosphere can lead to dramatic
changes.

For instance, when normally thick land ice melts, it exposes rock and earth
underneath. So a white, reflective surface slowly gives way to a dark surface
that absorbs sunlight, accelerating the meltdown.

When melting glacier water runs to the sea, it adds to the Earth's ability to
absorb heat, and as a result, warms the atmosphere. A runaway warming appears to
be happening in the European Alps, and experts say the glaciers there could
shrink by 80 percent by the end of the century.

"It didn't just start, but it's accelerating at a rapid pace in the last decade
or two," Leifert says of melting glaciers in the Alps and elsewhere. "All but
the very highest and thickest glaciers might be gone by the end of this century.
It's not very comforting."

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813) 259-7570 or kloft@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Photos from the National Snow and Ice Data Center/World Data
Center for Glaciology

Photo: Muir Glacier

Photo: Unnamed Alaskan Glacier

Photo: Carroll Glacier

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 6
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 4, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FASTFORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 503 words


Forecasting the Future

It's time for the United States to have a national climate service, say
scientists who are pushing for more dependable forecasting. One suggestion would
be an interagency partnership, led by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, charged with understanding climate dynamics, forecasts and
impacts, according to a report in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences.

Unlike the National Weather Service, which forecasts weather up to two weeks in
advance, a national climate service would help with forecasts of climate
fluctuations from three months to a year. Forecasts could give months of advance
warnings to water and power managers, private industries and those charged with
public safety, the report says.

Such a service would be concerned both with "climate variability," the natural
seasonal to decades-long variations in climate and the effects of "climate
change" brought about by global warming.

"Nature is prodding us to do this," says Ed Miles, lead author of the report.


Older Chimps

They say men prefer younger women, but not chimpanzees. A new study suggests
that the primates prefer older females.

"Multiple lines of evidence indicate that unlike humans, female chimpanzees
become more sexually attractive with age," say researchers in the journal
Current Biology. "This study demonstrates that male chimpanzees do not merely
disdain young females, but actively prefer older mothers to younger mothers."

Unlike women, female chimps also remain fertile until old age, increasing the
chance for offspring among multiple males.

Attack of the Nano-Monsters

Are consumer products made with nano-particles harmful to your health? That's
the concern outlined in a new report from the Natural Resources Defense Council.
The authors say the explosion of consumer products made with nanotechnology
could pose problems because too little is known about the interaction between
nano-particles and health.

Nanoparticles are materials 1-billionth of a meter in size - larger than atoms,
but much smaller than a cell. While such advances hold the promise of
breakthroughs in biomedical treatments, energy efficiency and other fields, the
potential risks are largely being ignored, according to the council.

Nanoparticles are used to make food containers, stain-resistant clothing,
eyeglass coatings, cosmetics and tennis balls. One particle - nanosilver - is
found in nearly 50 consumer products, but also is used as a pesticide. The
council is urging the Environmental Protection Agency to do an exhaustive review
of all nano-particles.

Science Stumper

Bill Connors of Tampa was the first reader to answer our most recent trivia
question: What is the record number of fetuses in a human womb? Answer: 15.

Now for today's stumper: What and where is the world's tallest natural wall?
Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Photo: chimpanzee

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Progress Calls For National Plan To Cut Pollution

BYLINE: WILL RODGERS, wjrodgers@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 416 words


Progress Energy Inc. acknowledged Monday that its power plants emit greenhouse
gases that contribute to global warming, and the utility called for a national
plan to manage emissions from all sources.

Raleigh, N.C.-based Progress, parent company of Progress Energy Florida Inc. in
St. Petersburg, released an environmental report prepared in response to a
shareholder proposal submitted in November 2004. Shareholders asked Progress to
assess the financial risk of global climate change on the utility.

"We believe we have a responsibility to protect the environment while fulfilling
our obligation to provide affordable, reliable electric service," Bob McGehee,
Progress chairman and chief executive officer, said in a news release.

Progress will push for the development of a national policy on global climate
change that would contain voluntary pollution reductions, said Dana Yeganian, a
Progress spokeswoman. The company also will pursue renewable energy sources and
nuclear power.

The company has announced it might build new nuclear power plants in Florida and
North Carolina. And Progress is pursuing buying electricity in Florida that is
produced from burning methane gas from a landfill and generated from burning
biomass, such as tree bark.

Progress Energy Florida is expected to file a report Friday that details how it
will comply with new pollution rules. The company is expected to announce it
will spend about $1 billion during the next 10 years to clean up its power
plants in Florida, Yeganian said.

Progress Energy Carolinas will spend up to $1.4 billion during that span, she
said.

Several other utilities have issued environmental reports, stating their
position on global warming, said Dan Riedinger, a spokesman for the utility
trade group Edison Electric Institute in Washington. He said the industry agrees
that it must reduce greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide.

But the majority of utilities do not want a national policy like Progress, he
said.

Michael Shore, senior air policy analyst for New York-based Environmental
Defense, said Progress made it clear Monday that the utility is serious about
addressing global warming.

"It shows they recognize the challenges our country faces with global warming,
and they are looking forward at how to address the problems," he said.

Reporter Will Rodgers can be reached at (813) 259-7870.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006



CORRECTION: Progress Energy Inc. of Raleigh, N.C., parent company of Progress
Energy Florida Inc. of St. Petersburg, has called for a national policy on
global climate change but supports voluntary pollution reductions. A story in
Tuesday's MoneySense section misstated the company's position.

GRAPHIC: Progress Energy Inc. acknowledged Monday that its power plants emit
greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming, and the utility called for a
national plan to manage emissions from all sources.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 25, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words


Wiping Away Germs

What's a simple way to get rid of bacteria, viruses and other nasty microbes in
hospitals, airplanes and public bathrooms? Just wipe them away.

That's the aim of researchers at Cornell University who are perfecting a special
fabric on an aluminum foil backing. The absorbent wipe also can be designed to
detect harmful pathogens.

"It's very inexpensive, it wouldn't require that someone be highly trained to
use it, and it could be activated for whatever you want to find," said Margaret
Frey, an assistant professor of fiber science. "So if you're working in a
meat-packing plant, for instance, you could swipe it across some hamburger and
quickly and easily detect E. coli bacteria."

Once fully developed, the biodegradable wipe would contain nanofibers containing
antibodies to numerous biohazards and chemicals and would signal a specific
pathogen by changing color. Users would simply wipe the napkin across a surface,
and if a biohazard were detected, the surface could be disinfected and retested
with another napkin to be sure it was clean.

The research was reported last week at a meeting of the American Chemical
Society.


Cranberry Power

A new study reinforces that a group of tannins in cranberries neutralizes
urinary tract infections. A study by scientists at Worcester Polytechnic
Institute helps paint a detailed picture of the biochemical mechanisms that
suggest the beneficial health effects of cranberry juice that have been reported
in other studies over the years.


Solar Changes

The intensity of our sun fluctuates, but any change in brightness isn't enough
to explain the effects of global warming, scientists say. Reconstructions of
climate over the past thousand years show a warming since the 17th century and
dramatic acceleration in the past 100 years. Scientists want to fully understand
whether the sun plays a bigger role.

"Over the past century, climate change due to human influences must far outweigh
the effects of changes in the sun's brightness," says Tom Wigley, a solar
scientist with the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

The new study looked at observations of solar brightness since 1978 and at
indirect measures before then. Data collected from spacecraft show that the
sun's variations are too small to have significantly influenced global warming.


Science Stumper

Karel Bennett of Brandon was the first reader to correctly answer our previous
trivia question: What part of the body stops growing in childhood? Answer: the
eyes.

Now for today's stumper: If you could lift the state of Florida on the tip of
your finger and keep it balanced, what county would act as the geographic
center? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 18, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scientists See A Solution To Global Warming

BYLINE: JEFF CHANTON and JOHN D. SCHERT

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 642 words


By JEFF CHANTON and JOHN D. SCHERT

Whether you call it global warming or climate change, it sure does seem some
very large changes are under way in our world.

But there is some good news. Here in Florida we are investigating an easy way to
make an immediate dent in the problem that won't have any negative impacts on
the economy. In fact, all it takes is recycled glass chips, old tires and yard
waste.

Most scientists are fixated on reducing carbon dioxide emissions as the solution
to global warming. We suggest an easier first plan of attack - methane, which
you know of as the main constituent of natural gas.

In the atmosphere, the amount of methane is less than one percent of the amount
of carbon dioxide. But methane is 25 times "better" than carbon dioxide at
trapping heat on the earth. By reducing methane emissions, we could slow down
global warming a great deal.

The bulk of methane release to the atmosphere is due to human activity -
activities such as dumping trash into landfills, rice production, cattle
ranching, and coal and oil production. On a global scale, landfills make up 8
percent of the total methane source.

By eliminating methane releases from landfills, we could actually see a decrease
in the atmosphere's greenhouse gas content without threatening anybody's
economic livelihood. The relatively short lifetime of methane in the atmosphere
(seven to 10 years) relative to carbon dioxide (100 years) means that the effect
of mitigation efforts would be rapidly observed.

Larger landfills are required to collect methane and burn it to convert it to
carbon dioxide. Methane is sucked from the landfill and burned in a flare or
power plant to produce electricity. Such practices can be very effective,
recovering up to 75 to 95 percent of methane. However, there are many smaller
landfills scattered around Florida where gas collection is not economical. When
these landfills are closed, they are covered with a cap designed to shed water
and to reduce odors from the decomposing garbage. Within this soil cap grow
bacteria that consume methane and odorous compounds by reacting them with
oxygen.

Researchers at Florida State, Florida A&M and the University of Florida have
teamed up with Leon County and the Florida Center for Solid and Hazardous Waste
Management. Our research team is investigating the use of recycled materials to
make landfill covers better at "eating" methane and reducing methane emissions.

We are learning how to maximize the activity of bacteria that consume methane
and stinky odors. These living landfill covers, termed "biocovers," are being
constructed from waste materials available to most landfill operators - old
tires, recycled glass and yard waste. In addition to covering smaller closed
landfills, the biocover approach could be applied while landfill cells are being
filled and at larger landfills to boost gas collection efficiency. They could be
applied to larger closed landfills after it becomes uneconomical to continue to
extract methane from them.

This simple, inexpensive technology may make it possible to completely eliminate
the release of methane to the atmosphere from landfills. Our preliminary results
indicate a tenfold reduction in methane release in areas where mulches have been
carefully placed on the landfill cover. Application of our approach could mean
that neighborhoods around the landfill will smell better and that heat-trapping
methane in the atmosphere will be reduced.

We are doing what we can to bring good science to the solid waste field.

Jeff Chanton, a professor at Florida State University, studies the rates at
which greenhouse gases reach the atmosphere. John D. Schert is the executive
director of the Florida Center for Solid and Hazardous Waste.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

GRAPHIC: Whether you call it global warming or climate change, it sure does seem
some very large changes are under way in our world.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 940 words


One Last 'Calling'

I was driving along State Road 52 early one morning recently, gazing at the cows
and horses through the mist, and was awestruck by the beauty. As an artist, I
breathe in beauty, hoping to etch this indelible landscape into my
consciousness.

As a former teacher and now retiree, I feel my years of having such a privilege
are slipping away. As a human being who cares for the children of this world and
the future of this planet, I am disturbed because I know that although such
beauty still prevails, we as a society continually contribute to the destruction
of our Earth.

My husband, I and two friends watched Al Gore's movie, "An Inconvenient Truth."
It logically and succinctly constructs the scenario of what global warming is
and has been doing to change the balance of our climate, wind and seas. It shows
the consequences these changes have for mankind and all species, including those
that have become extinct and those heading for extinction. And it clearly shows
that much of our industrial progress has been selfishly spent for our
convenience without regard for the damage being done to nature.

I know these are truths that my generation cannot ignore because we know "these
truths to be self-evident." We have been here long enough to see such changes
ourselves, despite the remaining beauty that blinds us to the truth we wish we
could ignore. Frankly, we cannot just wish away this damage; we have a moral
obligation to change our ways in order to make a difference. If ever baby
boomers could make a last and significant contribution to mankind, this should
be our calling.

Upton Sinclair is quoted in the movie: "It is difficult to get a man to
understand something when his salary depends on not understanding it." I
sincerely hope the citizens of our country are aware enough and angry enough to
end such selfish corruption, as it now manifests itself in the collusion between
government and business.

What can the little guy, the one without much cash or resources, do? This film
gives viewers a jump-start in the right direction for positive change by making
suggestions. Gore's one-man crusade on behalf of mankind and the "knowing and
silenced" scientists is a last attempt at opening our eyes to what has been
happening to our environment and what we should be doing about it.

I am urging everyone to see the film, not to be sick and sorry over what is
happening, but to feel empowered to do something.

Our well-being depends on nature and the health of the Earth. This should be an
issue big enough to unite all mankind. It is time for us to act.

CHERYL M. FLAHERTY

San Antonio

PSC Doesn't Protect

Regarding Aloha Utilities and the Pasco County Commission:

It looks like Aloha is up to its old tricks - hiding behind their attorneys
instead of doing the right thing and working to provide a superior water product
for its captive customers. Aloha reminds me of a little boy pouting when he does
not get his way.

It is the responsibility of our county commissioners and state officials to
protect citizens from captive companies like Aloha Utilities that are not
providing a quality product. County commissioners should not be caving into
Aloha's threats of legal actions, etc.

Aloha and its attorneys are nothing but big bullies. County commissioners should
have amended, not repealed, the county ordinance to be in agreement with the
Public Service Commission agreement. That way, when Aloha defaults on the
agreement, we have a county ordinance to start proceedings to remove Aloha's
territory.

Aloha keeps saying the PSC regulates the utility, but we know Aloha and their
attorneys control the PSC. The PSC is not our protector.

If Aloha was a respectable and responsible company, it would have been eagerly
working to install the equipment needed to improve its water. But no, Aloha
wants to play legal games, and construction costs keep going up. I do not
believe customers should pay increased costs because Aloha is dragging its feet.

On July 1, Aloha's first quarterly report is due. It will be interesting to see
what this report will say - if they choose to submit one. If they don't, then I
believe they are in violation of the PSC agreement.

It is the responsibility of the county commission to serve the people, not
special interest groups or attorneys.

RICHARD POWER

New Port Richey

'Legislative Lunacy'

U.S. Rep. Katherine Harris' firearms "training session" in Hudson, recently
featured in the Tribune, was a very transparent attempt to ingratiate herself
with Florida's National Rifle Association membership, an undeniably potent
voting bloc.

Her charade was reminiscent of John Kerry's ludicrous attempt to portray himself
as an avid hunter and supporter of gun ownership. Some 4 million savvy and
well-informed NRA members across America were not fooled! NRA voters should be
equally skeptical of U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, whose lip service to the Second
Amendment was more evident in his recent letter on the subject.

My concern as to Harris escalated when it was confirmed by CNN that she had
recently introduced legislation called the "North American Cooperative Security
Act" (HR 2672). Incredibly, the bill essentially calls for the elimination of
U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada; integrating the police and armies of those
countries into U.S. Homeland Security; and consolidation of U.S., Mexican and
Canadian embassies worldwide!

This legislative lunacy alone should give every Floridian nightmares at the
thought of sending Harris to the U.S. Senate. It does for me.

P.J. CORR

Wesley Chapel

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Under Stress, Butterflies Dwindling

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, msalinero@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words


By MIKE SALINERO

msalinero@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - If one needs further evidence that man is affecting Mother Earth's
natural rhythms, consider what's happening to one of nature's more delicate and
beautiful creatures.

Butterflies are stressed and, in some cases, disappearing from their highly
localized habitats, said Rick Cech, nature writer and photographer. Cech, who
will lecture today at Brooker Creek Preserve in northeast Pinellas County, sees
butterflies as bellwethers of global environmental problems.

"People are doing a lot of things to the environment that are stressing the
environment out," Cech said. "There are a lot of foreign objects flying around
in the environment, and they seem to be ganging up on our butterflies."

The environmental stressors taking a heavy toll on butterflies range from
overmowing and excessive use of pesticides and herbicides to proliferating
exotic species, both plant and animal.

In Florida, development is not the only thing shrinking natural habitats.
Invasive plant species are just as insidious, he said.

"Many butterflies have very specific plants to munch on as caterpillars," Cech
said. "Melaleuca, Brazilian peppers ... they destroy the specialized habitats
[butterflies] need to live, and then the butterflies vanish."

Cech became especially alarmed when he documented a decline in butterflies on a
preserve in upstate New York. The preserve is not mowed and uses no herbicides
or pesticides. Cech compared a butterfly count he made at the preserve during a
three-year period in the 1980s with a three-year period since 2000. Six
butterfly species were not found, and the number of species had declined by 15
percent.

Cech thinks the preserve's problem could stem from invasive species and climate
change.

"If you look at the same fields that used to look pristine and beautiful ...
nonnative grasses are taking over," he said. "You may also find parasitic wasps
living there."

His research at the preserve mirrors studies in Europe that show similar
butterfly declines. Because butterfly species live in relatively small areas,
the disappearance of different species on separate continents could indicate
global disruptions.

"It indicates we're losing environmental quality at a very local level, and it's
kind of pervasive," he said.

Florida is home to 190 butterfly species, 49 of which are in the Tampa Bay area,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey. A number of species are dwindling,
according to the North American Butterfly Association. Scientists resorted to
captive breeding to sustain the Miami blue, once thought lost from Florida.

The good news is that humans love to watch butterflies, and that interest is
translating into preservation and creation of butterfly habitat. For instance,
butterfly watching is highly popular in South Texas, where almost every city has
a butterfly garden. Cech said visits by butterfly watchers pump an estimated
$125 million into the regional economy.

There are similar opportunities in Florida, where interest is high. The North
American Butterfly Association has 12 Florida chapters, including groups in
Pinellas and Pasco counties. California is a distant second with four chapters.

Cech said cities and counties can draw visitors by offering trails landscaped to
attract butterflies. The trails have the added benefit of preserving habitat for
other species. Cech said public preserves can pique residents' interest in
creating their own butterfly gardens.

"You can work locally and have a big impact and get a lot of satisfaction as an
individual without a massive expense or massive change in the way things are
operating," Cech said.

Cech's interest in natural history and photography started during his boyhood in
Fairfield County, Conn. He sold his first photo when he was 15.

Cech was a principal author of "The Sibley Guide to Bird Life and Behavior" and
wrote the introductory text for the "National Audubon Society Field Guide to
Florida." It took 10 years to finish his latest work, "Butterflies of the East
Coast: An Observer's Guide." The book includes 950 of Cech's photos.

(CHART) IF YOU GO

WHAT: Nature writer and photographer Rick Cech will speak on "The Zen of
Butterfly Photography."

WHEN: 1 to 2 p.m. today

WHERE: Brooker Creek Preserve Environmental Education Center

COST: $3

DETAILS: (727) 934-2680

Reporter Mike Salinero can be reached at (813) 259-8303.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE

Photo: Monarch butterfly populations are dwindling because development and
invasive plant species are shrinking their natural habitats. However, those who
enjoy watching butterflies are creating gardens and trails to replace those
habitats.

Photo: This Gulf fritillary is one of several butterfly species that nature
writer Rick Cech says are stressed and in some cases vanishing from their highly
localized habitats because of environmental problems.

Photo: This caterpillar will emerge as a beautiful monarch butterfly.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE

Photo: A giant swallowtail butterfly rests on a branch at the BioWorks Butterfly
Garden at the Museum of Science and Industry. Butterfly numbers are dwindling
because of disease and loss of habitat.

Tribune map

Brooker Creek Preserve Environmental Education Center

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART MAP
TAMPA - If one needs further evidence that man is affecting Mother Earth's
natural rhythms, consider what's happening to one of nature's more delicate and
beautiful creatures.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida No. 2 At Fouling Its Air

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


REPORT CITES RAPID RISE IN CARBON DIOXIDE OUTPUT

By KEVIN BEGOS

The Tampa Tribune

TALLAHASSEE - You can't see it and you can't smell it, but Floridians have been
spewing enormous amounts of a major pollutant into the atmosphere, a report
released Tuesday highlights.

Releases of carbon dioxide in the state soared by more than 347 percent from
1960 through 2001, according to analysis of government data by the Florida
Public Interest Research Group. That's far above the national increase of 95
percent and the second-worst record in the nation for that period.

Carbon dioxide is a key contributor to global warming, and it's making the
world's oceans more acidic, killing off coral reefs and marine life.

Some scientific studies suggest that rising sea levels will accompany global
warming, and even a modest rise could be a disaster for Florida's coastal areas.

"Florida residents in particular are at increased risk for health effects from
global warming, which threatens to cause more frequent and severe heat waves in
Florida and increase the number of people who suffer heat stress and stroke,"
Ronald Saff, a local asthma specialist and member of the American Lung
Association of Florida, notes in the report.

Florida's output of carbon dioxide in the final year of the study was more than
235 million metric tons, or about 518 billion pounds that wouldn't enter the
atmosphere normally.

Arizona had the greatest increase at 464 percent, and Georgia increased 315
percent.

Increased car and truck use accounted for 53 percent of the Florida increase,
coal use made up 35 percent and natural gas 12 percent.

"Florida is a big part of the problem because we're such a fast-growing state,"
said Holly Binns, Florida PIRG's field director.

The number of miles driven on Florida's roads increased from 21.4 billion in
1960 to 170.6 billion in 2001. That recent figure translates into more than
356,877 round trips to the moon, which is about 239,000 miles away.

The new report's bottom line is the threat of global warming.

Jean Andino, a professor who studies atmospheric chemistry and air pollution
control at the University of Florida School of Engineering, stressed that when
scientists talk about global warming, it includes the potential for some areas
to become cooler or drier because of climate shifts.

The vast majority of scientists agree that global warming is occurring, but
there are differences over how much humans have contributed to the change, how
severe changes will be, and what can be done to address the problem.

Anthony De Luise, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection, said agency scientists still were reviewing the PIRG report. He
stressed that Gov. Jeb Bush's administration is investing in alternative energy
technologies to reduce dependence on fossil fuels.

The more the marketplace is encouraged to produce alternative energy, the less
expensive that technology becomes, he said. "That's what the market needs to
do," he said.

Binns, of Florida PIRG, said the clean energy legislation Bush signed this week
falls far short of the $3 billion California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has
committed.

TECO Energy Inc. spokeswoman Laura Duda said the company already has shifted
about 50 percent of its energy production away from coal.

"We don't think eliminating the use of coal is viable policy," she said. "We
think there's a balance that can and should be maintained."

Duda said the company actively promotes energy conservation but that
technologies for removing carbon dioxide from coal-fired plants are in the early
stages.

PIRG is a nonprofit, citizen-funded watchdog group.

(CARBON DIOXIDE POLLUTION IN FLORIDA

Increased gas and oil consumption accounted for 53 percent of Florida's
increase. The number of miles driven on the state's roads increased from 21,360
million in 1960 to 170,587 million in 2001.

(see microfilm for details)

Numbers in millions

(1960 to 2000, 347% increase)

Tribune graphic; Source: Florida Public Interest Research Group.

Contact Kevin Begos at kbegos@tampatrib.com or (850) 222-8382.

Photo: Ronald Saff

Asthma specialist sees health risk.

Photo: Holly Binns

She points to Florida's rapid growth.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 3, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 453 words


Scientists: Gore's Right

The nation's top climate scientists are giving "An Inconvenient Truth," Al
Gore's documentary on global warming, five stars for accuracy, according to The
Associated Press. The former vice president's movie - replete with the prospect
of an inundated Florida, nastier hurricanes and melting ice caps - got most of
the science right, said 19 climate scientists who saw the movie or read the book
and answered an AP poll.

The researchers said Gore conveyed correctly that the world is getting hotter
and burning fossil fuels is a preventable catastrophe-in-the-making. However,
some say Gore wasn't strong enough in his message.

Tom Wigley, senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research,
thought he too often sugarcoated the problem - such as suggesting people switch
to lower wattage light bulbs - when he needed to hit harder. Gore said his movie
sends out a strong message, though.

"If you accept the truth of what the scientific community is saying," Gore told
AP, "it gives you a moral imperative to start to rein in the 70 million tons of
global-warming pollution that human civilization is putting into the atmosphere
every day."

Poisoning Cancer

If you were diagnosed with brain cancer and the doctor offered to treat you with
radioactive scorpion venom, you probably would bolt from the hospital. Health
officials, however, are giving serious attention to this promising experimental
therapy. The venom is from the yellow Israeli scorpion, and it attaches to the
cells of a type of incurable brain cancer known as gliomas. The therapy was a
topic at last month's Health Physics Society meeting in Providence, RI.

Fantastic Voyages

Physicians may someday monitor a patient's blood flow, blood pressure and
temperature with tiny, implantable devices injected into the person's vascular
system, says a researcher at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y. The sensors
could provide separate readings for particular organs in a patient or be
unobtrusively implanted in patients whose systems need constant monitoring,
electrical engineer Edwin Kan said.

"The product is aimed to enhance the surgical tools used today," he said. "So
one day, surgical monitoring equipment will be in the form of microscopic
implants."

Science Stumper

Nobody answered our last trivia question: When the CD-ROM was introduced in the
mid-1980s, how much data could it store? Answer: 640 megabytes.

Now for today's stumper: What is the world's largest tree, and how tall is it?
Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Photo: Al Gore

Photo: Scorpion

Photo: Sequoia tree

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

(NATION/WORLD RAIL)

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 217 words


ON THIS DATE

FOUR DEAD IN OHIO: In 1974, eight Ohio National Guardsmen were indicted on
charges stemming from the shooting deaths of four students at Kent State
University on May 4, 1970. (The guardsmen were later acquitted.)

Also on this date: In 1951, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were convicted of
conspiracy to commit espionage. In 1971, Army Lt. William L. Calley Jr. was
convicted of murdering at least 22 Vietnamese civilians in the My Lai massacre.
In 1973, the last U.S. combat troops left South Vietnam.

CORRECTIONS

It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, please send us e-mail at news@tampatrib.com or call (813) 259-7600.

CORRECTION: Miriam and Ken Kirkland of St. Petersburg have been Devil Rays
season-ticket holders since the team's first season. Another team was named in
Thursday's Rays Notebook.

CORRECTION: Progress Energy Inc. of Raleigh, N.C., parent company of Progress
Energy Florida Inc. of St. Petersburg, has called for a national policy on
global climate change but supports voluntary pollution reductions. A story in
Tuesday's MoneySense section misstated the company's position.

Photo: Kent State University on May 4, 1970

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
ON THIS DATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Inside Scoop

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words


A quick read of what's most important to you from the News Center

More Couples Ask For Altruism Instead Of A Toaster

Some couples find their wedding date a great occasion to help those caught in
the grip of poverty, violence or war. They're helping charities through their
wedding registries.

A multimillion-dollar trend has many brides and grooms choosing to create an
altruistic gift list that includes items such as money for medical aid for Iraqi
children and donations for Palestinian refugees.

Wedding registries devoted to charity began to gain notice within the wedding
planning industry several years ago. In the past four years, The I Do
Foundation, a nonprofit group started in 2000 by a few young men and women awed
by how much money their friends were spending on opulent weddings, has raised
nearly $1.7 million for charity.

Nation/World, Page 15

o $1.1 million was raised for charity through The I Do Foundation in 2005.

o The I Do Foundation estimates that 10 percent of people planning weddings are
working some form of charity fundraising into their events.

o Instead of giving guests traditional wedding favors, a few couples are making
charitable donations in guests' honor and informing them of the action with a
note.

Study Links Wildfires, Warming

Researchers have unearthed evidence that ties an increase in wildfires to
climate change. Global-warming forecasters long have predicted that temperature
increases are linked to increases in acreage burned.

o California's Scripps Institution discovered that higher temperatures caused
earlier snow runoff and consequently drier summer conditions, leading to an
explosion of big wildfires in the U.S. West over three decades.

o Researchers in Canada, where fire destroys an average 6.4 million acres a
year, reached a similar conclusion.

o Experts in drought-stricken Australia have noticed the dangerous bushfire
season is growing longer, and 2005 was the hottest year on record.

Warming in high northern latitudes is expected to generate more lightning,
igniting more forest fires, one report notes. Forests with lots of stored carbon
may add to the wildfire cycle.

Nation/World, Page 3

Rogue Waves Are For Real

Oceanographers once doubted their existence, but rogue waves have captured
scientists' attention.

Studies show these enormous waves are more common and destructive than imagined.
A seven-story wave that struck a boat off the coast of Georgia in April 2005
injured four passengers.

Scientists seek to tally them, run feasibility tests on forecasting them, and
learn how to protect ships, oil platforms and people.

o In the past two decades, freak waves are suspected of sinking dozens of big
ships and taking hundreds of lives.

o At any given moment, 10 of these giants are churning across the world's
oceans.

Nation/World Part 2, Page 21

Supersize That Movie?

Red Box opened its first tall, red DVD rental kiosks in Denver McDonald's
restaurants in 2004. Now the machines are available at about 800 locations
across the United States. The big selling points? One-dollar rentals for one
night, all new releases.

o McDonald's set up the Red Boxes so you can rent from one and drop off at
another. No more separate trips.

o Each kiosk has 60 to 70 titles.

o In the past year, Red Box has rented more than 10 million DVDs, about 1.5
million a month.

o The company is expanding into grocery stores.

Business, Page 5

Make Sure Energy Tips Are Valid

With all the home products promising energy efficiency, it can be difficult to
find real cost savings. Here are a few methods that don't reduce summer utility
bills.

o Powered attic ventilation fans have been shown to use more electricity than
they save.

o Ceiling fans don't reduce cooling costs if they are on constantly. Only use
them when you're in the room. Even then, they only save money if you set the
thermostat higher.

o Setting the thermostat lower does not cool a home more quickly. Each degree
cooler than the desired setting can increase your cost as much as 10 percent.

At Home, Page 4

CORRECTIONS

It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, call (813) 259-7600 or e-mail news@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: The Associated Press file photo

Photo: A pair, who fell in love while working with the United Nations put a
charity that helps Iraqi children at the top of their wedding registry. "It was
important for out wedding to reflect the people, places and values that are
important to us." the groom said.

Photo: (movie rental kiosk)

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 452 words


Arc Of Danger

People who ride in SUVs should be aware of what experts call the "outside arc"
during a rollover. Why? Because the direction of the roll when the vehicle
careens out of control can determine whether the driver or front-seat passenger
is at greater risk of serious injuries or death.

The person in the "outside arc" position - the side that hits the hardest - is
most likely to be hurt or killed, according to a study at the Center for
Transportation Injury Research at the University at Buffalo. "Inside arc" and
"outside arc" refer to the positions of the occupants in relation to the
direction of the rollover.

"When a vehicle rolls onto the driver's side, the right-front passenger would be
on the outside arc and would experience the strongest initial impact, while the
driver would be on the inside arc, where the impact would be less," said
Dietrich Jehle, associate professor of emergency medicine.

In a rollover onto the passenger side, the "arc" positions are reversed. Results
showed the risk of death was 1.6 times greater for outside-arc occupants than
inside-arc occupants. The study results are a call to car manufacturers to
increase roof strength and install head-protecting airbags in vehicles at higher
risk for rollover, particularly SUVs, the researcher said.

Energy Expo

Want to learn more about nonpolluting energies? Check out the Renewable Energy
Expo, an event designed to educate the public about energy technologies, issues
and organizations. Topics include global climate change; the most efficient
renewable energy systems in use today; future concepts; solar photovoltaic and
thermal energy systems; and a primer on new tax incentives and rebate programs.

The event is Saturday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the University of Central
Florida, Visual Arts Building, 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Admission and parking
is free.

For information, call (407) 823-2000.

All About Dinosaurs

Travel back 160 million years when giant reptiles swam the seas and later took
to the air in a television documentary that explores the birth, life and
predatory patterns of these ancient creatures. "Walking With Dinosaurs" airs
tonight at 8 and 11 on cable television's Science Channel.

Science Stumper

Matt Ross, a 14-year-old from Odessa, was the first reader to answer our last
trivia question: About how much saliva does the average person swallow each day?
Answer: One quart.

Now for today's stumper: What mammal lives the longest? Send your answers to
kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Photo: Driver's side rollover, Passenger's side rollover

Photo: "Walking With Dinosaurs"

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1099 words


Letter Of The Day:

Fails To Feel Homeowner's Pain

Regarding "Tax Value Would Move With You" (front page, March 31):

Only in this great country would a man whose home value has quadrupled in five
short years have the gall to complain about anything financial. Even our
lawmakers' math skills can determine this to be quite the profit margin. Keep
this option for elderly or disabled people, the ones who actually need it, and
let Michael Ferlita know that if he can't afford a new, larger, much more
expensive house the old-fashioned way, then he should stay put.

JAMES JONES

Tampa


The Right To Disagree

Regarding "Professorial Rants Par For The Course" (Other Views, March 30):

Adam Fowler may be an intuitive, bright man, but his opinion has little merit.

His conclusion that school time is wasted by opinions of professor is fallacious
on two levels. First, his conclusion based on two anecdotes proves nothing, and,
second, learning is meant to be an exchange of ideas. A few minutes of a
teacher's opinion, whether you agree or disagree with that opinion, might
stimulate a brain and give the student a perspective he might not have thought
about. We live in a society where a free exchange of ideas separates us from
totalitarian regimes.

Adam, be thankful you had the exposure which gave you the right to disagree with
your professor.

BRUCE A. PLESSER

Largo


Expose Hate-Filled Words

Regarding "Professors, Colleges Under Siege" by Lionel Lewis (Other Views, April
3):

Lewis writes an article expressing outrage that there are actually groups
monitoring what goes on in the classrooms. I am supposed to pay big bucks to
Columbia University so that Nicholas De Genova can "teach" my kids hate-filled
words?

Lewis has it backward. It is not the colleges or the professors that are under
siege; it is the students - and not just in college. It starts in the elementary
school years.

These left-leaning teachers not only want access to my kids, they want me to pay
them for it and to defend their right to free speech. It is one thing for
someone to disagree with the war or even dislike the president's politics; it is
entirely different to wish harm on American soldiers. I am very glad they are
finally being exposed.

JACQUELINE GAN

Tarpon Springs


Plan Not So Simple

Bill Folley, a retired pharmaceutical executive, notes that Kathy Castor
shouldn't run for political office because the Medicare drug plan is so easy to
use, a phrase stated often from the rabid right, "Most of us fully understand
Part D" (Letters, March 29).

He certainly hasn't been talking to the same people I have. I teach seniors
about Medicare, and the vast majority have been horribly confused by it. I'll
place my sampling against his any time.

Folley claims that nothing Castor offers will end the confusion.

I agree. This bill is so confusing that few understand it at all, and it's so
loaded with perks for the pharmaceutical industry, insurance companies and HMOs
that it will bankrupt our country if it pays out as promised. His industry will
be all the richer, while seniors save "on average" 50 percent - the same amount
had we spent nothing on this bill and allowed all seniors to buy their drugs
from Canada.

HAROLD CROW

Sun City Center


Life In Tampa Is A Ditch

Life is a ditch! Yeah, the diggers from Bright House and Verizon constantly take
advantage of that wonderful city easement to leave a path dug across our yards.
Oh, they'll sod it back in? Well, gee, thanks a mil, folks! But we're the
waterers who must keep it alive - at least until they return to dig again!

And the sea of 4-foot-tall white poles with their bright orange tops, standing
like soldiers as far as an eye can behold? Oh, yeah, they really add to the
neighborhood. And then we get these big green iron boxes lying flat - at least
they're green.

I once had a yard. Granted, something has killed it, but I am most hesitant to
go to the large expense of sodding it all in and watering, paying the added
bill, when about the time I do, the diggers will return. Your paper has said
they can return as many times as they wish and plow it up again. It makes me
sick! I've been to the Mojo lady to see if I can put a hex on both of them! Of
course, my computer might not work and my phone might not ring, but what the
heck!

WYNELLE GILBERT

Tampa


Chicken Little Is Alive

Regarding "Be Worried About Intemperate Reporting" (Other Views, April 2):

Chicken Little is alive and well in the environmental extremist camp, and George
Will has called him out. Apparently it matters not that Time magazine, the
Sierra Club and their fellow crisis-pimps have little or no evidence - computer
models don't count - to make their claims; it's only enough to shout "the sky is
falling, the sky is falling" to get the attention they crave.

As a younger man, I was sold a series of stories on climate change that was
supposed to result in the next ice age. It didn't happen. Climate "experts" in
Hollywood forecast oceanic demise. It didn't happen. The Alaskan oil pipeline
was supposed to ruin the permafrost and kill off the caribou. It didn't happen.

When are thinking men and women going to stand up to the perpetually paranoid
and say, "Sto p"? When are newspapers such as The Tampa Tribune going to
challenge the dubious claims of these fear-mongers with some critical inquiry?
To not do so is a de facto alliance with those who substitute theory for fact
and supposition for science. Do your job, Tampa Tribune.

STEFFAN F. CRESS

Tampa


No Gun Show Loopholes

Regarding "Gun Show Sales Targeted By Critics" (Nation/World, April 1):

Once again the Tribune has exposed itself for what it really is - a typical
left-wing propaganda machine which spreads lies in order to further the elite
media's liberal agenda.

First, all licensed gun dealers are required by law to perform background checks
on those purchasing firearms. If they don't, it's a crime and they should
consequently be punished.

Also, armor-piercing bullets are illegal and one will not find them at gun
shows.

Last, the term "assault rifle" is nothing more than a term used to scare the
public into conceding to the antigun left's lies. Any weapon can be used to
assault someone. Maybe we should outlaw "assault golf clubs" too.

The truth here is that gun shows are not the problem the story claims they are.
The problems here are criminals and the lies of the left wing, antigun media
like The Tribune. It's time we start banning both, not firearms.

And it's time I ban my subscription to your liberal rag.

ERICK WESTLY

Brandon

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Right To Disagree

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1101 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

English Ability Didn't Matter

Today there is discussion about the English language and its importance for a
good American citizen in our society. What is really important?

Monday afternoon between rainstorms, I had a flat tire in the parking lot of a
south Tampa cell phone store. As I began changing my tire, many customers walked
past me to and from the store. No one offered words of encouragement or help;
they were all busy, English-speaking Americans taking care of themselves in
their cell phone world.

Eventually I heard a voice from behind, in broken English, "Excuse me, miss.
Need help?" Over my shoulder were two men with very little English skills and
strong Hispanic appearances. They helped me change the tire. They would not
accept any money for their kindness and help.

So, what is important to being a good citizen? Mastering the English language?
Or generosity, kindness and valor? I personally will take the latter over some
selfish English-speaking American.

AMANDA HUS

Tampa

Vote Will Help Harris

Regarding "Gay Marriage Amendment Fails In Senate" (Nation/World, June 8):

If Sen. Bill Nelson is feeling a little lightheaded, it'll only be getting worse
between now and the November election. It's the effects of the political blood
loss he inflicted on his campaign and political career by voting against the
constitutional amendment that would have banned gay "marriage."

Ironically, with that one vote, Nelson might have delivered a huge political
favor to Katherine Harris, his probable Republican opponent in the U.S. Senate
race. Nelson's vivid display of his liberal ideology and willingness to carry
water for the sodomitic left has likely provided the traction that Harris'
campaign has been seeking.

On the state level, with homosexual activists stepping up their attacks on Ronda
Storms and her campaign for the District 10 seat in the Florida Senate, the
stirred-up political climate could be what clinches victory for the longtime
county commissioner who has made taking a moral stand the trademark of her
career.

The Senate's failure to pass the amendment could have nationwide repercussions
come November. The last Senate vote on the issue of gay "marriage" was in 2004.
Later that year, Republicans gained four seats in the Senate.

FRANK SHANNON

Valrico

Story Was Misleading

It's no wonder news media outlets are losing readership. This is the lead line
in the AP article "Gay Marriage Amendment Fails In Senate": "By a wide margin
Wednesday, the Senate rejected a constitutional amendment to ban gay
marriage...." The next paragraph leads with, "The senators vote was 49-48." Now
that is a wide margin all right - one vote! My, my, with that kind of margin I
can increase the balance in my checking account and go have a spending spree
like my elected leaders.

Every day reading your paper - which I happen to like and appreciate - gets more
entertaining with all these Bush bashers getting paid to lie and mislead the
readership. Perhaps you should have edited this article.

DAVE STANTON

Clearwater

Misplaced Anger

I find it very interesting that the present administration in Washington is so
vehemently opposed to gay marriages that it is seeking to change the
Constitution to make these marriages illegal forever. However, I have neither
heard nor read about any abhorrence on their part for the number of illegitimate
children being born to unwed couples who enjoy public adoration.

I'm talking about movie stars and other celebrities who were highlighted in
local and national news stories. In the past, a child born of unwed parents was
by definition a bastard, but now the offspring has become a "love child"
instead. Where is the anger toward this national disgrace?

ED CUNNINGHAM

Lake Placid

Repeal 17th Amendment

With one amendment change, Americans can move forward exponentially in taking
back the republic. I am not talking about gay marriage or any time-wasting
nonsense like that. This is admittedly easier said than done: Repeal the 17th
Amendment!

Unknown to most today, the Founders set up the Senate to be elected by the
individual state legislatures. Senators worked for their states. Citizens in the
antebellum United States referred to their state as "my country." The federal
government was to be kept small and under control.

In 1913, when the notion of popularly electing senators was foolishly ratified
by 34 states into an amendment as a means of election reform to eliminate
influence-peddling, the final unraveling of our federalist republic had begun.
Had we not tried to improve upon what our Founders left us, today's runaway
Senate would have simply been recalled - fired, that is - and replaced with
folks who represented the interests of the state. The 17th Amendment created 100
elections for sale to the highest bidder.

Repeal the 17th Amendment and leave gay marriage and abortion to the states to
decide. Yes, states' rights! What a concept - and totally necessary for a
functioning and healthy republic.

ANDREW NAPPI

Hudson

Blame Nursing Shortage

Regarding "Hospital's Mistake Killed Mother" (front page, June 8):

Please don't feel sorry for the hospital or the nurse who made this fatal
mistake that led to the tragic death of Elisha Bryant, and don't be swayed by
their cries that they are devastated. They are devastated because this could not
be hidden.

This hospital is not sympathetic to this poor family, now left motherless, nor
to the undeserving staff that it actually fires for insignificant reasons. Yet
they put a "seasoned" nurse on administrative leave pending an investigation,
though she has probably administered magnesium sulfate so many times she should
have been able to do it in her sleep. Come on, we need to step up to the plate
and demand quality health care.

I have worked in hospitals for 20 years and have seen unnecessarily fatal errors
more than I wish to remember. The lack of qualified nurses is directly
attributable to poor hospital administration values and will not improve until
the big-business end of medical care is taken to task.

KAREN ERNEST

Lakeland

Bring Back 'Five Rights'

I am very distressed regarding the story of Elisha Crews Bryant, who lost her
life through the incorrect dosage of medication. What happened with the five
rights: right patient, right medicine, right dose, right time and right doctor?
Two nurses should always be present when administering these types of
medications. My heart goes out to her beautiful children and family. God bless
and comfort them!

DAVID WILLIAMS

Inverness

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

You Can Count On Progress

BYLINE: LARRY CAREY

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 360 words


By LARRY CAREY

It has been suggested that anyone in the 1890s who could have predicted U.S.
population growth - but assumed no change in transportation technology - would
have concluded that the country by now would be covered with three feet of horse
manure.

It seems equally ludicrous now to presume that we are intellectually bereft and
will make no progress on energy use.

There may be an unexpected benefit from high fuel costs. Cheap gasoline provides
little motivation to pursue alternatives. At some level of cost, the exploration
of alternative sources of energy will become economically attractive, causing
the OPEC countries to regret their present policies.

No one in the 1800s would have imagined the consequences of the internal
combustion engine. Is it out of the question that an alternative to it might be
possible?

Some countries in Europe are greatly reducing reliance on hydrocarbon fuel using
renewable energy such as wind. Witness the enormous potential energy of wave
action on our vast Florida coastline if we were clever enough to harness it.

It is exhilarating to speculate on how freeing ourselves from imported oil would
affect our society. The political climate would look very different.

New forms of nuclear energy with small reactors and no meltdown risks are being
explored in South Africa.

The technology for developing electricity from solar or wind power could
eliminate the need for power plants and every home would be self-reliant. What
an amazing prospect for developing countries.

I don't think for a moment that we should ignore the evidence of global warming,
but neither do I expect to fish for snook from my front door any time soon.

Man's arrogance suggests that we can destroy the planet. We make it might it
less habitable, but destroy it? Probably not.

I envy my grandchildren, who will witness marvelous changes in the world and
enjoy the advances that will be greater than those that have occurred in my
generation.

Larry Carey is a south Tampa physician.

Keyword: Community Columnists, to read other recent columns.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMUNITY COLUMNIST OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fight Is On For Legacy Seat

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


DEMOCRATS LOOK TO BILIRAKIS-BUSANSKY RACE TO WIN BACK U.S. HOUSE

By WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The pre-Fourth of July weekend didn't include a lot of leisure for
Phyllis Busansky.

There was a Saturday afternoon street fair in New Port Richey and a Democratic
women's club breakfast at Seven Springs Country Club in Pasco County on Sunday,
followed by a parade in Lutz today.

In between, there was always the phone - sitting there, waiting for her to make
calls asking people for money. She can never dial enough.

Things were similar for Gus Bilirakis.

On Monday morning, the Republican met volunteers for a breakfast in Northdale,
then headed out to knock on neighborhood doors in the heat and humidity. He also
had July Fourth events. His phone is always waiting, too.

The two are competing for the District 9 congressional seat from the Tampa Bay
area.

With control of the U.S. House hanging on a razor edge between the two parties,
the race between Busansky and Bilirakis is one of a number nationwide - and one
of no more than two or three in Florida - that could change the agenda of the
nation for the next few years.

Normally, Busansky would not be considered to have much of a chance at winning
the Nov. 7 contest.

The district has a strong plurality of Republican voters, and it would be hard
for any candidate who is not an incumbent to have better name recognition than
Bilirakis.

Bilirakis, 43, is a state House member from Pinellas County whose district is
located mostly within the congressional district, giving him a head start with
Pinellas voters.

In the Hillsborough County and Pasco portions of the congressional district, he
may be less well-known.

On the ballot, he will be listed as "Gus Michael Bilirakis," evoking his father,
Michael Bilirakis, who has held the congressional seat for 24 years and is
widely known in all three counties.

Busansky, 69, also has a history with voters: She was a Hillsborough County
commissioner from 1988 to 1996, but she has little political history in Pinellas
and Pasco counties.

All in all, the race easily could be seen as a simple hand-off from parent to
son, like the one that occurred when Rep. Kendrick Meek of Miami took over the
seat of his mother, Carrie Meek, in 2002.

This year, Democrats think they have a chance.

"This is not a normal political year," said Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz,
D-Weston, who is helping Busansky.

"It's a year when people are frustrated with gas prices, frustrated with being
mired in the war in Iraq and really sick of the rubber stamps in Washington. The
climate is soured; people's confidence in their government has been badly
shaken."

Partly because of Wasserman-Schultz's influence with the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, which recruits and assists Democratic
candidates for the House, the race is part of the committee's "Red to Blue
Program," which targets specific contests.

The program provides Democratic candidates with advice, staffing help and money
- donations of party money and pressure from the national party on political
action committees to contribute to the candidate. In Busansky's case, the
program may bring in Democratic Party stars to raise money for her.

Busansky qualified, Wasserman-Schultz said, because she was able to raise a
significant amount of money and establish a credible campaign on her own.

The race is considered by state and national Democratic Party officials to be
one of the three most competitive in Florida, along with state Sen. Ron Klein's
challenge to Rep. Clay Shaw in coastal Broward and Palm Beach counties and the
race to replace U.S. Rep. Katherine Harris, of Longboat Key.

Republicans say the Democratic hopes in District 9 are delusions.

"Slim to none" is how former state Sen. Jack Latvala, a Republican who is now a
political consultant in Pinellas County, summed up Busansky's chances.

"Gus has a lot of money; it's still basically a GOP district," he said.

Busansky replied: "I would never have gotten into this race if I didn't think I
could win. When I decided to get into this race in October, the numbers were not
as bad for Republicans as they are now. The president and Congress are helping
me."

Republicans say they are not worried about the race, but the competition has
attracted national attention.

Busansky has had a fundraising visit from U.S. Rep. Rahm Emanuel, of New York,
and contributions from the political action committee of former Virginia Gov.
Mark Warner, a likely presidential contender.

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich made a visit for Bilirakis, and Vice
President Dick Cheney has a fundraising visit scheduled.

A former county director of aging services who was instrumental in establishing
the county's indigent health care program, Busansky is campaigning hard on two
issues important to the many retirees in Pasco and northern Pinellas: health
care and the Medicare prescription drug program.

Bilirakis, a lawyer from Palm Harbor, is term-limited in his state House seat
and has long thought about the possibility of running for his father's seat
after the elder Bilirakis retired. He has a little-known opponent in the Sept. 5
primary but is focusing on defeating Busansky.

"I'm feeling confident," he said. He acknowledged the national political climate
could affect the contest but said, "Hopefully the people will judge me for who I
am, on my record and my past performance."

As would be expected for a Republican holding a state House seat, he has a
strong fundraising lead. As of the end of March, the most recent fundraising
period for which figures are available, he had raised $1.2 million and had
$873,252 cash on hand. With infusions of national party help not yet in,
Busansky had raised $387,922 and had $333,134 available.

Neither candidate could give figures including the fundraising quarter that
ended last week. Busansky said she hopes to better her pace of about $200,000 a
quarter.

Busansky said she expects to raise $900,000 to $1 million for the race - less
than Bilirakis has - but said, "I just need enough to be competitive, and I'm
going to have enough."

Money figures aren't the only statistics that show how steep a hill she must
climb.

Hillsborough, Busansky's home county, has more voters in the district than
either Pinellas or Pasco does, but the district includes about 190,000
Republicans, compared with 156,000 Democrats and 89,000 no-party voters.

Bilirakis personally approved the redesign of the district when the state
Legislature revised Florida election districts after the 2000 census, said
Latvala, a leader in the redistricting effort.

Bilirakis said he was involved but was not a key player.

The district's recent voting history looks favorable to Bilirakis.

In 2000, for example, President Bush barely beat former Vice President Al Gore
in Florida, but he won 53 percent to 45 percent in the precincts that make up
District 9.

Wasserman-Schultz said the national Democratic Party hopes to win this year in
districts that vote the way Florida's District 9 does, but national political
handicappers aren't so sure.

A sampling:

o The National Journal ranks Shaw's seat fifth on its list of the top 50
congressional seats most likely to switch parties but puts the Bilirakis seat
only "on the fringes."

o Congressional Quarterly's CQPolitics.com ranks the seat as "Republican
favored."

o The race does not make University of Virginia political scientist Larry
Sabato's list of the three most competitive races in Florida.

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761 or wmarch@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by KATHY MOORE

Photo: Gus Bilirakis left a Northdale volunteer breakfast to stump door-to-door
in Carrollton on Monday. The Republican, who hopes to replace his father in
Congress, has a fundraising edge over Busansky.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CHRIS URSO

Photo: Democrat Phyllis Busansky spent part of Saturday at the Main Street Blast
in New Port Richey. The former Hillsborough County commissioner has caught the
attention of the national party.

U.S. House District 9

Tribune map

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 MAP
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONSUMERS ASK

BYLINE: MARY A. KEITH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words


By MARY A. KEITH

The Tampa Tribune

Q. If I use brown sugar to make apple pie, do I need to adjust the quantity of
sugar or change anything else?

A. No, just adjust it according to the sweetness of the apples and how sweet you
like your pie.

Q. I know you've helped people with brown sugar that got too hard, but what do I
do about hardened white sugar? Will an apple slice help that, too?

A. An apple slice would probably make matters worse. Brown sugar is supposed to
be moist. White sugar gets hard when it gets moist. I would suggest putting
lumps of hardened white sugar in a blender or food processor briefly. Don't
process it too long or it will start to get powdery. Or if you have one huge
lump, grate it on the finest side of a hand grater.

Q. I tried to substitute ground turkey for ground beef and pork in a meatloaf
recipe and then again for meatballs, and they both came out terrible. They were
so dry and tough. What's the secret for using ground turkey?

A. Well, at least you had good quality ground turkey! They came out dry and hard
because the meat was very lean, so that means that it didn't have a lot of skin
ground into it. For more tender meatloaf, add bread or cracker crumbs soaked in
milk or broth to add moisture, and don't overcook the meat. A slightly lower
temperature for a longer time will give better results. Use a meat thermometer
to determine when it gets to 160 degrees. Then it's done.

Q. I want to try making a favorite beef stew recipe in a crockpot. How do I
change the recipe?

A. Start with less liquid. Everything that cooks out of the meat and vegetables
will be retained in the pot. Decrease the salt and spices a little, and don't
open the lid to check on it. Every time you open the lid of slow cooker, you add
about 20 minutes to the cooking time. You can adjust the flavoring in the last
half-hour of cooking. Add any thickener at the end as well.

Q. How do I keep graham crackers crisp, and how do I recrisp them once they get
soggy?

A. To keep crackers crisp in our soggy climate, you need to keep them sealed
from the air. Keep opened packages in airtight bags, and squeeze out as much air
as possible. Then seal the bag in a can or tin that's not much bigger than the
bag. To recrisp crackers, lay them on a cookie sheet in a single layer. Put them
in a 350-degree oven for 2 to 3 minutes.

Q. Is it possible to make jelly with no sugar?

A. It can be done with the right kind of pectin, one that does not require sugar
to jell. Mrs. Wages Lite Home Jell and Ball Fruit Jell No Sugar Needed are two
brands that will work with sweeteners. Be aware that sugar is the preservative,
so jellies made without sugar will lose their color rapidly. They should be kept
in the refrigerator for longest storage.

Q. How can I store vanilla beans for the longest use? I tried putting them in
sugar once, and the sugar got hard. Now I've been given more and hate to see
them get moldy.

A. The easiest way is to put several in a tall thin bottle. It has to be tall
enough to cover the whole bean. Then add enough vodka to cover the beans. Let
them sit for a month, then start using the vodka in place of vanilla extract. As
you use it, keep adding enough to have the beans covered all the time. It will
last for a year or more, depending on how often you use it.

Mary A. Keith, a nutrition and health agent at Hillsborough County Extension,
can be reached at (813) 744-5519, Ext. 136, or mkeith@ufl. edu.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Kind Of Magic

BYLINE: AMANDA HENRY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3105 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


A Tampa artist blends experience, observation, style and skill as he takes a
painting from conception to exhibition.

By AMANDA HENRY

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The world is full of creation stories: fire and flood, ribs and dust,
giant birds and assorted other incarnations of a Supreme Being.

This is a story about invention on a smaller scale. The finished product is a
two-dimensional slice of creativity, more individual than universal. But it's
still a world, pieced together from memory and scenery and ideas about how
things should be. And like all such tales, it begins in darkness.

Where do paintings come from? This is one answer.

In The Beginning

The house is a modest block, in an older central Tampa neighborhood. A Florida
house, with a carport and sandy patches in the yard. Near the front door is an
empty food dish, evidence of the occasional presence of Loco, the cat.

Inside, the animals are plastic: shelf upon shelf of molded, brightly colored
toy dinosaurs - a little boy's dream. The man who lives here also collects
unusual rocks and stones, many as shiny and covetable as prize marbles or the
precious stones he wears in two rings: a ruby for the left hand, a star sapphire
on the right. He is interested in things that come from the earth, or once
roamed it.

Or perhaps it's the color of these objects that attracts him, or something in
their form: the hidden burst of fire in a luminous stone, the spiny, whimsical
outline of the miniature beasts. There are echoes of these qualities - a
delicious shade of orange, an iconic animal shape - in the handful of canvases
hanging around the room and the many more stacked against every available wall.

John Gurbacs has lived in Florida since 1959, but, as the name suggests, his
roots are across the Atlantic. The artist and his parents fled communist Hungary
in 1957, when Gurbacs was 9, then gradually made their way from New York to
Miami. Gurbacs earned his bachelor of fine arts at Florida State University and
did some postgraduate study at the University of South Florida, where his style
progressed from hard-edged and geometric to the abstract expanses of Color Field
painting (think Rothko).

Today, he has turned back to realism, at least on the surface. The elements that
make up his paintings are representational - the cows look like cows - but the
way they are arranged defies conventional logic. Gurbacs doesn't just mix
denizens of sea, space and the surface world, animate and otherwise; he also
fragments scale and perspective, so that the galactic and the microscopic
commingle in the same frame.

"I didn't want to do just traditional landscapes or paintings. I wanted a
certain amount of mystery or transformation to take place," says Gurbacs, 58.
"In my opinion, painting is the art of suggestion. And illusion. It's kind of
like magic, in a way."

June 29, 8:30 p.m.

The magic starts small.

From the welter of images that draw his eye, Gurbacs has selected two dominant
themes: a crystalline sugar molecule, exaggerated to resemble a gigantic
snowflake, and a border of spiky palmetto leaves. Local foliage and fractal
geometry: These are typically divergent sources of inspiration for Gurbacs, who
struggles not so much to find an idea as to winnow his list of obsessions into a
few complementary forms.

The resulting composition, in miniature, has been collaged onto a page the size
of notebook paper. A century or two ago, that sketch might have been divided
according to a grid, which would then have been used to transfer sections of
line to a larger canvas, square by square. Now there is some technological
timesaving: The original collage is copied and enlarged, then projected onto the
4-by-4-foot canvas so its outline can be traced.

"James Rosenquist does this. All it is is a quick way to transfer a line drawing
onto the surface," says Gurbacs. "It gets me painting as quickly as possible."

But before the first splash of pigment touches the canvas, Gurbacs will work in
pencil. Or rather, pencils: As the artist sketches with his right hand, he holds
spares in the left, their sharpened points jutting out between his knuckles like
a strange, Freddy Krueger-esque appendage.

With his face inches from the canvas, the ghost of a future painting projected
across his back and arms, Gurbacs roughs in the outline of his drawing. The
scratch of the pencil grows hoarse as the lead dulls, pencil by pencil.

Only the scraping of lead and the moan of the old projector disturb a stillness
that goes beyond the nighttime quiet. Gurbacs' studio, an L-shaped room at the
back of the house, isn't air-conditioned, and the single ceiling fan does little
to stir the soupy air.

Every few minutes, there is a metallic click as Gurbacs flicks a lighter to
life. By the light of that small flame, the ephemeral color and intricacy of the
shadow painting disappear, replaced in an instant by scant, spidery gray lines
in a field of white. On, then off: the illusion of a finished painting, then its
skeletal roots.

"Everything starts off with lines," Gurbacs muses. "This gives me an accurate
but rough outline as to what's going on."

As the jagged scribbles spread across the canvas, smudges of graphite discolor
the outer edge of one hand, to the tip of his pinkie.

Tonight's work is slow and somewhat rote, allowing the artist's mind to wander.
He makes desultory observations about everything from the sketch in progress to
popular culture, but the underlying connections aren't difficult to fathom.

"I saw the new Superman movie today. I really liked those Fortress of Solitude
ice crystals - those jutting things. That was really cool."

He also has seen what he calls "the Al Gore movie" - "An Inconvenient Truth" - a
polemic piece about the environment, which leads to a discussion of the current
flooding in the Northeast and climate change in general.

"My paintings are about that in a way - showing the beauty of nature," he says.
"Whether it's living or inanimate, there still seems to be an order to it."

July 7, 3 p.m.

After finishing the pencil sketch, Gurbacs goes back over the silvery lines with
an umber wash - a brown oil paint diluted with mineral spirits until it takes on
the consistency of watercolor.

This next phase of preparation lasts a full day, squeezed in between stints on a
paying project - an aquatic mural commissioned by the Pier Aquarium in St.
Petersburg. Working layer by layer allows Gurbacs to make adjustments as he goes
along, playing with contrast and texture.

Even in monochromatic form, the square of canvas now looks like a painting - an
abstract, sepia-toned jungle. But the chocolate and white are living on borrowed
time because it is finally time to paint.

A small table next to the artist is piled with spattered, mottled tubes of
color. Dabs of pure pigment are arrayed on a palette; other shades have already
been mixed in small white cups. Jostling for space are canisters of used brushes
and plastic-wrapped bundles of new ones.

"I don't know how many brushes I have. Probably a few hundred. Some people might
have more - I don't know. What's funny is that I use the same ones over and
over, until they fall apart," says Gurbacs. "I do the same with shoes."

A first delicate stroke of aquamarine makes contact with the canvas. The artist
spreads the color with short, dancing movements of the brush, then pauses to
regard the results. Too dark: He adds a little white to the original blue on his
palette.

The colors will change as they dry, and as other shades join them on the canvas,
replacing the deceptively neutral white background. The first coat won't quite
cover the umber wash, but Gurbacs wouldn't stop there anyway. He prefers the
saturated effect of multiple layers, the progressive conjuring of new colors.

This is also why he favors lead-based paints - for their brilliance. In the
hand, a tube of lead paint has the heft of a roll of quarters. The unleaded is
as light as the cardboard tube inside a roll of toilet paper.

As new colors are added - a lemony pistachio, straw yellow - brushes are
transferred to the left hand. He holds them like the pencils before, sticking
out between his knuckles.

"Every once in a while it would be nice to have another hand."

He goes back to the blue, and he likes the new shade. The wet paint is creamy
and easy to move; he spreads it thin, keeping the surface smooth. There are no
van Gogh-like ridges and chunks for Gurbacs.

"My friend Tom, his paintings take years to dry sometimes," he says with a
chuckle.

Despite the step-by-step preparation that led to this point, nothing is set in
stone - or paint. This part of the process is more instinctive, drawing on a
lifetime of aesthetic sensibility and tactile experience. Although he
occasionally glances at his original collage, Gurbacs is painting in the moment,
gauging line and hue as he summons them from blankness.

Unlike the more methodical early stages, this phase absorbs him entirely.

"You get lost in the act of painting," he says. "I guess I kind of zone out -
except when those jerks call trying to sell you stuff."

July 31, 4:30 p.m.

There is not so much as a speck of white canvas showing, but the painting is
only two-thirds done, says Gurbacs - a first draft.

"It's pretty pastel-y looking right now," he observes. "All these colors looked
really intense when they were being applied next to the white, but now that
you've got all this other stuff, they look kind of anemic."

This assessment comes after 10 full days of applying color. Painting days go
something like this: Start at 9 a.m. Break for iced tea at lunchtime. The next
thing you know the 5 o'clock news is on, and it's time to stagger into the
kitchen and raid a mostly bare refrigerator - not unlike the average 9 to 5
routine.

"I have some artist friends who don't do anything for months, then stay up all
night for days," he says.

Such extremes don't appeal to the methodical Gurbacs, for whom art is a
full-time job that pays the bills - though the salary isn't always steady. His
income is pieced together from public grants and commissions, museum and
corporate acquisitions and sales to private collectors, as well as less orthodox
exchanges. Recently, the artist traded two small works for a root canal.

"I look at money as the thing that buys me my own time back, so I don't have to
worry about it and I can paint more," says Gurbacs. "I'm never going to do 50 or
100 of something because it sells. I like each of my works to be an experience,
where I learn something out of it, you know?"

Gurbacs was married for 16 years, and he suspects that the financial uncertainty
of the artistic life may have contributed to the breakup.

"Me being an artist definitely had a lot to do with it," he says of the career
he considers a calling.

A large painting, like the one he's working on now, might be priced at $4,000 or
$5,000. The most he ever made for a single painting was $6,000. There is no hard
and fast formula, no hourly wage to calculate. When people ask him how long it
took to complete a work, he answers, "All my life."

Sept. 19, 3 p.m.

If a painting were more like a cake, it would be easy to say, "It's done."

But there is no timer to beep, no springing back at the prod of a fingertip.
Gurbacs decides he is finished when he starts "getting fed up."

"I could just keep working on it," he says, and at some future point, he may do
just that. He once brought his brushes to a gallery for a quick touch-up after
discovering that his cat - a predecessor to the well-mannered Loco - had sprayed
a painting, removing spots of pigment.

But for now his mind is on the next piece and his upcoming one-man show at the
Ybor campus of Hillsborough Community College.

"When you're doing your work, you're totally absorbed with yourself. But then
when you're done, you want people to see it," he says.

What people see in this as-yet-untitled canvas will vary. Some will drift by
with a polite glance, doing the museum shuffle. Others may be struck by the
surface: the intensity of color or the movement of lines and shapes across the
canvas.

Gurbacs hopes that at least a few viewers will pause long enough to really look
at the painting, though he knows the pace of modern life is out of sync with
such stillness. Art, he believes, can slow things back down to a less frantic
speed - whether you're on the creating or receiving end. Which is not to say
that the process is all calmness and enlightenment:

"The word 'pain' only appears in painting," Gurbacs deadpans. "When you're
painting, the thing that's most fun is when you're finished and you're happy
with it. You tend to forget the weeks and months of, 'Oh, man.'"

Oct. 10, 7 p.m.

The painting has a name: "Palmetto Blue."

And the blue - or rather, blues - at the heart of the image are so vivid, they
seem to hum with aquamarine energy, a saturated hue that leaps off the canvas.
The palmetto fringe hews closer to nature, a mottled succession of elongated
leaves in shades of yellow and green - a banana's palette - executed with the
fine lines and exacting detail that are a hallmark of Gurbacs' work.

"Palmetto Blue" anchors the main wall of the first floor of the Visual Arts
building at HCC, where his "CO-NNECT-ION-S" exhibition occupies two floors. Seen
side by side, instead of stacked against a studio wall, the connections between
works are more apparent, from echoed colors to repeated motifs: eggs and
embryos, cows and cars, dolphins and ships, pieces of sky.

There is a posted artist's statement, but most visitors go straight to the
source - Gurbacs himself.

In spite of his status as guest of honor, Gurbacs is as down-to-earth here as in
the cluttered confines of his studio, accepting praise from friends and
strangers with equanimity. Asked if he's pleased with the finished product, he
answers with a shrug:

"Things always look better out of your studio."

He is flattered by the number of old friends who have turned out for the
opening, whose ranks include prominent fellow painter Theo Wujcik, as well as
many of the arts instructors from HCC.

He is also pleased with the tray of eclairs, which occupies the spot next to the
fresh fruit tray and in front of the punch bowl, just down the table from the
cheese platter, in time-honored gallery-opening fashion.

"I worked hard for this eclair," he quips.

As the reception wears on, Gurbacs grows tired of answering the same questions
about his work. A succession of art students, armed with notebooks and a
homework assignment, are trying to determine what his unusual arrangements of
imagery mean:

"You're the painter, right? Can I ask you a question? You use a lot of Star of
Davids. Are you Jewish?"

He explains that the many-pointed central image is, in fact, a fractal - a word
that, in this case, elicits a blank look and a hasty retreat.

"You got a lot of things going on," the next young woman says, referring to a
canvas that combines the Venus de Milo with a list of seemingly unrelated
objects, including a fried egg and a baby in utero.

"That one's interesting. We want to know what's going on with that," the student
prods.

"What do you think is going on?" Gurbacs counters, his tone a mixture of wary
and weary.

"Birth?"

"It's about population explosion," he says, attempting to simplify his entire
conceptual and creative experience into a sound bite.

Another student is less awed by the whole artist thing, explaining to Gurbacs
that according to the terms of her assignment, "it's not what you're trying to
say. It's what we get out of it."

"That's good," he answers, enthusiastically. "The painting is a vehicle ..."

But before he can expound on his theory of the viewer's participatory role in
the artistic experience, she has moved on.

Downstairs, a solemn young man utters a classic art show line:

"The only people who understand suffering are other intellectuals."

Tomorrow, says Gurbacs, he may take a break - perhaps a walk in the park. But
then it's back to the studio, where two new paintings are already in the works,
waiting.

(CHART) ON VIEW

CO-NNECT-ION-S

WHAT: An exhibition of recent paintings by John Gurbacs

WHEN: Through Nov. 30; gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. weekdays.

WHERE: First and second floors of Visual Arts building at Hillsborough Community
College, Ybor City campus, Palm Avenue and 15th Street.

ADMISSION: Free; (813) 253-7674.

Reporter Amanda Henry can be reached at (813) 259-7569 or ahenry@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by KELVIN MA

Photo: Tampa artist John Gurbacs sketches the plan for his painting on June 29,
tracing it off an enlarger in the dark and using a lighter to find his place.
The 4-by-4-foot creation will be completed in time for his one-man show,
"CO-NNECT-ION-S," at Hillsborough Community College's Ybor City campus.
Painting, he says, is "kind of like magic, in a way."

Photo: The native of Hungary mixes a batch of paint at his home studio, where he
has spent the previous week sketching out his design in pencil. A small table
next to Gurbacs is piled with spattered and mottled tubes of color.

Photo: Gurbacs applies the first strokes of paint to his canvas. "When you're
painting, the thing that's most fun is when you're finished and you're happy
with it," the artist says. "You tend to forget the weeks and months of, 'Oh,
man.'"

Photo credit: Tribune photos by KELVIN MA

Photo: Gurbacs begins the penultimate stage of his work, intensifying colors and
adding details to his untitled work, on July 31. "It's pretty pastel-y looking
right now," he says, after 10 full days of applying color. "All these colors
looked really intense when they were being applied next to the white, but now
that you've got all this other stuff, they look kind of anemic."

Photo: The 58-year-old Tampa artist, who has lived in Florida since 1959, blends
yellows on his palette to get the perfect shade for the two-dimensional piece he
started a month before. He favors lead-based paints for their brilliance, he
says.

Photo: Blues, greens and yellows dominate in the finished painting by Gurbacs,
whose one-man show, "CO-NNECT-ION-S," runs through Nov. 30 in Ybor City. Three
weeks before the show, Gurbacs still hadn't come up with a name for the piece he
started on June 29.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by KELVIN MA

Photo: Prominent artist Theo Wujcik studies Gurbacs' 4-by-4-foot creation
"Palmetto Blue" at the Ybor City campus of Hillsborough Community College.
Wujcik taught at the University of South Florida when Gurbacs was a graduate
student.

Photo: Gurbacs discusses his use of scientific imagery in one of his paintings
with HCC student Danielle Dickerson, 25, at his one-man show.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 8 CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Constitutional Amendments: Yes Or No?

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1000 words


Giving Citizens A Voice

Regarding the pro and con columns on Amendment 3 (Commentary, Oct. 13):

Tom James of Raymond James Financial ("Protect Florida's Constitution") gave an
excellent explanation and rationale to approve Amendment 3 on the Nov. 7 ballot,
as did former Gov. Reubin Askew in opposing it ("Trust Voters With Power To
Change"). The most beneficial aspect of Amendment 3 is that it gives equal
weight to voter and legislative initiatives.

This amendment would require a 60 percent approval instead of a simply majority
to amend the constitution. On the surface, that would seem like a good thing
since the Legislature is notorious for representing special interests and will
now have a more difficult time amending the constitution. As Askew said in his
recommendation to vote no, only 22 percent of initiatives come from citizens;
the rest are products of the legislative process and often represent special
interests.

The downside of this constitutional amendment is that the Legislature can pass
measures beneficial to special interests during their annual session, and the
only option citizens will have to overturn bad legislation and protect the
citizens is an initiative that will require a 60 percent vote. In Florida the
citizens continue to come out on the short end!

The best option would be to have elected legislators who truly represent the
citizens, but there is no profit in that.

ROBERT WEISMAN

Carrollwood


Protect Our Constitution

As the leader of Florida's largest agricultural organization, I'm aware of the
constant assaults to our constitution. Unfortunately, the Florida Constitution
is the easiest to amend in the nation.

In recent years there has been a proliferation of well-financed special interest
and out-of-state groups who seek to advance their interests by amending our
state constitution. These groups often pay out-of-state petition gatherers and
use confusing language to abuse Florida's ballot initiative process. We have
seen these groups spend millions of dollars to change the Florida Constitution
in ways that benefit themselves but hurt the average taxpayer and our business
climate.

We need to return the ballot initiative process to the citizens of Florida,
taking it out of the hands of special-interest groups with deep pockets.
Amendment 3 will require broader public support for constitutional amendments by
raising the threshold for passage from 50 percent plus 1 to 60 percent and will
apply to all proposed amendments, including those proposed by the Legislature.

There are nearly 40 proposed amendments already filed for the 2008 ballot. While
nothing quite as frivolous and silly as protection for pregnant pigs is on the
horizon, there are proposed amendments that would adversely affect Florida's
future. Join me in voting yes on Amendment 3.

Protect our constitution.

CARL B. LOOP JR.

Gainesville

The writer is president of the Florida Farm Bureau Federation.


'Yes' On Amendment 4

Regarding "Vote No On Amendment 4" (Our Opinion, Oct. 12):

You are absolutely correct to point out that youth tobacco education has been
terribly neglected since 2002, while also emphasizing the monumental
effectiveness adequately funded programs had in the state of Florida.

The constitutional amendment process is the only way that citizens in Florida
are able to address issues that the Legislature has not been willing to
cooperate on. Our elected officials have the responsibility to act in the best
interest of the people and respond to majority concerns. There have been
grueling attempts to work with the Legislature on this issue of youth tobacco
education - and they have gotten us nowhere.

For the past 10 years I have volunteered on the board of the Greater Tampa Unit
of the American Cancer Society.

For seven of those years I chaired the Youth Education Committee, which promoted
"Stomp It Out" in the middle and high schools throughout Hillsborough County.
Through this experience I have witnessed how our Florida youth are an easy
target for big tobacco. The tobacco industry pumps more than $1 billion in
marketing throughout our state annually. The $1 million our state legislators
provide for youth tobacco education has no hope in counteracting Big Tobacco's
campaign. We also have one of the lowest tobacco taxes in the country. And still
officials refuse to provide adequate protection through education.

Committing to use a percentage of the tobacco industry dollars Florida receives
annually is an investment in future generations. The Legislature has not worked
with the people to fund a comprehensive youth tobacco education program, and the
people are speaking out by voting "yes" on Amendment 4.

KATIE LEVINSON

Lutz


Righting Tobacco Money

There was a man who needed money to pay his son's hospital bills after the boy
had been injured riding a dirt bike. I gave him the money he needed for that
purpose. Later the man sued the manufacturer of the dirt bike and got money to
compensate him for the boy's hospital bills. After that, I asked the man to
repay me since I was the one who actually paid the boy's hospital bills. The man
just laughed at me and kept the money.

The above story didn't really happen. It is a parable and I described it that
way to make it more understandable. The dirt bike was actually cigarettes, the
manufacturer was the tobacco industry, the boy was all the Floridians who ran up
tobacco-related medical bills, the father was the government of the state of
Florida, and I was all the taxpayers in Florida.

My point is that since the tobacco litigation was to reimburse the state for
health care costs incurred by citizens, and since we the people were the ones
who actually had to pay those bills, then we the people should be the ones
getting the money that was paid out in the settlement. The state should not just
think of some new ways to spend that money, it should give it back to us.

NORMAN CAREY

Dade City

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 435 words


Global Mood Swings

If you think the heavy rains, droughts and intense heat waves that recently hit
the United States and Europe are bad, expect worse weather in the future, a
geoscientist says.

In a forecast study of the planet's climate, Katharine Hayhoe of Texas Tech
University says extreme weather will be commonplace. The degree of change will
depend on the amount of emissions of heat-trapping gases from human activities.
Hayhoe collaborated with the National Center for Atmospheric Research and the
Australian Bureau of Meteorology.

"As temperatures warm, we're likely to have more frequent heat waves, which can
affect our health and energy use," Hayhoe said. "We also found that warming
temperatures will mean more extreme precipitation events and more frequent dry
periods across much of the Northern Hemisphere."

Capsule Colonoscopy

People may soon swallow a pill instead of going to the hospital for the
traditional and much-dreaded colonoscopy. Called "capsule colonoscopy," the
technique requires the patients to swallow a small video capsule that can detect
polyps in the colon. The technique was presented at a meeting of the American
College of Gastroenterology.

An Apple A Day

Apples and apple juice may be among the best foods that anyone could add to
their diet, according to independent studies presented at the Society of
Neuroscience annual conference in Atlanta. Antioxidants found abundantly in
apples are one of two compounds that reduce the death of healthy cells, normally
caused by oxidation and inflammation of neurons. Researchers also say apples and
apple juice can help boost neurological health, specifically in the brain.

Amazon Reversal

The world's largest river basin, the Amazon, once flowed from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Pacific - opposite its present direction, say researchers at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

While studying sedimentary rocks in the river basin, research geologist Russel
Mapes discovered something else: ancient mineral grains in the central part of
South America that could only have originated in now-eroded mountains in the
eastern part of the continent. The river today flows from the Andes mountains to
the Atlantic.

If the Amazon had continuously flowed eastward, it would have deposited much
younger mineral grains in the sediments from the Andes, Mapes said.

"We didn't see any," he said. "All along the basin, the ages of the mineral
grains all pointed to very specific locations in central and eastern South
America."

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Among Issues We'll Be Watching, Bad Roads Is No. 1

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1031 words


Another new year has overtaken this booming area, where transportation policies
are stuck in the slower, quieter past of 20 years ago. County leaders refused to
address road congestion again last year, afraid of tough questions on how to pay
for solutions.

Given the leadership vacuum at the county level, the top priority of the
Tribune's Editorial Board in 2006 will be to engage the community on the
question of roads and transit.

This region needs a rational plan for keeping pace with growth, lowering the
disgracefully high rate of pedestrian deaths and creating a transportation
system that helps us remain the state's best place to live and do business.

We hope to identify leaders who can help the region think ahead and engage
neighborhoods in the challenge and possible solutions. If the Hillsborough
County commissioners continue to ignore the escalating problem, we will help
citizens find a way around them.

Leadership Needed

Which leads to our second priority for the year: supporting an initiative to
create an elected county mayor.

Hillsborough needs a leader, someone who can rise above the petty squabbles and
address the greater good. We need someone who can talk to the mayors of the
county's three cities and build good relationships with them. The current
structure of seven equally powerful commissioners allows each to duck
accountability for the overarching challenges gripping this county. Rather, it
fosters a climate where commissioners grab headlines on issues of the moment,
while ignoring the big picture.

Mary Ann Stiles, a self-made woman of means, is leading the charge to place a
citizens' referendum on the ballot. We will do what we can to encourage
signatures and eventual success.

While transportation and county leadership top our priority list for 2006, we'll
also focus on other key issues. The environment, as always, will be a concern.
Our reputation as a champion of the environment was evident last year when Gov.
Jeb Bush came to visit. He said he wanted to come "to Mecca" to unveil his
growth management reforms.

The following also will receive special attention:

Saving Citrus

The citrus industry is threatened by development and hampered by disease. Citrus
canker is expected to destroy one-third of the state's citrus groves. Citrus
greening, another disease that kills trees, is on the rise.

Does the state have the will to save a $9 billion industry that employs 90,000
people?

Citrus is more than an industry. It's a way of life, one that produces a healthy
product and preserves land whose sandy soil helps recharge the aquifer that
supplies most of the state's drinking water.

Canker can seem unstoppable during a vicious hurricane season. But Florida's
economy, environment and appeal would be infinitely poorer if its groves were
paved over. Local, state and national leaders must find ways to preserve an
industry that defines the state.

Fixing Emergency Room Care

Tampa's hospitals should continue efforts to eliminate inordinate waits in the
emergency room and tell the public about their success. We wrote much about this
issue in 2005 and plan to maintain our focus this year. It's not fair to
patients or staff to force sick, pained people to spend hours and hours in
crowded waiting rooms. If the hospitals commit to change, it will happen.
Hospitals in Sarasota, Dunedin and Detroit have shown the way. They've reduced
wait times to half an hour. What will Tampa hospitals commit to?

At the same time, the county should ensure the revised indigent health plan
doesn't shortchange hospitals that care for the poor.

Paying For New Schools

The community must confront the school construction financing crisis. The school
district has bonded out its share of the Community Investment Tax by building 13
schools, 10 additions and 25 major renovations. Yet the district must build five
new schools every year to keep up with the steady flood of new students.

A task force has recommended an impact fee increase and a half-cent sales tax
increase. Raising the school impact fee on new homes is long overdue. Voters may
be more skeptical about a sales tax. It's also time the state met its
obligations on school construction costs.

Improving Graduation Rates

Florida's high school graduation rate is 48th in the nation. The graduation rate
is 57.3 percent for black students and 64 percent for Hispanic students.
Education leaders say the state is heading in the right direction, yet the
figures remain troublingly low. We must do better.

Building A Diverse Economy

It has been more than a year since the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce
restructured itself and assigned key community leaders the challenge of
recruiting company headquarters here. Progress has been made. The chamber helped
land Countrywide Home Loans Inc., another financial operations center that will
hire 1,000 workers. And it launched an important effort to retain existing
business.

Still, the region remains overly dependent on the construction industry.
Business leaders must focus on work force development to attract companies that
offer higher-paying jobs. We look to new chamber chairman Jose Valiente, a Cuban
immigrant, to inspire new economic relationships that benefit our vibrant
Hispanic population.

Rein In Government Costs

Hillsborough County Sheriff David Gee, County Administrator Pat Bean and Tampa
Mayor Pam Iorio this year made progress in holding the line on government pay
raises, which had come to far exceed anything found in the private sector. Some
county workers were getting 9 percent annual raises.

While public workers deserve good pay and benefits, we will continue to watchdog
the cost of local government and advocate fiscal discipline. We plan to step up
scrutiny of health benefits and retirement packages. Taxpayers cannot afford for
government to offer the gold standard to employees.

These are some of the key issues we'll be monitoring throughout 2006.

Tell us if there are other issues you'd like to see kept front and center.

A year from now, we hope we can report a stepped-up response from a region
filled with resolve and ingenuity.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: Another new year has overtaken this booming area, where transportation
policies are stuck in the slower, quieter past of 20 years ago. County leaders
refused to address road congestion again last year, afraid of tough questions on
how to pay for solutions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pretty Poison

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words


Marie Selby Botanical Gardens is home to a large collection of poison dart
frogs, which can injure or even kill people in the wild.

By KURT LOFT

kloft@tampatrib.com

SARASOTA - The critter is barely the size of a quarter, but it can kill a
200-pound man in minutes.

Meet Phyllobates terribilis, otherwise known as the Golden poison dart frog,
considered by scientists to be among the world's deadliest creatures. C'mon -
how could such a cute little thing could be so nasty?

Ask the animals of the Colombian rain forest, who know better than to gulp down
such a super-toxic meal. Or consider the South American tribes who for centuries
armed their blow gun arrows with frog juice.

But you don't have to stomp through exotic jungles to see these amphibians up
close and personal. About 50 reside in the Poison Dart Frog Collection at Marie
Selby Botanical Gardens.

"They are the jewels of the rain forest," says curator Donna Krabill, director
of Selby's Center for Environmental Education.

With their shiny skin and brilliant colors, the frogs look like tiny porcelain
dolls. They hop around their terrariums, each decorated with waterfalls, mosses,
orchids and bromeliads.

The frogs eagerly await their twice-a-day meal of live fruit flies, crickets,
termites and springtails. Curious children press up against the glass for a
closer look.

"Poison dart frogs are so much more complicated and interesting than I ever
thought," Krabill says.

"When you look at any species of living thing, they have special characteristics
that are important to the whole tapestry of life.

"I feel this connection to the frogs and the rain forest. The frogs can show us
that connection."

Poison dart frogs get their name from the way indigenous people of the rain
forests use the toxin. The Choco Indians of Colombia charge the tips of their
blowgun darts by rolling them along the frog's back, then hunt monkey and sloth.

The neurotoxin quickly paralyzes and kills the animal. The poison is neutralized
during cooking.

Fascination over the frogs comes from their combination of beauty and lethality,
Krabill says. Their bright colors warn potential predators to stay away, and the
poison serves as an evolutionary lesson: Eat enough of my species and yours will
die.

The frogs sequester toxins from their diet. In the wild, they forage for ants
and other small insects that feed from the diverse tropical fauna, absorbing an
array of acidic chemicals. The frogs synthesize the compounds and release them
from pores on their backs.

Scientists are finding beneficial uses for these forest-born chemicals. The
striped Phantasmal dart frog, for instance, produces a toxin similar to morphine
but 50 times stronger and without the side effects. Pharmaceutical labs are
testing ways to make such poison useful to people.

The Golden poison dart frog secretes a powerful batrachotoxin that when released
into the bloodstream causes paralysis and heart failure. If absorbed through the
skin or ingested, the poison from one golden frog can kill 20,000 mice - or as
many as 100 people, experts say.

"It will kill you in less than 10 minutes," Krabill says. "But [the poison] is
all part of the biodiversity of the rain forest. All these things work together
to create a unique system."

In captivity, however, the frogs aren't toxic. Their relatively benign diet of
flies, crickets and termites - all raised in the lab - lacks the chemicals
needed to make neurotoxins.

This presents a problem for Krabill's critters. Although the toxins work to fend
off bacteria in the wild, the frogs are more susceptible to disease in
captivity. To prevent infection, Krabill keeps the terrariums extremely clean
and monitors air temperature and water purity.

Most people will only see a poison dart frog behind glass, as the numbers in the
wild are quickly dwindling. All are threatened or endangered species, and
scientists fear many could slip into extinction.

Global warming and deforestation are pushing dozens of amphibian species to the
brink, with more than 100 species disappearing in the past 25 years, according
to a new study published in the journal Nature.

A slight rise in temperature has introduced to Central and South American rain
forests a virulent chytrid fungus that penetrates the frogs' sensitive skin,
said J. Alan Pounds, lead author of the study and a researcher at the Tropical
Science Center's Monteverde Cloud Forest Preserve in Costa Rica.

"Disease is the bullet killing frogs, but climate change is pulling the
trigger," Pounds said in the report.

"Global warming is wreaking havoc on amphibians and will cause staggering losses
of biodiversity if we don't do something."

(CHART) ON EXHIBIT

POISON DART FROGS

WHAT: Collection of endangered amphibians

WHEN: On permanent display; open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily

WHERE: Marie Selby Botanical Gardens, 811 S. Palm Ave., Sarasota

HOW MUCH: $12; $6 for children 6 to 11; free for children 5 and younger; (941)
366-5731

(CHART) Leap Into Frog Facts

o Poison dart frogs are found only in the tropical rain forests of Central and
South America.

o Dart frogs sequester their toxin from the wild and lose it in captivity.

o Dart frogs can live up to 15 years in captivity.

o The Choco Indians of Colombia roll the tips of blowgun darts along the back of
the frogs, coating them with a neurotoxin that paralyzes larger animals.

o Frogs differ from true toads in being more aquatic, having smoother skin and
laying their eggs in clusters.

o Frogs don't drink water; they absorb moisture through their skin.

o The most toxic frog is the Golden poison dart frog of Colombia.

o The world's largest frog is the nontoxic Goliath frog of Africa, which can
weigh 8 pounds.

o The European Common toad can live up to 40 years.

o About 70 species of frogs of all varieties are discovered each year, yet
dozens of others are endangered or slip into extinction.

Sources: Marie Selby Botanical Gardens; "Frogs: Inside Their Remarkable World"

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813) 259-7570.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by MARK GUSS

Photo: Donna Krabill grows cultures of fruit flies for frog food in a kitchen at
Marie Selby Botanical Gardens. For tree frogs in captivity, a diet of benign
critters keeps them from producing neurotoxins.

Photo credit: Marie Selby Botanical Gardens photos by PETE CARMICHAEL

Photo: The Bumblebee poison dart frog is known for its intense yellow color
against black stripes and blotches.

Photo: One of the most popular dart frogs among collectors is the beautiful
Blue, which looks like a porcelain doll.

Photo: The striped Phantasmal dart frog produces a painkilling chemical 50 times
stronger than morphine, scientists say.

Photo: A Strawberry poison dart frog frog gives its young a piggyback ride to
the nearest pond. Its bright color keeps predators away.

Photo: The nontoxic Hourglass tree frog is equipped with adhesive discs on its
fingers and toes, making it an excellent climber.

Photo: The dreaded Golden poison dart frog is among the world's most poisonous
animals.

Photo: The Red-Eyed tree frog, which isn't toxic, is one of the most popular
amphibians in the exhibit at Marie Selby Botanical Gardens.

Photo: The Dyeing poison dart frog, right, clings to a plant waiting for its
next meal.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 9 CHART 2
SARASOTA - The critter is barely the size of a quarter, but it can kill a
200-pound man in minutes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Conversation With Gov. Jeb Bush

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2718 words


Jeb Bush is inclined to talk about "stepping back" and being "on my way out the
door."

Usually it's the critics of an officeholder who call attention to his
diminishing relevance in his final year.

Yet it is clear from this governor's legislative agenda and budget proposal that
he still has large ambitions for the state. He discussed his priorities last
week with the Tribune editorial board.

We'll feature the governor's comments in a series of edited accounts. In this
first segment, the focus is Florida's economic engine.

The state is in the enviable position of having "a lot of one-time moneys and
some recurring moneys for the next Legislature," Bush told us. With some $8.5
billion in reserves - "more than all the Southern governments combined, the most
of any state in the country" - there is an opportunity to resolve some
persistent problems and refuel an already robust economy.

The questioners are editorial page editor Rosemary Goudreau and other members of
the board, who began by inviting Gov. Bush's assessment of how best to
distribute that surplus of revenue.

A. It creates an opportunity that's pretty significant, and there are three or
four things you can do.

You can spend it on recurring obligations, which would create a hole - I would
call that the California plan, prior to Schwarzenegger - where what they did is
create debt to pay for it, and they're still working their way out of that.

Or you could give it all back. There's some folks that would agree that the
costs have gone up for property owners, [and] working families are stretched in
spite of the strong economy.

Or you can reserve it, or spend it on one-time things that will generate
long-term benefits.

Those are the alternatives. We took 2, 3 and 4 and combined them by proposing a
budget that has about $5 billion of reserves, $1.5 billion of tax cuts and some
pretty significant one-time investments, like buying the Babcock Ranch - all
cash, paying cash for our Everglades participation, expanding our Everglades
participation, paying cash for Florida Forever - $750 million of cash purchases
that are typically done by debt. Then, finally, investing.

We hope the Legislature will agree with this, the long-term economic development
strategy that diversifies our economy.

We've got challenges, but our challenges are related to things that can be
solved. How we manage our growth can be solved. How we invest in the long-term
things for infrastructure, both human infrastructure and physical
infrastructure, can be solved. I think the key is to make sure we expand our
economy to ensure high-wage jobs.

A lot of my focus for the legislative session will be to convince the
Legislature to do an unorthodox thing, which is to think longer than their
tenure and think broader than a project that may have important benefit to their
district but, beyond that, really doesn't resonate.

So far so good. I think both President [Tom] Lee and Speaker [Allan] Bense are
supportive in general of these concepts, and I think it's going to be quite a
session.

Q. How do you diversify our economy?

A. Well, constantly looking at the barriers for capital investment and job
creation. I would say the biggest one we have that distinguishes us,
unfortunately, from the rest of the country is our tort system. We litigate too
much; we sue each other too much. The costs of that and the uncertainty of it
create problems.

The repeal of joint and several liability would be a huge issue that would be of
benefit. In terms of spending or investments, linking our universities more
directly to research that their professors create and transferring that into the
marketplace - that intersection is where I think Florida has a golden
opportunity, so we're proposing a $100 million world scholar program, which
would be a matching grant program with our universities. Bernie Machen suggested
this to me to recruit the labs and the professors and their research assistants.
It would be a pretty competitive amount of money to do that: $100 million for
Centers of Excellence, which we've already set up three or four years ago. We
proposed $100 million; the Legislature appropriated $30 million, and out of that
have come three centers that prove out the notion that if you invest in emerging
technologies where universities have a certain niche, you can see benefits over
a relatively short period of time. Spinoff businesses, new dollars being drawn
down because of the state's commitment. That's another portion of it.

Increasing our closing fund to get deals like [Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp., which relocated to Tampa] that, but for the closing fund, we wouldn't
have been able to use. Increasingly as costs go up a little bit, we're going to
have to use the closing fund to retain high-wage jobs because just as we go out
and recruit, so too do other states.

Then we're proposing a $250 million fund - like a supercharged closing fund, if
you will - for a very narrowly defined area where high-impact businesses can
create a cluster of economic activity around them, or research institutions or
projects like Scripps, which will do the same.

Finally, one other element of it is the $75 million tax credit - I think it's
$15 million a year for five years - for venture capital. Combine all that, it
fills that space where you have good ideas being developed inside and outside of
universities; how do we translate that into high-wage jobs? How do we send a
clear signal that Florida is interested in doing this?

We're on the right track with the investment. We're proposing [a $15,000]
increase in the biomedical research program and ... in the Byrd Center, the
Alzheimer's program, $15 million a year. You capitalize those commitments and
that's a significant commitment for a state. I think over time it will have an
impact on enhancing the economic development activities.

That's the strategy. The final element of a good economic development strategy
is to take the best emergency response capability and make it better. I fear
that when the economic development community comes down here to try to steal our
jobs, they whisper sweet nothings in the business leaders' ears about "why would
you want to be in a place that's constantly having to contend with hurricanes?"
Maybe I'm just being paranoid, but I don't think I am.

I think it's really important that we create a culture of preparedness so that
we prepare before storms, respond quickly to storms and recover faster than
other places. That will enhance our status as a state, and I think indications
are we're going to have a lot more of these storms.

Q. One of the factors that's hitting governments is that they can't find the
people to build roads or submit bids to build buildings. They might come up with
one bid where they used to get 10 bids, and so now the one bid is much more
expensive because there's not the competition.

A. That's right. We're in effective full employment. We have huge shortages in
critical areas of the economy - trained construction workers, certainly one of
those. Nursing shortages have an impact in emergency rooms. We have a teacher
shortage that we're contending with. We import engineers.

I should have mentioned this as part of our long-term strategy, to invest in the
spectrum of education that goes from career counseling in middle school to
career academies in high school to proposing a credit system for graduation,
where you could actually have a major and a minor. You could take all the 18
hours of credits but also, to get the 24 credit hours for graduation, you could
take a major in ultimately a career that could get you a certificate that would
tell an employer that you're qualified to work.

Q. So it recognizes that not everybody is college material and that's OK, and
there are a lot of really good jobs, worthwhile, productive things?

A. Some of these jobs [that] require less than a four-year degree start at
higher wages with the possibility of advancement.

We're also proposing a $50 million program as part of this whole enhancement of
our career education that will allow for vocational schools, high schools,
community colleges, private training schools to use a tool that will allow them
to assess what students needs are in a range of career-oriented type categories
and create an education plan around the deficiencies so they can be certified.
... As a country, we have shortages of skilled labor at a time when we have full
employment. The answer to that, clearly, is to take people who are unskilled and
give them those skills. It's a golden opportunity. I think there needs to be
more emphasis on math and science, and we've got proposals in that regard as
well.

There's been a major effort for high school reform focused principally on more
rigor and more relevancy. The relevancy part is truly lacking. If kids don't
have a sense of what they're going to do, sitting around bored to tears in high
school isn't going to cut it. So it's an exciting part of the next generation of
education reforms.

Q. In the recruiting and retention of businesses to Florida, are you putting
more money into being able to give incentives to lure and keep companies here?

A. The closing fund typically is appropriated at $10 million, and we're
proposing $50 million. These other initiatives don't exist, so if you add up the
$75 million - and I didn't even talk about space; we've got $55 million proposal
that has some education components to it in terms of math and science, but $35
million to secure the next generation of spaceflight when the shuttle is
mothballed.

[That's] $75 million for the venture capital, $250 million for the "super duper"
closing fund, $100 million for ... all that is part of this really large
economic development commitment we're recommending. The existing incentive
programs remain about the same. They grow because of our commitments we've made,
and we have an obligation to fund them if the companies do their part. So the
[Qualified Target Industry] program and the qualified training programs are
funded - not a continuation budget, but a slight increase.

Q. When we're competing with other states, other states can say, "We'll defer on
taxes," but we don't have those kinds of taxes to defer on.

A. I can't tell you how many times I've tried to make the case to a CEO: Their
economic consultant will say that Georgia will give you a tax credit for the
income tax for their workers. Well, we don't tax income for our workers. Give us
credit for at least having a higher disposable income for the people that work
in your business.

It doesn't sell.

Having said that, the higher up the economic ladder in terms of wages, the less
important that type of economic activity is, to be honest with you. But it also
requires greater flexibility in packaging deals. Which is why the increase in
the closing fund, with proper safeguards in consultation with the Legislature,
is really a better approach to being creative in this area.

Q. What mechanism do you have to measure the results of these initiatives beyond
your term, 10 years later?

A. First, the initiative is only an enhancement. The fact that Florida leads the
nation in job growth ain't my doing. It's the doing of hard work of mostly small
businesses that are working hard, taking risks, being successful more often than
not. So, really, the role of government and budget recommendations is to create
the fertile ground and create a better business climate.

So I would never suggest that it's because of a particular initiative that the
state remains in its ascendancy. I would suggest to you that job creation is
important, but we're in essence in full employment now.

So in order to continue that, we need to diversify our economy and then focus on
higher-wage jobs, and I think a good measure would be personal income growth. Is
it rolling at above the national average per capita or is it behind? We're
holding our own in that regard, but we're not leading the nation in personal
income growth; the last couple of years have been pretty robust, but we've got
work to do in that regard. That would be the broadest indicator, probably. The
amount of research our universities are doing and the kind of research - is it
commercialized or is it blue-skies stuff? - is probably a leading indicator of
how much venture capital is invested in the state.

Q. That's not where you want it to be, the venture capital. At least not in this
area, the venture capital is not where we'd like it to be.

A. No, it isn't. ... We have an informal venture capital market. We have a lot
of "angels," they call them - they don't get captured in the data collected. But
we don't have a big, broad, formal venture capital market. So five or 10 years
from now, one of the indicators of success would be, do we now?

I think the proposal we've made would be an enhancement to accelerate that.
Another thing is the state Board of Administration for the first time is
investing in venture capital, our pension plan. It's not social engineering or
economic engineering. It's broad-based in the sense that if a company in Georgia
or Tennessee or California is worthy of investment by one of our advisers, we
don't restrict it to Florida. One of the advisers has been given the task of
looking at all Florida deals that come our way. The combination of those two
things will be helpful.

Venture capital in general has gone significantly down, way down. Our percentage
probably has dropped too.

Q. Why is that?

A. I think after the tech bubble, the underwriting criteria changed. I don't
know exactly. There's a lot of money parked on the sidelines. Could be because
everybody's invested in real estate. It looks that way. It's amazing.

Q. Does the Scripps deal look as encouraging to you now as it once did?

A. Outside the murky world of political science? Yes. It got bogged down in land
use stuff ... and there was a suit, and now there's a delay. They still have to
develop that [Mecca] property to generate the cash to make their commitment,
which is not really reported on.

All that's unfortunate, but the answer to your question is the science that's
being worked on.

... They're hiring world-class scientists. They're on track in terms of numbers
of researchers and scientists they're hiring. So, yeah, I'm excited about it,
and I think it's also enhancing our universities.

Q. I'm going to ask you a question you're going to love. What about this AAA
bond rating - why is that important?

A. We've had this AAA bond rating for quite a while, so I decided to launch a
campaign to give it the attention it deserves, and it failed miserably. I guess
it was at the AP where one of the reporters finally reported it.

It actually is important for a couple of reasons. The most direct reason is we
have lower debt service costs. The higher your rating, your creditworthiness,
the lower the interest rate. It's also important to validate a conservative
fiscal policy that doesn't try to tax everything that walks and breathes, to
have government grow more or less at the pace that income grows.

Most of the time, if you look at local governments and Washington these days, by
and large government is growing faster than people's income and their ability to
pay for it. ... [That] creates a burden in the future that's a serious one.

The AAA bond rating is a validation, and a change for credit agencies that
typically would recognize Florida as a safe place to invest in but not at the
top because we had a so-called narrow tax base. We didn't tax everything.

What they now realize is the more things you tax, the more you spend and the
less creditworthy you are. ... Maybe our tax base is narrow, but we sure are
taxing the things that generate revenue for state government. We're not
overspending, and they've recognized it and rewarded it.

So it started as a gag with my buds in the press - they've got to live with me
and I've got to live with them. It actually is a serious issue and something I'm
really proud of.

Next: Where will the money for schools come from?

Photo credit: Tribune photos by FRED FOX

Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush proposes a focus on career education that will better
prepare high school graduates for employment.

Photo: The governor is challenging lawmakers to "think longer than their
tenure."

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Jeb Bush is inclined to talk about "stepping back" and being "on my way out the
door."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Listen! Collision Of Competing Theories Ahead

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON, tjackson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words


By TOM JACKSON

tjackson@tampatrib.com

Don Patton, who was last through these parts in the spring of 2001, will return
Monday to present a weeklong series of lectures on a topic much in the news
these days: the case for creation science, also known as intelligent design.

Now as then, Patton, a Dallas geologist, will thump the notion of Earth as an
adolescent, fashioned not billions of years ago - as mainstream scientists
insist, given the volume of probative evidence - but only a few thousand years
ago, and in one fell swoop, almost precisely as depicted in Genesis, give or
take a semicolon.

Now as then, learned skeptics will be unimpressed; those less steeped in
traditional science, particularly those predisposed to a literal interpretation
of the Bible, will be reaffirmed.

Meanwhile, an army of prehistory enthusiasts will be preparing a rebuttal of
Patton's claims, their timing unexpectedly exquisite.

Patton is to present his arguments in two-hour segments at 7 each night at Pasco
Middle School in Dade City. The serendipitous rejoinder - FossilFest 2006 - is
slated for the weekend at the Florida State Fairgrounds.

Before Or After The Flood?

FossilFest, presented by the Tampa Bay Fossil Club, promises to return visitors
to the Great Ice Age, nearly 2 million years in which mastodons, saber-toothed
cats, shaggy camels and other preposterous beasts, hunted by primitive
Republicans, were induced to live in Florida. Oddly, this original climate
-driven spike in the population of the Sunshine State rates no mention in the
Old Testament, but a 40-day flood gets a whole chapter.

Patton's visit is timely because of recent events surrounding attempts by
certain evangelical activist groups to have intelligent design join evolution in
public school science curriculum. Lately, creation science's sister movement -
the attempt to inject skepticism into the study of evolution by teaching where
it appears to have holes - has suffered setbacks in the Utah Legislature and an
Ohio school district.

Still, the movement persists, and appears to be advancing in Oklahoma and Texas,
to name two. Florida remains on the sidelines, although that could change, I
suppose, if Patton could book a sufficient number of lecture weeks to create a
critical mass among the electorate.

It's hard to imagine the Legislature wanting to accept that wrestling match
anytime soon. Not with soaring rates coming from Citizens Property Insurance
Corp. refuting the notion of intelligent design.

Resist The Unexamined Existence

In other news, astronomers are predicting an eventful 100 years for Mother
Earth. One, based in St. Petersburg, Russia, says quiet times for the sun will
result in a mini-Ice Age beginning in a half-dozen years or so; another, an
expert on near-Earth objects employed by NASA, projects a 1-in-1,000 chance that
a small asteroid will strike us in the neighborhood of 2102 - which would sort
of render the coming Ice Age meaningless, I'm guessing.

At any rate, whether this existence is overseen by an Almighty Intelligence or
is merely the rough caroming of random events, the examining of it, oftentimes,
is its own reward.

Correction: In Thursday's column, Nicole Deg, the New Port Richey woman who
hopes to organize a march on Tallahassee to whip Citizens into shape, was,
regrettably, misidentified.

Columnist Tom Jackson can be reached at (813) 948-4219.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TOM JACKSON

GRAPHIC: Don Patton, who was last through these parts in the spring of 2001,
will return Monday to present a weeklong series of lectures on a topic much in
the news these days: the case for creation science, also known as intelligent
design.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hillsborough Adds 133,204 Residents

BYLINE: MARY SHEDDEN, mshedden@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


RISING POPULATION HAS PROS, CONS

By MARY SHEDDEN

mshedden@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Hillsborough County continues to be one of the nation's biggest
producers of new residents; a harvest cropping up at new subdivisions, office
plazas and on increasingly crowded highways.

New population estimates released today by the U.S. Census Bureau show that the
county gained 133,204 residents since April 2000, the 15th-largest increase in
the nation. This increase, to an estimated 1,132,152 Hillsborough residents, is
reflective of past and future growth that one estimate says will last through
2030.

Economists watching Florida and the Tampa Bay area's booming population wonder
how smoothly jobs, housing and services grow, blend and develop as Florida
grows.

"Overall, it's a positive, but on its own it poses its own challenges," said
Lynn Reaser, a Bank of America economist.

These population predictions translate into positives in the form of job growth,
new residential and commercial construction and the demand for businesses to
provide goods and services to new residents.

Those same transplants, however, place demands on Hillsborough's infrastructure,
health care system and the cost of housing. That includes the rush hour impact
of commuters moving to booming counties such as Pasco, Hernando and Polk.

Growth will work best if Florida focuses less on construction on vacant land and
looks more at redeveloping existing neighborhoods and business locations, said
Jim Hosler, team leader of research and economic development for the
Hillsborough County City-County Planning Commission.

Hosler recently held a workshop with 40 local business people looking at the
long-term effect of growth on business. In a report filed last month, the group
said rebuilding and encouraging business in areas such as West Tampa and Town 'N
Country would reduce the need for more roads and infrastructure.

"We still have a lot of vacant land, but we need to continue to grow in a new
way," Hosler said.

Florida's climate and robust labor market make it attractive to retirees,
immigrants and others, said Stefan Rayer, a research demographer with the Bureau
of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida. A recent bureau
study shows Florida's growth slowing from its current pace after 2010, but
continuing to at least 2030, he said.

"All of that is unlikely to change soon," he said.

Although the growth in Hillsborough is significant in terms of numbers, the
census report shows that outlying counties such as Pasco and Hernando are
growing at a faster rate. Hernando ranked 35th, and Pasco 38th in growth
percentage between 2004 and 2005.

Pinellas County grew at a much slower pace - mainly because there's little
available land for new development. Its 2005 population estimate, 928,032, still
ranks Pinellas as the nation's 43rd-largest county in terms of population.

Real estate sales trends reflect some impact of the area's growth. Recent
slowdowns in Florida's active real estate market is likely a result of a drop in
the number of speculative buyers, Reaser said. Investors buying so much real
estate in the past created a shortage in inventory, and forced home prices up,
she said.

"It's a healthy thing to see the speculators move out of the market," she said.

Brad Monroe, president of the Greater Tampa Association of Realtors, said
Hillsborough County is returning to a more traditional sales pace, with an
inventory of two to three months' worth of available real estate. "The growth is
still here; the people are still coming" mostly to south Hillsborough, Pasco and
Hernando counties, he said.

Creating new retail and service industries may be one of the most important
aspects of successful growth. Hosler said Hillsborough County's business profile
is rife with small business. The local economy historically has depended very
little on large industry.

Reaser said the area's long-term economic health bodes well when there's a wide
mix of small businesses.

"Small businesses have an advantage in giving an area more stability and a more
diversified base," she said.

Reporter Mary Shedden can be reached at (813) 259-7365.


(CHART)

THE ADVANTAGES

Small-Business Opportunities

Room For Growth

Health Care Jobs Abundant

Retirees, Other Self-Sustaining Transplants

THE CHALLENGES

Traffic, Infrastructure

Diversifying Industry Beyond Tourism

Fulfilling Health Care Needs

Average Pay Keeping Up With Home Prices

(CHART) GROWING POPULATION

Hillsborough County ranks 15th in the nation in the number of new residents over
the past five years. Here is the population increase in other Tampa Bay area
counties.

April 1, 2000 population July 1, 2005 population* %CHANGE

Hillsborough 998,948 1,132,152 13.3%

Pasco 344,768 429,065 24.5%

Polk 483,924 542,912 12.2%

Pinellas 921,482 928,032 0.71%

Hernando 130,802 158,409 21.1%

*Estimate

Tribune graphic; Source: U.S. Census Bureau

Photo: Tribune file photo by ANDY JONES

Photo: Tribune photo by FRED FOX

Photo: Tribune file photo by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE (2003)

Photo: Tribune file photo by JAY NOLAN (2001)

Photo: Tribune file photo by FRED FOX (2004)

Photo: Tribune file photo by ANDY JONES (2004)

Photo: Tribune file photo by CHRISTINE DeLESSIO (2003

Photo: Tribune file photo by JAY CONNER

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART 2 PHOTO 8
TAMPA Hillsborough County continues to be one of the nation's biggest producers
of new residents; a harvest cropping up at new subdivisions, office plazas and
on increasingly crowded highways.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

State Suffers When Politicians Play Cuba Card

BYLINE: LISANDRO PEREZ and HOWARD SIMON

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 611 words


By LISANDRO PEREZ and HOWARD SIMON

One might have thought that Gov. Jeb Bush, enjoying lame duck status, had the
luxury to rise above pandering and refuse to sign the Travel to Terrorist States
Act. But alas, it is an election year.

The new law bans public universities from sponsoring research in any of five
nations listed by the State Department as sponsors of state terrorism.

By the sponsor's own admission, the legislation is aimed at keeping academic
researchers out of Cuba. In essence, he has said there is no real research to be
done in a terrorist or totalitarian state.

Politicians playing the Cuba card seem to think of academic researchers as naïve
tourists, uncritically accepting government propaganda. But is there nothing of
value to be learned about climate and environmental changes or about
agricultural diseases that may drift from Cuba to Florida on the winds of a
tropical storm or a hurricane? Is there nothing to be gained from knowledge
about how the currents from southwest Cuba affect the food supply for Florida's
commercial fishing industry? As one Florida researcher put it, marine ecosystems
don't respect political boundaries.

Is there is nothing to be learned about the economy, religion, politics and
languages of terrorist states that may be useful to protecting the national
security of our own country?

Great strategy: Let's protect our environment, health and national security by
burying our heads in the sand!

The chief legislative sponsor has also said that the legislation "simply
prohibits taxpayer funds from being utilized to subsidize travel to terrorist
countries."

This is a misleading piece of propaganda if there ever was one: There are
virtually no taxpayer funds involved in this research. The new law bans public
universities from administering (and therefore accepting) grants from private
sources such as the Ford, Rockefeller and MacArthur foundations.

With cavalier dismissal of concerns about both academic freedom and the security
of America, the bill signed by the governor also restricts university employees
from assisting foreign students in returning home if their country of origin is
one of the designated terrorist/totalitarian states. One hopes these students
now attending Florida universities are learning something about the value of
democratic institutions - ideas they might plant back home.

Interestingly, the new Florida law also prohibits universities from
administering grants that are distributed by the federal government, which
authorizes travel to Cuba and the other four nations and in some cases even
financially supports research in those countries. Some of the federal grant
funds distributed by the United States Agency for International Development, for
example, support work with nongovernmental organizations and are designed to
destabilize repressive regimes and facilitate a peaceful transition to
democracy.

In Florida, in an election year, all these concerns yield to another opportunity
for politicians to pander:

* The impact on Florida's agricultural and fishing industry,

* The impact on academic freedom and competitive edge of Florida universities,
now disadvantaged in comparison with universities in other states where academic
policy is less governed by politics, and

* The ability to learn something about terrorist and totalitarian states that
might help protect our national security.

Lisandro Perez is a professor in the Department of Sociology at Florida
International University. Howard Simon is executive director of the American
Civil Liberties Union of Florida.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Al Gore Builds Compelling Case With 'Inconvenient' Facts

BYLINE: BOB ROSS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 422 words


By BOB ROSS

The Tampa Tribune

"It is difficult to get a man to understand something," wrote author Upton
Sinclair, "when his salary depends upon his not understanding it."

It's a key quote that helps explain the shrill rants you may have heard against
Al Gore's global warming movie.

Here's a novel notion: Watch the film first, then make up your mind.

You might not agree with everything the former vice president has to say. But
you owe yourself (and, more importantly, your heirs) a look at this provocative,
often frightening, movie.

The most compelling PowerPoint presentation you may ever see, "An Inconvenient
Truth" comes off as convincing and cogent. Gore, who has been studying the topic
for decades and giving this lecture almost as long, avoids hysteria and
exaggeration without ever seeming as dull as the presidential campaigner of
2000.

The world is heating up. This is the "inconvenient truth" that gives the film
its title.

Gore doesn't belittle the bureaucrats and politicians who disagree. He
challenges them - and us - to listen, at least, and open the topic for
discussion.

Gore shows photographic evidence that the world's ice caps and glaciers are
melting. Temperatures are rising and the consequences are becoming apparent, he
says.

Gore displays enough evidence to make us wonder why, for example, polar bears
are dying off (their icy habitat is vanishing) and climatic patterns are
shifting (Floridians are keenly aware of shifting summer storm patterns).

Gore calmly, and with admirable good humor, argues that the scientific community
harbors no doubts on this issue.

Indeed, he claims that of more than 900 papers published in scientific journals,
not a single one disputes the basic findings in the film. He reports on studies
that show carbon dioxide levels at their highest in 650,000 years, and he tells
us the Earth's 10 hottest years ever recorded all occurred within the last 14
years.

But, Gore assures us, we have the means - if not yet the will - to cope.

(CHART) MOVIE REVIEW

An Inconvenient Truth: A-

MOVIE BOARD RATING: PG (adult themes)

STARS: Al Gore

DIRECTOR: Davis Guggenheim

LOCATION: For locations, see Quick Flicks, Page 12; see Page 14 for movie times.

PLOT SUMMARY: Documentary details the acceleration of global warming.

RUNNING TIME: 100 minutes

ON THE WEB: climatecrisis.net

Photo credit: Paramount Pictures Classics

Photo: Al Gore is both persuasive and entertaining in "An Inconvenient Truth."

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FILM

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rain Kicks Off Mosquito Season

BYLINE: DENNIS MOORE, Special to the Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 659 words


By DENNIS MOORE

Special to the Tribune

Now that Tropical Storm Alberto has charged up the system, those daily rainfall
events will likely begin like clockwork. Unfortunately, an abundance of rain
means lots of hungry mosquitoes.

Pasco County Mosquito Control District personnel have been busy preparing for
another year of battling these hungry pests. PCMCD's staff and three elected
commissioners' mission is to protect the health and well-being of citizens
through the prevention and control of mosquitoes and mosquito-borne diseases.
Our task of locating and controlling mosquitoes and preventing you from becoming
a blood meal is truly a moving target.

All mosquitoes have four stages of development - egg, larva, pupa, and adult -
and spend their larval and pupal stages in water. The time from egg hatch to
adult emergence takes about one week.

When adult mosquitoes emerge, they can fly several miles in search of sustenance
- and yes, only the females bite. This is the protein she needs for her next
batch of eggs - about 100 per batch.

Although standing water from heavy rains is an ideal breeding habitat for
mosquito larvae, it certainly isn't the only place they grow. Most mosquitoes in
this area come from areas with permanent water bodies that have an abundance of
aquatic weeds. We target certain aquatic weeds, such as water lettuce and water
hyacinth, that we know will allow mosquito production.

During full and new moon tides, areas of tidal marsh will flood and produce
large numbers of salt marsh mosquitoes. When the rains begin or high tides
occur, areas that have been dry for many months will flood, giving rise to an
abundance of several floodwater species.

Rainfall patterns vary greatly in our region, so we use a series of rain gauges
in 40 locations throughout Pasco to determine where our inspectors should focus
their attention to find and control larvae.

Controlling mosquitoes in the larval stage is preferred, since it prevents a
major emergence of the biting adult females. There are limits to where the
trucks can gain access, so it is often necessary to use helicopters to inspect
and spray.

We monitor adult mosquitoes using specialized traps in the 40 locations. These
collections are identified to species, and the counts are provided to staff to
make decisions on where to dispatch night-fogging trucks or airplanes to control
the adult stage of the mosquito.

Besides being a major nuisance, mosquitoes are capable of transmitting certain
diseases. PCMCD currently tests for Eastern Equine Encephalitis, St. Louis
Encephalitis and West Nile Virus.

Every week during mosquito season, staff members draw blood from sentinel
chickens in cages distributed throughout the county and deliver the blood to the
Florida Department of Health's Tampa Branch Lab for analysis. If a virus is
detected, that area of the county is thoroughly inspected to find and eliminate
mosquito breeding sources and any adult mosquitoes which may be present.

The key to minimizing the risk of mosquito to human transmission is limiting
your exposure to the stealthy pest.

Your personal mosquito protection efforts should include the following "5 D's"
recommended by the health department:

oDusk and Dawn: Avoid being outdoors when mosquitoes are seeking blood. For many
species this is during the dusk and dawn hours.

oDress: Wear clothing that covers skin.

oDEET: When the potential exists for exposure to mosquitoes, repellents
containing DEET (N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide or N,N-diethyl-3-ethylbenzamide) are
recommended. Picaridin and oil of lemon eucalyptus are other repellent options.

oDrainage - Check your home and rid it of standing water and containers in which
mosquitoes can lay eggs.

Visit our Web site at www.pascomosquito.org for information.

The writer is director of the Pasco County Mosquito Control District.

Photo: DENNIS MOORE

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY VIEW

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 458 words


Get Ready To Bail

New research suggests that rising sea levels will inundate much of Florida's
coastal bays and estuaries by the end of the century. A study of nine sites
along Florida's coasts projects that sea-level rise would dramatically alter the
extent and composition of important coastal habitats throughout the region if
global warming continues unabated.

"Fishing as we know it could disappear in a matter of decades," said Manley
Fuller, president of the Florida Wildlife Federation. "Our coastal habitats are
shrinking and if we lose our coastal fisheries to rising seas, the effect on
fish and wildlife Floridians have worked so hard to protect will be
devastating."

The Florida Wildlife Federation and the National Wildlife Federation
commissioned an independent study of Tampa Bay, Pensacola Bay, Apalachicola Bay,
Charlotte Harbor, Ten Thousand Islands, Florida Bay, Biscayne Bay, St. Lucie
Estuary and Indian River Lagoon. The study looked at the effects of a 15-inch
rise in average sea level.

New Iron Age?

An international team of chemists has discovered a new and unexpected form of
iron, a finding that adds to the fundamental understanding of an element that is
among the most abundant on Earth and an essential catalyst for life.

"We have synthesized something totally new that nobody has imagined could exist
and something which adds greatly to our understanding of fundamental iron
chemistry," says John F. Berry, a researcher at Germany's Max-Planck Institute
for Bioinorganic Chemistry.

While scientists aren't sure what the discovery means, it may lead to new
concepts in materials science.

In addition to its role in the manufacture of thousands of everyday objects,
iron is used for its reactive properties. It occurs in nature in different
ionized forms and is essential for the health of all kinds of life. Blood, for
instance, is red because of the presence of iron ions in hemoglobin.

Don't Buy That Trinket

Scientists are calling for a ban on the sale of elkhorn and staghorn, which are
newly protected under the Endangered Species Act but still found in souvenir
stores in Florida. These coral species once were dominant builders of Caribbean
coral reefs, but in the past 30 years have experienced dramatic declines. The
new protection is an effort to reverse this decline.

Science Stumper

Emily Povey, of Tampa, was the first reader to answer our last trivia question:
What is the world's sixth largest body of water? Answer: Caribbean Sea.

Now for today's stumper: In mathematics, how do you find the volume of a
pyramid? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Photo: (Florida)

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ZONING OPINIONS

BYLINE: Tom Brennan

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words


Hillsborough County zoning hearing masters have recommended the following area
rezonings and land-use changes be approved when the county commission considers
them July 25. For information, call (813) 276-2058.

Brandon

Allowing professional offices on .38 acres on the north side of Westbrook
Avenue, about 300 feet west of Bryan Road. RZ 06-1046.

Building a gated community of 14 homes on 5.1 acres on the west side of Kings
Avenue, south of Climate Drive. RZ 06-0707.

Building as many as six homes per acre on 4.62 acres on the south side of
Fairfield Avenue, about 50 feet east of Fisher Avenue. RZ 06-0849.

Riverview

Building 7,255 square feet of neighborhood commercial space on 2.52 acres near
the southeast corner of Gibsonton Drive and Pine Street. RZ 06-0703.

Building 75 town homes and 28,000 square feet of offices on 13 acres on the east
side of U.S. 41, about 300 feet south of Florence Street. The developer also
wants the option to build 100 town homes. RZ 06-0713.

Keysville

Subdividing 8.54 acres on the east side of Pritcher Road, about 50 feet north of
Hartley Lane, into one-acre home lots. RZ 06-1040.

Subdividing 49.71 acres on the west side of Purvis Road, about 150 feet north of
Keysville Drive, into one-acre conventional home lots. RZ 06-1065.

Palm River

Building up to 40 town homes on 5.93 acres on the north side of Palm River Road,
50 feet east of S. 51st Street. The applicant asked for 47 town homes. RZ
06-0352.

Riverview

Allowing general commercial uses on .45 acres at the southwest corner of U.S.
301 and Pine Street. RZ 06-1054.

Allowing neighborhood commercial uses on 1.38 acres on the east side of U.S.
301, about 600 feet south of Rhodine Road. RZ 06-0077.

Adding 81,000 square feet of commercial space to a previously approved
development on 35.78 acres south of Gibsonton Drive between I-75 and Fern Hill
Road, bringing the total to 267,106 square feet. The project would get two
additional access points and cross-access to the project to the south. MM
06-559.

Allowing business or professional offices on 5.13 acres on the east side of U.S.
301, about 350 feet north of Estates Del Sol Drive. RZ 06-0907.

Ruskin

Building up to 35 homes on 8.8 acres on the west side of 15th Street S.E., about
200 feet north of Colding Drive. RZ 06-0829.

Building 33 homes on 8.79 acres at the southeast corner of Colding Drive and
15th Street S.E. RZ 06-0850.

Seffner

Preserving the historical Pemberton-Callan house on 9.89 acres on the west side
of Kingsway Road, about 400 feet south of Tennessee Avenue, and building 26 new
homes around it. RZ 06-1044.

Thonotosassa

Allowing the sale of heavy construction equipment and recreational vehicles on
19.2 acres at the southwest corner of McIntosh and Muck Pond roads. MM
06-06-0124.

Building as many as three homes or mobile homes on 1.62 acres on the west side
of Leland Hawes Road, about 450 feet north of Skewlee Road. RZ 06-1009.

A zoning hearing master recommended the following rezonings be denied.

Palm River

Building as many as four homes per acre on 6.37 acres at the northeast corner of
60th Street and 24th Avenue South. The hearing master said it would be
incompatible with the surrounding neighborhood but recommended approval of two
homes per acre. RZ 06-1048.

Compiled by Tom Brennan, who can be reached at tbrennan@tampatrib.com or (813)
657-4528.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time To Get Moving On Global Warming

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 423 words


Evidence continues to mount that human activity is contributing to global
warming. Even President George W. Bush, no Chicken Little, says it's for real.

What's needed now is not more talk, but a sensible plan for reducing the burning
of fossil fuels, whose emissions of carbon dioxide are helping heat up the
planet.

Immediate solutions exist, including the greater use of nuclear power, as the
president suggests. Improving energy efficiency standards and greater use of
wind and solar energy would help too. If the country were clearly committed to
energy efficiency, you can be sure that new technologies would be developed.

Yet Congress seems able to focus only on drilling for more oil, hardly a
comprehensive approach to our energy challenges. Indeed, many members dismiss
global warming as a myth.

The science differs. A recent report by the prestigious National Academies of
Science found that the Earth's temperatures have risen about 1 degree over the
past century, an "unprecedented" development. Two other recent studies have
linked global warming to stronger hurricanes. And scientists at the National
Research Council concluded that the past few decades of the 20th century were
the warmest in 400 years - and "potentially" in several thousand years.

A new report by the National Wildlife Federation and the Florida Wildlife
Federation paints a bleak picture for Florida should sea levels rise by 15
inches in the next century, the midrange of what scientists say will happen if
nothing is done about "greenhouse" emissions.

Florida's coast would be gone. The sea would erode our beaches and destroy
marine life habitat. Tampa Bay would lose 96 percent of its tidal flats, 86
percent of its salt marshes and 10 percent of its dry lands. Mangrove areas,
though, would double in size.

This nation needs a Marshall Plan energy policy - a comprehensive approach to
meeting the nation's energy needs that also addresses the quality-of-life and
economic challenges at odds in the global warming debate.

Given that the nation looks at Florida waters with eyes salivating for oil, no
congressional delegation is better positioned than ours to demand a
comprehensive energy strategy.

Florida lawmakers in Washington should take the lead in demanding - and framing
- an energy policy for the nation. It won't be easy to find consensus, but if we
want to stop the big kahuna from overtaking Florida's coasts, the time for
action is now.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Citizens Keeps Builders Risk

The board of Citizens Property Insurance Corp. voted Friday to resume offering
"builders risk" insurance to cover residential and commercial projects under
construction in Florida. Last month, the board stopped offering new policies,
effective July 15, so Citizens could concentrate on its primary role as the
state's homeowner insurer of last resort. State builders said the change left
them with no other option for insurance during construction.

STATE

FPL Merger Delayed

Juno Beach-based FPL Group's proposed $11 billion acquisition of Constellation
Energy of Maryland requires "further consideration," U.S. regulators said
Friday, extending the time by which they need to act on the deal to Feb. 2. The
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in a two-paragraph order, said it will
take an additional six months to decide whether to let the agreement go forward.
The commission wants time to determine whether the deal meets a requirement that
mergers not result in regulated assets subsidizing unregulated businesses,
unless that action is in the public interest.

Unemployment Stays Low

The Agency for Workforce Innovation said Florida added 270,900 jobs in the past
12 months. That means Florida's work force grew 3.5 percent, more than twice the
national rate. Florida's unemployment rate in June was 3 percent, down from 3.8
percent a year ago. For the metro area of Tampa, St. Petersburg and Clearwater,
unemployment was 3.3 percent in June, down from 4 percent a year ago.

NATION

Microsoft's Zune Music

Microsoft Corp. confirmed Friday that it's working on music and entertainment
products expected to compete with Apple Computer's wildly popular iPod and
iTunes music service. The Redmond, Wash.-based software maker said it planned a
series of hardware and software products, with the first expected to be
available this year. The products will be called Zune.Microsoft has been
briefing music industry executives on the project for some time.

DirecTV, EchoStar Merger?

News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch said U.S. regulators would find it difficult
to reject a merger of his DirecTV Group and Englewood, Colo.-based rival
EchoStar Communications. The union of the two, the largest U.S. satellite
operators, would pose less of a threat to competition than in the past because
consumers have more ways to get news and entertainment, Murdoch said Thursday.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Blogs New Issue For NCAA

BYLINE: ANDY STAPLES, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words


SOME FANS 'RECRUITING' ON PLAYERS' WEB SITES

By ANDY STAPLES

The Tampa Tribune

GAINESVILLE - The pleas posted to the TBO.com recruiting weblog written by
Jefferson High quarterback Stephen Garcia run the gamut from earnest to
downright pathetic.

Since Garcia began writing the blog in May, he has received 450 comments, most
from fans either urging or begging him to attend their favorite school. Garcia,
in California for the Elite 11 quarterback camp, admitted Monday night he enjoys
reading the comments.

"I think it's pretty funny," Garcia said.

Compliance officials at Florida and South Carolina - two of the schools vying
for Garcia's services - aren't laughing. Depending on whether the posters are
considered "representatives of a school's athletics interests" by the NCAA, each
comment that touts a particular school could be considered a secondary violation
and could force that fan's chosen school to report itself for a minor
infraction.

Garcia's blog is only a bit in a terabyte-sized headache for athletic
departments across the country. Blogs, personal Web sites and the explosion of
social networking sites such as MySpace.com and Facebook.com have made policing
improper contact between fans and athletes - or sports agents and athletes - all
but impossible.

Other examples include:

oIn the process of researching this story, The Tampa Tribune discovered a sports
agent who contacted college football players - including players from Florida
and Florida State - through their MySpace pages. While such contact doesn't
violate NCAA rules, most athletic departments prefer to shield athletes from
agents to avoid the appearance of impropriety.

oLast week, Florida's student newspaper, the Independent Florida Alligator,
reported the contents of several photos of UF athletes misbehaving posted on
Facebook.com. One photo showed an underage walk-on football player doing a "keg
stand," while another showed a cross country runner smoking something from a
rolled paper. In April, the University of South Florida's student paper, The
Oracle, published a similar story that described photos of what appeared to be
underage USF football players drinking alcohol.

oAlso last week, The Courier-Journal in Louisville, Ky., reported that Kentucky
planned to self-report a secondary violation because Wildcats fans posted
recruiting pitches on the MySpace page of basketball prospect Patrick "Beans"
Patterson.

In that climate, it's easy to understand why Jamie McCloskey, Florida's
associate athletic director in charge of compliance, responded immediately when
informed of the comments on Garcia's blog.

"It's an issue," McCloskey said. "Under NCAA rules, the only individuals who can
write or e-mail a prospect in football are the football coaches.

"Not even [Florida athletic director] Jeremy Foley or [UF] president [Bernie]
Machen can write a prospect a letter."

And since the current NCAA rules governing prospect contact were passed before
the proliferation of blogs, MySpace and Facebook, Web communication has fallen
under the blanket term "written communication."

That's why South Carolina associate director of compliance Megan Stuermann
suggested altering Garcia's blog.

"We are looking into this situation in further detail, but it would be in our
best interest if the comment portion of the blog was removed," Stuermann wrote
in an e-mail. "If the fans did not have a way to comment ... then they could not
make inappropriate statements regarding future collegiate enrollment."

Agent Used MySpace

Some Web-based communications to athletes don't violate NCAA rules but instead
violate the law.

Van Shumake, a 31-year-old agent based in Birmingham, Ala., said he acted
strictly as a fan when he left comments on the MySpace pages of current college
football players from schools throughout the nation. But Shumake, who said he
represents "five or six" minor-league baseball players, isn't licensed as an
agent in Florida.

Jim Patton, a regional program administrator for the Florida Department of
Business and Professional Regulation, said Florida law forbids an unlicensed
agent from soliciting athletes in the state of Florida who have college
eligibility remaining. That means Shumake may have inadvertently broken the law
when he posted this message on the MySpace page of Florida defensive tackle
Steven Harris.

"Good lookin' out.....thanks for addin' me!" Shumake posted at 3:25 p.m. on June
19. "I'm sure we'll talk somewhere down this great road you travel....."

While most MySpace users include a picture of themselves to accompany their
posts, Shumake used the logo of his six-month-old agency, Pentagon Sports
Management.

The "friends" section of Shumake's MySpace page included links to the pages of
Harris, teammates Andre Caldwell and Jermaine McCollum and Kenny Ingram, a
defensive back who is expected to return to Florida State's team this season
after a stint at a community college.

Shumake also posted a picture of himself posing with Florida quarterback Chris
Leak. Shumake said the photo was taken after the 2004 Florida-Vanderbilt game,
and he said he only wanted the picture for personal reasons.

"I'm a huge Florida Gator and Ohio State Buckeyes fan," Shumake said in a
telephone interview Monday. "With football, it's basically fan first. I'm a
baseball agent."

Shumake said he wasn't trying to solicit the players he contacted, and he said
he intends to get a Florida license as his business grows. A few hours after
speaking with The Tampa Tribune, Shumake switched his MySpace page from public
to private - meaning only users Shumake pre-approves can view it - and changed
his picture from his agency's logo to the logo of Major League Baseball.

Private Thoughts, Public Domain

Coaches and administrators worry the words and pictures on athletes' MySpace and
Facebook profiles could embarrass their programs. For example, the Northwestern
women's soccer team was suspended in May after the Web site BadJocks.com posted
pictures of the team's initiation rituals, which included underage drinking and
lap dances. The pictures originally had been posted on the Internet by players.

The UF athlete photos cited last week by the Alligator came from Facebook, a
networking site that claims 7.5 million registered members. Though athletes
might believe their photos are semi-private - a person must have a valid
university e-mail address to join the network of a particular school - a photo
posted on the Facebook network of a large public university is available to
thousands.

Loyola-Chicago has banned athletes from joining Facebook. In December, Florida
State officials gave athletes 10 days to clean up their profiles. Florida
football coach Urban Meyer said in May that Gators coaches told players to clean
up their profiles.

Players complied, for the most part, but some profiles still contain locker-room
language. As of early Tuesday morning, the profile for receiver Louis Murphy
contained 20 profanities, mostly from rap lyrics Murphy posted alongside Bible
verses and a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Still, a few dirty words won't land a school in trouble with the NCAA.
Unfortunately for compliance officials such as Florida's McCloskey, the Internet
offers plenty of other avenues for potential violations. And college sports'
governing body doesn't seem interested in relaxing its rules to accommodate the
technology boom.

"If anything, the NCAA is moving in the other direction," McCloskey said.
"They're making more legislation."

Meanwhile, more electronic methods to run afoul of the NCAA are being invented
every day. Unfortunately, USF associate athletic director Steve Horton said, the
grown-ups in charge are typically among the last to know.

"We learn more about the changes in technology [and] the Web from the kids,"
Horton said.

Reporter Brett McMurphy contributed to this report. Reporter Andy Staples can be
reached at (352) 262-3719 or

Xastaples@tampatrib.com.

(CHART) EDITOR'S NOTE

Hillsborough High quarterback Stephen Garcia has been chronicling the recruiting
process, in his words, in a blog on TBO.com, keyword: Preps. Garcia, one of the
country's highest-ranked prep quarterbacks, has been blogging since May,
describing what is going through his mind as he decides which college he'll
attend in 2007. Although Garcia has received numerous comments from fans urging
him to attend their university, the blog's intent was to allow him to share his
experiences, and not as a primary tool to allow fans to sway his decision.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JAY CONNER

Photo: Jefferson High quarterback Stephen Garcia is writing a blog for TBO.com
during the recruiting process.

Photo credit: MySpace.com/Van Shumake

Photo: Van Shumake, right, posted this picture of himself posing with Florida
quarterback Chris Leak on his MySpace page.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sweating It Out

BYLINE: ADAM ADKINS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


With heat-related illnesses on the rise, area schools are taking steps to keep
football players safe.

By ADAM ADKINS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Brad Krone stood out, and Cambridge football coach Rick Shears was the
first to notice.

The Lancers had just finished a series of grueling wind sprints and were on the
first of two laps around the football field at Oak Grove Elementary, signaling
the end of Thursday's practice. Krone, trapped among a slew of teammates, could
barely move his legs but kept chugging, trying to "gut it out," like his coaches
yelled.

"You could just see it," said Shears, who sent an assistant coach to shower the
freshman with a water bottle.

Shears knows the warning signs of heat-related illnesses, and he's doing
everything he can to prevent it on his field, like many of Hillsborough County's
football coaches.

The recent deaths of Jamell Johnson, 11, and Bobby Stephens, 12, weigh heavily
on the county's football community. Both were youth football players who
collapsed and died after participating in practices last month. And those
instances, in part, have prompted some county coaches to change things.

Plant coach Robert Weiner designed a cooling-off period, during which he holds
offensive and defensive meetings in the locker room. Meanwhile, his players are
eating fruit and drinking fluids in an air-conditioned climate.

"It takes about a half an hour out of practice time, but that's OK," Weiner
said.

Bloomingdale coach Corey Brinson, who said he got dehydrated while playing at
Bethune-Cookman, also has his team take a mid-practice break and has two
trainers per position group to provide water during drills.

Blake coach Sean Washington has doubled his team's water breaks during practice
and also emphasized to his assistants to make sure players take in fluids during
individual workouts.

"We're giving them more water breaks than ever before," Washington said.

Added Wharton coach David Mitchell: "We give them so much water that we
practically drown them. We also taper back on some sessions, but we never come
to a dead stop for water except after our dynamic stretch [at the beginning of
practice]. Kids are constantly going over to the water during practice, one or
two at a time during a drill, so the teaching never stops."

The Florida High School Athletic Association's board of directors in June also
adopted new guidelines for football practices this season in response to studies
showing an increase in heat-related injuries and illnesses.

Some of the recommendations include limiting practice time, limiting the amount
of work on consecutive days and supplying ample rest time between practices.

Hillsborough County athletic director Vernon Korhn recently said his office goes
over hydration with each school's athletic director and coaches, and he hopes it
has a trickle-down effect to parents and players.

As for Shears, he has a licensed physical therapist on hand at each practice,
which is something new for this season. He teaches his players proper hydration,
even forcing them to carry gallon jugs of water with them around school each
day. And he easily has one of the best coach-to-player ratios in the county,
about 5-to-1 because of small private-school numbers, giving him a better chance
of noticing warning signs.

Yet, Shears wonders if it's enough. Besides, he said, if it can happen to the
best in the business, it can certainly happen at the Lancers' practice field.

"What more can we do?" Shears asked rhetorically. "I mean, these things happen.
The NFL has the best in the business, and unfortunately it's happened there. You
just have to keep a closer eye, I guess.

"All you can do is watch them. And once you see the [warning] signs, they're
done."

(CHART) TIPS FOR AVOIDING HEATSTROKE

Symptoms for heatstroke include thirst, fatigue, light-headedness, dizziness and
confusion. To avoid heatstroke, the following is recommended:

oDrink fluids, especially on hot days. Avoid tea, coffee, soda and alcohol.

oWear lightweight clothes in light colors.

oDuring outdoor activity, take frequent drink breaks.

oTry to spend time indoors on very hot and humid days.

Source: University of Maryland Medical Center

Reporters Michael Harris, Bill Ward and Anwar S. Richardson contributed to this
report. Reporter Adam Adkins can be reached at aadkins@tampatrib.com or (813)
657-4533.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by MANUEL M. MARTINEZ

Photo: Middleton High football players replenish their fluids at a water station
during preseason practice. Schools have been changing their routines to keep
players from getting dehydrated during grueling summer workouts.

Photo: Hillsborough High football player Alan Nunez tries to cool down during a
break in a recent practice at the school.

Photo: Jalen Woodall helps keep Iziah Wyche, a player on the Hillsborough High
Terriers, cool during preseason football training camp.

Photo: Alex "Peewee" Velez, athletic trainer for Hillsborough High, keeps
liquids on hand.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Health Integrated Expands

Tampa-based Health Integrated, a privately held health care provider, said
Tuesday that it will expand its headquarters at 10008 N. Dale Mabry Highway and
add 60 employees over the next three years.

Town & Country Awarded

Town & Country Hospital is the third in the area to be named a center of
excellence for bariatric surgery, a weight-loss procedure for obese patients.
The American Society for Bariatric Surgery honors centers for doing a high
volume of cases with good outcomes and patient support. Other area bariatric
centers of excellence are Tampa General and Palms of Pasadena in St. Petersburg.

Development Lab Formed

Five senior staff members have left Xcelience LCC, the company that formed after
a management buyout of the Tampa division of MDS Pharma Services in May, to form
drug-development laboratory CoreRx. Xcelience has 55 employees, 60 client
companies and $10 million in annual revenue, said Derek Hennecke, its president
and chief executive officer.

NATION

Spring Productivity Drops

The efficiency of American workers slowed sharply in the spring while a key
gauge of labor costs rose at the fastest rate since late 2004, changes that
could raise more concerns at the Federal Reserve about the potential for rising
inflation.

The Labor Department said Tuesday that productivity - the amount of output per
hour of work - slowed to an annual rate of increase of 1.1 percent in the
quarter that ended in June, down from a 4.3 percent rate in the first three
months of the year.

Labor costs, as measured by each unit of output, rose at an annual rate of 4.2
percent in the spring, the fastest increase since the final three months of 2004
and up sharply from a 2.5 percent rate of increase in the first three months of
this year.

Northwest Refinancing OK'd

A judge on Tuesday approved a $1.38 billion debt refinancing plan by Northwest
Airlines, which is trying to emerge from bankruptcy protection.

Starbucks To Sell Book

Starbucks, which entered the entertainment-marketing world with the sale of
special-edition compact discs, is getting into book sales. In its first such
in-store campaign, slated to begin Oct. 3, the company plans to sell Mitch
Albom's newly published novel, "For One More Day."

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 19, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 420 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Insurance Is No. 1 Concern

Florida's real estate market and the state economy are threatened by spiraling
insurance rates, concludes a quarterly survey released Monday. The University of
Florida report found rising insurance rates to be the top concern of 150 real
estate professionals who participated in the survey. Respondents were least
optimistic about the real estate investment outlook for the Tampa Bay area,
Orlando and Daytona Beach. They were most optimistic about the Lakeland-Winter
Haven area, Miami-Dade County and Florida's southwest coast.

Casino Ship Crew Wants Pay

Thirty-two Casino Royale crew members want a federal judge to help them regain
wages. It has been two months since they have been paid for working on the
400-foot gambling ship, in Tampa for renovations. Miami lawyer Michael Black
said Monday that the crew wants a form of lien against the ship and its
operators, Oceans 21 LLC and Tenmark Marine Inc. He said attorneys for the two
companies are working toward reaching a settlement with the crew so they can
regain their wages without placing a hold on the ship. Repeated inspection and
construction problems have delayed the launch of the Casino Royale from Johns
Pass. Last month, more than 200 other employees of the gambling ship were laid
off.

NET

Warner, YouTube Sign Deal

Warner Music Group has agreed to distribute and license its copyrighted songs
and other material through online video trendsetter YouTube. Under a
revenue-sharing deal announced Monday, Warner Music has agreed to transfer
thousands of its music videos and interviews to YouTube. Warner Music also has
agreed to license its songs to the millions of ordinary people who upload their
videos to the Web site.

NATION

Builders Lack Confidence

Confidence among U.S. home builders dropped to a 15-year low this month as sales
slowed and profits dropped, according to a private survey released Monday by the
National Association of Home Builders.

TravelCenters Chain Sold

Truck-stop chain TravelCenters of America said Monday that it is being bought
for $1.9 billion by Hospitality Properties Trust. No major operating changes are
planned at the 162 TravelCenters in 40 states and Canada. There are six
TravelCenters in Florida, including a location near Tampa at Interstate 4, Exit
10.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 7, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 448 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Continental Center Sold

Meridian Development Group, a Clearwater-based investment firm, has purchased
Continental Commerce Center in St. Petersburg for $9 million. The four-building
business park at 3320 Scherer Drive was sold by Continental Land Trust, the
original developer. Colliers Arnold represented Meridian in the deal.

NATION

Oil Below $60 A Barrel

Oil prices fell 27 cents to $59.76 a barrel in New York trading Friday as the
market grew skeptical of reports that OPEC planned immediate cuts to production.
Analysts said the longer-term view is that the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries could very well act before the end of the year to trim its
output as global inventories rise and economic growth slows. But they said
prices could drift lower until traders see definitive proof that oil has been
taken off the market. Crude prices are down sharply from their trading high for
the year of $78.40 a barrel, which came in July.

Delta May Face Huge Claims

Delta Air Lines' liability to investors who financed 270 of its aircraft in
return for tax benefits could exceed $4 billion, new court documents show. The
numbers suggest Delta faces a confrontation over its aircraft-financing deals
that could be nearly as large as the one UAL Corp.'s United Airlines experienced
in the final stages of its bankruptcy reorganization. United's exit from Chapter
11 proceedings was nearly delayed by a quarrel over $5.1 billion in so-called
leverage-lease claims.

Times Editor To Fight Cuts

A day after Tribune Co . ousted the publisher of the Los Angeles Times, the
paper's news employees circulated a petition expressing "firm support" for
Editor Dean Baquet, who has decided to stay and fight further budget cuts.

Chicago-based Tribune forced the resignation of Times publisher Jeffrey M.
Johnson on Thursday. The much anticipated move came after a highly publicized
show of defiance last month by Johnson and Baquet against the latest proposed
Tribune cuts.

Amaranth Sells Holdings

Amaranth Advisors, the hedge fund that lost $6 billion on natural-gas trades in
September, reported in regulatory filings Friday that it is liquidating holdings
in a variety of companies. The Greenwich, Conn.-based hedge fund said in filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission that its divestitures involved 10
companies in which it had at least a 5 percent interest, including Asia
Automotive Acquisition, Grubb & Ellis Realty Advisors and AnorMed.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Set Your Sites On Learning Storm Facts

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1012 words


INTERNET RESOURCES ARE VAST

By NEIL JOHNSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The combination of brutal hurricane seasons and the ever-expanding
Internet opens a universe of sites for mouse-pad meteorologists.

A click can deliver the computer models used by hurricane specialists at the
National Hurricane Center for forecasts, along with satellite views of tropical
waves, water vapor images and masses of Saharan dust moving across the ocean.

Some sites offer only raw data from government sources. Some sites package it
with a bit of explanation. Some commercial sites provide the opinions of their
own weather experts.

A few years back, some university Web sites provided much of the information,
but now it's often repackaged by more user-friendly sites.

"There's been an exponential increase in those in the last couple years," said
Ben Nelson, a state meteorologist.

Ralph Arneas of Miami created a hurricane Web site in 1999.

He has no degree in meteorology but has studied books on hurricane forecasting
for 35 years, he said in an e-mail interview.

"My whole reason for this site was to make folks aware and help to save lives,
and to make my site a one-stop site for folks to get all the information they
need, so they would not have to waste time searching for it," he wrote.

The explosion of information carries a risk, however. Using the Web sites to
make your own hurricane forecasts is like do-it-yourself brain surgery.

You don't want to make a decision about preparing for a hurricane or evacuation
unless it's based on hurricane center forecasts and orders from local emergency
management offices.

Looking at the "spaghetti" models is not enough for you to predict where a storm
will go, said Max Mayfield, director of the hurricane center.

Models perform with different levels of accuracy on each storm.

"If you don't understand the limitations of the models, it's hard to tell which
is best," Mayfield said. "And our forecasters beat the individual models each
year."

Many sites carry a disclaimer not to use the information to make life or death
decisions.

Here is a sample of some Web sites devoted to hurricanes:

www.srh.noaa.gov/srh/tropicalwx/forecasttrack.php?basin=ATL&stormid=06&date=2006
090518

This site offers a collection of forecast models from the National Weather
Service.

Cool stuff: It has nearly every model available. You can filter which models you
want to see. An archive of past models allows comparison of changes every six
hours.

euler.atmos.colostate.edu/~vigh/guidance/

This site features model tracks from Colorado State University. It gives three
choices of early, late and ensemble model runs, but each is shown on a separate
view so you have to bounce between them.

Cool stuff: This has an archive of model runs, but it is not easy to navigate.

ralphstropicalweather.homestead.com/RalphTropicalWeatherOut.html

There's a bit of everything here. This site has model forecasts; links galore to
weather sites; and a map showing lows, highs and tropical waves across the
Atlantic, Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico.

Cool stuff: The map is animated with an overview of conditions in hurricane
formation regions and is easy to comprehend. And how can you not like a site
called Ralph's Tropical Weather?

cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/tropic/

Want to see what kind of Saharan air masses are in the way of coming storms?
This site offers satellite views of the dry air and satellite loops.

Cool stuff: There's a map of Saharan air and detailed views of steering currents
that guide tropical storms, though you might need a degree in meteorology to
decipher exactly what you're seeing.


www.srh.noaa.gov/tbw/html/tbw/

This is your good, old-fashioned National Weather Service site based in Ruskin.

Cool stuff: Once a watch or warning is issued, meteorologists produce a local
hurricane statement that provides details about what to expect and when in the
Tampa Bay area.

www.wunderground.com/tropical/

This extensive tropical weather page on The Weather Underground has an
exhaustive list of links for satellite views, water temperatures, shear, water
vapor and other weather-related sites. There also are weather discussions by
Jeff Masters and a blogger's paradise to comment on the weather and outlooks.

Cool stuff: Lots of it. Among the links is a forecast for wind shear showing
areas ranging from favorable to unfavorable shear for developing storms. Also,
an archive by year and storm shows hurricane tracks back to 1851.

www.ssd.noaa.gov/PS/TROP/genesis.html

From the National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Services, this
page analyzes satellite data of current conditions and historical normal climate
conditions, and it shows the difference. Some of the stuff is doctorate level,
but a couple of the listings can be useful.

Cool stuff: A map shows the amount of wind shear in current and normal
conditions and the difference, as well as the probability of tropical storm
formation. Farther down the page are graphs showing the same information
compared with normal conditions. These graphs are divided into regions such as
Gulf of Mexico, western Caribbean, eastern Caribbean and tropical Atlantic.

www.indo.com/distance/

Although this isn't a hurricane site, it calculates the distance between two
points using either longitude and latitude or city name.

Cool stuff: Type in your city and the storm's forecast longitude and latitude to
find out how far away the storm is.

www.srh.noaa.gov/srh/tropicalwx/forecasttrack.php?basin=ATL&stormid=97&date=2006
082312

This is another display of forecast models for active storms from the weather
service. There's also an archive of model plots for the year's past storms.

Cool stuff: The site has a huge array of model runs and lets you see past model
runs. You can find a display of the probability of a tropical storm forming for
each month and the most likely location for storms to develop.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214 or
njohnson@tampatrib.com.

Photo: (9) (Web pages from weather web sites.)

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 9
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HURRICANE UPDATE OCTOBER 2006

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 785 words


This hurricane season mercifully has not measured up to its dire predictions.
Although conditions aren't favorable, don't put storms out of your mind just
yet. Six weeks remain in the season - just enough time for you to start planning
for next year. This last installment of monthly updates includes interesting
weather-related Web sites and tips for getting your home ready for next year.

Season Expected To Quietly Fizzle Out

By NEIL JOHNSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - In two weeks, we'll begin the last lap of a six-month hurricane season
that has fallen far below early expectations.

No one is complaining that 2006 hasn't lived up to forecasts of another
hyperactive year.

Lots of factors in November favor a quiet end to the season.

Even if there were no El Niño this year to thwart storms, conditions just aren't
hospitable in the tropics for hurricanes.

Cold fronts dip past Florida and into the Caribbean in November as the jet
stream sags southward. The fronts cool the simmering tropic water. Dry air
behind them saps the moisture that storms need.

"That's not going to allow many storms to develop," said Ben Nelson, a state
meteorologist.

The fronts also act as a barrier for storms that form in the Caribbean, about
the only place that may have water warm enough to feed a storm, sending them
curving to the northeast.

Still, hurricanes are possible in November, which is why the season lasts from
June 1 to Nov. 30.

Since 1851, four hurricanes and seven tropical storms have hit Florida in
November, including one that struck near Sarasota on Nov. 30, 1925, the latest
hurricane to make landfall in the state.

The presence of El Niño in the Pacific adds to the waning conditions for
hurricanes.

El Niño forms when water in the tropical Pacific Ocean warms several degrees
above normal, causing a shift in weather patterns from Australia to the United
States.

They usually appear every three to five years, with the last El Niño in 2002.
That year there were eight tropical storms and four hurricanes.

This year's El Niño formed in September and is expected to last until early next
year.

The warm water stretching along the equator from the South American coast past
the international date line sends a branch of the jet stream shooting from
Hawaii across the southern part of the United States.

Sometimes called the Pineapple Express, the river of air plows into developing
hurricanes and lops off their heads.

"It cuts across the Gulf and often the northern Caribbean. Typically with El
Niño events, you don't have a lot of hurricane activity in November," Nelson
said.

At the start of this season, forecasts portrayed another dire year after William
Gray, the Colorado State University professor who has issued predictions since
1984, called for 17 storms, with nine becoming hurricanes.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicted the season would
bring 13 to 16 storms, and eight to 10 would become hurricanes.

Instead, the season should turn out to be about average or below.

With his latest prediction Oct. 3, Gray forecast 11 storms for the year - and
that may be high. The Atlantic hurricane season has brought four tropical storms
and five hurricanes.

Even before water temperatures in the Pacific reached the threshold of El Niño,
the high-level winds were knocking off developing storms.

Adding to the poor condition for hurricanes, Saharan dust surged far over the
Atlantic for much of the season. The dust and dry air snuffed out storms that
tried to form.

(CHART) HURRICANE HISTORY

Meteorologists agree we are in an active hurricane cycle. But they disagree
about whether sound science exists for predicting how long the active cycle will
last, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The last
active cycle was 1945-1970.

Tribune graphic; Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

(CHART) WHAT IS EL NINO?

El Nino creates abnormal weather patterns that can change temperatures and
rainfall worldwide.

(1) This warm water energizes huge thunderstorms in the western Pacific.

(2) During El Nino, the warm water and thunderstorms move eastward, disrupting
the jet stream.

(3) The wind shear it creates reduces the ability of hurricanes to form or
maintain force.

Tribune graphic; Sources: USAToday.com, NOAA

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at njohnson@tampatrib.com or (352)
544-5214.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo

Photo: University of Florida climate researchers Keith Ingram, left, Norman
Breuer and Clyde Fraisse consider the possible agricultural effects of this
year's El Nino, which brings increased rainfall and lower temperatures.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 2
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fishin' At The Lab

BYLINE: LIZ BLEAU, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN


HCC, UF Pair Up For Lessons About Aquaculture

By LIZ BLEAU

The Tampa Tribune

RUSKIN - New residents are moving into adjacent spaces at the University of
Florida Tropical Aquaculture Laboratory - Peruvian catfish in one building,
college students in another.

The catfish are a small, ornamental variety native to South America. The
laboratory staff will study the fish over the next three years, hoping to
successfully breed them for aquariums.

The students are in the aquaculture program at Hillsborough Community College's
Brandon campus, which is building a laboratory greenhouse on university
property.

The HCC aquaculture program has no laboratory, said the department's program
manager, Craig Kasper. Students have plenty of classrooms but not enough space
for research, he said.

"What we are missing is a chance to teach practical skills in a farmlike
setting," he said.

The UF lab is in the heart of the tropical ornamental aquaculture industry in
south and east Hillsborough County, next to the National Weather Service
station.

Staff members work with fish farmers to promote ornamental aquaculture and do
research and diagnostic services. For example, they help farmers develop diets
for various species of fish and find ways to combat fish diseases.

The UF lab staff also is working with HCC students and staff to build a
greenhouse with donated materials from area fish farmers. The greenhouse will
have large concrete tanks that can be occupied by saltwater or freshwater fish
and smaller aquariums to isolate smaller numbers of fish.

Kasper said three tanks will be for research and the rest for production, so
students can learn how to breed fish as they would on a fish farm.

Farmers Moving Indoors

Building the greenhouse is useful experience for anyone going into the tropical
fish business because many farmers are moving their production from outdoor
ponds to indoor facilities. That enables them to control climate and to shrink
the amount of real estate they need to raise fish.

Student Ashley Moylan of Brandon was working with Kasper on a recent afternoon
connecting the greenhouse's water supply system.

Her family used to own a fish farm, and she has worked on fish farms for the
past 14 years. She will earn an associate degree in aquaculture from HCC at the
end of the year and hopes to work for the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation
Commission.

The HCC aquaculture program has been teaching her the book side of the business,
she said.

"I know the field studies part, because I have worked so long on farms," she
said. "But now Dr. Kasper is teaching me the book side. We are both kind of
teaching each other."

"I'm always learning from my students," Kasper said. He hopes to have the fish
tanks ready for the students to use by early next year.

It's Catfish Country

In the building next door, UF lab director Craig Watson is embarking on a
three-year study of Pictus cats, small catfish found mostly in Northern Peru and
Colombia.

They have long whiskers, polka-dot markings and shiny bellies, and they are
active and popular as aquarium fish.

"They have always been in demand in this country," Watson said. "They are
pretty, active and fairly peaceful."

Pictus catfish are caught in the wild and imported, not raised on farms.

"If we can figure out how to produce it, it could mean a couple hundred thousand
sales for the fish industry here," Watson said.

The UF lab will study the fish's breeding characteristics and timetables. Watson
and his staff don't know when or how often the breed mates or how to distinguish
males from females.

The first batch of Pictus fish arrived several months ago and is doing well on a
standard tropical fish diet, he said.

Although three years sounds like a long time for a study, it's not really,
Watson said.

"The clock is ticking for us. We have a lot of research to do," he said.

Reporter Liz Bleau can be reached at (813) 865-1557 or lbleau@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by ROBERT BURKE

Photo: Craig Watson holds a net of Pictus catfish, small catfish found mostly in
Northern Peru and Colombia. They are caught in the wild and imported, not raised
on farms; scientists at UF's Tropical Aquaculture Laboratory hope to change
that.

Photo: Craig Kasper, department program manager, and student Ashley Moylan are
making fish tanks for HCC's aquaculture program.

Photo: Craig Kasper

Says HCC needs room for research

Photo: Pictus catfish have long whiskers, polka-dot markings and shiny bellies;
they are active and popular as aquarium fish.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 409 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

TECO Wins Tax Credit

Tampa Electric Co. has won $133.5 million in Internal Revenue Service clean coal
tax credits for its proposed Polk Unit 6 plant. The 630-megawatt plant is
planned at the company's Polk Power Station.

The tax credits encourage clean coal-based generation technologies. The plant is
expected to go into service in 2013 if it gets required regulatory approvals.

STATE

Pfizer, Scripps Collaborate

Drug giant Pfizer announced Thursday that it had signed an agreement with
Scripps Research Institute to collaborate on research into cancer, diabetes,
mental illness and other diseases.

The deal pays Scripps $100million over five years for first rights to license a
portion of the discoveries that come out of its laboratories in Florida and
California.

For Scripps, the money will help as the nonprofit institute recruits scientists
to Florida. It also will help speed the timetable from lab discovery to new
medicine, SRI President Richard Lerner said.

NATION

Pilot Retirement Age Eyed

A U.S. government panel couldn't agree Thursday whether the retirement age for
airline pilots should be raised to 65 from 60, calling the issue contentious.
The split leaves FAA Administrator Marion Blakey without an industry consensus
as she decides whether to change the agency's 47-year practice of requiring
pilots to retire at 60.

Newspapers Reach Accord

Nine unions at Philadelphia's daily newspapers agreed Thursday to extend their
contracts with owner Philadelphia Media Holdings LLC, as their counterpart that
represents journalists approached a strike deadline.

Enough progress was made to extend the contracts for pressmen, mailers, drivers
and other craft unions at the Philadelphia Inquirer and the Daily News. The
unions represent about 1,100 workers.

Drug Firms Face Lawsuits

Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and six other drug companies were sued by current and
former workers who claimed the companies failed to pay overtime to tens of
thousands of salespeople.

The other companies are AstraZeneca Plc, Amgen, Eli Lilly & Co.,
Hoffman-Laroche, GlaxoSmithKline Plc. and Bayer AG. The workers claimed that the
companies excluded sales staff from laws requiring overtime for employees who
work more than 40 hours a week.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Renovations Bring New Life To Dade City

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY


CHANGES REVITALIZE DOWNTOWN BUSINESS

By JO-ANN JOHNSTON

The Tampa Tribune

DADE CITY - Large commercial buildings in what was once a sleepy downtown
business district are being refurbished, attracting new owners and gaining in
value.

In fact, it's a different downtown than someone would have seen five years ago,
when Dade City was showing the symptoms of the decline of the citrus industry,
said Karla Owens, the city's community development director. Most businesses
didn't stay open past 5 p.m., and some buildings had become drab and worn. With
the vitality new investment has brought to its historic area, Dade City has
become "quaint and charming, not an old city that's on its last legs," said
Owens.

New Additions

Now, visitors to Dade City see:

oThe city's first Beef O'Brady's sports pub, which opened Saturday after months
of renovating a former auto parts store on Seventh Street, across from the
historic Pasco County Courthouse.

oA new location and refurbished storefront for The Western Edge, a western-wear
store on Pasco Avenue, around the corner from Beef O'Brady's.

oRenovations to a 1920s-era building at 14233 Seventh St., formerly a funeral
home, which Wozniak Builders is turning into 5,000 square feet of professional
space.

oWozniak Builders also is reworking the building behind the old funeral home.
Workers found authentic yellow bricks from the bed of the Withlacoochee River
after tearing down an exterior stucco wall. The contractor restored the brick
face and is taking over part of the space for its own offices. The rest of the
brick building, which dates back to the 1890s, is being leased by Garden Of Eden
Salon & Spa.

oThe bigger and renovated Del Carmen Mexican Store on Seventh Street.

Some buildings and offices in the county seat remain vacant or need repairs.

Overall, though, the renovations are "gaining momentum," said Ann Wozniak, who
owns the construction company with her husband, Vic. The Wozniaks expect to be
able to lease out the professional space by mid-2007.

"Apparently in Dade City there's a shortage of nice office space," she said.

A Good Time To Cash In

Real estate investors have noticed the improvements downtown. Antiques dealer
Jim Novotny said that makes now a good time to cash in on the investment he made
nine years ago when he bought the old Kiefer's sporting goods store on Seventh
Street, right across from the new Beef O'Brady's. The expansive building houses
Novotny's own Corner Emporium, Tropical Breeze Café, the After Thoughts gift
shop and a salon.

Strong market demand permitted him to line up prospective buyers without
advertising the building for sale, Novotny said. He just mentioned the idea of
selling one day at The Tropical Breeze's lunch counter and let the small-town
grapevine work.

"It was basically all word of mouth," he said. The sale may be completed as
early as this week.

That may sound surprising, given that sales in the Florida home market have
cooled recently. The market for commercial real estate in Florida has remained
healthy, though, with stable demand for space in office buildings, retail
storefronts, warehouses and distribution spaces, according to a study released
last week by the University of Florida.

There's already some hard evidence that the overall value of downtown buildings
in Dade City has been appreciating.

Property Value Jumps

The Pasco County tax appraisal of all the property in the city's Community
Redevelopment Area jumped to $47.9 million in 2006, up 45 percent from $33.2
million the previous year. The new value mostly was attributed to the rising
real estate market, rather than brand-new buildings.

The upturn in tax values and interest from prospective buyers and tenants is
encouraging to Downtown Dade City Main Street, its executive director, Amy
Ellis, said. The group helps the city reinvest some of its tax dollars from the
downtown business area back into modest grants for building improvements. Owners
have used the grants to help pay for new awnings and brick facing, for instance.

The improved real estate climate helps the entire city, not just the owners of
the commercial buildings, Ellis said.

"I think it makes us a more attractive destination for out-of-towners and local
residents, and it increases our sense of pride. We're not a run-down downtown."

Reporter Jo-Ann Johnston can be reached at (352) 521-3062 or
jfjohnston@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit:Tribune photo by FRED BELLET

Photo: A nearby water main break on Seventh Street in Dade City did not deter
the new Beef O'Brady's from soliciting applications from prospective employees.
The sports pub is one of many new additions giving downtown Dade City a more
"quaint and charming" feel.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PASCO BUSINESS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Who Really Wins?

BYLINE: BAIRD HELGESON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Eight years ago, taxpayers spent $168 million to build a stadium for the Bucs.
Thanks in part to the lucarative lease, the value of the team has soared to $955
million. Now the team is expected to ask for $12 million in taxpayer money to
build a practice field. The request has some asking:

By BAIRD HELGESON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Malcolm Glazer will likely be among the big financial winners next month
when monster truck fans pack Raymond James Stadium for a car-crushing spectacle.

The Buccaneers' owner gets all stadium profit for every event in the
eight-year-old facility, whether it's a home game for the University of South
Florida Bulls, the recent Kenny Chesney concert or a monster truck exhibition.

The deal is even more lucrative when the Bucs play at home. Glazer gets all the
revenue from parking, concessions, merchandising and ticket sales. He also owns
the naming rights to the stadium and controls all permanent advertising in the
facility.

The taxpayers built the $168 million stadium, but nobody profits from its
operation more than Glazer, thanks in part to a stadium deal considered to be
among the most profitable in the National Football League.

Now the Bucs are expected to ask for $12 million in taxpayer money to build an
indoor practice field next to the team's new training facility. The practice
field would allow the team to work out inside during foul weather and would
include artificial turf, possibly giving them an edge when practicing for games
in domed stadiums, the team has said.

"It's kind of a bizarre request," said David Berri, a sports business expert who
teaches economics at California State University, Bakersfield. "What, do you
have bad weather in Tampa?"

The request has some local officials, fans and sports business experts asking:
Haven't taxpayers done enough for the Bucs?

Some fans and people who run the stadium say the community hasn't healed from
the divisive effort to build the facility for an out-of-town billionaire who
threatened to move the team unless taxpayers built a stadium. Even some of the
Bucs' biggest fans are irritated by Glazer's favorable lease, which doesn't
include a rent increase for 30 years and puts taxpayers on the hook for millions
of dollars in stadium maintenance and repairs.

Nikki Garcia, a server at Barnacles Restaurant in Brandon, said she appreciates
having the Bucs in Tampa, "but I think we've done enough for the team."

Garcia's feelings are shared by some county commissioners and those who run the
cash-strapped stadium.

"It's a difficult contract to live with," said Bob Buckhorn, a board member with
the Tampa Sports Authority, which runs the stadium. "Could it have been more
fair? Sure. But it is what it is."

The Deal

Glazer, a real estate mogul from Palm Beach, has transformed the Buccaneers from
the league's bottom-dwelling embarrassment into one of the NFL's most profitable
teams.

The franchise is worth $955 million, up more than $600 million since 1998,
according to Forbes magazine, which surveys team owners. That makes the Bucs the
eighth-most-valuable team in the league, ahead of franchises in bigger metro
areas such as Chicago and New York.

The magazine cites "the team's generous lease" as a chief reason for Glazer's
good fortune. The magazine lists the stadium - even though the Bucs don't own it
- as an asset because the team didn't borrow money to build it. Teams that built
their own stadiums usually take on huge debt, siphoning away money that could be
used for marketing or player salaries.

Eric Land, the Bucs' chief operating officer, disputed any attempt to connect
the value of the stadium to the team's bottom line.

"One doesn't have anything to do with the other," he said.

The team does not release its financial information. Officials with the sports
authority don't know how much money the team makes from the facility.

The Bucs' annual revenue is about $203 million, according to Forbes. The team's
revenue was $77 million in 1998.

Glazer hoped to duplicate his success when he bought the world's most valuable
sports franchise last year, the Manchester United soccer team in England. The
$1.5 billion purchase outraged soccer fans who loathed the idea of an American
owner and feared he would endanger the team with the enormous debt required for
the deal.

Glazer didn't create nearly the stir when he bought the Buccaneers in 1995.
Glazer paid a record $192 million for the team, which surprised experts and
fans. The Bucs had the worst record in the NFL and were best known for their
garish orange jerseys and miserable 0-26 start in the league.

He decided the best way to finance the deal was to build a new stadium with
lucrative suites and other revenue-generating amenities.

Initially, Glazer offered to pay for half the stadium if the community paid
deposits on 50,000 seats, which gave them the right to buy season tickets. The
deal collapsed when fans bought fewer than 35,000.

Glazer then turned to what has become a common play in pro sports: He threatened
to move the team. Glazer and his three sons, who run the day-to-day operations
of the team, looked in Los Angeles and Orlando.

As the Glazers crisscrossed the country, fans, politicians and community leaders
in Tampa rallied to keep the team.

Local politicians had watched other cities lose pro teams only to spend millions
to get a new franchise, more than a new stadium would cost.

The community's last hope for keeping the team came in the form of the Community
Investment Tax, a proposed half-percent sales tax. To make it palatable to
voters, the deal called for only a fraction of the revenue to be used for a new
stadium. Most of the $2.7 billion collected in 30 years would go for roads,
schools and other public works projects.

Voters approved the tax in September 1996, and two years later Glazer got a new
stadium without having to spend a dollar.

"Right now in the NFL, teams can get about anything they want from a city, or
they will find another town that will give it to them," said Rodney Fort, a
sports business expert who teaches at Washington State University in Pullman.
"The Bucs are proof of that."

Glazer's biggest financial coup might be the 91-page stadium agreement with the
Tampa Sports Authority, which also runs three public golf courses. The Bucs pay
$3.5 million in rent to the authority each year and about $1.9 million annually
from surcharges collected on tickets.

By comparison, Forbes pegs the Bucs' annual revenue from ticket sales at $55
million.

The Bucs' rent doesn't cover the cost of operating the stadium. The sports
authority runs a deficit of about $3 million a year. The county pays about $2
million, and the city pays $1 million.

The deficit comes largely from the increased costs of maintenance and repairs
but also from property tax payments. Hillsborough County took ownership of the
stadium from the sports authority in 2003 to spare the facility from a $5
million-a-year tax bill. The change came after the Florida Supreme Court ruled
that similar publicly owned sports facilities could be taxed. The sports
authority now pays about $575,000 a year in taxes, primarily for land it leases
from the airport.

Benefits Without Ownership

The Bucs make a healthy profit when the team plays at home, but money continues
to pour in when the 65,657-seat stadium hosts other events.

The Bucs get the first $2 million of profit from parking and concessions at
nonteam events each year, such as concerts and USF games. The Bucs also get a
cut of the profit from merchandise sold at these events, whether it's a USF
jersey or a T-shirt from a monster truck event.

The Bucs and the sports authority split profit that exceeds $2 million.

Since the stadium opened in 1998, profit from these events has never reached $2
million, usually hovering around $1.5 million. This year was the closest, with
profit from non-Bucs events tipping $1.9 million, thanks in part to country star
Kenny Chesney's concert in July.

"The Bucs negotiated a good deal," said Mark Proctor, chairman of the sports
authority's board. "But I don't think we needed to give them everything that
they got."

The Bucs also have naming rights to the stadium, which were sold to Raymond
James Financial for $32.5 million over 13 years. In April, both sides extended
the deal through 2015.

The agreement also gave the Bucs the right to sell 195 luxury suites, and the
team controls all permanent advertising at the building.

The Tampa Tribune and WFLA-TV, Channel 8, both owned by Media General, have a
paid partnership with the Bucs. WFLA and the Tribune spend a combined $2 million
a year for two luxury suites and exclusive advertising rights at the stadium.

As part of the deal, the Tribune and WFLA partner with the Bucs for promotions.
A separate deal gives WFLA exclusive production and broadcast rights for the
Bucs' preseason games.

"The Bucs have one of the most lucrative stadium deals in the nation, which
accounts for the team's very high market value," said Mark Rosentraub, an
economist and author of "Major League Losers: The Real Costs of Sports and Who's
Paying for It." He said the Bucs' high value is a testament to Glazer's
financial acumen, considering the Tampa Bay area is among the NFL's smallest
markets.

So why do communities use tax dollars to build stadiums?

Sports business experts say communities are caught between the desire to be seen
as major economic and cultural hubs and the NFL's tactical decision to have
fewer teams than cities eager to host them.

"Having a pro team is more of a reflection of the economic maturity of the
area," Fort said. "It says, 'We've made it.' And having a team can be a source
of great community pride."

That was largely the case in Tampa.

"If you are going to play in the big leagues, then you have to play. We decided
to play," Buckhorn said. "And you know, we won a Super Bowl, and we got the
Super Bowl. We kept the team. So we move on."

Team officials argue that Bay area residents have reaped countless benefits
since Raymond James Stadium was built.

National recognition of the Bucs has helped turn the area into a major draw for
businesses, residents and visitors, Land said.

The stadium's first-class fan experience will attract future Super Bowls to the
area, creating a worldwide stage to showcase the Bay area, Land said. Tampa has
hosted one Super Bowl since the stadium was built and will host it again in
2009. It is unclear how much the Bucs make when a Super Bowl comes to town.

"I don't think you can put a value on all that," Land said.

Practice Field

It's no surprise that the Bucs would seek millions of tax dollars to build the
indoor practice field.

The original stadium agreement required that $12 million be set aside to build
the team a training facility.

But the Bucs spent their own money to build a 145,000-square-foot practice
facility, complete with three outdoor practice fields, a theater to watch game
film and a 10,000-square-foot weight room. Some at the sports authority estimate
the facility is worth $50 million.

Under the stadium agreement, the Bucs must give the facility to the sports
authority to collect the $12 million.

Instead, the Bucs would rather keep the facility and use the $12 million to
build an additional indoor practice field, which would be open to the public.
Any money left over would be used for stadium improvements.

Bucs officials are expected to unveil their plans for the indoor practice
facility after Jan 1. The authority's attorney, John Van Voris, said the Bucs'
proposal would require the Tampa City Council and the Hillsborough County
Commission to amend the stadium agreement to allow the deal.

Some county commissioners have spoken against using taxpayer money to build the
practice field, saying the money would be better spent elsewhere.

Sports business experts said Tampa officials have a strong case for saying no.
Glazer, after all, is the only one who profits from the practice field.

Berri, the sports business expert, doesn't think taxpayers should invest in
trying to make the team better. "You've already given them a stadium," he said
of the 3-10 Bucs. "If that doesn't make them better, nothing will."

For many fans, it boils down to this: They don't like using their money to help
a billionaire get richer.

In Brandon, Barnacles is the epicenter of Bucs fandom on game day.

Patrons sip Budweiser and eat spicy chicken wings while they watch one of the
460 televisions.

"Malcolm Glazer should foot the bill. He's got more than enough money," said
Jeff Field, 45, a home builder from New Tampa. "They don't need our financing
for that."

Not everyone is opposed.

"It can get hot during practice, and they need" the air conditioning, said
Terrie Scott, 44, of Valrico. "That way, they can simulate the crowd noise in
those stadiums. If it will help the team play in different climates, then I am
for it."

(CHART) THE BUCS' FIELD OF GREEN

100%

Amount of profit the Bucs get from parking during home games and nonteam events.

100%

Amount of profit the Bucs get from concessions at all events at the stadium

100%

Amount of responsibility the authority has to insure the stadium and parking lot
for wind damage, hail, explosion, riot or plane crash.

100%

Amount of control the Bucs have over the press box during games and who gets
media passes

0%

Amount of non-Bucs merchandise the authority can allow to be sold in the stadium
during home games and team events.

Graphic by MARK McDANIEL

(CHART) RACKING UP REVENUE

The Bucs have steadily increased revenue over the years, even when the team had
bad seasons. Here's a breakdown of the team's revenue since 1998:

1998: $77 million

1999: $129 million

2000: $133 million

2001: $146 million

2002: $151 million

2003: $168 million

2004: $175 million

2005: $195 million

2006: $203 million

Source: Forbes magazine

(CHART) MOST VALUABLE TEAMS

The Buccaneers are among the most valuable teams in the NFL, despite being in
one of the smallest markets.

Rank Team Value Revenue

1. Washington Redskins $1.4 billion $303 million

2. New England Patriots $1.18 billion $250 million

3. Dallas Cowboys $1.17 billion $235 million

4. Houston Texans $1.04 billion $222 million

5. Philadelphia Eagles $1.02 billion $218 million

6. Denver Broncos $975 million $207 million

7. Cleveland Browns $970 million $206 million

8. Tampa Bay Bucs $955 million $203 million

9. Baltimore Ravens $946 million $201 million

10. Chicago Bears $945 million $201 million

Source: Forbes magazine

Reporter Baird Helgeson can be reached at (813) 259-7668 or
bhelgeson@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER

Photo: Aerial photo of Raymond James field

Photo: Parking lot attendant

Photo: Hot dogs

Photo credit: Tribune file photo (2003)

Photo: Owner Malcolm Glazer watched his team win the Super Bowl after he turned
around the franchise. Now, the team is 3-10, and Glazer wants taxpayer money for
a $12 million indoor practice facility.

Photo: Malcolm Glazer

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5 CHART 3

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Q. Name The Surprise Threat To Florida's Citrus Industry

BYLINE: MARY SHEDDEN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1883 words


A. Not Hurricanes, Development, Disease Or Hard Freezes. The Industry Is Facing
A Brain Drain Of Its Future Management.

By MARY SHEDDEN

The Tampa Tribune

LAKELAND - Florida's citrus growers live under siege.

For more than a century, farmers of the state's trademark crop thought they had
fought it all:

Developers with big bags of cash.

Migrant labor shortages.

Brazilian competition.

Hard freezes.

Hurricanes.

Canker.

"It's part of the business. It's what we in agriculture are all about," said
Dennis Broadaway, general manager of the Haines City Citrus Growers Association.

But this industry used to fighting for its livelihood didn't expect its latest
battle - one it can't win with pesticides, researchers or old-school sweat and
tears.

Today, Florida's citrus industry faces a dire management-level labor shortage.
The crop of college-educated scientists able to care for a complex and rapidly
changing industry is disappearing as quickly as the groves that once dotted the
state's landscape.

The number of citrus production majors at Florida Southern College in Lakeland
is down to eight, less than a third of what it was five years ago. The
University of Florida, like similar large agricultural programs, handed out 78
percent fewer horticulture science degrees in 2005 than it conferred at the
start of the decade.

Those now running the packing houses and production lines - managers retiring in
about a decade - are worried. Skilled leaders to help Florida maintain its place
in the competitive global citrus market may not be around to take the mantle.

"It's on the forefront of our minds," said Broadaway, a board member of Florida
Citrus Mutual, the Lakeland-based trade association. "I personally see a big
void coming up in the next 10 years."

Students Getting Scared Away

Farming has been in Norman Todd's blood all his life. The LaBelle citrus man who
never wandered far from farming is hiring managers preparing for a new citrus
industry, one with an increasing presence of large corporate groves and a
handful of mom-and-pop operations.

"When I started my first job in 1958 at the citrus station, I could drive
tractors and check for bugs. I was in hog heaven," Todd said. "Today you hire
someone ... he doesn't get to drive a tractor. He's all tied up [dealing with]
with government regulations."

Although some think improvement will come from ramping up traditional student
recruitment, others dare growers to shift their management systems to include
more consultants and specialists from noncitrus disciplines.

"This is just another challenge, and we're going to work through it and beat
it," said Harold Browning, director of UF's Citrus Research and Education Center
at Lake Alfred.

Two or three times a week, Florida Southern citrus Professor Tim Hurner gets the
call: another grower looking for potential managers. Nearly every citrus
production major gets a full-time management job before they finish the
one-of-a-kind citrus science program, he said.

One graduate, Kevin Thomas, has been on the job with Florida's Natural
cooperative in Bartow a decade. Day-to-day struggles, such as maintaining a
predominantly migrant-labor work force, make the career unappealing to those
unfamiliar with citrus.

"It's painting a bleak picture," Thomas said. "Those around it, it's in their
blood, and they're going to go into it."

Blame for the looming labor shortage points to canker and greening disease,
urban encroachment and hurricanes. Those factors accounted for the loss of 17
percent of the state's trees since 2004.

Those gloom and doom realities and the associated media onslaught are scaring
students away from a career in farming, educators and growers say. As it is,
fewer citrus progeny are pursuing the family business, shrinking the pool of
future leaders.

"It's like advising somebody going into the auto industry. Even growers aren't
sure," Hurner said.

With these distractions, it's easy to forget that citrus continues to be
Florida's second-largest industry, generating an estimated $8.5 billion this
year and employing 76,000 people. This year's crop, though small, is bringing
growers some of the highest crate prices ever.

A forecast released last week shows that oranges a decade from now could fill
132 million to 187 million boxes, near or above this year's crop of 140 million
boxes. Grapefruit is expected to decline steadily from this year's crop of 26
million boxes, the Florida Citrus Commission reported.

The crops all depend, however, on how the state's 650,000 acres are affected by
hurricanes, canker and greening, a relatively new bacterial disease hitting
Florida's citrus industry, said Mike Sparks, chief executive of the Citrus
Mutual trade association.

"We just don't know," he said.

Matt Carter has heard all the naysayers. When the 23-year-old graduates from
Florida Southern in May, he will launch his own caretaking business in the
Florida groves he loves.

"My whole life, people have told me the industry is dying and I'm crazy," Carter
said. "But right now, I'm looking at the highest prices I've ever seen."

'Will There Be A Job?'

Florida Southern and its citrus program are as deeply rooted in each other as
the dozens of mature orange trees planted across the liberal arts college. The
citrus horticulture program there morphed from a training service for troops
returning from World War II.

Its salad days were around 1980, when 75 students were studying the horticulture
science specialty, said Malcolm Manners, the citrus department chairman. Many
students then came from the families or towns where citrus ruled.

Devastating hard freezes in the late 1980s wiped out a huge swath of groves and
companies in North and Central Florida, and with it went a natural pool of
prospective students.

Since 2000, the number of citrus production majors at Florida Southern has
dropped to eight from 28. Likewise, the number of horticulture science students
during the same period decreased to 38 from 56. At UF, horticulture science
majors also declined since 2000, to five from 23.

Florida Southern President Anne Kerr said she has seen students steer clear of
majors in industries facing uncertain futures. This dip is similar to
banking-related studies in the 1980s, when scandals rocked finance.

"The decline in enrollment has nothing to do with what we're offering," she
said. "It's about the perception that, if a student majors in it, will there be
a job? The students and their family are wondering about the opportunity."

Kerr said the citrus production major is safe, but its long-term health depends
on how much industry leaders show a need for college-level citrus management
training.

"I think a lot of what happens in the industry will determine what happens with
our academic programs," Kerr said.

Todd, a Florida Southern citrus advisory board member, worries the program is
endangered if recruitment and endowment support doesn't increase quickly.

Time Is Precious, Competition Is Tough

After five decades harvesting Highland County groves, Marvin Kahn struggles to
replace his skilled production managers who get snapped up by big corporate
growers.

It used to be Kahn could groom a grove hand for 10 to 20 years at his Sebring
caretaking and grove development company. Today's rapidly changing and
complicated business climate make that impossible.

"You used to be able to hire a man who grew up on the farm," said Kahn, a UF
citrus production graduate. "There's not time to do that anymore."

The management shortage can be seen at colleges across the country. A 2005 U.S.
Department of Agriculture and Purdue University study expects the number of U.S.
agricultural science graduates through 2010 to be 20 percent short of the number
of farm management job openings.

And though Florida's fields and groves are increasingly losing acreage to
subdivisions, farming is expected to grow, according to state labor statistics.
Farm manager demand should grow to 11,000, just more than 1 percent through
2014.

Todd said today's shifts are tied to intense competition from places such as
Brazil and Africa. "These people are more intense, more hungry than we are in
this country," Todd said. "That's what makes these courses so damn important."

New Way To View Management

That sense of urgency led Florida Southern's advisory council to prepare a DVD
and slick brochures about the citrus and horticulture programs. Hurner is taking
the recruiting materials to trade groups across the state, hoping growers will
mentor and attract potential students.

Browning, whose research at Lake Alfred lets him work with students from UF and
Florida Southern, said it's not just horticulture science students who can
pursue citrus careers.

He points to a recent jump in UF food and resource economic majors. That study
track increased enrollment to 153 from 63 since 2000. That counteracts the 78
percent drop in those studying horticulture science.

Browning challenges citrus industry leaders to change their management structure
to tap high-skill majors, such as mechanical engineering and computer science.

"There has to be some cultural shift in the way they look at management,"
Browning said. "These skills may be found in three or four people. It's hard to
find one person who has it all."

Companies need to be careful hiring people who don't understand agriculture,
said retired Brevard County grower John D'Albora, who graduated from Florida
Southern's first citrus production class in 1949. He double majored in economics
to understand the business, but first and foremost calls farming his passion.

"People sitting in an office cannot create a good environment for any
agricultural environment," he said.

Although he sold off his company's last 1,000 acres of groves for development
last year, D'Albora has faith the state's citrus community will continue to
dominate the global market.

"This industry is too good an industry, and it's been too good to Florida to
just let it go," he said.

That's because, although few in number, the new citrus leaders carry the same
passion as the old guard.

"You just have to know there's going to be good times and bad times," said
Carter, the Florida Southern student. "It's a cycle."

(CHART) ENROLLMENT DROP

Citrus and horticulture science programs at state colleges and universities are
under going a significant drop in enrollment. The numbers of enrolled students
and degrees conferred in the agricultural specialty are declining rapidly.

Florida Southern College

Majors

Citrus Horticulture Science

(includes citrus majors)

2000-'01: 28 56

'06-'07: 8 38

Tribune graphic; Source: Florida Southern College

(CHART) ENROLLMENT DROP

The University of Florida has issued fewer horticulture degrees over the past
five years.

University of Florida

Horticulture Science Degrees (UF does not offer a citrus major)

2000-'01: 23

'06-'07: 5

Tribune graphic; Source: University of Florida

Reporter Mary Shedden can be reached at mshedden@tampatrib.com or (813)
259-7365.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT/Illustration by FRED STONE

Photo: (orange sections)

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Nowadays it's tough to find folks like Kevin Thomas, a buyer for
Florida's Natural cooperative and 1997 graduate of Florida Southern College's
citrus program.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART 2 PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

History Will Judge Jeb Bush A Great Florida Governor

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1563 words


Gov Jeb. Bush could be impatient, excessively partisan and sensitive to
criticism. He wasn't always a good listener. And many found him arrogant.

But if these traits caused an occasional stumble, they were grounded in a great
strength of leadership that Floridians will long admire.

Jeb Bush leaves office a highly successful and principled governor - a fearless
change agent who challenged the status quo and demanded better from us all.

By force of will, he made state government leaner and more entrepreneurial,
insisting the state be "respectful of the earnings of Florida's families."

He diversified the economy beyond citrus and tourism, creating new jobs and
high-tech opportunities.

And he raised the expectations for our schools, refusing to accept a litany of
excuses for why Johnny can't read. Instead, he modeled a problem-solving
approach that focused educators on solutions and rewarded those who achieved
results. Unfortunately, he was unable to build support for letting children
attend private schools on a voucher when public schools weren't meeting their
needs.

As any leader will tell you, changing the culture of an organization is like
turning a freighter; it doesn't turn on a dime. But during his two terms in
Tallahassee, Bush dramatically changed the culture, driven by a belief that
government was, at best, an inefficient instrument and that whenever possible,
the state should rely on the private sector or market forces to meet citizens'
needs. Because of this important culture shift, the counties around the capital
- filled with unionized government workers - now vote blue in a red-dominated
Panhandle.

Bush rightly believes that tax dollars do more good for society when left in
citizens' pockets and so drove a series of tax cuts. As a result, the state's
economy outperformed most others during his tenure, growing jobs, tax revenues
and a healthy rainy-day fund. It is only unfortunate that business owners and
the middle class saw no relief from escalating property taxes during his eight
years in office.

In assessing the governor's performance, it's striking to see how often his
failings - and he had his share - came from allowing his principles to overwhelm
practical considerations. He outsourced state payroll functions, for example,
before the chosen company could dependably cut people's checks. And although a
proponent of less government, he injected himself into the deathbed decision
surrounding Terri Schiavo because of his religious beliefs.

To the public at large, Bush may be best remembered for his calm yet commanding
leadership during the hurricanes of 2004 and 2005. In the face of relentless
storms, his no-nonsense persona began to soften and his popularity began to
soar.

Even before the warmer image took root, Bush commanded widespread respect for
his energy, candor and commitment. One never doubted where he stood or
questioned his sincerity.

On the opposite page, you'll see how citizens grade the governor.

Here's our report card for Bush:

Economy: A+

Bush understood the importance of diversifying the economy and effectively
campaigned to attract high-tech industries, notably the Scripps Research
Institute in Palm Beach County. He championed international trade and built
strong relationships on trade missions.

Perhaps most important, with a series of tax cuts - close to $20 billion in all
- Bush ensured that Florida maintained a robust business climate and job market.

K-12 Education: A-

His emphasis on accountability - grading schools based on student test scores -
is getting results, particularly in lower grades. The gap between white and
minority students is narrowing. Last year a survey found Florida had moved ahead
of the national average in math for the first time.

Some fine-tuning is needed. Greater value should be given creative arts,
physical education, history and civics. Still, on the journey to improve public
education, Bush created significant milestones.

Higher Education: C

His grade here would have been an F but for the wisdom of Florida voters. Bush
and the Legislature made a shambles of the state university system by
dismantling the Board of Regents and establishing a single board to oversee
everything from kindergarten to graduate programs, a structure both cumbersome
and goofy.

Voters, fortunately, came to the rescue with a constitutional amendment that
established a regents-like governing body for the universities. Since then Bush
has generally made strong appointments to each university's board of trustees,
though it has run against his constitution to appoint qualified Democrats.

Privatization: B-

During his second inaugural address at the Capitol, Bush talked of "making these
buildings around us empty of workers" and tried to outsource government jobs
whenever possible.

He reduced the number of state jobs from more than 127,000 to about 113,000,
cutting expenses and improving efficiency in many cases. But a lack of
accountability also led to some blunders and scandals. The vendor hired to
process state employees' paychecks compromised the workers' identities. The
Department of Corrections bosses admitted to taking kickbacks from vendors. And
the agency entrusted with managing contracts suffered from revolving-door
leadership.

The Legislature, with Bush's support, has since implemented more oversight,
which should eventually give more shine to his privatization efforts.

Social Services: D

The governor's controversial program to privatize child protective services led
to increased costs and increased incidents of reabuse for foster children, an
audit showed.

Department of Children & Family functions were inadequately funded, creating
pain for the least fortunate. DCF Secretary Lucy Hadi recently resigned because
of her agency's failure to properly serve the mentally ill. And the previous DCF
chief had to quit for accepting favors from a contractor doing business with his
agency.

Although Bush can hardly be faulted for the health care crisis that bedevils the
nation, the number of citizens lacking health insurance increased during his era
and the emergency room crisis intensified for lack of leadership.

Bush can be credited with trying to reform the social services bureaucracy. But
his belief that government's role in serving the vulnerable can be minimized
through outsourcing and the good works of charitable groups proved naive.

Growth Management/Environment: B

Though he once proposed a disastrous plan to eliminate the Department of
Community Affairs, the state's growth-management agency, in his later years Bush
fought for stronger development controls adopted by lawmakers last year.

He was a consistent supporter of the Everglades restoration project, an opponent
of offshore oil drilling and a champion for extending Florida's land
preservation program, which raises $300 million a year to buy environmentally
endangered lands.

Leadership: A

Bush's willingness to use his bully pulpit and the constitutional amendment that
downsized the Cabinet made him one of the most powerful governors in Florida
history, and he exercised his authority with zeal.

He never hesitated to veto projects he thought inappropriate, though he showed
excessive partisanship with his cuts. He vetoed funding for Tampa's Riverwalk,
calling it a local matter, then approved funding for St. Petersburg's Dali
Museum. The only apparent explanation: Tampa has a Democratic mayor and St.
Petersburg a Republican.

But Bush didn't let national politics or family ties stop him from pointing out
the flaws in his brother's No Child Left Behind program, which confused parents
and disrupted state education reform efforts.

Despite the grief he took over his One Florida plan to eliminate affirmative
action, Bush valued diversity, which was reflected in his appointments and in
the improved opportunities state government provided minority contractors.

History, like current polls, will judge Jeb Bush a great governor. For now, we
all should be grateful that this enterprising problem-solver stepped up to serve
and to make Florida a better place.

(CHART) RATING BUSH ON THE ISSUES

Floridians responding to a survey in December gave Jeb Bush his highest marks
for handling disasters and overall leadership as governor.

What letter grade would you give Jeb Bush on education?

A 24%

B 28%

C 17%

D 17%

F 13%

Not sure 1%

2.4 GPA

On the economy and jobs?

A 25%

B 20%

C 26%

D 16%

F 11%

Not sure 1%

2.4 GPA

On transportation?

A 15%

B 22%

C 29%

D 19%

F 13%

Not sure 2%

2.2 GPA

On state spending and taxes?

A 16%

B 24%

C 22%

D 20%

F 16%

Not sure 2%

2.1 GPA

On disaster preparedness and response?

A 36%

B 22%

C 19%

D 11%

F 10%

Not sure 1%

2.7 GPA

On health and social services?

A 17%

B 23%

C 21%

D 16%

F 22%

Not sure 2%

2.0 GPA

On the environment and managing growth?

A 15%

B 22%

C 28%

D 14%

F 21%

Not sure 1%

2.0 GPA

On overall leadership?

A 32%

B 19%

C 19%

D 18%

F 11%

Not sure 1%

2.5 GPA

Survey of 500 adults: margin of error is plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.

The poll is conducted by SurveyUSA in partnership with The Tampa Tribune and
News Channel 8.

Tribune editorial graphic; Source: SurveyUSA

Photo credit: Photo from the Executive Office of the Governor

Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush's portrait includes a picture of his family and his
faithful BlackBerry. The governor received tens of thousands of e-mails and
regularly surprised people with a response.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: CHART PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 26, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tennis Legend Has Many Happy Returns

BYLINE: ANGELA DELGADO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NORTHWEST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words


A lifetime of table tennis lands a veteran in the state Hall of Fame.

By ANGELA DELGADO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The court may not be as big, but the aggression is just as intense.

As Greg Gingold smacks the 40-millimeter orange ball over the net, his breath
quickens and beads of sweat gather on his forehead.

"The ball can travel at 120 mph, and you're only 9 feet from the person hitting
it," said Gingold, 53, after his high-energy game against student and friend Kit
Jeerapaet, 38, of Tampa.

"It is more than just bink-bink-bink in the basement."

The game - no, the sport - is table tennis. Ping-Pong to novices.

"It's actually a good workout," Jeerapaet said. "I spend more energy playing
table tennis than any other sport at this level."

On many Tuesday nights, Gingold and fellow members of the Tampa Table Tennis
Club gather at the Port Tampa Recreation Center for their weekly practice and
matches. The group, which has about 40 members but averages 25 players per
practice, also meets on Thursdays.

Gingold, of Dana Shores, is one of the Tampa club's most successful table tennis
players. A month ago, after a 37-year career, he was inducted into the Florida
State Table Tennis Hall of Fame.

"I've never thought I'd make a career out of it," Gingold said. "When you start
out, you don't think this will be a major part of your life."

When he was a boy, Gingold said he played table tennis with his family in their
basement. As he grew older, he took his games to recreation centers, where he
found himself beating one competitor after another. Soon, Gingold wanted a
tougher challenge and sought out a club.

In 1971, Gingold left his native Miami to study engineering technology at the
University of South Florida. Once in college, he perfected his game.

USF is one of the top schools in the nation for table tennis, Gingold said. As
he spent his time practicing and traveling to tournaments, his education took a
back seat.

In 1977, his final year at USF, Gingold became the No. 1 college player in the
nation and won his first of five men's table tennis open championships.

He also won the men's doubles - a few of those times with Jeerapaet - on
numerous occasions.

One of Gingold's strengths is his spin, which is what players attempt to make
the ball do to throw off their opponents' return.

"Greg hits with so much spin that that's what turned me onto the game,"
Jeerapaet said. "Spin is 70 to 80 percent of the game."

Aside from mentoring Jeerapaet, who is ranked in the top 100 in the United
States, Gingold plays in senior tournaments. When he's not playing, he works as
a software engineer at BST Global and spends time with his wife of 10 years,
Renee, 36, and daughter Taylor, 7.

Although table tennis in America will never be the sensation it is in Europe and
Asia, Gingold said he never has a problem finding someone who knows someone who
plays the sport as a novice or professional.

Florida has more than 20 clubs registered with the United States Table Tennis
Association. According to the USA Table Tennis Web site, there are 7,392
registered players and 287 clubs in the nation.

"No matter what city I go to, because [table tennis players are] such a
small-knit group of people, I can play in any city I go to," he said. "There's
always a place to play."

(CHART) TABLE TENNIS TALK

o Table tennis is most popular in Europe and Asia, where top players are hired
to endorse shoes and apparel just as popular American athletes do.

o Table tennis balls are not hollow but pressurized slightly with gas.

o A ball is 40 millimeters in diameter.

o Parker Bros. copyrighted the name Ping-Pong on Aug. 7, 1928.

o Some players can put up to 9,000 revolutions per minute of spin on a ball.

Sources: www.thinkquest.org and the USA Table Tennis Web site, usatt.org

Reporter Angela Delgado can be reached at (813) 865-1501 or
adelgado@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JASON BEHNKEN

Photo: When he's not playing table tennis, Greg Gingold works as a software
engineer at BST Global and spends time with his wife of 10 years, Renee, 36, and
daughter Taylor, 7.

Photo: Greg Gingold, of Dana Shores, was the No. 1 college table tennis player
in the nation in 1977, his final year at the University of South Florida.

Photo: "I spend more energy playing table tennis than any other sport at this
level," Kit Jeerapaet says.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by KEVIN HOWE

Photo: Jeerapaet, left, and Gingold warm up before a match. The pair have teamed
up to win men's doubles competitions. "I've never thought I'd make a career out
of it," Gingold says. "When you start out, you don't think this will be a major
part of your life."

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cooking Up Ideas In The Kitchen

BYLINE: ELAINE MARKOWITZ, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1347 words


By ELAINE MARKOWITZ

Tribune correspondent

RUSKIN - Fred Raynaud is passionate about food - its textures, flavors and
myriad ways of pleasing a diner's palette.

Raynaud, executive chef of Mangrove's at the Little Harbor Inn in Ruskin, said
his passion began with the aromas of childhood.

"What I remember most is the smell of coffee, bacon frying in an iron skillet
and the steaming tamales," he said. "The smell of corn flour, called masa,
permeated the air."

A fourth-generation native Californian, he grew up working in his father's
restaurants. Liberty Raynaud owned two of them in Southern California during the
World War II years, and served the standard cuisine of the time, including a 99
cent filet mignon.

But the elder Raynaud, raised in San Diego, also had been influenced by the
flavors of nearby Mexico. Mexican cooking became a staple of family life.

"Latin food was his passion," Raynaud said. "We had a pot of beans, tortillas
and jalapenos at every meal," he said, "even Thanksgiving."

Those childhood experiences triggered Raynaud's interest in becoming a chef and
started him on the road to a long career in the food industry.

A Mix Of Influences

His cooking style reflects the memories of childhood meals, a love of ethnic
cuisines and knowledge of the history of foods in different regions of the
country. His staff credits him with the ability to bring out the best in them as
well.

For more than 20 years Raynaud, 49, has moved about the industry, researching
and developing restaurant ideas, designing menus and food concepts at the
corporate level, and whipping up culinary delights in kitchens across the
country. His ventures took him to casinos in Las Vegas, and cities in
California, Virginia and Florida.

Family members living locally lured Raynaud and his wife to Ruskin, and he began
working in 2004 at the former Tropics restaurant, now Mangrove's.

Raynaud's trademark is his ability to blend the flavors of the many cuisines he
loves. A dinner entree such as Florida black grouper might be served with a
sauce of hot, Japanese wasabi coupled with ginger. In his hands, the traditional
French creme brulee takes on a tropical feel with a touch of coconut and mango.

"Right now I'm really into fusion," he said. "I like blending Floridian and
Caribbean cuisine, Pan-Asian and all aspects of Latin cookery."

He likes flavors to build from one bite to the next.

"It's like a series of ripples in a pond," he said.

An Olympic Challenge

Raynaud's interest in regional cooking began in Michigan in the late '70s, where
he studied under Norwegian chef Stur Olf Andersson, captain of the 1980 U.S.
Olympic Culinary Team.

The culinary olympics, much like the sports Olympics, brings together the most
talented in the field every four years. The culinary olympics is a 100-year-old
competition that originated as a cooking contest in Frankfurt, Germany, and now
meets in the city of Erfurt.

The palate-teasing event showcases the tasty treats of thousands of the world's
best chefs and confectioners, whose baked goods and sweets top off the meal.
Chefs introduce their local cuisines and see how their talents measure up
against their international competitors.

"This is the team that introduced American regional cooking to the world,"
Raynaud said of the 1980 team.

"Our cooking initially reflected English-style cookery, with roast beef and
Yorkshire pudding," he said, "but the olympic team introduced dishes like roast
breast of duck with wild rice, prepared in the Pennsylvania Dutch style."

That interest in regional cooking continued when Raynaud and his family traveled
to almost every area of the country and many provinces in Canada. Raynaud
studied the history of food in all the regions where he worked.

"I researched each area in depth to understand both the food and the style of
cooking that people brought with them," he said.

In Virginia, site of the earliest colony, Raynaud was inspired to research
colonial cookery. As chef in the Swan Terrace of the Virginia Beach Founders'
Inn, he created a menu where opposing pages presented two kinds of meals: dishes
that were representative of the original 13 colonies, and those reflecting the
different regions of the country today.

The colonial side featured offerings like Lowell's Yankee pot roast with apple
chips and herb-roasted potato log. Modern regional favorites included grilled
Georgia quail wrapped in smoked bacon and glazed with wild honey and herbs.

He Manages Staff Of 43

Today, Raynaud takes a global approach. In Mangrove's kitchen, he regularly
updates his menu, always including some of his favorite Asian and Latin touches.
His staff of 43 includes an executive sous chef, the second in command, two
chefs-in-training, and a garnish chef who prepares cold foods.

Ray Guerraro is Raynaud's sous chef. He said he is impressed with his boss'
knowledge and skills.

"Not one day goes by when I haven't learned something from him," he said. "He
can break a recipe down to a molecule."

Garnish chef Sandra Suarez has been at Mangrove's only six months; most recently
she worked at the Seven Springs Golf and Country Club in New Port Richey.

The Ruskin native said she is happy working at this growing Ruskin resort.

"Fred is an excellent executive chef and persistent in doing things the right
way," she said.

The walls of Raynaud's small office are plastered with charts and layouts of
things to come in the Little Harbor Inn complex. He will be involved in all the
culinary updates.

His fingers dart about on the planning sheets, indicating future locations of a
restaurant with exhibition cooking where patrons may sit down and interact with
chefs; a Cuban café; a funky California pizza eatery; a sushi bar; a small
market with gourmet foods; and a wine and cheese shop. A small cooking school
also is slated nearby.

Raynaud hopes to see all these projects through to completion.

"We love the Florida coast and hope to retire right here in Ruskin," he said.

For information on Mangrove's, call (813) 645-3291.

(CHART) TRY YOUR HAND

If you'd like to try one of chef Fred Raynaud's recipes, check out this one for
bread pudding with whiskey sauce:

BREAD PUDDING

(Makes 12 servings)

16 ounces cinnamon Challah Bread (or raisin bread)

8 whole fresh eggs

1 cup of sugar

1/2 cup of brown sugar

3 cups of milk

1 1/2 cups of heavy whipping cream

3 teaspoons of vanilla

1/2 cup of golden raisins

Pan coating as needed

Water, as needed to bake

Directions: Break the challah bread into 1-inch squares. Place in a mixing bowl.
Add the raisins and toss together with the bread. Spray one 2-inch-deep glass
casserole with pan coating. Evenly spread the bread and raisin mix into the
sprayed pan. In a mixing bowl, combine the remaining ingredients and whip
together thoroughly. Pour over the bread and raisin mixture. Try to turn the
crusts face down, as they tend to burn. Place the pan into a larger, deeper pan
and fill with water so it is half way up the sides of the bread pudding pan
(this is the water bath). Place in a pre-heated 325-degree oven and bake for 60
minutes. Remove from the oven and let rest on the counter until ready to serve.
This dish can be made the day before serving and kept in the refrigerator. The
next day, cut into 3-inch-by-3-inch squares and microwave for about a minute.
Place portions on individual plates and top with whiskey sauce.

WHISKEY SAUCE

(Makes 3 cups)

1 1/2 cups of sugar

3/4 cup of butter

3/4 cup of corn syrup

1/4 cup Windsor Canadian Whiskey (or other brand)

Directions: Combine all ingredients, excluding whiskey, and mix well. On low
heat, bring temperature up to 180 degrees. Remove from heat. Pour into a mixing
bowl and, using a wire whip, add whiskey and mix until all ingredients are
incorporated. Keep warm until ready to serve. For added flavor, add a cup of
pecans and a good shot of praline liquor or Frangilica.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Within a year or two, Fred Reynaud will be in charge of several new
restaurants being built in Little Harbor in Ruskin.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SOUTH SHORE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
RUSKIN - Fred Raynaud is passionate about food - its textures, flavors and
myriad ways of pleasing a diner's palette.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 28, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As Season Nears, New Issues Sprout

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

DATELINE: PLANT CITY


Strawberry Farmers Wary Of Labor Shortages, Pests

By JAN HOLLINGSWORTH

The Tampa Tribune

PLANT CITY - For weeks, the farm fields of eastern Hillsborough County have been
preparing for the debut of berry season.

Dressed in neat rows of black plastic that wrapped newly sterilized soil, they
basked beneath clear blue skies, waiting for the seedlings to arrive.

Now, with much of the planting done, the Rainbirds have been hard at work,
spinning great arcs of water over nearly 8,000 acres of thirsty crops.

It is a far cry from the ragged, wind-whipped fields left by three hurricanes in
2004, or the soggy mire from torrential rains that dampened the beginning of
strawberry season in 2005.

"It really has been great. We dodged the bullet this year," said Tommy Brock,
outgoing president of the Florida Strawberry Growers Association.

Mother Nature is usually the growers' biggest challenge, but the success of the
season this year may depend more on the fickle winds of immigration reform,
labor shortages and the rising costs of fuel and pesticides.

Last year was a pretty good one for local growers, except for a few pockets in
berry country that got more than their share of rain.

"Every year is the same, and every year is different. They each have a new
personality," said Chip Hinton, the association's executive director.

Weather, he said, is the most consistent challenge.

"It's also probably the easiest to accept because everyone's on even footing,
and you deal with it," Hinton said.

With predictions of a mild El Nino expected to bring a cool, wet winter and
spring, local weather may be the least of the problems growers face this year.

"Labor is going to be a very real concern for us. And how our Legislature
responds to the situation after the election will have a lot to do with how we
approach this in the long term," he said.

The effects of the immigration dilemma already have reverberated from North
Carolina, where labor shortages delayed shipping this season of seedlings for
planting in the winter strawberry capital of the world.

Help Is Hard To Find

One Carolina supplier is missing 40 of the 150 workers he generally employs to
dig up the young plants.

"They're definitely short of help," Brock said.

Many local workers, who live full time in the Plant City area, already are busy
tending this year's berry crop.

Others are expected to come from other states, including the Carolinas, later in
the season.

"I'm just afraid that's going to be a big problem this year because farmers
already had a problem getting tomatoes and citrus set this summer," he said.

Some berry growers got a late start planting their seedlings due to
transportation delays out of Canada, the largest supplier of young berry plants.

A few shipments took longer because of new trucking rules that require drivers
to take longer layovers between trips, Brock said.

Dover grower Andy Rogers is running a few days behind getting his plants in the
ground, their arrival delayed by a brief cold, wet spell that interfered with
the harvest of the Canadian seedlings he had ordered.

Still, he expects to pick his first hand of Treasures right around the first of
the year - right on schedule. An additional 30 acres of Festivals should be
ready for harvest a week or so after the Treasures come in, he said.

All in all, his season is off to a good start, despite a dry spell that has kept
his sprinklers working to make up for the deficit.

"A few small showers would have been nice," he said. "But not those heavy
rains."

Controlling The Critters

Perhaps the biggest challenge this year came from a quarantine in Quebec, which
almost delayed the shipment of nearly a quarter of Plant City's berry seedlings.

Young plants destined for eastern Hillsborough became entangled in concerns over
Canadian soil contaminated with a type of nematode that targets not berries, but
potatoes, posing a threat to local vegetable farmers.

"The USDA responded very positively and developed a protocol in 17 days to get
the plants out of Quebec to Florida. That's 1,700 acres of plants we wouldn't
have if we hadn't been able to work it out," Hinton said.

Berry growers have long waged war with a variety of native soil-borne critters
that thrive in Florida's warm, moist soil.

For decades, the growers have relied on methyl bromide, a fumigant that
virtually sterilizes the soil of all viruses, fungi and the nematodes that kill
strawberry plants.

But methyl bromide, which is said to damage the earth's ozone layer, is the
subject of a global phaseout.

As growers search for an effective alternative, supplies of the chemical are
dwindling, and the price is rising.

"I guess a lot of this stuff will work, to an extent," said Dover grower Eddie
Mercer. But none offers the cost-effective knock-out punch of methyl bromide.

"With strawberries you look for something that will last the whole season. You
periodically get a buildup of them, and all that will control them is methyl
bromide - and even that has a hard time," he said.

The alternatives also are more expensive.

Mercer has been testing alternatives to methyl bromide for two years - from
different kinds of plastic sheeting to creative ways to kill the critters in the
soil.

Some of the methods involve planting "cover crops" such as mustard greens and
collards that are plowed back into the soil between berry seasons as a deterrent
to a nematode infestation.

"They're trying to find something those rascals might get ahold of and not
like," he said.

One of the products Mercer tested this summer smelled like it had garlic in it -
an ingredient that hails back to the old days, when some farmers used to plant
garlic and disc it into the soil between crops.

"I guess if it keeps away vampires, it'll keep away a nematode," he chuckled.

Still, berry growers know that finding an affordable, effective alternative to
eventually replace methyl bromide is serious business - as serious as the
unresolved immigration issue.

"I think the labor situation is going to be very critical in the coming years -
as critical as methyl bromide," he said.

Reporter Jan Hollingsworth can be reached at (813) 865-4436 or
jhollingsworth@tampatrib .com.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by JIM REED

Photo: Weather can present a challenge for farmers, but this year it "really has
been great. We dodged the bullet this year," said Tommy Brock, outgoing Florida
Strawberry Growers Association president.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Eddie Mercer checks one of his newly planted strawberry fields in Dover.
For two seasons, he has tested alternatives to methyl bromide, used by
strawberry growers to sterilize the soil. Farmers want to phase out the chemical
because it harms the Earth's ozone layer.

Photo: Many workers who live in Plant City full time are already busy tending
this year's berry crop. Others are expected from other states later in the
season. Farmers are concerned about a labor shortage.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Issues Sprout

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PLANT CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

DATELINE: PLANT CITY


Strawberry growers are wary of labor shortages, the cost of fuel and pests.

By JAN HOLLINGSWORTH

The Tampa Tribune

PLANT CITY - For weeks, the farm fields of eastern Hillsborough have been
preparing for the debut of berry season.

Dressed in neat rows of black plastic that wrapped newly sterilized soil, they
basked beneath clear blue skies, waiting for the seedlings to arrive.

With much of the planting done, the Rainbirds have been hard at work, spinning
great arcs of water over nearly 8,000 acres of thirsty crops.

It is a far cry from the ragged, wind-whipped fields left by three hurricanes in
2004 or the soggy mire from torrential rains that dampened the beginning of
strawberry season in 2005.

"It really has been great. We dodged the bullet this year," said Tommy Brock,
president of the Florida Strawberry Growers Association.

Mother Nature is usually the growers' biggest challenge, but the success of this
year's season may depend more on the fickle winds of immigration reform, labor
shortages and the costs of fuel and pesticides.

Last year was a pretty good one for local growers, except for a few pockets in
berry country that got more than their share of rain.

"Every year is the same and every year is different. They each have a new
personality," said Chip Hinton, the association's executive director.

Weather, he said, is the most consistent challenge.

"It's also probably the easiest to accept because everyone's on even footing and
you deal with it," Hinton said.

Labor Concerns

With predictions of a mild El Niño expected to bring a cool, wet winter and
spring, local weather may be the least of the problems growers face this year.

"Labor is going to be a very real concern for us. And how our legislature
responds to the situation after the election will have a lot to do with how we
approach this in the long term," he said.

The effects of the immigration dilemma have reverberated from North Carolina,
where labor shortages delayed the shipping this season of seedlings for planting
in the winter strawberry capital of the world.

One Carolina supplier is missing 40 of the 150 workers he generally employs to
dig up the young plants.

"They're definitely short of help," Brock said.

Many local workers, who live full time in the Plant City area, already are busy
tending this year's berry crop.

Others are expected to come from other states, including the Carolinas, later in
the season.

"I'm just afraid that's going to be a big problem this year because farmers
already had a problem getting tomatoes and citrus set this summer," he said.

Some berry growers got a late start planting their seedlings due to
transportation delays out of Canada, the largest supplier of young berry plants.

A few shipments took longer because of new trucking rules that require drivers
to take longer layovers between trips, Brock said.

Dover grower Andy Rogers was running a few days behind getting his plants in the
ground, their arrival delayed by a brief cold, wet spell that interfered with
the harvest of the Canadian seedlings he had ordered.

Still, he expects to pick his first hand of Treasures right about the first of
the year - right on schedule. Another 30 acres of Festivals should be ready for
harvest a week or so after the Treasures come in, he said.

All in all, his season is off to a good start despite a dry spell that has kept
his sprinklers working to make up for the deficit.

"A few small showers would have been nice," he said. "But not those heavy
rains."

Critter Control

Perhaps the biggest challenge this year came from a quarantine in Quebec that
almost delayed the shipment of nearly a quarter of Plant City's berry seedlings.

Young plants destined for eastern Hillsborough became entangled in concerns
about Canadian soil contaminated with a nematode that targets potatoes, posing a
threat to local vegetable farmers.

"The USDA responded very positively and developed a protocol in 17 days to get
the plants out of Quebec to Florida. That's 1,700 acres of plants we wouldn't
have if we hadn't been able to work it out," Hinton said.

Berry growers have long waged war with a variety of native soil-borne critters
that thrive in Florida's warm, moist soil.

For decades, the growers have relied on methyl bromide, a fumigant that
virtually sterilizes the soil of all viruses, fungi and the nematodes that kill
strawberry plants.

But methyl bromide, which is said to damage the Earth's ozone layer, is the
subject of a global phaseout.

As growers search for an effective alternative, supplies of the chemical are
dwindling and the price is rising.

"I guess a lot of this stuff will work, to an extent," said Dover grower Eddie
Mercer. But none yet offer the cost-effective knockout punch of methyl bromide.

"With strawberries you look for something that will last the whole season. You
periodically get a build-up of them and all that will control them is methyl
bromide - and even that has a hard time," he said.

The alternatives also are more expensive.

Mercer has been testing alternatives to methyl bromide for two years - from
different kinds of plastic sheeting to creative ways to kill the critters in the
soil.

Some of the methods involve planting "cover crops" such as mustard greens and
collards that are plowed back into the soil between berry seasons as a deterrent
to a nematode infestation.

"They're trying to find something those rascals might get ahold of and not
like," he said.

One of the products Mercer tested this summer smelled like it had garlic in it -
an ingredient that hails back to the old days when some farmers would plant
garlic and disc it into the soil between crops.

"I guess if it keeps away vampires, it'll keep away a nematode," he said with a
laugh.

Still, berry growers know that finding an affordable, effective alternative to
replace methyl bromide is serious business - as serious as the unresolved
immigration issue.

"I think the labor situation is going to be very critical in the coming years -
as critical as methyl bromide," he said.

Reporter Jan Hollingsworth can be reached at (813) 865-4436 or
jhollingsworth@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by JIM REED

Photo: Weather can be a challenge, but this year it "really has been great,"
says Tommy Brock, Florida Growers Association president.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: The immigration dilemma has reverberated from North Carolina, where labor
shortages delayed shipping of seedlings this season.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Eddie Mercer checks one of his newly planted fields in Dover. He has been
testing alternatives to methyl bromide to control pests.

Photo: Many workers who live in Plant City are busy tending this year's crop.
However, growers are concerned about having enough pickers.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 108 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 4088 words


BEAR, Joan B., 69, passed away November 25, 2006, in Sun City Center. She was a
former Marine who was a bookkeeper/accountant and a longtime Seffner resident.
Joan was preceded in death by her parents, Leonard and Evelyn Conway; and
brothers, Robert, Joe, David and Walter Conway. She is survived by her loving
husband of 37 years, Thomas Bear; sons, Phillip and Michael Correa; daughter,
Deborah Correa Daniels; stepdaughter, Tracy Bear Luther; brother, Earl Conway;
sister, Jacqueline Smith; grandchildren, Jessica, Jennifer, Jonathan, Aaron and
Angela; great-grandchildren, Austin, Mia, Olivia and William III; and
stepmother, Ruby (Conway) Dell. A funeral service will take place at 10 a.m.
Thursday, November 30, 2006, at Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home, Brandon, with a
gathering of family members and friends one hour prior to service time.
Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home

(813) 689-8121

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com

BECHTLER, Charles, 81, of Spring Hill, Fla., formerly of Pinellas Park, Fla.,
died November 22, 2006. He is survived by his wife, three sons, three daughters
and many grandchildren. Dobies FH

BERMEL, Mary M., 86, of Tampa, died November 25, 2006. She is survived by her
loving family.

Adams & Jennings Funeral Home, Inc.

237-3345

www.adams-jennings.com

BERNICKY, Kathleen I., 72, passed away Sunday, November 26, 2006. Preceded in
death by her husband, Andrew J. Bernicky, and great-grand- daughter, Alyssa
Spivey, she is survived by her sons, Harvey Spivey, Eddie Bernicky and Andrew
Bernicky Jr.; eight grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and two brothers,
Bruce and Ruben Warmack. She was a member of West Broad Street Baptist Church.
Graveside funeral services will take place at 11 a.m. Wednesday at Garden of
Memories Cemetery, followed immediately by a memorial service and luncheon
fellowship at West Broad Street Baptist Church, 3809 W.Broad St., Tampa. An
online guestbook is available at gardenofmemoriestampa.com

GARDEN OF MEMORIES

FUNERAL HOME AND CEMETERY

(813) 626-3161

www.gardenofmemoriestampa.com

BROWN, Dorothy S., 86, of Sun City Center, Fla., passed away November 25, 2006.
She is survived by her husband, Robert, and loving family.

Sun City Center

Funeral Home

(813) 634-9900

BRUEGGEMAN, Charles J., 75, of Sun City Center, Fla., passed away November 25,
2006. He served in the U.S. Army during the Korean conflict and retired after a
lifelong career as a systems analyst with McGraw-Hill Publishing in New York. He
was an active member in the Sun City Center Fitness Center and participated in
the Lawn Bowling Club, Art Club, Tennis Association, Thunderbird Bowling Lanes
Leagues and Sun City Center Emergency Squad, and was past president of the
Greenbriar Home Owners Association. He was preceded in death by his daughter,
JoAnn Brueggeman. Survivors include his wife, Rhoda; a daughter, Terry (Jeff)
Friedman; a stepdaughter, Ellen (Paul Brant) Payne; four grandchildren, Zack and
Noah Friedman, and Ali and Andrew Hamlin; a brother, Harold (Elaine) Brueggeman;
two sisters-in-law, Lynn Brueggeman and Mal Wasserman; a brother-in-law, Ed
(Zelda) Wasserman; and beloved mother-in-law, Ida Wasserman. A memorial service
will take place at 3 p.m. Tuesday, November 28, 2006, at Sun City Center Funeral
Home, 1851 Rickenbacker Drive, Sun City Center, Fla. In lieu of flowers,
memorials may be made to the Sun City Center Emergency Squad, 101 Ray Watson
Drive, Sun City Center, FL 33573.

Sun City Center

Funeral Home

(813) 634-9900

COLEMAN, Herman Vol, 89, passed away Saturday, November 25, 2006, in Tampa. He
was preceded in death by his wife, Evelyn, and his brother. He is survived by
his son, Douglas Coleman, and wife, Yong; daughter, Tammy Coleman; grandsons,
Jeffrey and Jason Coleman; six brothers, three sisters, and numerous family
members and friends. Graveside services will take place at 10 a.m. Wednesday,
November 29, 2006, at Myrtle Hill Memorial Park. The family will receive friends
6-8 p.m. tonight (Tuesday), November 28, 2006, at Garden of Memories Funeral
Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa. Words of comfort may be expressed to the family
at gardenofmemoriestampa.com

GARDEN OF MEMORIES

FUNERAL HOME AND CEMETERY

(813) 626-3161

www.gardenofmemoriestampa.com

DOMINGUEZ, Israel R., 64, of Tampa, passed away Sunday November 26, 2006. A
native of Havana, Cuba, and resident of Tampa for the past 26 years, Mr.
Dominguez is survived by his wife, Maria; mother, Maria "Cuca" Carballo;
daughter, Adis Reda, and husband, Chris; brother, Reynee A. Dominguez, and wife,
Margarita; nephews, Alex, Michael and Victor Dominguez; and great-nephew, Diego
Dominguez. Catholic funeral services will take place at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday at
the chapel of JGR Funeral Home. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to
LifePath Hospice, 3010 W, Azeele St., Tampa, FL 33609, in his memory. The family
will receive friends 6-9 p.m. Wednesday at the chapel of

JGR Funeral Home

Julio & Adolfo Gonzalez-Roel

6718 N. Armenia Ave.

813.932.5308

GARDNER, Rose Ann, 79, died November 26, 2006, in Tampa. She was born October
20, 1927, in Newark, Ohio. A lifelong resident of Florida, she was a registered
nurse, retired from Town & Country Hospital. She was predeceased by parents,
George M. and Rosa Lee Lewis, and former husband, Dr. C.S. Gardner, D.C. She is
survived by sisters, Laura Lou Lewis (Carolyn Smith), Sunny J. Boleman and
Georgia Lee (Billy) Athey; by daughter, Marsha (Steve) DeWeese; and
granddaughter, Allison DeWeese. She had five nieces and one nephew, along with
great-nieces, great-nephews and many friends. She was a member of Keystone
United Methodist Church and the Order of the Eastern Star Chapter 209. Rose Ann
asked to be remembered that she enjoyed life and loved to laugh. Cremation will
follow at Holloway Funeral Home, Oldsmar.

GILLHAM, Donald W., 66, passed into the arms of his Savior November 25, 2006,
after a hard courageous battle against lung cancer. Don was at home surrounded
by his loving family. He is survived by his wife, Glenda; his mother, Kathren
Hackworth; mother-in-law, Ruth Healan; brother, Raymond Gillham Jr.; and 10
children, 19 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. They are Tammy Gillham
(deceased), Cindy Corrie, her sons, Dale, Dan (deceased) and Scott, and their
children Scotty, Nathaniel, Dominic, Harley, Daniel and Autumn of Cloverdale,
Ind., Donna Massey and her son, Michael, of Shelbyville, Ind., Don Gillham Jr.
(Denise) and his children, Nicholas, Melissa and Christopher of Tampa, Mary
Gillham and her children, Matthew and Ashley Kidder and Alyssa Delatore of
Spartanburg, S.C., Kevin Gillham (Sissy) and his daughter, Myndi, of Cape Coral,
Fla., Kathy Beuerman and her children Robert, Kristen and Tylor, of Fort Myers,
stepdaughter, Julie McMullen (Gary), and her children, Lisa Riscile and Jarrod
Smith of Tampa, stepson, Bobby Luckey, and his sons, Jamie and Evan of Auburn,
Ga., stepdaughter, Becky Smith (Stephen), and her children, Shawn and Corey of
Tampa, and a stepdaughter, Pat Perryman of Brandon. In July 1991, Don became a
heart transplant recipient and the family would like to once again thank the
Osburn family of Pensacola for their courageous act in donating their son Ryan's
organs. We've had 15 wonderful years with Don (son, brother, husband, father,
grandfather and great-grandfather) that wouldn't have been possible without
their caring. We would also like to thank the members of LifePath Hospice, Green
Team, for their compassionate care during these last weeks, especially Tatia and
Michelle, who were with us on the last day. The family will receive friends from
11:30 a.m. until services begin at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, 2006, at
Garden of Memories Funeral Home. Interment will follow after the service at
Garden of Memories Cemetery. www.gardenofmemoriestampa.com

GARDEN OF MEMORIES

FUNERAL HOME AND CEMETERY

(813) 626-3161

www.gardenofmemoriestampa.com

KING, Charlene Culbertson, 56, of Seffner, entered into rest November 22, 2006.
She was a retired detective with the Tampa Police Department. Preceded in death
by her mother, Margaret Fischer, she is survived by her husband, Robert L. King
III; father, Charles Fischer, and wife, Jean; sister, Carol Holland, and
husband, Bob; niece, Michelle Holland; and nephew, Michael Holland. A memorial
service will take place at 10 a.m. Wednesday, November 28, 2006, at Stowers
Brandon Chapel. Stowers-Brandon

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com

MARANDO, Raoul Jospeh, 66, died November 25, 2006. He is survived by his wife,
Susan; his children, Shawn, Michael, April, Cassandra, Deborah and Kimberly; 13
grandchildren and a great-grandchild. Gonzalez FH

MERCKLING, Bertha Agnes "Birdie," 94, formerly of Columbus, Ohio, died Tuesday,
November 21, 2006, in Brandon, Fla. Bertha was an administrative service manager
for the State of Ohio, a former member of Sacred Heart Catholic Church and
member of the Daughters of Erin. Preceded in death by her husband, James W.
Merckling, and granddaughter, Molly Ann Staley, she is survived by her children,
Jim (Glory) Merckling of Brandon, Fla., Richard Quinn of Columbus, Ruth (Jim)
Berger of Powell, Ohio, Rita (Woodrow) Hutchison of Columbus, and Cindy Quinn of
Utah; six grand-children; six great-grand- children; sister, Ruth Kunkel;
sister-in-law and dear friend, Theus Merckling; and many nieces, nephews and
other relatives. Friends may call 6-8 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, at
Schoedinger Hilltop Chapel, 3030 W. Broad St., Columbus. Requiem High Mass will
take place at 10 a.m. Thursday, November 30, at Sacred Heart Catholic Church,
893 Hamlet St., with Father Kevin Lutz, Father Charles Griffin and Monsignor
John Johnson, concelebrants. Interment will be at Mount Calvary Cemetery. In
lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to St. Jude Children's
Hospital, P.O. Box 1000, Deptartment 300, Memphis, TN 38148. To email
condolences, visit www.schoedinger.com

MILAM, Robert L., 81, retired from the U.S. Air Force, of Tampa, passed away
Wednesday, November 22, 2006. He was born in Grace, Miss., and is survived by
two sisters and their husbands; his only son and wife, Robert and Sue Milam of
Tampa; four grandchildren and 14 great- grandchildren. May he rest in peace.
There will be a gathering of family members and friends 10-11 a.m. Thursday,
November 30, at Blount & Curry Funeral Home, 605 S. MacDill Ave. Interment will
follow at Florida National Cemetery with military honors by MacDill Air Force
Base.

BLOUNT & CURRY FUNERAL HOME

MacDILL CHAPEL

(813) 876-2421

www.blountcurry.com

MILLER, Ronnie D. Sr., 64, of Tampa, passed away November 26, 2006. Funeral
service and visitation times will be announced.

www.macdonaldfuneral.com

MURPHY, Ingrid Wrede, 80, of Tampa, passed away Saturday, November 25, 2006, of
respiratory failure after a long illness. A teacher by nature and profession,
she entertained, inspired, illuminated and comforted hundreds of students and
all those whose lives she touched. Her sense of adventure, humor and can-do
attitude never failed her in all her journeys, as she traveled around the world
and finally as she gracefully fought for and then gave up this life, still
trying to comfort all those around her. With her faith in the goodness of
humanity and love of God, she transcended adversity and lived a life of
compassion and concern for others. She had a knack for finding the good in other
people and every situation, and she showered those around her with light and
love and thoughtfulness. She was an avid gardener and knitter, including
knitting thousands of hats for newborns at Tampa General Hospital. She was born
in Hamburg, Germany June 15, 1926 and emigrated to the United States in 1951
after receiving her Ph.D. in English Literature from the University of Vienna.
She was an assistant professor at St. Joseph's College in West Hartford, Conn.,
where she met her husband, Bob. In 1966, they moved their family to Tampa.
Ingrid taught at Tampa Preparatory School and then at the University of Tampa
and the University of South Florida until her retirement. She is survived by her
husband and best friend of 51 years, Bob; brother, Wiwa Wolff of Switzerland;
daughters, Ingrid Rabaut, Monica Murphy, Gigi Murphy, Judi Murphy, and Teresa
McAree; son, Bob Murphy; 14 grandchildren; in-laws, Mike Rabaut, Mike Lewis, Wes
Hamilton, Terry McAree, Ruth Murphy, Frances Murphy, Helen and Jay Tepperman,
Holde Michael, Annlies von Bernstorff, Margrith Zahner; and countless extended
family members and loving friends both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. She will be
missed by

all who knew her. In loving memory, there will be a viewing at noon Friday,
December 1, 2006, at St. Paul Catholic Church North Dale Mabry Highway, followed
by a funeral Mass at 2 p.m. and celebration after. In honor of her handicapped
daughter, Judi, donations may be made to MacDonald Training Center of Tampa.
www.macdonaldcenter.org Gonzalez Funeral Home

7209 N. Dale Mabry Highway Tampa, Fla.

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com

PEARSON, Bruce E., of Tampa, passed away November 23, 2006. He is survived by
his loving wife, Carol, and her three sons, James, Robert and Thomas Hoskins.
Bruce is loved and fondly remembered by many friends and his brothers, James and
Donald; and sisters, Cheryl Wilson and Deborah Dewhirst. Bruce's parents, James
David Pearson and Louise Millsaps Pearson, preceded him in death, and he is
rejoined with them now in peace. Bruce was a longtime resident of Tampa, and
after earning his law degree from the University of Florida, practiced as an
attorney in the Tampa area.

POLEGE, Robert J. "Bob," 58, of Odessa, Fla., passed away peacefully after a
short illness November 23, 2006. He was born in Tomahawk, Wis. and grew up in
Wausau, Wis. He spent time in the northeast and moved to Tampa in 1989. Bob was
a graduate of University of Wisconsin and did post graduate work at Bentley
College in Boston. He had a long, successful career as a sales executive in the
healthcare industry. Survivors include his loving wife of 37 years, Ginny; two
sons, Joshua and David of Tampa; his parents, Luther and Grace Polege of Wausau,
Wis.; his brother, Charles Polege of Wausau, Wis.; his brother, the Rev. Donald
Polege and his wife, Sharolyn, of Lisbon, N.D.; and his sister, Mary Wilson and
her husband, Bill, of Lecanto, Fla. The family will receive friends from 2:30
p.m. until service time at 3 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, 2006, at Blount &
Curry Funeral Home West Chapel, 6802 Silvermill Dr., Tampa. Interment will take
place at a later date. Please contact the funeral home regarding memorial
donations in Bob's name.

BLOUNT & CURRY FUNERAL HOME

WEST CHAPEL

(813) 814-4444

www.blountcurry.com

POLK, Daryl W., 84, of Bell, Fla., died November 25, 2006, at North Florida
Regional Medical Center in Gainesville, Fla. He was born in High Springs, Fla.,
and had been in the area 1-1/2 years. He was a glass cutter, a member of Mount
Horab Baptist Church, Hillsborough Masonic Lodge 25 and lived on Himes Avenue
for 50 years. He is survived by his loving family and friends. Visitation will
take place 5:30-7:30 p.m. Tuesday, November 28, 2006 at Watson Funeral Home.
Funeral services will take place at 11 a.m. Wednesday, November 29, 2006, at
Watson Funeral Home Chapel, 426 W. Wade St., Trenton, with Pastor Randy Peters
conducting the services. A Masonic graveside service will follow at 2 p.m. at
Day Cemetery. Arrangements are under the care of Watson Funeral Home

REMIG, Vivian "Vicki," 73, of Temple Terrace, Fla., passed away November 23,
2006. She was predeceased by her husband, Don Remig Sr., and daughters, Dawn Coy
and Holly Margaret. She is survived by three sons, Douglas (Maureen), Tampa, and
Christopher and Don Jr. of Bradenton; two sisters, Shirley Adema, Temple
Terrace, and Sandra Gray, Tampa; two grandchildren, Jonathan (Nicole) and Julia,
Tampa; two great-grandchildren, Stephanie and Sarah; many nieces and nephews; as
well as numerous friends. Arrangements will be announced. In lieu of flowers,
donations may be made to the American Heart Association, Terrace Oaks Funeral
Home, Temple Terrace

RODRIGUEZ, Maximo Jorge, 70, passed away Tuesday, November 21, 2006, in Tampa. A
memorial Mass will take place at 2:30 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, 2006, at St.
Joseph's Catholic Church. Gonzalez Funeral Home

ROMANO, Rose G., 96, died Saturday, November 25, 2006, at home under the care of
LifePath Hospice. She was the daughter of Giuseppe and Angelina Guida and wife
of Jimmy Romano. She is survived by her sister, Mary G. Scolaro of Tampa; and
many nieces and nephews. The oldest of six children, she was predeceased by two
brothers, Leo and Jack Guida; and two sisters, Antoinette Perrone and Josie
Casella. Rose was dedicated to the well-being and comfort of her family and
friends. She was known for her hard work, organization and sense of direction,
as well as many "Roseisms", her unique way of expressing her thoughts. Funeral
services will be conducted 2 p.m. Tuesday, November 28, 2006, at Boza & Roel
Funeral Home, 4730 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa. Interment will follow at the Italian
Club Cemetery. The family will receive family and friends 1-2 p.m. Tuesday at
the funeral home. Pallbearers will be John Bastone, Joseph Guida, Lenny Guida,
Dennis Perrone, Anthony Scolaro, Edward Scolaro and Anthony Edward Scolaro. In
lieu of flowers, the family has asked that contributions be made to the Italian
Club Cemetery, Inc. (Restoration Fund), P.O. Box 5054 Tampa, FL 33675, LifePath
Hospice, 3010 W. Azeele St., Tampa, FL 33609, or Humane Society of Tampa Bay,
3607 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa, FL 33607. The family thanks Rose's caregivers, Ada
Curnow, Jonell Coban and Nerayda Martinez for their gentle dedication to her
comfort and respect for her dignity. The family would also like to thank Dr.
Richard Cohen and his staff for their kindness and thoughtful attention to her
care. In addition, the family thanks Dr. Matthew Glover for his advice and
compassion as she completed her circle of life.

BOZA & ROEL FUNERAL HOME

(813) 877-7676

www.bozaroel.com

RUARK, Bill, 76, of Valrico, entered into rest November 26, 2006. He was a
member of the Church of the Nazarene and served in the U.S. Air Force for 20
years and 20 years as head chef at Ralph K. Davies Medical Center in San
Francisco. He was a member and past commander of Veterans of Foreign Wars Post
4103, South San Francisco, and was a volunteer for 22 years with the food bank.
Preceded in death by his brothers, Manuel, Kenneth and Sherman, and sisters,
Edna Boone, Naomi Ruark and Helen Carney, he is survived by his loving wife,
Dorothy; son, William C.; daughters, Karen Y. Van Wart and Ronda K. Stevens;
daughter-in-kind, Leslie Fuller; sisters, Lilly Ulrich, Mary Manning and Opal
West; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Services will be
conducted 4 p.m. Thursday, November 30, 2006, at Stowers Brandon Chapel. The
family will receive friends one hour prior at the funeral home. In lieu of
flowers contributions may be made to the Church of the Nazarene or the
Alzheimer's Association in his memory. Stowers-Brandon

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com

SALVAGGIO, Ruth G., 78, passed away November 25, 2006, in Sun City Center. She
was a military nurse, serving in the Women's Army Corps for six years, then went
on to work at St. Joseph's Hospital for 10 years and then retired from Dr. J.C.
Flynn's practice in Tampa. Ruth was preceded in death by her son, Michael
Salvaggio; a brother, Donald Kenyon; and her parents, Luther and Edna Kenyon.
She is survived by her son, Richard Salvaggio (Lisa); grandchildren, Brian
(Ashlee), Teresa and Pamela; and a great-grandchild, Ricky. In lieu of flowers,
donations can be made to LifePath Hospice, Tampa, or the charity of your choice
in her name. Hillsboro Funeral Home

(813) 689-8121

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com

SAUNDERS, Daphne M., 88, of Tampa, passed away November 26, 2006. She is
survived by her son, Douglas Saunders, Tampa; daughters, Louenis Kvaltine,
Gainesville, and Marlene Mondragon, Acworth, Ga.; sister, Thora Zeidler, Tampa;
eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Funeral services will take
place at 10 a.m. at the funeral home, 1602 W. Waters Ave. The family will
receive friends from 9:30 a.m. until service time. Swilley Funeral Home (813)
932-6157

SHELTON, Elbert G., died November 22, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Diane
and loving family. Funeral services wil take place at 11 a.m. November 29, 2006
at Aikens Funeral Home Chapel

SIEN, Howard, 83, of Clearwater, Fla., died November 20, 2006. He is survived by
his son, Harold; daughter, Diane; sister, Idell; grandchildren;
great-grandchildren; and nephew, Richard. Dobies FH

STARR, Albert, 91, of Tampa, died Sunday, November 28, 2006. He is survived by
his wife of 65 years, Bernice, and his loving family. A graveside service will
be 2:30 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, 2006, at Beth Israel Cemetery with Rabbi
Marc Sack officiating. An online guest book and additional information is
available at www.segalfuneralhome.com

Segal Funeral Home

An online guestbook is available at

www.segalfuneralhome.com

Beth David Chapel

813-874-3330

STULLEY, Patricia "Pat," 63, of Lakeland, Fla., died November 23, 2006. She is
survived by her three sons, her daughter and six grandchildren. Heath Funeral
Chapel

TAYLOR, Jean Beverly (Shafer), 79, passed away Friday, November 24, 2006. A
native of Urbana, Ill., who moved to Tampa in 1958, Jean was a great lover of
life who enjoyed reading, traveling, and hosting parties for friends and family
members. She was a warm and generous homemaker whose heart and front door were
open to everyone. She is survived by her children, Susan (Lennon), Hank, Jean
Ann (Cloud), Critt, Ric and Dic; and nine grandchildren. She was predeceased by
her husband, Max, and two children, Gary Lewis and Tric Kayden. A gathering of
family members and friends will take place 5-7 p.m. Wednesday, November 29, at
Blount & Curry Funeral Home, 605 S. MacDill Ave. The family requests that, in
lieu of flowers, donations be made to LifePath Hospice of Tampa.

THERRIEN, Rachel Jean, 22, of Tampa, died Friday,

November 24, 2006. She is survived by her mother and stepfather, Eileen and
Ernest Charette; her father, Frederic Therrien; her brother, Alexander; her
boyfriend, Josh McQuade; and a number of aunts, uncles and cousins. A 2002
graduate of Hillsborough High School IB Program, she attended the University of
Florida and Hillsborough Community College. Rachel worked for Stream, Inc. and
enjoyed the support and kindness of many friends there. The family will receive
friends 5-7 p.m. Tuesday, November 28, at St. Timothy Catholic Church in Lutz,
Fla. A memorial Mass will follow. In lieu of flowers, donations to Help Brings
Hope to Haiti or to the Sisters of St. Therese the Little Flower of
Gasorwe-Burundi (Africa) will be accepted and forwarded by the family.

WALLS, Catherine "Kate," passed away November 23, 2006, at her home surrounded
by her loving family. She is survived by her sister, Reva; her eight children,
George (Diana), Donald (Marilyn), Joan, Karen (John), Linda (John), Phillip
(Barbara), William (Shirley) and Mary; 17 grandchildren and 23
great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be conducted at 10 a.m. Tuesday,
November 28, 2006, at Incarnation Catholic Church. In lieu of flowers, the
family requests donations to LifePath Hospice, 3010 Azeele St., Tampa, FL 33609.

WEIS, Sophie "Mom," 90, of St. Petersburg, passed away Saturday, November 25,
2006, in her home. She was born in Alameda, Calif. She married "the love of her
life," Nick Weis, in 1937 and they had 53 loved-filled years together. Together
they moved to Wisconsin and started their family. Soon after, they moved to
Tampa. She lived a long and happy life, and cherished every moment she spent
with family and friends. Mom was an inspiration to everyone she met. he enjoyed
cruising, dancing and learning her Greek heritage. She was a member of the Red
Hats. She is survived by her devoted son, Stephen Weis, and Jenni Marshall; her
loving daughter, Estelle Simmons, and son-in-law, Ron; four grandchildren, whom
she adored; four great-grandchildren; and six living siblings. Viewing will be
4-8 p.m. Tuesday, November 28, at Memorial Park Funeral Home, 5750 49th St. N.,
St. Petersburg. Funeral services will commence at 10 a.m. at St. Stefanos Greek
Orthodox Church, 3600 76th St. N., St. Petersburg.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
