
                               3 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 8, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Florida's increasing sea levels give rise to dubious forecasts;

BYLINE: GEORGE A. MAUL;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 691 words


It is too often assumed that rising sea levels along the Florida coast are due
to global  warming. So easy is it to buy into this assumption that an assistant
administrator at the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency told a conference of
wildlife managers in Orlando earlier this  year that by the middle of the next
century, global warming will cause the Everglades to be flooded  and will
destroy at least half of the coastal wetlands in the United States.

Global warming, the EPA official asserted, may be a bigger problem for fish and
wildlife than  DDT, lead or any other environmental poison. EPA warnings about
the adverse effects of climate  change were echoed on national television by the
head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration and the director of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Can we say that the Earth now is clearly on a path that is environmentally
unsustainable from  human-induced global warming? As an oceanographer, I think
good science does not allow us to say  yes. Simply put, uncertainty continues to
cloud a complex issue. At the heart of the problem is the  reality that it is
very difficult to find - or rule out - factual relationships between the burning

 of fossil fuels and global climate change.

If global warming from the increasing concentration of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere is  responsible for rising sea levels, as some officials attest, then
why has there been no  acceleration in sea-level rise over the past century?

At Key West we have the longest instrument record of sea level in the Western
Hemisphere, dating  back to 1846. While sea level has been rising at a steady
pace since then, there is no evidence  that sea-level rise has actually sped up.

Moreover, there is no evidence in the numerous sea-level records around Florida
nor in the World  Meteorological Organization's Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change predictions of future  sea-level rise that would cause the
Everglades to be flooded by the middle of the next century.  IPCC predictions of
global sea-level rise through the middle of the next century extend from 4
inches to 15 inches, a range of great uncertainty.

Bear in mind that these are global estimates. Models of ocean climate change
suggest that  sea-level rise will be greater at higher latitudes than in the
tropics. Sea-level change at any  particular site will depend on many factors,
including vertical land motion and oceanic  temperature.

Another thing we know is that the pressure on nature comes from many sources,
but above all,  human activity. In 1993 I chaired a United Nations-sponsored
task team of 29 scientists from  countries in North, Central and South America,
Europe and the Caribbean who studied climate changes  in a region that included
Florida and waters off both coasts. For this region we determined that  "less of
a climate change is expected than for other areas of Earth, but that human
population  pressure will significantly stress the region's environment."

As a scientist, I am naturally troubled that even the most extreme predictions
of climate change  are being taken as gospel. It is ironic, and troubling, that
the computer models used to predict  sea-level rise are predicting smaller and
smaller rises as the models mature. EPA models in the  early 1980s predicted
changes of more than 7 feet by the middle of the next century; models today
predict about 9 inches of global sea-level rise.

What is emerging is how little we scientists truly know about some aspects of
climate - such as  the role of solar events - and the consequences of such
factors on the course of climate change.

On balance, there is little to be lost and perhaps a great deal to be gained by
waiting for  scientists to settle the many unanswered questions about global
warming before policy makers take  actions that will affect everyone's life and
livelihood.  George A. Maul is a professor of oceanography and director of the
Division of Marine and Environmental Systems in the College of Engineering at
Florida Institute of Technology in Melbourne.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Florida's coast shows increases in sea level, but the variable changes
can't be explained by global warming.  Tribune file photo (1997)

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    July 15, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Ads singe Young and Miller, link global warming votes to wildfires;

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 711 words


TAMPA - The Florida wildfires ignite environmental battles in Washington,
scorching two local  members of Congress.

An environmental organization is running radio advertising accusing Republican
U.S. Reps. C.W.  Bill Young of St. Petersburg and Dan Miller of Bradenton of
"fiddling while Florida burns" by voting  to stop government action on global
warming.

The ads, linked to the wave of wildfires that has scorched Florida, are part of
a nationwide  campaign against what environmentalists call "anti-environment"
riders being attached to the 1999  spending bill for the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.

Vice President Al Gore, who also has linked the Florida wildfires to global
climate change  caused by pollution, joined the fight Tuesday with strong
language aimed at Republicans.

"Congress' approach to global warming is, know nothing, do nothing, say
nothing," Gore said during  a news conference on new evidence of global
temperature changes. "It's time to act. How much longer  will politicians with
their heads in the sand hold out for doing nothing?"

The ads criticize a measure that would forbid any EPA research, policy-making or
public  education connected with the global warming treaty adopted in December
at a meeting in Kyoto,  Japan.

Miller confirmed he voted for the measure.

"The Senate hasn't even ratified the treaty yet," he said Tuesday. "Why should
we fund something  that hasn't been agreed to?"

Miller remains unconvinced about global warming, and worried that the lower
pollution levels the  treaty requires would cost jobs and raise prices.

"The science is just not strong enough to justify the serious economic impact,"
he said.

Young said he accepts that pollution is causing global climate change - "I've
been very concerned  about anything that adds to the pollution of the atmosphere
or global warming," he said.

But he still thinks the EPA measure was appropriate.

"If the protocol's not ratified, you can't spent money on it," he said. "And
there are many  credible people in the environmental community who agree with
what we've done, and believe the  Kyoto protocols are confused, complicated and
worthless."

Regardless of whether the treaty has been ratified, its goals of reducing the
pollution that  causes global warming should be addressed, said Greg Wetstone of
the National Resources Defense  Council, which is running the ads.

"There are sensible things to do to get ready," Wetstone said. "They're saying
any action on global  warming would be an attempt to implement the treaty before
it's ratified."

Gore and the environmentalists don't claim to have proof that global warming
caused the fires.

But they say the fires, and the wet winter and hot, dry summer that helped cause
them, are  "examples of extreme weather of exactly the kind scientists have been
predicting for years because  of global climate change," in Wetstone's words.

The ads are running on two Tampa stations this week.

"The world's top scientists tell us global warming, fueled by pollution, will
bring more droughts  and uncontrollable fires," the ads say. "But rather than
working to prevent such disasters, even  while our state was burning,
Congressmen Young and Miller voted to silence government experts."

Both are unopposed for re-election in November. But Wetstone said the ads
"aren't about the  elections. We're trying to get members of Congress to come to
grips with the issue."

At the White House, Gore said new data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  show that each month of 1998 has been the hottest of its kind
ever recorded, based on measurements  back to 1880.

"There is no time in recorded data history that we have seen this sequence of
record-setting for  six consecutive months," NOAA Administrator James Baker
said, calling the findings "remarkable and  sobering."

According to NOAA, the hottest 13 years on record have occurred since 1980, and
four of the  hottest five since 1990.

Critics of the global warming theory argue that short-term temperature data are
inadequate to  predict long-term trends and that the scientific community
remains divided about it.  William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 30, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Gore's half answer to global warming;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words


Parts of America are so hot this summer that going outside is like opening the
oven to check on  the cookies, complains Vice President Al Gore.

Humans, he says, are to blame, and we Americans must take action to stop the
warming trend  before our cookies burn. Over and over he makes the point that if
we trust him, he'll show us how  to turn down the heat.

The summer has indeed been a scorcher. In Britain, bets are being made on
whether the  temperature will top 100 for the first time. Global warming, the
buildup of heat-trapping gases in  the atmosphere, could be to blame. Scientists
disagree on exactly what is happening, and they are  continually updating their
data and revising recently held opinions.

Just the other day, two scientists in California took a closer look at
temperature readings from  satellites and concluded that earlier analysis failed
to consider tiny changes in the satellites'  orbits, so that their readings now
show a warming of about 0.13 of a degree per decade, slightly  higher than was
first reported.

Let's assume that they're still underestimating the change and that it is really
more like a  quarter of a degree per decade. Let's further assume that the
global burning of fuels is largely  responsible for the increase and that the
increase is dangerous. And let's also discount the  possibility that something
natural will occur, such as increased cloudiness, to bring nature back  in
balance.

Assume all that and then consider what the White House seems to be advocating: a
reduction in  this country of greenhouse gases to the level they were in 1990,
in line with the Kyoto agreement.

We say "seems" because if Gore and the president really wanted to meet that
goal, they would be  pushing Congress hard to pass laws to get it done. Congress
wisely won't pass such economy-choking  legislation, at least not until the
countries of the developing world agree to cut their emissions  too.

But the prospect of defeat in Congress is not why no legislation has been
proposed. Gore doesn't  really want action now because it would burn him quicker
than going barefoot on Tampa asphalt.

A serious cut in smoky emissions would cost serious money and anger voters. A
group called  Floridians for Responsible Climate Change cites a study by the
petroleum industry that predicts  residents of the Sunshine State would have to
cut energy use by about 30 percent to meet Gore's  goals.

That means that by 2010, Florida would lose nearly 145,000 jobs. Fifteen
thousand jobs would be  lost in Florida's manufacturing sector, and 70,000 would
be lost in jobs related to tourism and  other services. Also, 2,300 agricultural
workers would be put out of work.

To get motorists to drive less, the gasoline taxes would have to increase by 50
cents per  gallon. Household energy bills would increase by about $ 1,000 a
year.

Unemployment would rise and the cost of energy, housing and food would go up.
The economic  slowdown would cause incomes to fall. Even the national defense
would suffer, should the Pentagon  have to go along with a 10 percent reduction
in emissions. There is even some talk of imposing  fuel-economy standards on
battle tanks.

Global warming and the high cost of countering it are serious matters, and the
ramifications of  both deserve honest debate, in scientific circles as well as
on the political stage.

What Gore, who appears to have more urgent problems himself, wants is an issue
in his 2000  campaign for president, and he wants only half of that issue, the
half in which he offers to lead  the world out of the oven.  He doesn't talk
about the enormous costs of getting us back to 1990 emissions levels, which
itself  seems far short of making a dent in an emissions buildup as old as the
Industrial Age.

What Gore wants is to be able to blame Republicans for bad weather without
paying the political  price for forcing energy habits to change. He is casting
himself as rainmaker, and if he sells that  act to voters, the outlook for our
republic will be dreary with a continued chance of being  half-baked.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 1, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HQ in jeopardy?

BYLINE: Compiled by The Tribune Business News staff

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 882 words


Change of some sort appears to be in the air at the Harbour Island headquarters
of Evenflo & Spalding Holdings Corp., but executives are mum on the future of
the 22-person office.

The company acknowledged in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing
that it was considering the sale of the Evenflo side of its business to another
affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the investment firm that owns a majority
stake in Evenflo & Spalding.

Michael Kipphut, Evenflo & Spalding's vice president for finance, last week
offered no details on a possible sale or what it would mean to the Tampa office
that oversees the two operations.

"There are so many things up in the air, we don't have a certain path that we're
going down at this point that we can share," he said.

The two businesses are among the most recognizable names in sporting goods and
baby products.

Spalding is based in Chicopee, Mass.; Evenflo is in Piqua, Ohio. The combined
companies lost $ 30 million on annual sales of $ 827.2 million in 1997.  Also in
island news ...

We hear Post Properties Inc.'s apartments at Harbour Island are renting like hot
cakes.

In fact, word on the street is that Post wants to build more apartments on the
island's last piece of vacant land. It's reportedly negotiating with owner
Beneficial Corp. for the 17-acre tract.

Last year, Atlanta-based Post built 210 upscale apartments on the downtown
island, lured by rapidly filling office towers and entertainment destinations
like the Ice Palace.

Beneficial wouldn't comment and Post officials couldn't be reached.  Double duty

Next time you assume that CPAs work hard only in the month of April, think of
the folks doing yeoman duty at Metropolitan Life in Tampa.

The financial staff there essentially is doing double duty in preparation for an
expected initial public stock offering by the insurance giant.

That's because they're starting to keep two sets of books: one using the
accounting that state regulators require, the other using the methods required
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Naturally, the staff isn't getting any more bodies to do this extra work.

A bill that would authorize a conversion from mutual to stock ownership is tied
up in the Legislature in New York, where Met Life is incorporated.

If the bill passes - hardly a sure thing, given that Ralph Nader is fighting it
- Met Life would sell 49 percent of its stock to the public. Policyholders would
retain majority ownership.

But even if the bill fails, Met Life figures it will find some way to go public,
which explains extra work for the financial staff.

Met Life employs about 1,000 in Tampa, where the company handles virtually all
of its finance and accounting work.  Wow, a 180-wheeler!

Hats off to Clearwater PR man Ron Stuart for a mea culpa with grace.

Stuart's firm put out a news release about a 375-foot tractor trailer that
Tampa-based Measure America was supposedly hauling around to job sites, where it
uses laser technology to measure the square footage of buildings.

Yep, that's 375 feet, as in the length of a football field including the end
zones and then some. (And to think AAA is scared by the thought of triple
trailers.)

Alas, the Spruce Goose of the highway is a mere 37 feet, as Stuart dutifully
noted in a follow up correction. "It would have been one helluva trailer," he
told us.

Indeed. Still, we hope those building measurements also don't take on an extra
digit ...  An insecure future

This ought to scare you a bit if you're working for one of the state's major
employers: Chances are pretty high that your boss isn't sure whether the company
can handle change.

A survey of 45 Florida CEOs showed that while 60 percent predict a great deal of
change ahead, only half think their companies are prepared to deal with those
changes.

Among CEOs who think big changes are ahead, only 37 percent thought their
companies were able to adequately monitor the business climate and find ways to
take advantage of opportunities or neutralize threats stemming from changes.

Miami-based Bristol Consulting Group, which did the survey, concluded that CEOs
who didn't seem so confident were merely the types of people who set higher
standards than others.  Misdials

For businesses marketing products or services, incoming calls are key to new
business.

You can miss out if a competitor intercepts calls.

According to Richard M. Hanchett an attorney with Trenam, Kemker, Scharf,
Barkin, Frye, O'Neill & Mullisin Tampa, companies should pay closer attention to
phone numbers that could lead to "predictable misdials."

If you're not alert, Hanchett said, you leave the door open for competitors to
acquire those numbers and possibly intercept calls intended for your business.

He cites a recent case in which Holiday Inn established a toll-free customer
information line: 1-800-HOLIDAY.

A competitor acquired a predictable misdial of Holiday's Inn's number, replacing
the letter "O" with the number zero and began receiving calls intended for
Holiday Inn.

The court held that Holiday Inn had no rights to the predictable misdial number
and that there had been no violations of Holiday Inn's rights because the
defendant had not deliberately caused confusion.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT WE HEAR

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 16, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Al the weatherman;

BYLINE: MARSHA MERCER;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words


WASHINGTON - While President Clinton endures the sizzling summer of Monica, Al
Gore has become  the nation's weatherman.

How hot is it, Al?

"This was the hottest July in the history of the world since modern records have
been kept," the  vice president reported last week.

"July wasn't just the hottest July on record - it was the hottest month on
record, period. The  hottest month since we began keeping reliable records more
than 118 years ago."

Last month Gore warned that June had been the warmest June ever. In fact, every
month this year  has set a new record for the average monthly global
temperature, Gore tells us.

And, he insists, unless we mend our profligate ways, we can expect even more
disastrous weather -  more heat waves, more desertlike droughts, more flooding,
more killer storms, more choking smog.

OK, so he's no cheery Willard Scott.

It seems bizarre for the vice president, especially one with dreams of winning
the White House,  to rail against Mother Nature.

But Gore, the leading contender for the Democratic presidential nomination in
2000, isn't really  bad-mouthing nature for the catastrophic fires, floods and
storms that have plagued the country  recently.

He faults the Republican-led Congress for failing to address global warming.

Now that the Cold War is over, politicians are searching for issues that will
mobilize  contributors and voters. Some have latched onto homosexuality. Others
onto taxes or Social  Security.

Gore evidently believes people may be ready for an environmentally aware
president who can save  us from climate doom.

"The good news is we can stop this," Gore says. "We know what to do. ... It will
be hard, but we  can do something about it."

For now, Gore wants Congress to back the administration's proposed research and
tax incentives,  which are designed to cut greenhouse gas emissions by improving
energy efficiency and developing  clean energy technology.

Gore is an old hand at such forecasting. He warned about global warming in his
1992 book, "Earth  in the Balance." That's where Clinton first got religion
about climate change.

The president tells a story about being at one of his weekly lunches with Gore
early in the  first term when the vice president pulled out a piece of paper and
said, "In case you missed it in  my book, here's the chart of how much we are
increasing the emission of greenhouse gases into the  atmosphere."

Gore was instrumentalin a global warming conference in Kyoto, Japan, last
December in which  industrial nations agreed to cut gas emissions 5 percent
below 1990 levels by 2010. The  administration has not yet sought congressional
approval of the Kyoto treaty.

Not everyone agrees something must be done. Some scientists say that the data
are inconclusive  and that it's unclear what impact warming will have on the
planet if it does occur.

Gore's critics say the changes needed to meet the 5 percent goal will cripple
the U.S. economy.  In the words of the bumper strip: "Stop Global Whining."

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says that the average global
temperature  last month was 61.7 degrees Fahrenheit. That was 1.26 degrees
higher than the long-term average for  the month and 0.45 degrees higher than
the previous record for the month, which was set last year.

His Republican rivals cast Gore's embrace of global warming as an example of his
environmental  extremism.

"Of course there's global warming," said former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander,
a likely GOP  presidential candidate. "Everyone's grandmother can tell you that
winters were colder 70 or 80 years  ago. ... The question is whether the
industrialization of the Earth is accelerating the process and  what to do about
it."

Alexander says Gore is "running around like Chicken Little, warning us that it's
going to be hot  in August."

Steve Forbes, another potential Republican presidential candidate, also cautions
against  knee-jerk reactions. "We need sober, scientific evidence - not
superficial, superheated musings."

Gore isn't about to be dissuaded from a cause he may ride into the 2000
campaign.

"You don't have to be a scientist to know it's been dangerously hot this
summer," says Al the  weatherman.  Marsha Mercer covers the White House for
Media General News Service. Write her at 1214 National Press Building,
Washington, D.C. 20045, or send e-mail to mmercermedia-general.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 21, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Castro cautious about easing of restrictions

BYLINE: PHIL WILLON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In response to gains made after the Pope's visit to Cuba, President Clinton
Friday eased restrictions on the island.

President Clinton Friday announced his support for lifting U.S. trade
restrictions on food and medical sales to Cuba, a move he hopes will strengthen
the Catholic Church and other humanitarian groups and hasten the demise of the
island's communist government.

Cuban President Fidel Castro, in an interview with CNN, reacted cautiously to
the announcement, but said he expected the policy change to "aid in creating a
better climate of relations between the United States and Cuba."

Clinton also lifted the ban on direct airplane flights to Cuba to deliver
humanitarian aid, and established a new licensing program to allow
Cuban-Americans to send $ 300 to their families in Cuba every three months.

Pope John Paul II's historic visit to Cuba two months ago prompted Clinton's
decision because, he said, the outpouring of support the pontiff received from
the Cuban people convinced him the U.S. needed to "support Cuba's people without
supporting its regime."

"The measures I have announced today are designed to build upon that visit, to
support the Cuban people through the hardships and difficulties ahead, to
contribute to the growth of a civil society and to help prepare for a peaceful
transition to democracy," Clinton said in a statement released by the White
House.

Clinton's announcement was both jeered and cheered by members of Congress. U.S.
Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
strongly opposes the policy changes and ripped into the president for not
consulting with Congress before making the announcement. Helms said Clinton's
action may douse any hopes of bipartisan legislation to ease U.S. trade
restrictions on food and medicine shipments to Cuba.

"The administration's decision to make controversial changes in U.S. policy, by
what amounts to the use of executive fiat, has seriously set back our efforts,"
Helms said Friday.

Castro resents Cuba being treated as a charity case and wants an end to the
nearly 40-year U.S. trade embargo against the island so normal trade can resume.

Helms was instrumental in tightening those trade restrictions when he drafted
the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act, which punishes foreign firms
doing business in Cuba.

Clinton signed the legislation shortly after Cuban MiGs shot down two unarmed
American aircraft flying near the island, killing four members of the
Cuban-American, Anti-Castro group Brothers to the Rescue.

Friday's announcement was the first sign U.S. policy toward Cuba was becoming
less hostile. The most significant shift would be lifting the ban on U.S. food
sales to Cuba, which would require congressional approval. Direct sales have
been outlawed since 1964, and the 1992 Cuban Democracy Act prohibited U.S.
companies from selling food to Cuba through subsidiaries in other countries.

Despite the criticism from Helms, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright on
Friday said she remains confident the Clinton administration and Republican
leaders in Congress can work together and develop bipartisan legislation to meet
Cuba's humanitarian food needs.

"We're taking these steps now, not because of anything the Castro regime has
done," Albright told reporters. "On the contrary. We are acting because of the
new possibilities that exist outside the government's control."

Lifting restrictions on humanitarian aide will help ease the suffering and
isolation of the Cuban people, and strengthen the role of the church and other
nongovernmental organizations best suited to bring about a peaceful transition
to democracy in Cuba, Albright said.

"The Cuban people are beginning to think beyond Castro. We need to do the same,"
Albright said.

Those possibilities became apparent after the Pope's visit in January, when he
delivered a clear, unambiguous message that human rights should be respected and
freedom should prevail, said Albright, who met with the pontiff earlier this
month.

The pope delivered a similar message in Poland when it was still behind the Iron
Curtain, and he helped bring about historic political change in Eastern Europe.
While the situation in Cuba differs greatly, the Pope's visit made Cubans
realize they "shared a deep bond not controlled or created by the state,"
Albright said.

Clinton's Cuban policy changes will go into effect in coming months.  Phil
Willon is The Tampa Tribune's correspondent in Washington and can be reached at
(202) 662-7673.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Madeleine Albright said thinking goes beyond Castro.  AP photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 8, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

A tale of two corridors;
Pasco County's stretch of I-75 hasn't become the industrial mecca planners once
envisioned. Much of the growth has moved east, along I-4

BYLINE: JANET FORGRIEVE; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words


Bob Phebus' customers depend on quick highway access for their luxury traveling
homes.

That's why when he went looking for a larger home for Marathon Coach, he
searched east on I-4 and north up I-75 into Pasco, eventually settling on One
Pasco Center on State Road 52 east of I-75.

"It was a must," Phebus said. "Our customers come in off the interstate, and we
needed to make it as easy as possible."

Since the move last May from a location on congested Nebraska Avenue in Tampa,
Phebus estimates his company's service business has jumped at least 20 percent.
He credits the easier access for the boost.

The luxury motor coach company's move to Pasco spurred more growth in the park.
One Pasco Center now includes about 100,000 square feet of industrial and
commercial space, all of it occupied.

Ten years ago, One Pasco Center was one of two large planned industrial parks
that, along with at least one smaller one, would offer easy I-75 access and
eventually stretch the predicted growth along I-75 north.

But economic factors and a change in the kind of manufac- turers the area is
trying to attract may mean substantial commercial growth along I-75 will forever
end at the Hillsborough/Pasco county line.

When commercial and industrial growth didn't come quickly enough, some
developers switched to residential projects to meet the migration northward by
city dwellers looking for cheaper housing away from urban areas.

And a recent push to attract high-tech microchip makers has changed the course
of economic development, shifting from northward along I-75 to I-4 east of
Tampa. The I-4 corridor became more attractive because of its proximity to
high-tech companies in Orlando and its easy access to the universities of South
Florida and Central Florida.  Developers see writing on the drywall

Today, developers learn quickly that One Pasco Center is now the only option for
businesses that want interstate access and a Pasco location.

"I had a developer in town last week, we got off at (State Road) 54, and he was
really excited when he saw Saddlebrook (Corporate Center)," said Tom Gola, Pasco
County Committee of 100 new business manager.

"He was really bummed when I told him."

What Gola had to tell was that, more than two years ago, developers of the
700-acre park at I-75 and State Road 54 rezoned the still-vacant commercial
land, eliminating plans for 3 million square feet of commercial and industrial
development in favor of residential growth.

That move eliminated the only Pasco industrial park south of State Road 52 with
easy interstate access.

Part of the change reflects economic factors that have evolved since the mid- to
late 1980s when developers had grand plans approved and bankers were signing off
on construction loans like there was no tomorrow.

But tomorrow came abruptly, in the form of savings and loan failures in the late
'80s and recessions in the late '80s and early '90s. That dried up business
loans and made lenders more hesitant to take on the risks of commercial loans.

Saddlebrook developer Pittway Corp. blamed the recessions for that park's
failure to take off, and said at the time of the rezoning that residential
growth better reflected the economic reality of the area.

All along I-75 in Hillsborough and Pasco, industrial parks stood empty, waiting
for companies to return to growth mode.

Eventually they did, building at places like Tampa Telecom Park and Hidden River
Corporate Center in Hillsborough.

But for Pasco, which had to depend on the parks closer to Tampa filling up
before companies looked north, another potentially lucrative trend was growing
northward much faster than commercial development.

Building new homes for the county's growing population started to make more
sense than waiting for big companies to head up the pike. Last year, the
county's population topped 300,000 and projections call for almost 400,000 by
2010.

Residential growth took off, as evidenced by the 20 percent jump in the number
of building permits issued during the past two years, according to figures from
the county's building department.

The average new home price also increased, although it still trails the averages
for Hillsborough and Pinellas counties.

And last year, for the first time in history, the number of new homes being
built east of U.S. 41 equaled the number of new dwellings going up in the
traditionally more populated retirement communities to the west, according to
Marvin Rose, publisher of the Tarpon Springs-based Rose Residential Report. Many
of Pasco's new residents commute to jobs in Tampa and St. Petersburg.

In addition to Saddlebrook's change from commercial to residential, another,
smaller parcel on State Road 54 which owners originally saw as an industrial
park now will be the site of a 1,599-unit Pulte Home subdivision.

On State Road 52, the only other large, developable piece is the 2,000-acre
Cannon Ranch property, which owners recently decided to subdivide for large
estate homes after failing to find a buyer to develop it any other way.

And, although still large, One Pasco Center recently announced plans to cut its
industrial development almost in half, from a planned 2.1 million square feet to
1.1 million square feet.

The bulk of commercial development at the two exits along the Pasco stretch of
I-75 consists of restaurants, truck stops, hotels, motels, gas stations and a
planned outlet mall.

All of that is designed to attract both Pasco residents and motorists passing
through. It is not the kind of commercial growth planners envisioned 10 years
ago.  Betting the chips on Interstate 4

Another factor that helped change the future face of I-75 is technology.
Competition for high-tech companies literally changed the direction of regional
economic development, pointing it east when it formerly was aimed northward.

In recent years, efforts have focused on the I-4 corridor, specifically on
attracting high-tech companies with high-paying jobs to the road that heads east
from Tampa to Titusville.

With the huge and growing worldwide market for microchips during the past few
years, Enterprise Florida - the public/private entity that took over for the
now-defunct state Commerce Department - has a push on to attract a few more of
the companies that cost about $ 1 billion to build and typically employ hundreds
of workers.

West Central Florida already has one such plant in Orlando, run by Lucent
Technologies and Cirrus Logic. And Tampa Bay area economic leaders want at least
one more piece of the microchip pie along I-4.

The "I-4 Initiative" focuses on that stretch of highway for a couple reasons,
including proximity to Orlando's existing facility as well as being about
equidistant between the universities of South Florida and Central Florida, Gola
said.

Both schools are participating in developing the technology and the educated
work force needed to keep such a plant humming.

A marketing videotape produced recently by GTE for the Tampa Bay Partnership
proudly proclaims "The Climate is Right for Your High Tech Business."

Late last year, some interested in economic development in Pasco said they felt
like the county got short shrift in the video, which mentions Saint Leo College
near Dade City and recreational amenities, but not much else that applies to the
county.

But the video accurately reflects the partnership's expectations that the I-4
corridor will lead economic development eastward from Tampa.

That's not to say that Pasco hasn't been attracting a share of new companies,
many of which are fleeing the congestion of Tampa and Pinellas County.

But typically those companies have different needs than the ones that need to be
along an interstate corridor, Gola said.

Other Pasco industrial areas are getting their share of new companies, including
Odessa, along Gunn Highway, and West Pasco Industrial Park on State Road 54,
both of which have expanded considerably in the past few years.

And several companies have chosen the upscale look of the industrial section of
Trinity Communities in west Pasco for their entry or expansion in Pasco County.

The most recent to announce the move to Trinity was Welbilt Development Center
Inc., which plans to move its research and development center from Tampa to a
new, $ 3 million facility there.

And Pasco likely will continue to attract companies that don't care about being
near an interstate highway and want the lower taxes and larger tracts of land
the county has to offer.

But the idea of a thriving I-75 commercial corridor is, by all signs, an idea
whose time has come and gone east.  Janet Forgrieve covers business and
development in Pasco County. She can be reached at (813) 949-9310.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); MAP (C),
 (MAP) (C) One Pasco Center; Saddlebrook Corporate Center TIM PRICE, Tribune map

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 4, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Voters like 12 of 13 amendments;

BYLINE: DAVID COX, of The Tampa Tribune ;

SECTION: SPECIAL NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1023 words


TALLAHASSEE - The state Cabinet will be overhauled, and public education is made
a top spending  priority.

Florida voters delivered a loud "yes" Tuesday to streamlining the state Cabinet,
equality for  women, stronger gun laws and buying environmentally sensitive
land.

They also supported making public education the Legislature's top spending
priority.

Those are some of the changes voters said they want to make to the Florida
Constitution, the  document that establishes the guiding principles of state
government and outlines citizens' rights.

Opponents of the amendments included Gov.-elect Jeb Bush, who disliked the
measure closing the  gun loophole, and the Christian right, which opposed the
measure on equality for women.

"I think it's a resounding victory for the people of Florida," said Dexter
Douglass, chairman of  the Constitution Revision Commission.

Perhaps the most surprising amendment vote was on the restructuring of the state
Cabinet, which  will give greater power to the governor.

Bush will not be affected by the change unless he is elected for a second term
in 2002. The  restructuring does not occur until 2003. The measure received 55
percent support, with 62 percent  of the vote tallied.

"It goes a long way to elevate the executive branch to be almost as powerful as
the legislative  branch," said Douglass, a supporter of restructuring.

Experts called Florida's Cabinet system antiquated. The state is the only one
where six Cabinet  officers share equal power with the governor on policy
issues, including education and law  enforcement.

The restructuring will combine the roles of the comptroller and insurance
commissioner in the  new position of chief fiscal officer and eliminate two
elected positions: education commissioner  and secretary of state.

The fiscal officer will be elected every four years.

The Cabinet will consist of the fiscal officer, an agriculture commissioner and
the attorney  general. The governor, who is chairman of the Cabinet, would hold
the decisive vote in a tie  situation. Under the current Cabinet, a tie vote
kills an issue.

Supporters of the environmental measure saw the strongest support, with their
measure getting 72  percent of the vote.

It merges the Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission and the Marine Fisheries
Commission into a  single body: the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission.
It also authorizes bonding used now in  the Preservation 2000 land-buying
program to continue, and it requires a two-thirds vote of the  Cabinet before
state conservation lands can be sold.

"I've been waiting for this for 10 years," said Clay Henderson, the Constitution
Revision  Commission member who proposed the measure.

"I think the state is ripe for such a strong environmental referendum," said
Henderson, president  of the Florida Audubon Society.

Voters faced 13 constitutional amendments on the ballot, nine proposed by the
CRC and four put  there by the Legislature. The CRC is a 37-member panel that
meets every 20 years to recommend  improvements to the constitution.

The other amendments approved by voters will:

Preserve the death penalty, even if Florida's electric chair is declared
unconstitutional.

Grant seniors on limited income an extra property homestead exemption.

Make it easier for minor party candidates to challenge Democrats and Republicans
on the  ballot. Voters, regardless of party, also will be allowed to vote in any
primary if the winner of  that election faces no general election candidate.

Allow cities and counties to grant tax exemptions on historic property and
another, a  "miscellaneous" technical amendment, would clean up issues in the
constitution.

Amendment 10, the only one that seemed headed for defeat, would allow state and
local  governments to broaden property tax exemptions for municipally owned
land, such as airports.

The same amendment would let developers and citizens talk with county
commissioners privately  about zoning and other land-use matters.

Voters were defeating the measure by a margin of 51 percent to 49 percent, with
80 percent of  the precincts reporting.

Incoming state House Speaker John Thrasher, R-Orange Park, said Tuesday that
voters may have  made a big mistake in approving the amendments.

Thrasher fears that requiring the state to make education a "paramount duty" may
result in courts  telling the Legislature how to spend taxpayers' money.

"I think we're going to see the courts getting involved in our system, and
that's not right,"  Thrasher said.

Only voters can change the constitution. The issues approved Tuesday are
effectively beyond the  reach of the Legislature or the governor to tamper with
and are thus not subject to shifts in the  political climate.

Voters evidently were prepared to do something that the Florida Legislature has
avoided. They  turned aside the National Rifle Association's campaign to defeat
the amendment letting counties  impose stronger regulations on guns sold at gun
shows. Seventy-two percent of voters supported  closing the so-called gun show
loophole.

The NRA ran radio ads featuring Hollywood actor Charlton Heston, the NRA's
president, and the  organization lobbied to defeat the other 12 amendments
appearing on the ballot.

The NRA said the measure would lower existing felony penalties to misdemeanors
against gun  dealers who sell guns without first conducting a criminal
background check and impose a three-day  waiting period before buyers can take
possession of their gun.

The gun show loophole proved a major issue in Bush's race against Lt. Gov. Buddy
MacKay. MacKay  supported the amendment. Bush said the Legislature, not the
voters, should be responsible for  closing the loophole.

Sixty-six percent of voters favored explicitly recognizing the equality of men
and women before  the law by inserting language into the constitution "all
natural persons, female and male alike, are  equal before the law."  David Cox
covers state government and can be reached at (850) 222-8382 or at
cox@nettally.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 The second of 13 proposed changes to the Florida Constitution on Tuesday's
ballot dealt with death in the electric chair.  Tribune file photo

NOTES: STATE CABINET/CONSTITUTION DECISION '98

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 21, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Teens reluctantly conform to dress code;

BYLINE: JANET LEISER, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 624 words


NEW PORT RICHEY - Administrators face few hitches in enforcing Bayonet Point
Middle School's new  dress code - the toughest in Pasco County.

For the first time in a decade, Tom Rulison had the beginning of the school year
jitters.

The Bayonet Point Middle School principal fretted and had trouble sleeping.

What if the students refused to follow the school's new dress code? What if they
wouldn't tuck  in their shirts? What would teachers and administrators do?

Rulison worried needlessly.

It has been nearly a month since school started, and most of Bayonet's 1,300
students have  complied, albeit reluctantly, to the dress code - the most strict
in Pasco's public schools.

In fact, the New Port Richey school on Little Road may have started a trend in
Pasco. Rulison  said he has heard from plenty of other principals interested in
adopting a stricter dress code.

Unlike other Pasco public schools, Bayonet students must tuck in their shirts,
and they're not  allowed to wear tank tops or shirts with spaghetti straps.

District-wide, students aren't allowed to wear short shorts, T-shirts with
profane sayings,  flip-flops or beach shoes. But the rules are being enforced
more closely at Bayonet.

So far, so good.

A handful of girls have insisted on wearing short shorts, Rulison said. After
repeated warnings,  a few have ended up with in-school suspensions.

Most parents and teachers like the neat look.

"Yeah, my parents love it," said eighth-grader Joe Jacovino, 13. "They think
it's a good idea.

Not Joe.

"I don't like it," he said. "It's uncomfortable."

Others are grumbling along with him.

"I don't like my shirts tucked in," said eighth-grader Brandon Presley, 13.
"They don't look good.  It's not the style."

Seventh-grader Megan Curl, 12, doesn't mind.

"I didn't like it in the beginning of the year," she said, "but now I'm getting
used to it."

Jennifer Beebe, 13, an eighth-grader, said the "Daisy Duke" shorts, named for a
character in the  old TV show "The Dukes of Hazzard," had to go.

"I hated walking down the halls and seeing girls in short shorts with their
butts hanging out,"  Jennifer said.

Megan said a lot of the girls now wear long pants.

The few parents who have complained have been invited to the school's advisory
council meeting  at 4 p.m. Sept. 30, Rulison said.

After all, it was that council - made up of parents, teachers, administrators
and students - that  came up with the idea of a stricter dress code, Rulison
said. The school board approved the changes  over the summer.

Council President Declan Mansfield, who has two children at Bayonet, said the
changes are much  more moderate than originally proposed.

The council wanted a mandatory uniform policy.

Students, however, were adamantly opposed.

"I totally do not want uniforms," Jennifer said.

"No way," Brandon said.

Teacher Joe Fackelman, a member of the advisory council, thinks uniforms would
improve the  school.

Fackelman said he already has seen a change in how the kids are acting.

"I think everybody is a little bit more conscious of their behavior," he said.

Rulison said there have been fewer fights this year than in years past.

"For such a crowded school, we're getting along remarkably well," the principal
said. "I'd like to  think it's because of a better school climate."

Several Pasco schools - Lake Myrtle and Denham Oaks elementary schools in Land
O' Lakes and  Weightman Middle in Wesley Chapel - have voluntary uniform
policies, which haven't been successful.  Administrators say the majority of
students refuse to wear the uniforms.  Staff writer Janet Leiser covers K-12
education in Pasco County. Reach her at (813) 948-4218.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C),
 (C) Alanna Cook, above right, also is wearing shorts at the acceptable length.
FRED BELLET, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 28, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Global tourists;
The Tampa Bay area, Florida and the country are competing in a global market for
tourist dollars, but there's no national promotions budget.

BYLINE: AISSATOU SIDIME; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The Tampa Bay area took in $ 6.6 billion in 1995 tourist expenditures, according
to a new study that industry officials hope will bolster their request for a
national promotional budget.

"This report will help us when we go in to talk to Congressman Jim Davis
(D-Tampa) about funding decisions," said Steve Hayes, vice president of tourism
marketing for the Tampa/Hillsborough Convention & Visitors Association.

The National Tourism Organization commissioned the study in 1996 after Congress
cut promotional funding when it abolished the Travel and Tourism Administration
that year.

Since then, tourism officials argue the U.S. has been losing global market share
and must rebuild its international presence.

Right now "it's equivalent to the state office saying it's going to leave
tourism promotion to the local offices," Hayes said. "In an international arena,
other countries want our business and can go after it."

According to the study, which broke down tourist spending by congressional
district, Tampa and Tampa International Airport took in $ 2.15 billion in 1995.
That's twice the total previously estimated for all of Hillsborough County by
the Tampa/Hillsborough Convention & Visitors Association.

The travel industry also accounted for 30,000 Tampa jobs and a $ 562 million
payroll.

Tourists spent another $ 2.3 billion in Pinellas and Pasco counties and another
$ 1.4 billion in Manatee and Sarasota counties.

"This report shows that tourism is important to every district in the nation,"
said Michael Pina, spokesman for the Travel Industry Association of America,
which compiled the report. "So regardless of whether you've got beaches, a theme
park or not, it's important to the area."

The National Tourism Organization's request last year for $ 65 million in
matching funds for advertising was blocked by the airline industry when it
looked as though Congress would levy another fee on international travelers to
generate the money.

This month, the organization submitted a new request to Congress with the report
as added ammunition. But industry officials recognize that funding will remain a
sticking point.

"Other countries have the (traveler) tax," Hayes said. "But it's so beyond what
we are used to doing ... (and) I don't think anybody else has an answer."
Aissatou Sidime covers retailing and tourism and can be reached at (813)
259-7919 or by e-mail at asidime@tampatrib.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C),
 (2C) The sun, sand and warm waters at Bay area beaches attract visitors from
around the country, and the world.  GARY RINGS, Tribune photos

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 22, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Author serves as tour guide for young students

BYLINE: SEAN LENGELL; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHY


A local author uses her travel experiences to give readers an armchair view of
the world.

A veteran traveler, Jeannette Windham has collected countless stories,
photographs and memories during her visits to some 50 countries.

Now Windham is using her experiences abroad to help children in this country
develop a more global outlook on life.

She's published six books for her Windows on the World Series for Global Age
Publishing in Tampa. Each book, which ranges between 50 and 80 pages, deals with
a different country.

"To get to know these countries has been a revelation - in the unusual customs,
but also in the things that we share," Windham said.

Instead of writing about popular tourist destinations, Windham prefers to focus
on places off the normal tourist routes. The series includes books about
Somalia, China, Nepal, Indonesia, Maldives and Thailand.

"In the lesser traveled paths, there's a great deal more innocence," Windham
said. "There's an exuberance, there's an enthusiasm because they want to be
involved in the world community. ... These people are so receptive, so warm, so
friendly."

Generally, the books are written for readers between the ages of 8 and 14. They
contain personal anecdotes from her travels, "briefing" chapters with details
and background about the country, as well as illustrations and photographs by
Windham.

Windham, 56, who first moved to Pasco County 22 years ago, is a former high
school teacher and art student at the Florida State University.

She first acquired her taste for travel while spending two years in Malaysia in
the 1970s with her husband, Douglas, a college professor.

Their globe trotting accelerated when the couple set up a consulting business to
assess educational systems of developing nations.

And as her travel experiences grew, so did her scrapbooks, filled with
photographs, sketches and stories from several continents.

At the suggestion of her sister, Yvonne Sell, a special education instructor at
River Ridge High School, Windham began giving demonstrations of her travels at
local schools. Her sister eventually encouraged her to turn some of those
stories into books.

So in 1994, Windham approached University of South Florida Professor Kofi Marfo,
publisher of Global Age Publishing. Months later he published her first two
books: "On the Horn of Africa - Let's Travel to Somalia Together" and " The
Giant That Isn't Sleeping Anymore - Let's Travel to China Together."

Windham says she'll soon continue the series. Upcoming books may focus on other
countries she's visited, such as Singapore, Yemen, Japan, Ghana, Mexico, Costa
Rica, Jamaica and Kenya.

American children often have major misconceptions about those living in other
countries, especially in developing nations, Windham says.

"Americans and American children have so many negative conceptions (about
foreign lands)," she says. "They see the ads of the barefoot children that you
can adopt. They want to know if all children (living in other countries) are
poor.

"What they see on TV is misleading. It's not really what it's like. They don't
see the dignity."

Someday Windham says she may write a travel book for foreign children about
America.

"There's a tremendous curiosity about America and Americans," she said.

And like their American counterparts, foreign children often don't have a clear
understanding of Americans.

"They do think all Americans are rich," she says.

As computer and travel technologies continue to develop, the students of today
will have more contact with foreigners than ever before, Windham says. Thus,
it's essential for young people to learn about the world they live in, she says.

"We really have so much in common with other people," Windham said. "The world
is definitely getting smaller."  Sean Lengell covers Pasco County and can be
reached at (813) 949-9310.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C),
 Author Jeannette Windham has acquired many items during her travels around the
world, such as this Ganesh, a Nepalese elephant mask. "In the lesser traveled
paths, there's a great deal more innocence," Windham says of her adventures.
FRED BELLET, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 20, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Rules panel prepares tort reforms

BYLINE: MARGARET TALEV; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A committee has one week to choose which civil justice reforms received from the
House to send on to the full Senate.

Kathy Davis of St. Petersburg had a story on Thursday for lawmakers
contemplating how to improve the business climate in Florida by making changes
to the civil justice system.

Last November, she and her husband had taken their daughter, Marissa, shopping
at an area department store for her upcoming sixth birthday. But while using a
23-year-old escalator, something happened.

"About a quarter of the way down, the escalator grabbed my daughter's foot ...
and sucked it in," she told the Senate Rules Committee.

Four months later, Marissa is without most of a big toe, which was reattached
but later amputated. The medical bills have exceeded $ 20,000, her mother
estimates.

Under current law, the family can sue the manufacturer of the escalator. But
under one of the tort reforms lawmakers are considering, an injured victim could
not because the escalator is more than 12 years old. That, Davis says, strips
protection from citizens.

"It discourages the already arrogant company ... from retrofitting any of this
machinery," she said.

Other proposals being considered would cap the amount rental car companies could
be forced to pay people injured by uninsured rental drivers; prevent one company
from being forced to cover damages caused by several companies; force plaintiffs
to prove intentional misconduct to collect punitive damages; and limit attorneys
fees.

The House already has passed several reforms, generally considered more reaching
than those in the Senate. Now, trial lawyers, business people and injury victims
are focusing on the Senate.

The Rules committee is expected to consider amendments and vote next week on a
package to send to the full Senate for a vote. Committee chairman Sen. Bill
Bankhead, R-Ponte Vedra, said he expects the two chambers will have to appoint a
conference committee to work out their differences.

Coalitions representing businesses and the insurance industry say many of the
laws now in place unfairly hold business owners responsible for injuries caused
by others merely because they have the deep pockets. They say limiting the
ability to sue them could attract business to Florida that is now staying out of
the state.

Trial lawyers and personal injury victims say the proposed changes would hurt
citizens and force taxpayers to pay instead of companies at fault.  Margaret
Talev covers state government. She can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Kathy Davis

NOTES: LEGISLATURE '98

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 11, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Day school parents bid to move in, alter status

BYLINE: BILL HARMON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NORTHWEST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

DATELINE: CARROLLWOOD


Carrollwood Day School's owner is negotiating with a not-for-profit board to
take over the financially troubled school.

The beleaguered Carrollwood Day School could become a not-for-profit
institution, with a governing board and new hope for the future under a plan to
keep its doors open for the fall school year.

That is the goal of owner and Headmistress Kathy Gentner, 53, who said she is
doing all she can to make sure the popular school lives on.

"My desire is that Carrollwood Day School continue for 100 years or more in the
educational tradition that exists today," Gentner said this week.

That is also the aim of a board composed of parents, who donated money to keep
the school running through the current year, said Tom Morrison, a parent at the
school and the attorney representing the board.

The parents created the board March 12, about a week before the school's
financial problems became public. The board is registered with the state as a
not-for-profit corporation and hopes to take ownership of the school and change
its status as well.

Gentner actually had initiated the process of becoming a not-for-profit months
ago, said C. Skardon Bliss, executive secretary of the Florida Council of
Independent Schools in Tampa, which accredited the school.

The process includes having an independent board take over, but a board had not
yet formed when the crisis became apparent, Bliss said.

The board is negotiating with Gentner to take ownership of the 16-year-old
institution. Gentner is the school's sole proprietor.

She said her only involvement with the school now is negotiating with the board
to take over. She said she is not asking for money or a job in exchange for the
two campuses she built into a prestigious elementary and middle school.

"I'm an educator. The faculty and I have worked very hard to establish the
educational program of the school that is starting to get national recognition,"
she said.

"But the business people say that has no value in the real world."

Gentner would not say what, if anything, she is asking for herself. She said her
main concern was that the school's educational traditions should not change.

"I have complied with all requests. I've agreed to everything that has been
brought forward to me. I'm not standing in the way at all," she said.

A purchase price for the school and a job for Gentner are the only negotiating
points holding up the transfer of ownership to the new board, said board member
Eric Eisenburg, a parent and professor of communication at the University of
South Florida.

The board is paying the school's bills and making the monthly payroll, Morrison
said.

Schools have a better chance of surviving difficult times when they are
not-for-profit, Bliss said. Tuition often does not cover all the costs of a
private school education. However, donations to sole proprietorships are not
tax-deductible as they are for not-for-profit schools.

"Typically, a school has to raise $ 500 to $ 1,000 over the tuition, somehow,
with a summer program, fundraisers," Bliss said. "Not-for-profit schools receive
gifts and grants."

The bottom line is that private schools are small businesses and are subject to
the problems all businesses have: cash flow, building cash reserves and managing
debt, Bliss said. Tuitions that are too high drive students to competing
schools.

Late last month, parents of the 430 students attending Carrollwood Day School
learned that closure was imminent because of serious financial troubles. Gentner
had not paid teachers since February and had no money to continue running the
school, Morrison said. Many debts were unpaid.

Some parents quickly withdrew their children, but many remained and donated the
$ 450,000 required to remain open through June. But rather than give that money
to Gentner, as she had asked, the board collected the money and is paying the
bills with it, Morrison said.

"The board will acquire the school in the fall," he said. "That's our goal in
the negotiations."

Some parents expressed dismay at the extent of the school's debt. About $
650,000 paid by parents for next year's registration and tuition was spent,
Gentner said.

But people who know about running private schools say this is not so unusual,
given that Gentner lost the financial backing she enjoyed with a bank during
previous years.

"The bank had problems with a for-profit day care center (associated with the
school). Their credit tightened up," Bliss said.

The bank, which Gentner declined to name, canceled the school's line of credit.
That forced Gentner to dip into tuition that had been paid in advance for the
fall, Gentner said.

"The bank stressed strict budgetary compliance, and we went over budget," she
said.

The board of the Florida Council of Independent Schools decided last week to
send a financial team to look over the school's books, Bliss said. Carrollwood
Day School is accredited by the council.

Its last accreditation review was four years ago, Bliss said. The council found
the school had debts and the means to pay them. Its assets included its building
at 19521 Michigan Ave.

"There was nothing out of line," he said. "Enrollment was strong, income OK,
assets in the campus. They have a waiting list of students."

The school rents property for its second campus, which serves preschoolers
through first-graders, at 2606 Casey Road.

Bliss said the climate in the private-school community right now is uneasy.

Some parents of Carrollwood Day School children, unsure of the future, are
making the rounds of other private schools.

Said one principal: "They are asking to see the books first."  Bill Harmon
covers schools in northwest Hillsborough. You can reach him at 885-5437.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 19, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

El Nin o's little sister is a cool customer;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words


La Nin a is cooling water in the Pacific Ocean, which could mean more hurricanes
and a warm, dry  winter.

El Nin o, genesis of winter rains in Florida, drought in Southeast Asia and
general weather bad  boy, has left the building.

Make way for his sister, La Nin a.

Water in the Pacific Ocean is cooling faster than forecasters expected. That
means the  phenomenon called El Nin o, the warming of a vast area of ocean, is
being replaced by La Nin a -  when a stretch of the Pacific cools about 3 or 4
degrees below normal from the South American coast  west past the international
date line, an area larger than the United States.

"It's developing rapidly," said Vernon Kousky, research meteorologist with the
Climate Prediction  Center in Washington, D.C. "The ocean water temperatures are
cooler, but we don't see it affecting  atmospheric conditions yet. It's at its
early stages."

If La Nin a forms quickly, Florida could feel the impact this hurricane season
as the cooling  water creates dramatic changes in the upper-level air currents
that play a major role in storm  development.

Though El Nin o caused worldwide weather problems, it also snuffed out
hurricanes. Winds 35,000  to 45,000 feet in the atmosphere shifted to come from
the west, basically shearing the tops from  developing storms.

During La Nin a, high-level westerly winds either weaken or shift to come from
the east,  allowing more storms to develop, said Jerry Jarrel, director of the
National Hurricane Center in  Miami.

"Storms that would not have developed last year would develop this year," he
said.

The 1995 and 1996 hurricane seasons, sandwiching the last La Nin a, were the
most active  back-to-back seasons on record, combining for 20 hurricanes, said
Christopher Landsea with the  Hurricane Research Division of the National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration.

There is no concrete prediction whether the developing situation will form
strongly enough in  time to have a major impact on the hurricane season that
ends Nov. 30, Kousky said. The first six  weeks of the season have produced no
storms.

"Usually, La Nin a sets up in spring and early summer," Landsea said. "If it
doesn't come on by  early August, it probably won't affect the season much."

In 1957, 1965 and 1991, El Nin os disappeared rapidly without La Nin as forming.
However, in  1969, 1972 and 1987, La Nin as were in place by July.

Even if it is too late to affect the hurricane season, La Nin a can have a
profound impact on  fall and winter weather in Florida and the United States.
During one, Florida can expect winter -  already a dry season - to be warmer and
drier.

"It will be drier with fewer cold fronts and more sunshine," Landsea said. "Four
or five months  with no rain could have a dramatic effect on the potential for
fires next year."

Some cold fronts still could wander into the state even if temperatures are
warmer on average,  as expected, Kousky said. "There will be a lot more
variability this winter. Chances are you will  experience some colder periods
than you had last year."

The northern part of the country can expect a colder winter, he added, while the
Midwest can  expect less rain or snow. Droughts struck that region in 1988-89
and 1995-96 following La Nin as.

"It accentuates the normal pattern," Kousky said. "Areas that are cold will be
colder. Areas that  are warm will be warmer."  Neil Johnson covers water issues
and the weather. He can be reached at (352) 544-5214.  Get current forecasts and
Doppler radar at http://www.weathercenter.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Ocean of change Water temperatures in the Pacific Ocean impact weather
around the world. A swing toward cooler waters could mean a more active and
violent hurricane season for Florida.  Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project ANDY DORSETT, Tribune graphic

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   August 19, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba on their minds;
Cubans and non-Cubans alike envision opportunities for business, tourism and
family visits when;
the island nation opens up to Americans.;

BYLINE: STEVEN GIRARDI, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words


TAMPA - The sun is just rising over West Tampa, but the conversation outside El
Gallo de Oro  restaurant is already hot.

A dozen Cuban men, most of them retired, are gathered about the patio table
drinking coffee,  chomping cigars and talking trash - loudly. Their voices, a
mixture of Spanish and English, rise and  fall and bellow across the parking
lot.

What they're debating is unclear, not that it matters. They will be back
tomorrow to debate  whole new issues, just as they do every day.

Inside, Tony Morejon sips a cup of coffee and munches Cuban toast. His large
frame fills his  chair and dwarfs the small cafe table, but he's comfortable
here.

Morejon, a 40-year-old, first-generation Cuban American, is the Hispanic
community liaison for  Hillsborough County government. El Gallo de Oro - The
Golden Rooster - restaurant in Fiesta Plaza at  Armenia Avenue and Tampa Bay
Boulevard is one of his occasional stops.

"This place will get packed," he said, gesturing toward a dining room already
crowded and getting  louder by the minute. "There's another place down the
street that's just the same."

From the old men at the West Tampa coffee shops to the architecture and flair of
Ybor City,  Latin culture is an indelible part of Tampa's character.

"It's pretty much ingrained," Morejon said.

For those of Cuban descent, the landmarks, the restaurants and the food all are
reminders of a  homeland that is no longer theirs. But it's not only Cubans who
are affected.

Anyone who works or lives in Tampa even for a short time develops an awareness
of Cuba that is  not found in most other places across the country.

"There's a lot of signs of Cuba. It definitely has an influence here," said Kent
McKinstray, a  28-year-old computer installer who works downtown.

McKinstray said he has become more interested about the politics and social
structure of Cuba  since moving here from Oklahoma, and he wonders what will
happen after Fidel Castro is gone.

"Sometimes you think if you take out what you consider the problem, it only gets
worse," he said,  noting the difficulties in Russia.

Pamela Underwood, a downtown hot dog vendor from Southern California, said
working in Tampa has  piqued her interest in Cuba, too, and she would love to
visit there.

"I'm very curious about the landscape, the people," she said.

"Just the whole Spanish atmosphere around here is interesting," she said. "I
worked in a law office  with people whose families were from Cuba and whose
dream is to go back and reclaim everything. It  would be nice for the Cuban
population to be able to go back to visit."

Underwood, 40, said she thinks once Castro leaves, Cuba again will become a
popular resort and  tourist destination.

"I think a lot of people are just waiting for that to happen. A lot of
entrepreneurs are eager to  pounce," she said.

She's right about that, according to tourism officials. The business community,
especially  tourism, is lying in wait for the day the U.S. trade embargo is
lifted or Castro's government  falls.

"I can guarantee you that every cruise line in the United States has plans in
their drawer.  They're prepared," said Jim Clark, executive director of the
Tampa-Hillsborough Convention and  Visitors Association. "When the cards fall,
there will be a lot of activity, and probably it would  happen fairly quickly."

What the Tampa cruise industry sees in Cuba is an entry into the popular three-
and four-day  cruise business, Clark said. Ships leaving Tampa are shut out of
that market by the Passenger  Services Act, which requires foreign flag ships to
visit at least one port outside the United  States before returning.

There are no foreign ports within a four-day round trip of Tampa, but opening
Cuba would change  that, Clark said.

"That's within an easy day of the Port of Tampa, and you also would have a new
port that people  who are frequent travelers are going to be eager to go to,"
Clark said.

Visitor trade would pick up considerably as Tampa residents head to Cuba and
their Cuban  relatives come here.

Clark does not see Cuba as a threat to Florida tourism, saying it would be in
more direct  competition with other Caribbean destinations. Also, Cuba's
infrastructure and hotel facilities  have a long way to go before they could
handle great numbers of tourists.

"So I would say I don't think it will necessarily have a negative impact," he
said. "I think a lot  of people will go out of the curiosity factor."

Sara Romeo, who was raised in Ybor City and now owns a furniture store there, is
one of them.

"It would be great to be able to send people there and have Cubans come here
from the island," she  said. "Every plane and boat would be filled."

Romeo's furniture store at 1515 Seventh Ave. is along the same strip she
remembers as Tampa's  downtown and the place to shop when she was growing up.

Ybor was a vibrant mix of Cubans, Italians, blacks and Crackers, she said. They
all managed to  get along and shared their cultures, which left her and many
others with a special feeling toward  Cuba.

"I understand it's extremely beautiful, and the craftsmanship of their buildings
is something  that's supposed to be phenomenal," she said.

Romeo is chairman of the Ybor City Chamber of Commerce board, whose offices are
in a renovated  "casita" - a cigarmaker's house that typifies the residential
architecture Cubans brought here.

Like the storefronts on the strip, the casita is a reminder of Cuba's rich
culture and history  before Castro's revolution, she said.

"It was a very lavish lifestyle," she said. "It was known for the most beautiful
casinos,  nightclubs, shows."

That is the country many of Tampa's Cubans remember, said Margarita Gonzalez,
Hispanic liaison  for the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce.

"They used to travel to Cuba very frequently," she said. "They have wonderful
memories. I run into  a lot of people who used to honeymoon in Cuba."

Gonzalez thinks often of a day when the country will be free again for tourists
and business  ventures; when it will return to being the country she recalls as
a little girl growing up there.

"But the climate is not yet there for these things to happen," she said.

Gonzalez, 44, left Cuba in 1966 when she was 12. She remembers seeing rationing
cards and being  pulled from elementary school to work on tomato and other
produce farms in the years after Castro  took control.

"You could tell the change immediately, both in the philosophy and the lack of
freedom," she said.  "I remember the pastor next door was sent to jail for
buying meat on the black market to feed his  daughters."

She thinks Cubans in America would be eager to visit the island, though many
older people who  fled Castro would not go as long as he remains in power.

Many who left as children are like her, torn between their feelings for Cuba and
the United  States as home.

"You can feel proud to be an American, but it doesn't mean you have to forget
where you came  from," she said.

Morejon shares that feeling.

"I want to see where my mother was born, the park where my grandmother used to
go, the farm where  my dad grew up," he said.

"A way of looking at Cuba, too, is as a gold mine. There's 11 million customers
who need  everything."

But Morejon said many of his generation, including his brothers, don't feel as
strongly about  Cuba or Castro's communist regime. "They've become
Americanized," he said.

Morejon's parents left Cuba in 1957, two years before Castro took power. "My
mother told me all  the writing was on the wall," he said. "That's why they
left."

Like many who fled, they have no interest in returning while Castro rules. His
father has died  and his mother could not bear to see what has become of their
homes.

"My dad used to tell me, "They wanted him, they got him,' " he said. His father
returned once, to  visit family in 1979, and "he said conditions were horrible."

While expatriated Cubans await the day Castro leaves, Morejon worries about
possible violence  that could follow as people try to reclaim property or even
old scores.

"If you've been a political prisoner for 19 years and treated like an animal,
time doesn't heal  that," he said.

While many native Cubans will be pleased to see communism fall, Morejon said
they know the  island will not be the same one they left in the 1950s.

"I don't know of a lot of people who would move back," he said. "Let's face it,
this is the best  country in the world. People get used to that."  100 YEARS OF
CUBA

An explosion rips through the U.S. battleship Maine as it sits in Havana harbor
Feb. 15, 1898,  sending the ship to the bottom and igniting a controversy that
leads to the Spanish-American War.  When the war ends, Cuba is free of Spain's
rule and the United States has become a colonial power  with Puerto Rico, the
Philippines, Guam and the Hawaiian Islands. Political reputations, such as
Theodore Roosevelt's, have been established.

The nation, and world power, have changed fundamentally.

This year The Tampa Tribune is tracing the evolution in Cuban and U.S. affairs,
the intertwined  histories of the two nations and the effect on Tampa and
Florida. We'll look at different facets of  U.S.-Cuban relations, examine key
events and the people who shaped history and see how each nation  has changed
the other.  Steven Girardi is a reporter in the New Port Richey office and can
be reached at (727) 815-1083.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C); SIGNATURE (C),
 (C) Coffee and conversation, often touching on political issues, are on the
menu most mornings at many West Tampa coffee shops. Here, Fred Papio, from left,
Joe Dato, Paul Guarino and Frank Ferlita talk over things at El Gallo de Oro
restaurant.  AMY M. OTERO, Tribune photo

NOTES: 100 YEARS OF CUBA

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  September 2, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Activist Boykin is gay, gifted and black;

BYLINE: CLOE CABRERA, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words


TAMPA - Keith Boykin battles on two fronts.

"For people who are both black and gay, the climate is somewhat hostile right
now," the  33-year-old former Clearwater resident said in a telephone interview
from his Washington, D.C.,  home. "A lot of people equate gay with being white,
and black equals straight, and that won't change  unless black gays and lesbians
become more vocal and open and come out of the closet. A lot are  still in the
closet."

One of the leading black gay voices in the country, Boykin will speak Thursday
at the University  of South Florida.

His talk is sponsored by the USF Committee on Issues of Sexual Orientation and
the Committee on  Black Affairs.

"He is probably one of the most phenomenal individuals to come along in a long
time," said Ricc  Rollins of Tampa, chief executive officer of the project
development firm the Ishai Creative Group.  Rollins has worked with Boykin. "His
willingness to pursue equality and acceptance with such  dedication and tenacity
is admirable. He brings a strong voice to an often silenced community of
people."

In 1993, Boykin was appointed special assistant to President Clinton, becoming
the  highest-ranking openly gay person in the White House.

He drafted Clinton's supportive statement on the 1993 gay and lesbian march on
Washington and  the president's letter opposing antigay state ballot
initiatives.

Boykin helped organize and took part in the historic meeting between Clinton and
gay and lesbian  leaders in 1993.

And he ensured a gay presence at the Million Man March two years ago.

"It wasn't difficult to be who I am. I was very much myself, an openly gay man,"
Boykin says of  his White House tenure. "There's a great deal of power just
being who I am and unashamed of that.

"It was important for me to be there to change perceptions about gays from the
highest level of  power on down. That was part of my message, just by my
presence."

He left the White House in 1995 to lead the National Black Lesbian and Gay
Leadership Forum, an  advocacy group.

Born in St. Louis, he attended school in Clearwater. He was president of the
Student Government  Association at Countryside High School, where he graduated
in 1983.

He earned a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College, where he served as a track
team member and  editor-in-chief of the Dartmouth daily newspaper, the nation's
oldest college paper.

Along the way, he worked on several political campaigns, including Michael
Dukakis' presidential  run in 1988.

A graduate of Harvard Law School, Boykin was editor of the Harvard Civil
Rights-Civil Liberties  Law Review and spokesman for the Harvard Coalition for
Civil Rights.

In 1991, while at Harvard, Boykin acknowledged to himself and others that he was
gay. He was 25  years old and had dated women up to that time.

"I never really thought of myself as gay before, and I never really had any
inkling that I would  be," he says. "It was sort of like a light bulb went off
above my head, and I realized what was the  reality about me that I hadn't
really addressed. I think I'd been focused on accomplishing things  for so much
of my life that I really hadn't had a chance to address part of my joy in my
life, from  a social perspective, the joy and freedom of being true to myself."

His family reacted positively and supports him, he says.

Many gays and lesbians, black and white, don't find that kind of support and
understanding,  which became the impetus for Boykin's first book, "One More
River to Cross: Black and Gay in  America," published in 1996.

"It's really important for black gays and lesbians in particular to be
empowered," he says. "What I  would really like for people in the community to
understand is the importance of accepting that  power, not denying it, not
walking away from it, not shucking their responsibility and moving  forward with
that power, not bending and genuflecting to the mainstream gay community nor to
the  mainstream African-American community, but asserting our role as rightful
partners in both those  communities."

In February, Boykin resigned as executive director of the National Black Lesbian
and Gay  Leadership Forum to devote more time to his writing and speaking.

His second book, "Respecting the Soul: Daily Reflections for Black Lesbians and
Gays," is due out  next spring.    (CHART) KEITH BOYKIN   WHAT: A speech by the
activist, author and motivational speaker   WHEN: 7:30 p.m. Thursday   WHERE:
University of South Florida, Marshall Center, Tampa   ADMISSION: Free. For more
information, call (813) 974-4014.  Cloe Cabrera can be reached at (813) 259-7656
or ccabrera@tampatrib.

com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; CHART,
 Keith Boykin, former assistant to President Clinton, will speak at the
University of South Florida.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 1, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Tampa General records year of turmoil, losses;

BYLINE: MIKE STOBBE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words


TAMPA - One year after going private, TGH is mired in financial, political and
legal problems.

Not much has changed on the patient floors where nurse Veitlyn Rollock works
nights at Tampa  General Hospital. They were quiet when TGH was a public
institution and they've been quiet since  last Oct. 1, when TGH went private.

Well, quiet except for the grumblings of some co-workers.

"People talk," Rollock said.  They talk about TGH losses, which could reach $ 20
million for the year.

They talk about an efficiency-assessing consulting firm that is going through
the hospital, unit  by unit, issuing reports believed to be fodder for future
layoffs.

They talk about lower staffing and withering morale.

Rollock said she doesn't participate in such conversations, and isn't worried.

"There's a lot of jobs for nurses," she explained.  Privacy positives

How is TGH doing since privatization? It depends who you ask.

TGH is a 70-year-old landmark facility on Davis Islands known for decades as
Tampa's teaching  hospital, one of its primary indigent care centers and as a
county-owned facility operating under a  political spotlight but without direct
county tax support.

The move into privatization was sold - and bought, by county officials - as
necessary for TGH to  survive competition from private hospitals in a worsening
business environment.

No one disputes that hospitals are being squeezed by government and private
insurance programs.  And all but one of the Hillsborough County Hospital
Authority members who voted for TGH's  privatization stand by their decision
publicly.

"There's no question they could not survive as a public institution," said John
Howley, the  hospital authority's chairman.

TGH is a leaner, better-run business, and its financial reports more accurately
count its losses  from unpaid patient bills, said H. L. Culbreath, who voted for
privatization as a hospital  authority member and chairs the private board that
oversees TGH.

Other improvements include a 10 percent increase in admissions, improving
patient satisfaction  surveys and nine new managed care contracts, TGH officials
say.

Patient complaints to the state about TGH have dropped, from 13 in 1996-1997 to
eight in  1997-1998, according to state records.

And TGH officials contend that although employees are nervous about the
potential for layoffs  because of the steep financial losses, morale is actually
up.

"I think they are glad to be working at a hospital which is less and less
perceived as "the  county hospital,' which I think has always been a major
negative for us," said TGH President Bruce  Siegel.

TGH blood technician Carrie Coney said morale is sound.

"People are hanging in; everybody feels good," she said.

Other employees said they feel proud to work at a hospital with the region's
most advanced  trauma unit, its only burn unit, and other specialized services
and staff that other hospitals  lack.

But there are others who say morale is worse than ever and staffing in some
units is dangerously  low. They said they would not talk publicly about their
concerns, because they could be fired or  laid off if their names ran in the
newspaper.

"I have a son to take care of," a nurse said.  Privacy minuses

The biggest problem since privatization is TGH's financial hemorrhage.

TGH posted a $ 3.2 million gain for fiscal 1996-97. Figures for the fiscal year
that ended  Wednesday aren't available.

As of the end of August - the 11-month mark in the fiscal year - TGH recorded an
$ 11.9 million  loss. TGH officials said once all the math is done, the year's
loss could reach $ 20 million.

That news shocked public officials, who were told TGH's finances would improve
if it went  private.

TGH initiated an employee buyout program in July that resulted in 99 employees
leaving.

Siegel has said more layoffs may be coming, but has not said when. A
Dallas-based consulting  firm is going through the hospital, talking to managers
to improve efficiency and reporting to  Siegel.

The reductions probably would be in stages and largely through attrition rather
than in a  massive dismissal, he said.

The losses have several causes, TGH officials said.

A change in federal Medicare payments to teaching hospitals accounts for $ 2.5
million. Shrinking  payments from private insurance programs accounts for some,
too.

But the largest single cause, TGH officials say, is their loss of the lien
authority the  hospital had when it was private.

That authority allowed TGH to make a first claim on the insurance settlements of
former patients  - mostly auto accident victims - who had been to TGH but never
paid their bills.

That power brought the hospital between $ 10 million and $ 12 million each year
in added  collections, TGH officials said.

TGH officials said they knew they were giving up the authority when they went
private, but  thought they could get lawmakers and commissioners to help them
regain the power.

But it didn't work out that way.  Political turmoil

The support for the lien bill faltered in June, when Hillsborough Commission
Chairman Tom Scott -  who sits on the hospital authority and had supported
privatization - put a stop to it.

At a June 24 commission meeting, Scott said he had questions about Siegel's
plans for the  hospital and would not move on the lien until he got answers. He
was joined by Commissioner Jim  Norman, who said to get the answers in writing
because Siegel's spoken words could not be trusted.

A week later, Siegel announced the employee buyout program and the possibility
of future  layoffs, a move he said was necessitated by the loss of lien
revenues. Some commissioners said  Siegel was playing politics.

Then, last month, all seven county commissioners were subpoenaed by a federal
grand jury.

Scott says the investigation was prompted by Siegel's allegation that Scott said
he would  support the lien if Siegel did business with a Lutz medical equipment
salesman, David Bekhor.

Scott denies the allegation. Siegel, who also was subpoenaed, won't comment.

"The continuing politicization of Tampa General is not what I want," Siegel
said.  The future

The lien is the hospital's most pressing concern. Without that, it is doubtful
TGH will go back  into the black, Culbreath said.

Others have to take his word on that, because TGH's financial books are now
private.

"If we lost money while it was public, at least people would be able to go
behind the loss  numbers and find out what's behind it," said hospital authority
member Ed Trocke, a retired bank  vice president.

TGH, meanwhile, is pursuing a more than $ 400 million plan to build a new,
smaller hospital near  the University of South Florida campus in north Tampa. It
is necessary to the hospital's survival,  TGH officials say.

The hospital bought two parcels of land near USF in July, and is working with
the hospital's  foundation to hire a fundraiser to help the plan materialize.
Siegel wants to move within five  years.

Others think that's optimistic, given the political turmoil and financial losses
of the last  year.

"I think it's probably been easier for the hospital to make decisions" and do
business since  privatization, said USF President Betty Castor. "But they also
have been hurt by public perception.  Obviously, the public hasn't felt they've
had enough information."

TGH is USF's teaching hospital, and USF prefers it to be steps away instead of
13 miles. But  TGH's troubles concern USF.

"Naturally, it's easier to build in a positive climate than a negative climate,"
Castor said.  Mike Stobbe covers medicine and can be reached at (813) 259-7562.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 5, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Hurricane and El Nino;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 356 words


As the hurricane-suppressing effects of the 1997-98 El Nino are slowing down,
storm activity in  the Atlantic Ocean is picking up, according to the World
Climate Report in Virginia. El Ninos  inhibit the development of Atlantic storms
by altering patterns of high-altitude air. As the last  El Nino faded, storm
activity increased, the report states.

Compounding the problem, sea surface temperatures in the tropical Atlantic are
high this year,  in contrast to lower temperatures in the mid-1990s.

"Why this temperature switch occurred, nobody knows, but these patterns of
temperature tend to be  persistent, so it looks like we have entered an extended
stretch of active hurricane years," adds  the report. "All we can hope for is
that El Ninos will continue to occur frequently, since they have  a way of
protecting our overbuilt and overexposed Southeastern and Gulf coastlines."

Shuttle viewing: If you plan to drive over to Brevard County for the Oct. 29
shuttle launch  carrying John Glenn into orbit, we have good news. Kennedy Space
Center is offering launch packages  for prime viewing areas at $ 20 a person.
The fee includes reserved parking, access to the viewing  area at the U.S. Space
Walk of Fame at the Indian River and S.R. 402, and a commemorative Glenn
T-shirt.

The site will open at 6 a.m. the day of launch. Blastoff is planned for 2 p.m.
Expect enormous  crowds and heavy traffic. For more information call the KSC
Visitor Complex at (407) 449-4444, or  visit the website at www.Kennedy Space
Center.com.

Brain imaging: Each year in the United States, 3 million people are in some way
disabled by a  stroke, and 150,000 die. Health care costs for stroke top an
estimated $ 30 billion annually.  Researchers hope to improve diagnosis with a
new diffusion imaging system that studies changes in  blood and water levels in
the brain within 24 hours after a stroke.

Built by Siemens Medical Systems in New Jersey, the tool allows clinicians to
detect the  presence and location of acute stroke activity, and reportedly with
more accuracy than conventional  imaging techniques.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO (C),
 (C) This imaging system measures changes in blood and water levels in the brain
after a stroke. Photo from Siemens Medical Systems, Inc.

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 24, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

BRANDON;

BYLINE: Marlene Boggs;

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

 Pecan sale marks change in weather

In colder climates, a change in the weather signals the beginning of the holiday
season. In the  Brandon area, the weather isn't a reliable marker. But when one
annual sale is announced, the folks  know it's time to get ready for the
holidays.

The United Methodist Women of the First United Methodist Church of Brandon has
announced the  time is here, and the group is taking orders for its 28th Annual
Pecan Sale.

Five-pound boxes of fresh pecan halves or pieces are available for $ 26. The
nuts are all from  the 1998 crop, organizers say, and are direct from the grower
on the day before delivery. Orders  can be picked up from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Nov.
14 and 16 at the church, 120 N. Knight Ave. Proceeds of  the event benefit the
group's charitable activities.

To place an order, call Flo Davis, 681-1972; Marion Thomas, 685-5105; Venetia
Rouse, 681-2215;  Connie Smalldone, 654-7198; or Sandy Lynch, 653-2858.

Fall craft fair: The women of St. Andrew's United Methodist Church will hold
their 31st Annual  Fall Craft Fair from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. today on the church
grounds, 3315 Bryan Road.

Holiday gifts made by local craftspersons will be offered, along with handmade
items made by  crafters living in the mountains of Kentucky and Tennessee.
Recording artist Kay Robbins will  perform folk, bluegrass and gospel songs and
the church's fellowship hall will become a "cafe" with  lunch items on the menu.
A bake sale is also planned.

Proceeds will benefit several local charitable organizations.

Pumpkin run scheduled: The GFWC Brandon Junior Woman's Club will hold its 5th
Annual Great  Pumpkin Run Oct. 31 on the grounds of NationsBank in Sabal Park.
The event includes a 10k run  starting at 7:30 a.m., a 5k run starting at 8:30
a.m., and a Fun Run at 9:15 a.m. Registration is  at 6:45 a.m. Entry fee is $
15.

Awards will be given in various categories. Proceeds are earmarked for the
club's charitable  activities.

For more information, call Donelle White, 643-0712.  SUN CITY CENTER

Committee members announced: The Good Samaritans have announced that members for
its 1999 Good  Samaritan Charity Ball Committee have been selected.

Organizing the event will be Peg and Harold Fisher, Virginia and John Bush,
Betty and Rex  Landis, Harriet and Bill Young, and Stan and Mary Smalenski.
Theme of the event will be "Springtime  in Paris."  VALRICO

Classic cars and more: A Classic Car Show and Fall Festival will be held from 1
p.m. to 5 p.m.  today on the grounds of Valrico State Bank's main office, 1815
State Road 60. A benefit for four  local nonprofit organizations, the festival
will feature pony rides, music, a scuba exhibit with  videos and instructions, a
petting zoo, games and prizes.

The Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office plans to have demonstrations by its
motorcycle and K-9  units and Fire Rescue Station 11 will have their engine on
site. Hillsborough County Explorers Post  238 will hold a drawing to benefit the
Missing Children's Help Center and will also be offering  children's
fingerprinting.

Boy Scout Troop 89 will staff a food concession and the Fellowship Baptist
Church of Valrico  will hold a bake sale. For more information, call Judy
Hamblin, 689-1231.  EAST HILLSBOROUGH

Snippets: The Kiwanis Club of Sun City Center will hold the third day of its
annual Geranium  Sale from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. today in front of the Winn-Dixie
store next to Lake Towers and the  Ace Hardware stores in Sun City Center Plaza.
Geraniums will be offered for $ 20 a flat... The East  Tampa Rotary Club will
hold a fall festival at 6 p.m. today at Rotary's Camp Florida 1915 Camp  Florida
Road. The event will feature games, food, hayrides, a haunted house, a costume
contest,  ghost stories and face painting. For more information, call
661-8867... The Brandon Sertoma Club  has named Ellen Bertram the club's
Sertoman of the Year. She joined the club a year ago and has  accumulated 120
volunteer hours in service to Sertoma... Sun City Center organist Rosa Rio will

 provide live musical accompaniment on the Tampa Theater's "Mighty Wurlitzer"
organ at the 3 p.m.  Sunday screening of "The Phantom of the Opera." The 1925
classic horror movie stars Lon Chaney. For  ticket information, call 274-8286.
Send news of cultural events, social activities, anniversaries and birthday
celebrations, new club officers, and other items of community interest to
Marlene Boggs at The Tampa Tribune, 505 W.  Robertson St., Brandon FL 33511, or
Fax 643-6844. Call 685-4581 for more information.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: NEIGHBORS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 25, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

How to make that trip ...;
... an incredible journey;
Taking the family pet on a drive or flight? Good planning can ease an often
bumpy ride,;
according to Tribune readers and animal care experts.

BYLINE: BETH DOLAN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words


TAMPA - Kathy McElvenny's Jack Russell terrier, Cricket, has crossed the
Atlantic Ocean 10 times.

Jennifer Johnson's cat, Oliver, has logged thousands of miles flying from Tampa
to Arizona and  back.

Christa and Bill Russell's yellow tabby, M, spent 31/2 months of his summer
vacation traveling  8,300 miles throughout California, Nevada, Colorado and
Dallas before arriving back home in  Zephyrhills.

And a few of Tricia Bonati's four-footed family members - Sam, Maggie and Pooh -
have vacationed  in places such as Italy, Spain, San Francisco and North
Carolina. The standard poodles and bichon  frise have traveled by train, plane,
helicopter and car.

Judging from the response to our recent request for tips on pet travel, some
Tribune readers own  animals eligible for frequent flier miles. Pet owners
shared their experiences and wrote in with  advice on providing creature
comforts during long trips.

McElvenny gave a thumbs-up to one airline carrier, SwissAir, because it allows
Cricket to stay  on the seat with her throughout the flight or rest in the seat
next to her. And, the Tampa resident  notes, Cricket's good behavior on one
flight even led singer Harry Connick Jr. to stop by and  introduce himself.

Bonati says she has never had a problem when traveling with her pets.

"They know what's expected of them," says the St. Petersburg resident. "And they
behave accordingly  - most of the time, anyway."

Responsibility and good behavior are critical to successful pet travel, experts
say.

"Be a responsible pet owner - not only to your pet, but also to the people
around you," says  veterinarian Lesley Sinclair, director of Companion Animal
Services for the Humane Society of the  United States in Washington, D.C.

That advice was echoed by a local airline attendant responding to our request
for pet travel  tips. The attendant declined to give her name or the name of her
company.

She urges travelers who carry their pets in the airplane cabin to keep them in
their carriers.

"Not everyone is a pet lover," she says. "Some people are afraid of animals.
Others are allergic to  them."

Be honest, she says.

"Some people try to sneak cats on and not tell. And some people are really
allergic to cats.

"We end up moving people because of situations like that."

Honesty is the best policy, agrees Stephen Le Bruto of the University of Central
Florida's  Department of Hospitality Management.

"Call ahead to make reservations for you and your pet," says the professor.
"Don't try to sneak  your pets anywhere."

Le Bruto says that when he traveled with his Old English sheepdog, Quincy, he
never had a  problem, even at hotels with no-pets policies.

"I was upfront," he says. "And I'd tell them that he was a better guest than
some of their others."

Betty Whipp of Sebring wrote to say that years ago, when she went to motels that
had a "no pets"  policy, she'd sign the register. Then she'd tell the manager,
"Oh, by the way, I have this old,  well-behaved dog who I guarantee will not get
drunk, burn holes in the bedding or do any other  damage, and he is not a
barking dog.

"Almost always they would say, "Sure, you can keep your dog with you.' "

Judging by the increase in books on traveling with pets, more hotels and motels
are catering to  travelers who don't want to leave their best friends at home.

"Vacationing With Your Pet," by Eileen Barish, lists more than 23,000 hotels,
motels, inns,  ranches and bed and breakfasts throughout the United States and
Canada that welcome Fluffy and Fido  as much as they welcome their owners.

Norm and Lise Doyon's Lorelei Pet Resort in Treasure Island is listed in
Barish's book.

The resort has gone to the dogs - and cats - by design. It features pet-friendly
accommodations  such as ceramic floors that keep fleas at bay and wide
windowsills for sleepy cats to laze upon.

Dog treats are placed on pillows at the end of the day, and there's even a
floating dock that  makes it easy for dogs that have decided to swim in the
Intracoastal Waterway to come back on shore  after their dip.

"People and their pets are not "tolerated' here," says Lise. "They're welcomed.

"But we ask that the pets be well-behaved."

Whether pets are traveling by plane or car, or even if they have arrived at
their destinations,  good behavior is critical to all passengers' good nature.

When Catherine Kleckner of Tampa moved to Florida from Michigan with her cats,
she was advised  by her veterinarian not to sedate the animals during the drive.

A dry run a couple of weeks before departure day showed that the cats weren't
going to relax and  enjoy their trip.

So, before leaving, Kleckner purchased a crate large enough for her pets to move
about in. The  day she left, she filled the crate with Niles' and Frasier's
litter box, their food and water and  headed off.

"I listened to about 20 minutes of the meow-meow chorus, then put an ...
audiotape in the  cassette player. They quieted down, went to sleep and were
just wonderful little passengers.

"I think that the audio books helped them to relax, and I didn't have to keep
talking to them all  the way to Tampa."

Keeping pets' comfort in mind should be first and foremost in any pet owner's
travel plans, says  Sinclair, of the national Humane Society.

"You want to plan ahead and think about what their needs will be on the trip.
Figure out if  they'll really enjoy traveling before you make reservations and
plans."

Owners of elderly pets have special things to keep in mind, she notes.

"Medications may not be available at your destination, and special foods might
be hard to find,"  she explains.

"And be especially careful if you live in a warm climate and you're taking your
pet to a colder  one. Older animals especially are affected by changes in
climate."

Senior pets pose special problems, she says.

Owners might want to check with their veterinarians before committing to
traveling with elderly  cats and dogs.

"Find out if it's OK even for the pet to travel," Sinclair urges. "Consider the
risks and benefits  and how the pet will feel.

"Keep in mind that some pets are just not good travelers, while others are
wonderful."    (CHART) Pet travel check list  Before leaving with your
four-legged best friend on a trip, make sure you have the following:   Your
pet's name tag with telephone number.   Health certificates for the animal,
including one for rabies shots.   A photo of your pet (handy if you get
separated).   Enough food, bottled water and medication to last the duration of
the trip.   A sturdy leash.   Your veterinarian's telephone number.   Paper
towels and plastic bags for picking up waste.   Your pet's favorite toys, treats
and/or blanket. (Give toys to your pet only when it is  supervised; animals can
shred toys when excited and choke on the small pieces.)    (CHART) Readers' tips

 Tribune readers offer the following tips for traveling with pets:   Carry
plenty of plastic bags for cleanup at rest stops, suggests Harold S. Modlin of
Zephyrhills,  whose wife, Marian, has had the help of her guide dog, Gunter, for
five years.   Pack some towels in your car, advises Kathryn L. Robinson of
Holiday. If you have to walk a dog  in the rain, having an extra towel on hand
will preclude muddy paw prints on a motel bed.  Also, Robinson notes, pack a
doggie first-aid kit. Ask your vet what to include in it.   When you fly, walk
your dog before you pick up your luggage, says Kathy McElvenny of Tampa.
Remember, your pet couldn't use the plane's restroom.   Mark your pet's crate
and collar with your name and home phone number as well as the name and  phone
number of someone at your destination, notes Colette Vallee of Lutz.  Apply a
flea control treatment before transporting your pet, she adds. The animal could
be confined  in an area where fleas are prevalent.   Never open your car door
when traveling with your pet unless you have it secured on a leash or in  a
carrier, warns Laura Huppert of Tampa. Pets can move quickly and can run out
into busy streets  within seconds.  Beth Dolan  Beth Dolan covers pets for the
Tribune. Reach her at (813) 259-7619 or e-mail her at bdolan@tampatrib.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART 2; PHOTO (2C),
 (C) (Poodles driving car) MARK GUSS, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 2, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. says Iraqi move could warrant attack;

BYLINE: Compiled from Tribune wires ;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


WASHINGTON - The Clinton administration said Sunday it would consider military
strikes against  Iraq if President Saddam Hussein does not back down from his
decision to halt all cooperation with  U.N. weapons inspectors.

President Clinton said that the Iraqi move this weekend was a "clear violation"
of U.N. Security  Council resolutions and that "from my point of view, we should
keep all our options open."

The threat of military strikes was made more directly by Secretary of Defense
William Cohen, who  said unilateral U.S. military action against Iraq "has
always been an option that we could pursue."  Cohen cut short a trip to Asia
because of the Iraqi crisis.

They said if Iraq does not reverse its decision and allow inspections to resume,
a military  response would be considered far more seriously than in August, when
Iraq imposed a more limited  ban on spot inspections of its weapons sites.
Climate conference begins in Buenos Aires

WASHINGTON - International negotiators will resume talks today in Buenos Aires
over details in  the treaty to fight global warming, but with their expectations
lowered.

Last year in Kyoto, Japan, more than 150 nations hammered out a far-reaching
agreement for steep  reductions in emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases
by industrialized countries during the  next 10 to 15 years.

But while Kyoto set the targets and deadlines on reducing greenhouse gases, the
most difficult  issues - how to achieve the cuts and how to spread the costs -
were left for discussion over these  two weeks in Argentina.  Catholic man's
killing claimed by new group

BELFAST, Northern Ireland - A new Protestant gang opposed to Northern Ireland's
prevailing  cease-fires claimed responsibility Sunday for killing a Catholic
civilian.

A caller representing the Red Hand Defenders told the British Broadcasting
Corp.'s office in  Londonderry that the group shot 35-year-old Brian Service
early Saturday on Belfast's rough north  side.

Saturday's killing coincided with the failure to meet an important deadline in
the accord, an  inaugural summit of the new Northern Ireland government and the
government of the Irish Republic.  Protestant leaders have refused to form the
assembly unless the Irish Republican Army starts to  disarm.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF NEWS OF THE WORLD

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 9, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

MOSI to teach clients about chaos;

BYLINE: AISSATOU SIDIME, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words


TAMPA - The museum is offering to instruct business executives how to embrace
change and the  unpredictable.

Museum of Science & Industry instructors know children retain more through
hands-on learning.

Now it hopes to attract business customers with a similar approach in a new
corporate training  program, named Experience Chaos, starting this week.

Unlike obstacle courses that local resorts have added the past two years to
teach businesses  team-building skills, Experience Chaos uses the GTE Challenger
space flight simulator to teach them  to embrace change and the unpredictable.

The four-hour program, priced at $ 500 a person, is supposed to encourage
participants to view  chaos as a challenge that can help businesses improve
their organizational structures and share  knowledge better.

"People complain already about suffering from information overload," said Bill
AuCoin, spokesman  for Tampa-based Direction Consulting, which directs the
program. "Chaos theory helps people deal  with information."

MOSI already offers computer training for corporations. But its sole
skill-building exercises  are targeted at children. Those camp-ins, field trips,
and summer workshops have boosted the number  of repeat visits by museum
clients. The museum's program developers expect Experience Chaos will  draw new
visitors.

"It's certainly going to broaden our audience base," said Jan Luth, MOSI vice
president of  programs. "Those are not folks who would have previously come to
MOSI."

MOSI officials expect to draw from local companies and clients attending
conventions in Tampa.  The program would be promoted by Tampa's tourism and
convention agencies as part of services  offered to conventions.

At Saddlebrook Resort, which added a 21/2-acre obstacle course two years ago, 70
percent of  convention attendees participate in the resort's team building
activities. So the resort is  expanding its course to 5 acres to serve more
people.

Robin Delgado, a corporate sales director at Saddlebrook, predicted MOSI will
have a harder sell  to out-of-town groups because of a lack of on-site lodging.

"They will probably have more local companies," Delgado said.

MOSI's corporate training program will be offered afternoons after school groups
have left.

Direction Consulting will pay MOSI rent for using the simulator and will make an
unspecified  annual contribution to the museum, Luth said.  Aissatou Sidime
covers retail and tourism and can be reached at (813) 259-7919 or by e-mail at
asidime@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 10, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Balloonists jump ship 1 hour into voyage

SOURCE: An Associated Press report

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: YESO, N.M.


Another attempt to encircle the globe failed on Friday, shortly after the quest
began in Albuquerque, N.M.

Two balloonists parachuted into a cactus-studded pasture Friday after a tear
doomed their round-the-world quest just an hour after launch. The pilotless
balloon, laden with explosive fuel, floated east for about eight hours before
landing in Texas.

Dick Rutan and Dave Melton, hoping to become the first to fly nonstop round the
world in a balloon, parachuted in 45 mph winds Friday morning. They landed a
quarter-mile apart about 13 miles southeast of the town of Vaughn.

Rutan, 59, hit cactus and suffered bloody puncture wounds all over his nose and
cheeks. He was still pulling cactus needles from his face hours later.

Melton, 39, hit the only wire fence in the wide-open area, and later was
hospitalized in serious condition with a dislocated hip and ankle.

"He was curled up on the ground. He was in pain," said Vaughn Police Chief J.R.
Romo, who saw the pair parachute. "He cussed us out, saying it hurt."

The flight was going fine until "all of a sudden there was this boom," Rutan
said at a news conference. "Dave looked at me and said "We're in trouble.' "

Rutan said they considered trying to land, but surface winds were too strong.

"We were airborne in something that was highly suspect, heavily laden with fuel
and Dave and I came to the realization we have to abandon this thing," he said.

The Federal Aviation Administration had ordered all aircraft to stay clear of
the 170-foot unmanned balloon, which ended up draped over some trees near
Lindsay, about 45 miles north of Dallas.

Before coming to a stop, the balloon touched down and sparked a small fire,
which was extinguished.

A rip in the helium-filled inner balloon was reported at 7:28 a.m. Friday, about
an hour after the craft lifted off from Albuquerque. The men parachuted out of
the silver vessel's ball-shaped capsule around 9 a.m., just 100 miles into their
journey.

The Global Hilton, which was making its maiden flight, is a combination hot-air
balloon and helium balloon, with propane tanks to fuel the flames that warm the
gas.

Rutan, a former Air Force pilot, helped fly the experimental plane Voyager
around the world nonstop 11 years ago. Melton, a technician at Los Alamos
National Laboratory, has flown balloons for 15 years.

Chicago millionaire Steve Fossett's fourth round-the-world bid ended Monday on
the edge of the Black Sea.

Another balloonist, Kevin Uliassi, left Loves Park, Ill., on New Year's Eve, but
an equipment problem forced him to land a few hours later in Indiana.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2,
 The Global Hilton balloon developed a rip shortly after takeoff early Friday.
AP photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 4, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Lawton's last hurrah

BYLINE: DAVID COX; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Some Republican legislative leaders said they found Gov. Lawton Chiles' final
address lacking and "unspectacular."

Cracking down on gun purchases at gun shows and lighting up in restaurants and
bars - those are two of Gov. Lawton Chiles' major goals in his last year in
office.

Those also were the only surprises in the relatively short half-hour State of
the State address Chiles delivered Tuesday to open the 100th session of the
Florida Legislature.

He took no parting shots, used no props, and made no bold new proposals. Though
he did entreat legislators to "be bold" and "dare to look foolish."

Much of the speech recalled accomplishments of his past seven years and pushed
forward his final agenda to improve the health and welfare of Florida's
children.

"Today, I am happy to report that the state of the state is very strong. Our
jobs are up, our unemployment and crime are down, and we're preserving our
fragile ecosystems, including the jewel in our crown - the Florida Everglades,"
Chiles said.

As he has throughout much of his political career, Chiles touted his ongoing
children's health initiatives. The most ambitious piece this year will provide
state-subsidized health insurance for more than 300,000 needy children.

He called upon state legislators to stick to his court-sanctioned plan to spend
$ 200 million on an anti-smoking campaign aimed at youth and to spend more money
on student textbooks and computers and school teachers and nurses.

He also pledged to push for the adoption of more foster care children.

Chiles, continuing his push for greater regulation of tobacco, asked the
Legislature to give local communities the right to ban smoking in such public
places as bars and restaurants.

"This is a home rule issue," he said.

"New York City provides us with strong, strong evidence that the restaurant and
tourism business can thrive when the air is cleared. Florida's communities
deserve the opportunity to strengthen their clean-air laws."

In proposing that cities and counties be given more authority to control gun
sales, Chiles mentioned the shooting of the son of Rep. Les Miller, D-Tampa.

Trey Miller was shot last year at a college graduation party in Tallahassee just
a block away from the Capitol.

"Those shots hit very close to home for all of us - but unfortunately, gun
violence in our society has become background noise. We need to change that,"
Chiles said.

Officials in Miami and Orlando also have been calling for stronger gun-control
laws in the wake of numerous gun-related deaths, the governor noted.

A spokesman for Chiles said later the governor envisions letting cities pass
gun-control laws that require such things as mandatory trigger locks, or that
limit how many guns one individual may own.

Chiles also called upon lawmakers to close a loophole that now allows people to
sell guns at gun shows without checking their buyers' criminal backgrounds and
without imposing the three-day waiting period the law requires of other gun
retailers.

Republican legislative leaders gave the gun proposals a tentative thumbs up
Tuesday.

The head of the Black Caucus, Miami Democratic Rep. Beryl Roberts-Burke, said
gun control is "significant to the African-American community. I'm glad it's an
issue (Chiles) addressed."

Among other school proposals, Chiles favors increasing the salaries of teachers
who attain national certification.

Such certification would be equivalent to a physician becoming board-certified,
said David Binnie, Hillsborough County's assistant superintendent for human
resources.

The certification program is "a very time-intensive process ... involving a high
level of work by the teacher," he said, adding, "We believe it's of significant
value."

Some lawmakers were upset by what wasn't addressed by Chiles.

The governor, for example, only mentioned in passing such issues as fighting
crime, protecting the environment and improving the state's business climate.

Rep. Carl Littlefield, R-Dade City, said he was "outraged" Chiles didn't spend
more time talking about issues affecting seniors.

"He had the eyes of the state of Florida upon him and did not mention one time
... the value of seniors on our state and the state's economy," said
Littlefield, who chairs the House Governmental Services Council, which oversees
health care issues.

Rep. Willie Logan, D-Opa-locka,wanted to hear Chiles talk more about improving
race relations. Logan, who is black, was dumped by white Democrats in the House
last January from becoming their choice for the next House speaker.

"I would have liked to hear him say he was going to appoint a panel on race
relations," Logan said.

Others were complimentary of Chiles, but found the speech uninspirational.

"The issue to Chiles has always been kids, and that's fine, but there are other
quadrants of our economy and the demographics that deserve attention," said
Majority Leader Jim King of Jacksonville.

Speaker designate John Thrasher, R-Orange Park, called the speech "fairly
unspectacular." He added, "It's kind of highlighted by what he didn't say."

The 68-year-old governor saved his most passionate comments for the speech's
closing, when he reminisced about his 40-years in politics, beginning when he
was first elected to the state House in 1958.

"Part of your contract with the people entitles them to have you vote your
honest convictions of what you think is best for them. You'll take that risk,
but remember the only vote you can explain is the one you believe in," Chiles
said.

"Be bold - dare to look foolish. Reach beyond your grasp and go beyond the path
you can see."     (CHART) Proposals   Gov. Lawton Chiles wants lawmakers to:
SMOKING: Give cities and counties authority to ban smoking in such places as
restaurants and bars.   NO SMOKING CAMPAIGN: Adhere to the state's commitment to
spend $ 200 million on an antismoking advertising campaign aimed at youths.
GUN CONTROL: Give cities and counties the power to impose tougher gun control
laws of their own. Force people who sell weapons at gun shows to perform
background checks and impose waiting periods on gun buyers.   CHILD ABUSE: Hire
200 additional child abuse investigators and provide all investigators with
better training.   TEACHER PAY: Provide better pay to teachers who gain national
certification.   CLASSROOM NEEDS: Spend an extra $ 24.5 million on textbooks and
classroom materials.   SCHOOL NURSES: Put more full-time nurses in public
schools.   COMPUTERS IN SCHOOLS: Continue funding for computers and technology
in schools.   CHILD CARE: Use the savings from putting welfare recipients to
work to provide child care for an additional 26,000 needy children.   ADOPTION:
Back a campaign to get more adults to adopt foster children.  Read the text of
the governor's State of the State address on the Internet at
http://www.state.fl.us/eog/state-of-state/sos-1998.html  David Cox covers state
government and can be reached at (850) 222-8382. Staff writers Margaret Talev,
Gary Sprott and Grace Frank contributed to this report.  Two pupils get the
chance to ask Chiles and MacKay questions. This section, Page 10

Already the most controversial issues are headed to the floors of both houses
for debate.   Florida Metro, Page 1

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4(2C); CHART,
 (C) (Gov. Lawton Chiles)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 17, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Keep tax money in state

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1371 words


Regarding your March 14 editorial praising the decision in Congress to ensure
that each state gets back at least 91 cents of every highway tax dollar that is
sent to the federal government as "an important victory" ("Finally, gas tax
fairness for Florida"):

This is not an important victory; it is merely an important first battle. The
victory will come when we recognize that sending $ 1 to a federal bureaucracy so
that 9 cents in administrative overhead can be taken out and the balance
returned to us is not the best use of our tax money. Let's keep that dollar
entirely in Florida. If we have to give up 9 cents to a government, let's give
it to our state government and spend the rest on maintaining and improving our
highways.

We don't need to pass these dollars through the federal Treasury so they can be
sent back to us diminished to spend on local and state projects. If we must,
let's assume responsibility for maintenance of the interstate highways within
our borders and keep the money here.  RON KOHL Brandon  HD: All that fuss over a
dog

I thought now that I'd reached my 70s, I had seen, heard and read just about
everything. That is, until I read the March 7 Tribune.

On the front page - where headlines screamed of a policeman's murder, leaving
six little children fatherless; of four lottery employees killed by a
disgruntled worker; of several passengers injured in a Delta flight and the
others thanking God to be alive - I read where someone is complaining that using
a Mexican pooch to advertise Mexican food is demeaning to the Mexican people. I
have always considered the Mexicans very romantic, with their dark good looks
and flashing eyes. The ad could not possibly change that opinion!

I saw the ad and think it is darling. If it gives us a little chuckle in these
very trying days, I say let well enough alone! Let's stop kicking up fusses over
"straws in the wind."  DOLLY HEISS Tampa  Taco Bell ads are offensive

There are some of us Latinos who are totally offended by the Taco Bell Dinky
ads. I am a black woman from Costa Rica, so you might think that I should not
take offense; well, I do. How dare Taco Bell degrade any Latin culture like
that.

First of all, I really don't consider Taco Bell's food to be Mexican. To me it's
just some Anglo's screwed-up version of what Mexican food is. Second, as a
little girl growing up in Los Angeles, I always saw Mexicans depicted on TV as
lazy beer drinkers who drove around with a Chihuahua with a bouncing head in the
rear window of the car. And now Taco Bell, in very bad taste, decides that it is
OK to bring back the Mexican/Chihuahua connotation. I guess we have not made the
cultural sensitivity progress I thought we had.

In my opinion, this ad is totally wrong, and any Latinos who feel otherwise need
to check themselves. They might say that this is too petty for them to worry
about, but if we don't stand up against the small injustices, pretty soon we
won't be able to stand up at all.  O.M. ROBINSON Tampa  Preamble protects unborn

Your editorial "Trying to stop partial-birth abortions" (March 4) can find
strong support in the Preamble of the U.S. Constitution.

This Constitution provides for the protection of the lives of our future
generations and therefore implies a contrary voice against abortion. This is set
forth in the Preamble by the following: "... promote the general welfare and
secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and
establish this Constitution for the United States of America."

The dictionary defines posterity as being the future generations or all of one's
descendants. The moment a woman becomes pregnant in our country, she places the
infant to be born in the category of the future generation of this country. The
unborn child, therefore, becomes a part of the posterity referred to in the
Preamble.

Voluntary abortion is repugnant and contrary to the spirit of this Constitution.
This wonderful document was instituted to preserve, protect and continue the
existence of human life and not to destroy it in any of its stages of formation
and being. One cannot have "a more perfect union" if we are allowed to destroy
and eliminate by abortion some of its posterity. Furthermore, we cannot have
"justice" by such destruction of human life while we deprive this segment of
human life of the "blessings of liberty."

Therefore, we do not need laws allowing abortion. The U.S. Constitution states
that we must preserve, protect and secure the "liberty" of future generations,
and this cannot be done by intentionally aborting our unborn children.  ALBERT
J. LANDI Zephyrhills  Jewish ties to Israel strong

I just read Harry Lee Smith's March 14 letter, which commented on the William
Safire column of March 4. Smith makes some cogent observations about the
political realities of the Middle East. Surely economics and politics do not go
hand in hand with matters of ideology. Furthermore, there are many conflicting
and counterbalancing forces in this region that create a confusing political
equation. Political commentators, including Safire, have noted that getting rid
of Saddam Hussein could create a political vacuum that might be worse than the
woes he causes. There are a number of points that need to be noted:

1. There is certainly a good bit of divisiveness among the Arab states,
particularly between the haves and the have-nots, but that is not enough to
ensure the survival of Israel.

2. There has been a continuous Jewish presence in Israel for nearly 4,000 years.
From the time of Abraham (c. 1850 B.C.), Jews have lived in Israel. Islam began
2,500 years later in A.D. 622.

3. The spiritual bond between the Jewish people and Israel is so strong that the
only way Israelis would leave Israel would be if they were killed or forcibly
removed from the land. While individual Israelis may come to live in the United
States, most would not be "glad to become American citizens," as Smith notes.

4. Ideological considerations motivate both Arab and Jewish extremists and are
responsible for much of the unrest in the Middle East. This is the most
unpredictable element in the Middle East "equation."

5. Reasonable and far-seeing people in Egypt, Jordan and Israel, as well as
individuals in other countries, recognize that a Middle East Common Market could
be a boon for everyone. That can be accomplished only when there is peace. When
people live well with enough to eat and adequate creature comforts, the need for
discord and war disappears. Those leaders who see the big picture know that
working for peace and economic security is in everyone's best interests.  RABBI
ROBERT GOODMAN Brandon  The writer leads Congregation Beth Shalom.  Show us the
density

In reference to your March 15 editorial "The many practical reasons behind our
longtime support for local rail":

For more than a decade the Tribune editorial staff and county planners have
overlooked the basic feasibility criteria for rail system planning, i.e.,
density. The facts are plain, the arguments simple; one needs only to apply
common sense.

The official projected density for Hillsborough County is no more than one
resident per acre by the year 2020. The city of Tampa, the most dense
population, is projected to have no more than three residents per acre by the
year 2020. The professional planning industry density required for a feasible
rail system is nine residents per acre. When adjusted for the Florida climate,
this figure could climb as high as 12 residents per acre.

The math is simple, but once again the facts and common sense are set aside.
Common sense tells us we should delay the local rail option until we are near
the feasibility density horizon. We should put all federal transit dollars into
an expanded regional bus system and a regional bus terminal, located between the
downtown railroad station and the port passenger ferry docks, and expand the
van-pooling network and other intelligent transportation systems.  NEIL
COSENTINO  Tampa  The writer, a former member of the County Citizens Advisory
Committee for Transportation, is a Democratic candidate for state
representative, District 56.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 19, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Lingering El Nin o again may hold down number of hurricanes

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The effects of El Nin o could be around for another month, but the weather may
start to return to normal by May.

The persistent, powerful El Nin o that shaped Florida weather for nearly a year
may retain enough strength to slightly influence the coming hurricane season,
scientists said Tuesday.

El Nin o probably will continue to have some impact on the weather through the
next month or so, said Ants Leetmaa, director of the Climate Prediction Center
in Washington. It likely will fade through summer and fall, he said, speaking at
a conference on weather conducted by the University of Miami.  El Nin o is a
Pacific Ocean phenomenon in which water temperatures increase from 4 to 6
degrees above normal across an area larger than the continental United States. A
reverse phenomenon, La Nin a, is when temperatures in the Pacific are lower than
normal.

The possibility of La Nin a is not great for this year, he said. That could help
hold down the number of hurricanes this season. La Nin a tends to help
development of hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean.

El Nin o cut the number of hurricanes last season to three, about half the
average number.

Chris Landsea, a meteorologist with the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration, said El Nin o may be almost gone by the start of the hurricane
season that runs from June through November.

He said temperatures in the Pacific may be about normal, but other influences on
the storms may slightly reduce the number of hurricanes to five. Two of those
could be intense storms with winds more than 111 mph.

The prediction will be updated next month, but Landsea did not expect a major
shift.

"With El Nin o starting to fade, the numbers are not going to change that much,"
he said. The forecast does not try to predict where storms will strike the
United States or whether any will, Landsea said.

Though it was too far in the future to predict with much certainty, La Nin a may
be stronger for the 1999 hurricane season, Landsea said. A weak La Nin a during
1995 and 1996 boosted the number of hurricanes to 20 during those two years.

La Nin a often follows as El Nin o-warmed water off the Pacific coast of South
America shifts to the west, creating lower than normal temperatures in the
Pacific.

Sometimes El Nin o will remain around long enough to affect two hurricane
seasons, as one did in 1986-87. There were only seven hurricanes in those two
seasons when 12 would have been normal. El Nin os generally last 12 to 18
months.

The persistence of El Nin o through the next month could mean a continuation of
the abnormally high rainfall that pelted Tampa Bay all winter, though not for
long. Leetmaa said its strength is fading, bringing a return to more normal
conditions.

"I think the Pacific will be mildly warmer through the summer. I think it's
going to stop raining, and the sun will come back out. We could have the kind of
storms we've been seeing perhaps one month more," he said.  Neil Johnson covers
water issues and the weather. He can be reached at (352) 544-5214.  Get current
forecasts and Doppler radar at http://www.weathercenter.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 29, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Bullet alters 30 years of history

BYLINE: Joseph H. Brown

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 631 words


It's hard to believe that this Saturday, Martin Luther King will have been dead
30 years. It's one more "I know I'm getting old" anniversary.

I still remember the empty feeling I had that day, April 4, 1968. That year was
and still remains one of the most tumultuous in American history. It began with
the Tet offensive in Vietnam that caught everyone by surprise and changed many
attitudes about the war. In March President Lyndon Johnson decided not to seek
another term. And then came the King assassination.

And just when I thought things couldn't get worse, Robert Kennedy was
assassinated two months after King. New Year's Eve of 1968 was definitely one to
celebrate.

Even though he had many enemies, I never thought about King's mortality.
However, I should have after Nov. 22, 1963. President John F. Kennedy's
assassination should have been a definite wake-up call.

In 1865, just one month after Abraham Lincoln was killed, English statesman
Benjamin Disraeli said: "Assassination has never changed the history of the
world."

I think Disraeli was wrong. Just how much was made clear to me by a childhood
friend.

We were talking over drinks about old times when my buddy recalled that
Kennedy's assassination saved him from disciplinary action after he got into a
fight at school. The assistant principal was deciding punishment when she got
the sad news from Dallas. She began crying and told him to leave.

"But you know what?" he said after recalling his good luck. "If Kennedy hadn't
been killed, I probably wouldn't have ended up in Vietnam."

Historians have speculated what Kennedy would have done in Vietnam, but since it
was there that my friend began the drinking and drugging that led to his early
death, I can understand his pondering as well.

I've always believed Lincoln's assassination changed history. I think he would
have shown more charity and less malice toward the South, and freed blacks would
have received something equivalent to the "40 acres and a mule" he promised.

As I recall the climate of the nation in 1968, I'm not sure just how much more
King could have accomplished. His voice was being drowned out by more militant
saber-rattlers with separatist agendas, who mocked King's nonviolent philosophy.
His anti-war stance angered many who had supported him, and his planned Poor
People's Campaign March on Washington for the summer of 1968 was criticized from
the start.

That is why members of the King family suspect that a larger conspiracy led to
the civil rights leader's death. They find it hard to believe that James Earl
Ray - a wanderer, bank robber and Missouri prison escapee - could be responsible
for the death of someone of King's stature. The same holds true for those who
can't believe that a lifelong loser such as Lee Harvey Oswald could have killed
John F. Kennedy without a lot of help.

But the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, which involved John Wilkes Booth and a
handful of collaborators, proved it doesn't take a cadre of high-powered
conspirators to get the job done. So in King's honor, we need to spend less time
on knuckleheaded conspiracy theories and more on his work and vision of America.

It doesn't help that King's estate reached a deal with filmmaker Oliver Stone,
who may make a movie about the civil rights leader's life and death. If Stone
does with the King story what he did with John F. Kennedy's assassination,
everyone will be responsible for the murder in Memphis except James Earl Ray.

When King was assassinated, his followers vowed that the assassin would not kill
the magnificent message. Many are working to make sure his dream didn't die with
him.

Assassinations do change history. It's up to us to determine how.  Joseph H.
Brown is a Tribune editorial writer.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: JOSEPH H. BROWN COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 11, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Church will install co-pastors

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 500 words


Profiling community churches

Good Shepherd Lutheran Church

FOUNDED IN 1950 WHERE: 501 S. Dale Mabry Highway

MINISTER: The Revs. Robert and Jennifer Shaefer moved to Good Shepherd a little
over a month ago from Rockville Centre,N.Y. The pair will officially be
installed at an afternoon service April 26.

SERVICE TIMES: Sunday services are at 8 and 10:30 a.m. During Lent and Advent,
the church holds a dinner at 5:30 p.m. (for a donation) followed by worship and
other programs at 6:30 p.m. on Wednesdays. During the summer, a similar program
will feature age-specific activities after the meal. Smaller, home-based groups
meet every other Tuesday evening for fellowship and Bible study.

Special Easter services will be held Sunday, including music by the church's
youth, handbell and chancel choirs. There will also be a churchwide breakfast at
9:15 a.m. and an Easter egg hunt at 9:45.

SUNDAY SCHOOL: There is Sunday School for all ages at 9:15 a.m.

OUTREACH MINISTRIES: Good Shepherd's outreach ministries include specialized
programs for all ages. The Women of ELCA (Evangelical Lutheran Church in
America) meets once a month for fellowship, service and study. The Leisure Club
is a monthly program for seniors. There is also a prayer team that meets each
Tuesday at 7:30 a.m. and a Bible study each Wednesday at 10 a.m. A group called
the Doorkeepers, made up of retired men, meet every Wednesday morning to
maintain the church grounds.

"It's a very motivated congregation," says Robert Shaefer.

The church also supports several local charities, including Metropolitan
Ministries and Lutheran Ministries.

Good Shepherd makes its facilities available to several community groups, from
Alcoholics Anonymous to an independent men's Bible study to a sewing group.

"Almost every day there is some activity," says Shaefer.

He says he would like to see the church begin more outreach efforts soon. His
ideas include a new youth group, church renovation and perhaps child care
services.

Shaefer wants to see the church become more family oriented, just as the
pastorate is. He and his wife serve as co-pastors. Robert focuses more on
worship, visitation, stewardship and evangelism while Jennifer concentrates on
Christian education, music and youth.

"We want to invite more families and children," he says. "The church has a
pretty glorious past as far as Lutheranism in Tampa. We're in a rebuilding
stage. There is a lot of potential and the church is anxious to grow."

GENERAL INFORMATION: The church's membership is around 330. Average Sunday
morning attendance is 150 to 200.

WHY WE'RE SPECIAL: Shaefer says he and his wife have not regretted their move.
"I love Tampa," he says. "I love the climate change."

He also enjoys Good Shepherd.

"One of the things we really noticed was the incredible warmth," he says. "It's
one of the most welcoming churches I've ever been in."

CALL: For more information about Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, call 877-3105.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 The Revs. Robert Shaefer and Jennifer Shaefer, not shown, will be officially
installed at Good Shepherd Lutheran Church during a service April 26. Shaefer,
who with his wife recently arrived from Rockville Centre, N.Y., finds Good
Shepherd "one of the most welcoming churches I've ever been in." LAURA ALLEN,
Tribune photo

NOTES: FAITH IN FOCUS FAITH & VALUES

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 13, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Say yes to vouchers

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1415 words


"Questioning school vouchers" (Letters, May 2) was well-written, and, for the
most part, I think I agree. However, I don't know that I can agree with the
vouchers being a violation of separation of church and state. The tax-exempt
status enjoyed by some churches results in the churches being allowed to keep
tax money they would otherwise have to cough up at tax time. That amounts to a
gift from the government to the church. Shouldn't that be considered a violation
of "separation of church and state" also? If it isn't, then I believe the
vouchers shouldn't be either. After all, the vouchers would be nothing more than
a refund of taxes that had already been paid.

Having had a child in private schools, I paid the tuition as well as the taxes,
and that gets a little expensive. I hesitate to use the word "unfair" because,
yes, I did have a choice. The alternative, however, was a public school
education. Yet, if public schools were preferred, vouchers would not be the
subject of this or any letter.

- CURTIS EDENFIELD

Odessa  Keep the truth coming

I thoroughly enjoyed Paul Craig Roberts' column (Commentary, May 11). It surely
caught my eye! The people of the United States need to hear and read about this
event the way it really is - without the cover-up of the president and his
people.

Susan McDougal and Webster Hubbell need not worry about lying about the
president, as that is the last thing Starr would want them to do. The truth is
all he wants. We will be shocked when and if the truth gets exposed. Proceed and
keep the truth coming.

- JUDY MEYER

Tampa  Ambulance controversy

The editorial "For whom the ambulance bell tolls," (May 9), regarding the recent
controversy over Ronnie Mason's ambulance permits, was perplexing and ironic.
The editorial states that the Public Transportation Commission "had plenty of
warning they were making a big mistake" in granting ambulance permits to Mason.
The PTC, at its quasi-judicial proceedings, can consider only what is on the
record. Members cannot, by law, consider threats of lawsuits or newspaper
editorial opinion. The hearing master had no knowledge of the right of first
refusal agreement that Mason had granted to a competitor in return for its "no
opposition" stance. Members of the PTC, myself included, had no such knowledge,
and neither did the Tribune editorial board.

The PTC based its decision on the "record" and a recommendation by the hearing
master, Anthony Comparetto, to approve the permits. The right of first refusal
was discovered by the investigators in a grand jury proceeding, not through your
editorial board.

The hearing master, who is also an attorney, has said unequivocally on the
record that the right of first refusal agreement would have been material
evidence that would have been considered had it been disclosed at the time the
permits were requested.

If the PTC had been apprised of the agreement, I would not have supported the
application. Your editorial faults me for trying to do what is right. It is the
norm for actions and decisions to be overturned when it is discovered that
information or evidence has been withheld from decision makers, thereby
affecting their decision. Since you have given your readers an early advance of
your preference in the upcoming congressional race, let me explain why your
editorial is ironic.

Your criticism of me for not knowing about the right of first refusal is as
ludicrous as it would be for me to criticize your newspaper's not knowing that
the reporter it assigned to cover Jim Davis' congressional campaign would be
immediately hired by Davis after the election. Was that not a conflict of
interest? Would your paper have thought the reporter, Brian Edwards, would do
such a good job of objective reporting that he would go to work as a spokesman
for the candidate? Of course, the Tribune did not know that, any more than I
knew of Mason's agreement with his competitor when I voted to support the
hearing master's recommendation.

Thanks to the First Amendment, newspapers are not held accountable for their
decisions, opinions and management style in the same way public officials are.

- JOE CHILLURA JR.

Tampa

The writer is a Hillsborough County Commissioner and a congressional candidate
in District 11.  Regarding vegetarianism

It is not surprising to read a letter such as Richard Lumpkin's letter,
"Vegetarianism no cure-all" (April 27), in response to Linda McCartney's death
from cancer. Those who most resist making changes in their lives, despite proven
benefits, will find any excuse or rationalization for continuing their risky
behavior. If you look hard enough, you can always find an exception to almost
any rule. Such may have been the case with Linda McCartney.

The fact is that numerous studies have shown irrefutable health benefits to
vegetarian diets and the adverse effects of meat- and dairy-based diets.
Scientists all over the world have consistently found that people who eat
greater amounts of fruits and vegetables have lower rates of most cancers.
International studies show that meat and dairy-based diets are associated with
an increased risk of breast, colon, prostate, renal and endometrial cancers. The
American Institute for Cancer Research tells us that we should "feast on fruits
and vegetables" to decrease our risk of cancers of the lung, bladder, cervix,
mouth, larynx, throat, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, colon and rectum.

The benefits of vegetarian diets include much more than protection against
cancers. Vegetarians also have lower risk of many chronic degenerative diseases
such as coronary heart disease (the No. 1 killer in the United States), strokes,
high blood pressure, adult-onset diabetes, osteoporosis, obesity and even the
development of kidney and gallstones. One major study by a researcher at Cornell
suggests that even small intakes of foods of animal origin are associated with
significant increases in plasma cholesterol concentration, which are associated
with significant increases in chronic degenerative disease mortality rates.

One final comment is that not all cancers are associated solely with one's diet.
Other risk factors - including environmental, genetic, and lifestyle practices,
such as smoking and drinking - may increase one's risk of some types of cancers.
I also have seen patients who never smoked yet suffered from lung cancer or
emphysema, and patients with liver cirrhosis who never drank.

It is not always easy to pinpoint the cause of certain diseases, but you can
certainly decrease your risk of many by choices you make. Choosing a vegetarian
diet may very well be one of the most important health choices you may make.

- MYRIAM PARHAM

Zephyrhills

The writer is a clinical dietitian at East Pasco Medical Center.  Preserve old
Florida

Time may be running out for Sunken Gardens. On Thursday at 9 a.m., the St.
Petersburg City Council will vote on whether the site meets the criteria
established for it to be listed on the local historic register. I am urging all
concerned citizens to appear at the hearing at city hall to voice their opinions
(especially those attending the Florida Trust for Historic Preservation
conference in Tampa).

There are many experts, including preservation professionals, horticulturists
and historians, who agree that Sunken Gardens is one of the few remaining
roadside garden attractions in Florida that represent the pre-Disney era. Yes,
Florida's tourism dates back to the early 19th century, when individuals
traveled here in search of warmer climate and adventurers hoped to catch a
glimpse of this new and foreign territory. The humble beginnings of Sunken
Gardens in 1903 coincided with the incorporation of St. Petersburg, and it soon
turned into a beloved spot among the locals. During the Depression the gardens
opened as a fully operating tourist attraction, as did many others around the
state, such as McKee Jungle Gardens in Vero Beach, which was recently listed on
the National Register of Historic Places. Like Sunken Gardens, it was also
slated as a site for new homes. Although there were 28 commercial garden
attractions built before 1955, only nine remain.

Recently the Historic Preservation Commission unanimously voted to recommend
Sunken Gardens for listing on the local historic register, but it is up to the
city council to render the final vote. Sunken Gardens is worthy of preservation!

- SHERRY ANDERSON

St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 4, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

California takes on France's finest

BYLINE: Janis D. Froelich ; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


California is feeling frisky about its champagne. After all, the bubbly bottled
out West has for years been the poor relative of France's finest.

But now, Domaine Chandon, the first French champagne label to locate in the Napa
Valley, the hallowed ground of America's winemakers, is celebrating 25 years in
California.

And then there's the top seller, Korbel, which has logged more than 100 years in
Sonoma County, Calif.

Winemaker Dawnine Dyer was in town recently to talk about her home state's
increasingly sparkling status as a swell place to bottle bubbles.

Dyer, with a degree in biology and taste buds as sensitive as a mine sweeper,
has been responsible for creating all of Domaine Chandon's sparkling wines since
1976.

Things are going well for California's sparkling wine industry. This despite the
big obstacle any classy, self-respecting pressed-grape business must daily
encounter.

"Our nemesis is cheap champagne at an outdoor wedding," says Dyer.

Shudder at the thought.

Dyer enjoys working with the California branch of Moet & Chandon of France, the
storied vintner whose best-known champagne is named for a monk, Dom Perignon,
who created bubbly in 1690.

She has shaken her branch to life. California's Chandon doesn't dare call its
product "champagne," reserving that lofty label for the French region where
chardonnay, pinot noir and pinot meunier grapes have grown throughout the ages.

Instead, Chandon has produced bottles of "sparkling wine," meaning all wines
containing effervescence created by natural fermentation.

"California isn't a very old part of the world," Dyer reflects while relaxing on
a lobby sofa at the Renaissance Vinoy Resort, prior to last month's 25th
anniversary Chandon dinner.

"But when Chandon started there in 1973, it was a bold beginning because this
vineyard's sparkling wine was up against centuries of French champagne making."

She believes California sparkling wines have come of age.

"We were scrappy renegades ready to compete internationally," she says,
laughing, "and we did - successfully."

She joined Chandon in 1976 after stints at the Robert Mondavi Winery and
Inglenook Vineyards. At the time, she says, French restaurants in New York never
served California sparkling wine instead of French champagne.

"Not only didn't it happen, it was hard to imagine," she says.

But that would change, as vintners recognized how California's soil and climate
could bring a special brightness to the fruit. There was "great promise," Dyer
says, for the renegades.

While Dyer acknowledges sparkling wines are typically beverages for birthdays
and anniversaries, she also sees "a big future as food wines by the glass."

"Sparkling wines go so well with spicy entrees, even deep-fried foods, plus with
accompaniments like chutneys and salsas. The effervescence is not only an
antidote to heat, but the acid in sparkling wine develops the tartness as well
as the sweetness in foods."

Dyer also brought an interesting experiment with her. With the big anniversary
of Chandon rolling in, she says she was in the mood to look "at every wine we
ever made." She brought bottles of sparkling wine, dated 1975, 1979, 1984, 1986,
1987 and 1989, for a tasting.

All six tasted different. The variety was attributed to the weather conditions
affecting the crop and the percentage of different grapes used. For example, in
1979, the sparkling wine was strong, smelling almost like dark roast coffee. In
1989, the taste was one of apples and black grapes because less of the
chardonnay grapes and more of the pinot noir were used.

"We didn't know what we were doing," she says after taking a sip of the 1979.

Not exactly true, but the years have softened the taste of this particular
winemaker's bubbly brew.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 (C) (Champagne bottle)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 16, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Marriage takes love, work;

BYLINE: JENNIFER BARRS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1913 words


TAMPA - Psychologist John Gottman, a leading researcher on marriage, calls them
the Four Horsemen  of the Apocalypse.

Contempt, criticism, defensiveness and stonewalling.

If a couple demonstrates these behaviors consistently, watch out, he says. The
end is near.

Or is it? Across America, a war is being waged in the marital trenches.
Legislators are putting  muscle in marriage and divorce laws, religious
institutions are overhauling premarital counseling  requirements, marital
therapists are reconfiguring their strategies.

The result is a groundswell of "marriage education," which hinges on relearning
the rules of  he-said, she-said engagement. Floridians can expect more courses,
thanks to the new Marriage  Preparation and Preservation Act and its monetary
incentives to couples who take such classes.  (Gov. Lawton Chiles signed the
bill Thursday.)

"Love is a skill-based relationship, and marriages are built on love," says
Diane Sollee, a  psychotherapist who directs the Coalition for Marriage,
Families and Couples Education in  Washington, D.C. "But we say, "Oh, isn't love
romantic?' That's like saying a football team should  go out and win on school
spirit. What happens if you don't give players skills, don't teach them  plays?

"That's what we do to couples. We have this big pep rally called a wedding, give
them beautiful  uniforms and tell them to go out there and do it for "love.'
Then we struggle because we don't have  any skills."

Not that we haven't tried. Religious institutions - the standard bearer is the
Catholic Church -  have long required premarital counseling. For instance, the
Diocese of St. Petersburg requires  couples to attend a marriage program that
they can complete in a day for $ 45 or over a weekend for  $ 220. Individual
sessions with clergy may be required, as well as a premarital inventory.

Inventories are used to pinpoint problems before and after marriage. Among these
are PREPARE,  for engaged couples, and ENRICH, for married couples. They were
created in 1980 by David Olson, a  professor at the University of Minnesota, to
identify areas of conflict and compatibility. The  inventories query couples on
165 issues and assess 13 factors of a relationship.

Olson says premarital inventories can predict with 80 percent accuracy which
couples will get  divorced or remain married. And they are intrinsic to
"community marriage policies," now in place in  about 80 cities in the United
States.

Created by syndicated columnist Mike McManus, the policies emphasize mentoring
between stable  married couples and couples who are either engaged or in
trouble. Churches in Manatee, Sarasota,  Pasco and Pinellas counties have signed
or are considering community marriage policies. The first  town that signed on -
Modesto, Calif. - has seen its divorce rate plunge 35 percent since 1986,
McManus says.

"It is possible to change society's climate from one that always says divorce is
the answer to a  troubled marriage," he adds.

If that is true, then why don't more Americans take advantage of therapy when
their marriage is  in trouble?

For one thing, health insurance may not pay for it; therapists say few policies
do. Marital  therapy may be part of an employee assistance program - a few
sessions provided at negligible cost -  but a psychiatric diagnosis is typically
required for health insurance coverage, says Bob  Challenger, president of the
Suncoast Chapter of the Employees Assistance Professional Association.

Furthermore, people who do seek marriage counseling put it off. Therapists
estimate that couples  know they're in trouble up to six years before they seek
counseling. By then, they may not care - or  talk - at all.

"They've stuck their head in the sand so long, guess what's sticking up on the
other end?" says  Jim Montgomery, supervisor of guidance for Pinellas County
schools. "They are into the avoidance  mode."

Montgomery is one of several counselors who teach "Divorce: A Child's View,"
mandated by the 6th  Judicial Circuit Court for divorcing parents.

Jeff Scragg, an associate pastor at Pathways Community Church in Seminole, says
people avoid  counseling because they have a "big fear of failure. They may have
developed emotional relationships  outside of the marriage and they don't want
to admit that. They always come at the eleventh hour."

Nine out of 10 inquiries he receives are from women, Scragg adds. "Generally,
they don't want to  divorce because of an affair or abuse, but because of total
insensitivity and breakdown of  communication." Many of the couples are on their
second or third marriage. "They see the first  marriage as a screw-up, but now,
it's failing again. They don't want to face another divorce."

So, they face another question: What kind of marriage therapy is best, and does
it work? A 1995  article in the Journal of Marital and Family Therapy states:
"Very little is known about the  long-term effectiveness of couples therapy with
respect to the prevention of marital separation and  divorce."

More recently, Gottman - the University of Washington researcher who has studied
marriages since  the early 1970s - questioned the trend in marital education:
the "active listening" model that  dictates one partner paraphrase the other's
concerns.

Gottman, who sent a report to the National Council on Family Relations in
February, studied 130  newlywed couples over six years. Couples who used the
active listening technique were no more  likely to stay together than couples
who did not.

But Sollee says Gottman's research reinforces her theory that skilled
communicators have the  happiest marriages. All couples have problems, she
explains, but those who know how to fight  fairly, compromise and listen are far
more satisfied. Gottman's satisfied subjects may have learned  skills from their
parents' marriages. The rest of us, Sollee says, need lessons.

But she isn't so sure inventories or counseling is the way to go. While she is
enthusiastic  about Florida's new law, she says therapy that emphasizes
individual happiness rarely keeps a  couple together. Nor is there evidence to
suggest a four-hour course before marriage will make a  difference.

She believes school-based education is America's best chance for success. These
programs include  PARTNERS for Students, which was developed by the American Bar
Association, and Connections, by the  Dibble Fund for Marital Enhancement.
Courses for couples include PAIRS (Practical Application of  Intimate
Relationship Skills), created by Fort Lauderdale psychotherapist Lori Gordon and
available  in some 50 cities nationwide.

Janet Salyers, a marriage and family therapist who teaches PAIRS in Tampa, says
healthy  marriages are built "on partnership, not just agreement." While
society's condemnation of divorce and  women's subservient role often kept our
parents' marriages together, Salyers says, that is not true  today.

She often recommends PAIRS to even the most troubled couples (except when there
is infidelity).  Men seem to prefer the classroom setting, she says, and it can
be cheaper than traditional  counseling. On average, a couple might attend more
than 12 sessions of therapy at $ 90 an hour; by  comparison, a PAIRS course runs
around $ 1,000 for 120 hours of classroom time.

"Traditional marital therapy ... is based on the pain of the relationship and
how much it hurts  and who did what to whom," Salyers says. "But PAIRS is more
focused on what works in a relationship.  We don't get into blaming."

PAIRS promotes homework: mutual praising, affection without sex, sharing dreams,
massages. The  program also attempts to debunk marital myths - "If you loved me,
you'd know what I want," for  example.

Dozens of other programs are available, including one in Tampa based on John
Gray's book "Men Are  From Mars, Women Are From Venus." David and Deborah Weir,
licensed mental health counselors, conduct  the daylong sessions, which run
about $ 89. Male vs. female communication is emphasized because,  David Weir
says, "the problem with relationships is that men and women ... speak a
different  language."

"Ninety-nine percent of the time, when I ask what the problem is,
"communication' is the first  thing couples say. Then, they go on to tell me
what horrible communicators they are.

"Clearly, the breakdown is in the listening muscles. ... They atrophy," Weir
says. "People need to  know that they have two ears and one mouth and God made
them that way for a purpose."

On a recent afternoon at the Hillsborough County Courthouse, one couple seems up
to the  challenge. Eric and Lucy Garcia fill out paperwork and within minutes,
they are wed - with Lucy  cradling their infant son, Jared, in her arms.

"All this is is a ring and piece of paper," Lucy says. "We've been together for
years. A good  marriage means keeping everything fresh, communicating, having
separate lives. It means not holding  things inside or saying things that you
regret."

"Basically," Eric adds, "we already know that staying married is hard work."
Experts point to warning signs

People experienced in marriage therapy note a few warning signs on the road to
divorce:

"The first time you say the word "divorce' to your spouse, then it has gotten
serious enough that  you might want to consider getting help. And that's whether
it's a threat, a casual mention or a  way of fishing for the truth."  - Jeff
Scragg, associate pastor at Pathways Community Church in Seminole

"Boredom. Little habits that are driving you crazy. An inability to do anything
beyond surface  communication. Actual physical feelings of fatigue when you are
with the other person. Comments  like "I don't have anything to say" or "I don't
want to talk about it.' "  - Jim Montgomery, supervisor of guidance for Pinellas
County schools

"Has there been more than one incident of physical violence? If God or some
other omniscient  being said it was OK to leave, would you feel tremendously
relieved and have a strong sense that  you could finally end your relationship?"

 - Mira Kirshenbaum, clinical director of Chestnut Hill Institute in Boston,
from her book, "Too Good  to Leave, Too Bad to Stay"

"First, it's when we decide not to talk about certain subjects because our
partner's response  bothers us. It is what we don't talk about in marriages that
end them, not what we do talk about.  Second, there may be problems ... when we
have more negative than positive interactions with our  partner. That is, when
you talk to other people kinder and nicer than you do to your partner."  - Janet
Salyers, a licensed marriage and family therapist in Tampa

"One of the first things that usually shows up is a problem in sex ...
dramatically decreasing  frequency, a loss of desire over several weeks or
months. Another problem to look for (accompanying  the sexual issue) is a
feeling of resentment. In many cases, sexual issues are symptoms of other
problems in the relationship. Men, in particular, tend to equate sex with being
loved."  - David Weir, a licensed mental health counselor in Tampa  For more
information on marriage and divorce, as well as a complete look at this Tampa
Tribune special report, visit http://tampatrib.com/reports/

divorce  Jennifer Barrs is a reporter in the Tampa office and can be reached at
(813) 259-7832.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); SIGNATURE (C),
 Janet Salyers, a Tampa marriage and family therapist, teaches PAIRS, Practical
Application of Intimate Relationship Skills.  BOB WESTENHOUSER, Tribune photo

NOTES: STATE OF THE UNION AMERICAN SEEK TO REDUCE DIVORCE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 16, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Marriage takes love, work

BYLINE: JENNIFER BARRS; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Psychologist John Gottman, a leading researcher on marriage, calls them the Four
Horsemen of the Apocalypse.

Contempt, criticism, defensiveness and stonewalling.

If a couple demonstrates these behaviors consistently, watch out, he says. The
end is near.

Or is it? Across America, a war is being waged in the marital trenches.
Legislators are putting muscle in marriage and divorce laws, religious
institutions are overhauling premarital counseling requirements, marital
therapists are reconfiguring their strategies.

The result is a groundswell of "marriage education," which hinges on relearning
the rules of he-said, she-said engagement. Floridians can expect more courses,
thanks to the new Marriage Preparation and Preservation Act and its monetary
incentives to couples who take such classes. (Gov. Lawton Chiles signed the bill
Thursday.)

"Love is a skill-based relationship, and marriages are built on love," says
Diane Sollee, a psychotherapist who directs the Coalition for Marriage, Families
and Couples Education in Washington, D.C. "But we say, "Oh, isn't love
romantic?' That's like saying a football team should go out and win on school
spirit. What happens if you don't give players skills, don't teach them plays?

"That's what we do to couples. We have this big pep rally called a wedding, give
them beautiful uniforms and tell them to go out there and do it for "love.' Then
we struggle because we don't have any skills."

Not that we haven't tried. Religious institutions - the standard bearer is the
Catholic Church - have long required premarital counseling. For instance, the
Diocese of St. Petersburg requires couples to attend a marriage program that
they can complete in a day for $ 45 or over a weekend for $ 220. Individual
sessions with clergy may be required, as well as a premarital inventory.

Inventories are used to pinpoint problems before and after marriage. Among these
are PREPARE, for engaged couples, and ENRICH, for married couples. They were
created in 1980 by David Olson, a professor at the University of Minnesota, to
identify areas of conflict and compatibility. The inventories query couples on
165 issues and assess 13 factors of a relationship.

Olson says premarital inventories can predict with 80 percent accuracy which
couples will get divorced or remain married. And they are intrinsic to
"community marriage policies," now in place in about 80 cities in the United
States.

Created by syndicated columnist Mike McManus, the policies emphasize mentoring
between stable married couples and couples who are either engaged or in trouble.
Churches in Manatee, Sarasota, Pasco and Pinellas counties have signed or are
considering community marriage policies. The first town that signed on -
Modesto, Calif. - has seen its divorce rate plunge 35 percent since 1986,
McManus says.

"It is possible to change society's climate from one that always says divorce is
the answer to a troubled marriage," he adds.

If that is true, then why don't more Americans take advantage of therapy when
their marriage is in trouble?

For one thing, health insurance may not pay for it; therapists say few policies
do. Marital therapy may be part of an employee assistance program - a few
sessions provided at negligible cost - but a psychiatric diagnosis is typically
required for health insurance coverage, says Bob Challenger, president of the
Suncoast Chapter of the Employees Assistance Professional Association.

Furthermore, people who do seek marriage counseling put it off. Therapists
estimate that couples know they're in trouble up to six years before they seek
counseling. By then, they may not care - or talk - at all.

"They've stuck their head in the sand so long, guess what's sticking up on the
other end?" says Jim Montgomery, supervisor of guidance for Pinellas County
schools. "They are into the avoidance mode."

Montgomery is one of several counselors who teach "Divorce: A Child's View,"
mandated by the 6th Judicial Circuit Court for divorcing parents.

Jeff Scragg, an associate pastor at Pathways Community Church in Seminole, says
people avoid counseling because they have a "big fear of failure. They may have
developed emotional relationships outside of the marriage and they don't want to
admit that. They always come at the eleventh hour."

Nine out of 10 inquiries he receives are from women, Scragg adds. "Generally,
they don't want to divorce because of an affair or abuse, but because of total
insensitivity and breakdown of communication." Many of the couples are on their
second or third marriage. "They see the first marriage as a screw-up, but now,
it's failing again. They don't want to face another divorce."

So, they face another question: What kind of marriage therapy is best, and does
it work? A 1995 article in the Journal of Marital and Family Therapy states:
"Very little is known about the long-term effectiveness of couples therapy with
respect to the prevention of marital separation and divorce."

More recently, Gottman - the University of Washington researcher who has studied
marriages since the early 1970s - questioned the trend in marital education: the
"active listening" model that dictates one partner paraphrase the other's
concerns.

Gottman, who sent a report to the National Council on Family Relations in
February, studied 130 newlywed couples over six years. Couples who used the
active listening technique were no more likely to stay together than couples who
did not.

But Sollee says Gottman's research reinforces her theory that skilled
communicators have the happiest marriages. All couples have problems, she
explains, but those who know how to fight fairly, compromise and listen are far
more satisfied. Gottman's satisfied subjects may have learned skills from their
parents' marriages. The rest of us, Sollee says, need lessons.

But she isn't so sure inventories or counseling is the way to go. While she is
enthusiastic about Florida's new law, she says therapy that emphasizes
individual happiness rarely keeps a couple together. Nor is there evidence to
suggest a four-hour course before marriage will make a difference.

She believes school-based education is America's best chance for success. These
programs include PARTNERS for Students, which was developed by the American Bar
Association, and Connections, by the Dibble Fund for Marital Enhancement.
Courses for couples include PAIRS (Practical Application of Intimate
Relationship Skills), created by Fort Lauderdale psychotherapist Lori Gordon and
available in some 50 cities nationwide.

Janet Salyers, a marriage and family therapist who teaches PAIRS in Tampa, says
healthy marriages are built "on partnership, not just agreement." While
society's condemnation of divorce and women's subservient role often kept our
parents' marriages together, Salyers says, that is not true today.

She often recommends PAIRS to even the most troubled couples (except when there
is infidelity). Men seem to prefer the classroom setting, she says, and it can
be cheaper than traditional counseling. On average, a couple might attend more
than 12 sessions of therapy at $ 90 an hour; by comparison, a PAIRS course runs
around $ 1,000 for 120 hours of classroom time.

"Traditional marital therapy ... is based on the pain of the relationship and
how much it hurts and who did what to whom," Salyers says. "But PAIRS is more
focused on what works in a relationship. We don't get into blaming."

PAIRS promotes homework: mutual praising, affection without sex, sharing dreams,
massages. The program also attempts to debunk marital myths - "If you loved me,
you'd know what I want," for example.

Dozens of other programs are available, including one in Tampa based on John
Gray's book "Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus." David and Deborah Weir,
licensed mental health counselors, conduct the daylong sessions, which run about
$ 89. Male vs. female communication is emphasized because, David Weir says, "the
problem with relationships is that men and women ... speak a different
language."

"Ninety-nine percent of the time, when I ask what the problem is,
"communication' is the first thing couples say. Then, they go on to tell me what
horrible communicators they are.

"Clearly, the breakdown is in the listening muscles. ... They atrophy," Weir
says. "People need to know that they have two ears and one mouth and God made
them that way for a purpose."

On a recent afternoon at the Hillsborough County Courthouse, one couple seems up
to the challenge. Eric and Lucy Garcia fill out paperwork and within minutes,
they are wed - with Lucy cradling their infant son, Jared, in her arms.

"All this is is a ring and piece of paper," Lucy says. "We've been together for
years. A good marriage means keeping everything fresh, communicating, having
separate lives. It means not holding things inside or saying things that you
regret."

"Basically," Eric adds, "we already know that staying married is hard work."
For more information on marriage and divorce, as well as a complete look at this
Tampa Tribune special report, visit  Jennifer Barrs is a reporter in the Tampa
office and can be reached at (813) 259-7832.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); SIGNATURE (C),
 Janet Salyers, a Tampa marriage and family therapist, teaches PAIRS, Practical
Application of Intimate Relationship Skills. BOB WESTENHOUSER, Tribune photo

NOTES: STATE OF THE UNION AMERICAN SEEK TO REDUCE DIVORCE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    June 17, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Bay area boasts 3 "outstanding' principals

BYLINE: MICHELE SAGER; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: LAKELAND


Two principals from Polk County and one from Pinellas are honored for innovation
and dedication.

Three Tampa Bay area principals are among the top in the state.

State Education Commissioner Frank Brogan on Tuesday announced 14 Outstanding
Principal Award winners, and they included Flora Haire of Union Academy Magnet
School in Bartow, Harold Maready of McKeel Academy of Applied Technology in
Lakeland and Brenda Clark of Azalea Elementary in St. Petersburg.

Brogan named top principals in each region for elementary, middle and high
schools.

The principals were recognized for outstanding leadership and their efforts to
create positive school climates for learning and teaching, spokesman Brewser
Brown said.

Haire is known for her individual care of students. She tutors seventh-graders
with academic problems and checks their homework each week the last nine weeks
of school.

As a result, only one student was held back last year because of a grade-point
average less than 2.0. Forty percent of Haire's students also had exemplary or
perfect attendance last year.

Haire said she likes to help students achieve goals.

"I like to help the students see the big picture," she said. "I hope each day
that I'm making a difference and helping some student excel."

Maready was honored for turning a low performing school around in less than
three years. His 10th-grade students scored 4.2 on Florida Writes! tests, one of
the highest scores in the state. McKeel's students also had one of the lowest
absence rates, with only 5 percent of students absent more than 20 days, a
fourth of the state average.

Maready attributes his success to his school's quest for improvement.

"We're an innovative school, always looking for changes we can make to better
our students," he said. "I'm not afraid to take risks, and neither is my school.
And I think the support of the community and parents illustrate that."

Pinellas County's Clark has long been recognized within the school district as
one of the best. Under her tenure as principal at Azalea Elementary, test scores
have soared, and discipline problems have dropped.

Clark's winning formula is running the school like a business, in which each
pupil and staff member is an active worker, making decisions and coming up with
solutions to problems.

Principals were nominated by their school districts.

Brogan will recognize all 14 winners June 30 during a luncheon in Orlando.
Tribune reporter Kathleen Beeman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Brenda Clark

NOTES: LOCAL FOCUS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 1, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Haze stifles state;
Smoky wildfires in Floria and around the world set off health alarms;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words


TAMPA - Smoke from the 1,000 or more fires that have blackened 246 square miles
was thick enough  in Volusia County to set off household smoke detectors.

Seen from a satellite, the pall hovers from the Panhandle to Central Florida,
tapering off  around Tampa Bay. Similar photos show smoke from around the world
blanketing major cities, creating  worldwide concern about air pollution and the
destruction of rain forests.

Smoke, combined with the heat and normal pollution such as car exhaust, pushed
air pollution  levels into the unhealthy range of 100 in Jacksonville three
times, including highs of 116 on June  23 and 104 on Sunday.

The pollution level reached 85 - the point the federal government considers a
violation - in  Orlando, Pensacola, Gainesville, Daytona Beach and Alachua
County.

"That's where especially sensitive persons will feel it," said Tom Rogers of the
state Department  of Environmental Protection. "When you get above 100, it
starts affecting more of the general  population."

Around Tampa Bay, pollution counts have been lower. But Hillsborough County hit
94 on Sunday and  100 in southern Hillsborough on Monday afternoon.

The haze over Tampa Bay is what you'd expect for the humid summer, but it's more
visible because  of the smoke, said Frank Alsheimer, meteorologist with the
National Weather Service. It also  smells.

"It's a combination of high-moisture and fine particulates from the smoke," he
said. The smoke  particles give water vapor something to cling to, making it
easier to see.

High ozone counts are part of summer in Florida because heat is one ingredient
in its recipe.

But smoke from the fires adds huge doses of another ingredient - nitrogen oxide,
a product of  combustion - to the pollution in the air.

The smoke hasn't been too bad in Lutz, said Anna Upcavage.

"I guess we've been lucky. I've been able to work outside with no problem," she
said.

When wildfires burned rural areas in Pasco County near Moon Lake, the smell was
noticeable  throughout north Hillsborough.

The smoke around Jacksonville was strong enough to smell inside the house, even
with the air  conditioner running, said Jim Manning, head of Air and Water
Quality for the city.

"Combine that with 100-degree heat and water restrictions; it hasn't been too
pleasant a place to  live lately," Manning said.

Smoke was too much even for professional football players, forcing the
Jacksonville Jaguars to  cancel practice.

Thick as the smoke over Florida has been, it's a puff from a cigarette inside
the Ice Palace  compared to what billowed from fires in Southeast Asia, Central
America and South America.

Thousands of square miles of savannah and rain forest have burned this year
across the globe,  including more than 16 million acres in this hemisphere.

Smoke from fires in Indonesia last year spread as far as the southern tip of
India and wisps of  it - detectable only by instruments - girdled the globe
above the equator, said Jay Herman, a  scientist with the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration who studies the effects of  aerosols and ultraviolet
light on the atmosphere.

The smoke was thick enough to sicken 40,000 people in Indonesia and neighboring
nations.

At one point, the pollution index hit 500 in Malaysia. Above 300 is considered
hazardous. A  level between 200 and 300 is like smoking a pack of cigarettes.

Herman said the smoke in places was thick enough to block 95 percent of the
ultraviolet light  from reaching the ground.

More recently, Florida was bathed in smoke from raging fires in Mexico and
Central America. The  smoke covered most of the Gulf of Mexico, and on May 15,
reached as far as Canada, Herman said.

Now doused by rain and brought under control, the Mexico fires burned more than
1 million acres.

That smoke contributed to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere, said Rod
Taylor, with the World  Wildlife Fund's global forest program.

The fires poured huge amounts of carbon into the sky, which adds to the
"greenhouse effect." As  carbon builds in the atmosphere, it acts like the glass
panes of a greenhouse, letting heat in but  not out.

"It is a possible interconnection that climate change exacerbates things like El
Nin o, which  makes things drier, and more fires," Taylor said.

"Forests store carbon in the trees or soil. In fires, the carbon is released
immediately into the  air," he said.

Most of those fires and those elsewhere, such as in Brazil, were caused by
burning land to clear  it for farming.

Taylor said the most damage comes from burning to clear land for expanding
populations or for  large plantations. Burning land on small farms to clear it
for planting has been going on for  centuries.

Only last year and this year, those fires didn't stop as they normally do. El
Nin o, while  drenching Florida in the winter, caused severe droughts in other
areas.

Fires set by ranchers and farmers that should have been stopped by monsoons in
Asia or the moist  soil of the Amazon rain forests kept burning.

"They were generally surprised when the fires didn't go out," said Paul
Lefebvre, a scientist with  Woods Hole Research Center in Massachusetts who
studies the Amazon.

Lefebvre said some portions of the Amazon got only a 10th of the usual rainfall.

Normally the leaf litter in the Amazon forest floor is kept damp by rain and
shade from the  thick tree canopy, allowing it to resist fires.

But the drought evaporated that protection, and fires set by farmers marched
through a forest  ill-suited to withstand the assault.

A tree that may have a trunk 8 feet across will have bark only as thick as a
file folder,  Lefebvre said, unlike pines, whose thick bark is adapted to endure
fires.

"It doesn't take much to girdle one of those trees and kill it," he said.

As the tree dies, it opens more canopy to the sky, allowing the forest floor to
dry more.

The drought and fires, along with logging, have left 248,000 square miles of the
Amazon Basin in  danger during a burning season that lasts from July through
December, Lefebvre said.

"If we have a good rain year, it could replenish the soil in one year," he said.
"But once it's  been altered, it will be more susceptible to fires."  Neil
Johnson covers water issues and the weather. He can be reached at (352)
544-5214.  Get current forecasts and Doppler radar at
http://www.weathercenter.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); MAP (C),
 (C) Jacksonville's skyline has been shrouded by smoke from Panhandle blazes.
The smoky haze, combined with automobile exhaust, has created unhealthy
pollution levels in the city.  AP file photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 13, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

In support of Chillura;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1351 words


Letter writer Ronald Martin (July 6) should not worry about the level of
taxation from the votes  of our future congressman Joe Chillura.

Chillura has voted for one tax increase (indigent health care) while serving on
the county  commission - it was not for the stadium. The stadium was voted on by
the people!

Chillura's anti-tax record is in stark contrast to that of his opponents whose
record is rife  with tax increases, including a tax increase on nursing home
patients.

The stadium cannot be picked up and moved; it is ours. If the Bucs had gone to
Cleveland, we  would still have all the unfunded needs to pay for anyway. Many
of those problems were not  addressed by Chillura's opponent while he served in
the Legislature, frittering away our education  budget as schools continued to
overcrowd.

In fact, Chillura is the only politician to address classroom size. He is also
the only  politician from this area to conceive of a tax plan that reduced our
tax burden - the indigent care  program. And, unreported by the Tribune, he has
signed the Americans for Tax Reform pledge to not  raise taxes.

Will his opponent please do the same?  CHRIS PATTERSON Tampa  Appreciates Joe
Brown

I just wanted to let you know I liked the movies mentioned in Joe Brown's column
(Commentary,  June 12) better than the list chosen by the "experts" at the
American Film Institute.

Since I was very much exposed to the happenings of World War II, with brothers
in both the  European and Pacific theaters and four datable sisters, I have a
special feeling for "Battleground"  with James Whitmore, Van Johnson and George
Murphy.

Since I served as a U.S. Marine for several years, other movies showing men in
defense of our  country are among my favorites. As a musician, I also like
musical movies; remember "42nd Street"  with Dick Powell?

I respect and enjoy Brown's columns as the work of a thoughtful and level-headed
writer.

Semper Fidelis  LAWRENCE PATE Avon Park  Discount for handicapped

I am writing this letter with the hope that the Glazer family will see this. I
have been a  season ticket holder for some years now. I had regular seats until
an accident three years ago, and  last year I had seats in the handicapped
section. I would love to renew my seats. I loved the Bucs  even during their
losing seasons, and I am not a "fair weather fan." I cannot afford tickets this

 year. Like a lot of disabled people, I am on a very limited income. We don't
get raises or overtime  as other people do, and our incomes are usually cut in
half or more. If we are lucky, we get  cost-of-living raises, but even those are
few and far between.

Last year our two tickets cost of total of $ 300 for the whole season and
preseason. This year it  would be a $ 964 deposit plus $ 728 for the tickets.
There is no way we could ever come up with that  kind of money, so we didn't
renew.

At least once a week we get a phone call from the Bucs ticket office asking us
to renew . I have  told them repeatedly that we would love to but can't afford
it. When the stadium tax was passed, I  thought that it wouldn't be necessary
for the Glazers to charge the deposits. I know it is  difficult for anyone to
come up with the money, but it is nearly impossible for someone on  disability
to do it. I don't believe we should get special treatment, but I don't think it
would  have hurt if they had asked a little less for seats for the handicapped.

Life changes drastically when you are injured, and there are a lot of things
that you can no  longer do.

I will root for the Bucs to go all the way to the Super Bowl. Tony Dungy and the
players deserve  it. I do hope however, that someday the Glazers find out what
it is like to be poor.  KAREN WELSH Brandon  Materialism and patriotism

The night-and-day difference between the thoughts of the two columnists on the
editorial page  (July 4) is the difference between materialism and patriotism.
One is an expression of humility and  gratitude; the other is an expression of
pride and praise. In the path of an El Nino, one is not  quite so convincing or
reassuring as the other.  PAUL A. CUNDIFF Tampa  A generation remembered

Your publication over the July 4 weekend of the tribute to the World War II
generation - "Remember  generation that preserved liberty" by Stephen E. Ambrose
(Commentary, July 3) - was especially  apposite. The World War II generation and
the generation of our Founding Fathers shared many  similarities. Duty was their
common motto. They disapproved of self-indulgence. They believed in  things
bigger than themselves, such as God, country and their fellow man. They were
possessed of a  simple, solid, unpretentious goodness. They had a sense of
humor. They had courage and grit.

For me, my grandfather and great uncle will always personify the venerable World
War II  generation. Granddaddy was a big, quiet man. Had it not been for his
devotion to duty, which in his  case centered on his family, he might have been
considered stern.

My great uncle was a first-generation American. He was loud and lovable. He was
crippled by a  Japanese bullet during World War II.

Both of them learned during the Depression to do without today's essentials:
electricity,  running water, climate control, automobiles, music, adequate food
and medical care. Having lived  without so many things for so long, they seemed
to have developed a mild suspicion of them, as  opposed to any strong
attachment. When these things became widely available later in their lives,
they sought not to accumulate them for themselves, but selflessly to ensure that
their families had  access to them.

I was overseas when Granddaddy died. I remember my mother telephoning me in
England to say that  among his last words were, "The Lord's will be done."
Faithful and uncomplaining until the end. I was  stateside when my great-uncle
died. Happily, I have a picture of him holding my baby girl at one of  his last
Christmas parties.

So, yes, that inspiring generation certainly deserves a memorial in Washington,
D.C. It deserves  something more important, however - namely, to be emulated by
the current generation. Let us aim,  therefore, to be deserving heirs of that
truly great generation of Americans.   S.K. GIBSON III  Valrico  Perspective on
leadership

While the president's lawyers obfuscate, dawdle, shift the subject and
investigate witnesses for  irrelevant conduct, their trump is to ask other
lawyers: If they had a client, would they not  advise the same conduct?

The better question would be: "If a general lost an inordinate number of men in
battle and was  the subject of an inquiry as to his leadership and he used the
tactics mentioned above, should the  general expect to be retained in command,
though the inquiry was unable to prove anything at all?"

He might well have been entirely within his constitutional rights as an
individual, but do those  rights belong to a leader? I think not.  PAUL B.
BEVERLY Holiday  Teens need structure

For the community of Carrollwood: We are saddened. Our hearts are broken. Our
thoughts and  prayers are with the family of Vicki Robinson.

I cannot understand - teenagers say they want to be heard, but killing is not
the way. Why did  this murder happen? I try to listen to teenagers. I notice
that parents and other adults try to  listen too. I believe adults try to
understand the new ideas teens present. We accept the way they  like to dress,
the language they like to use, their hairstyles, body piercings, tattoos,
liberal  attitudes and music. And we offer unconditional love. We show respect
to our children and we  listen. Why do we offer them so much? Are we afraid of
them? What could the problem be?

Should parents rebel? Should we turn the tables? What is it going to take?
Should we be  administering the death penalty to 15-year-olds? That sounds like
the easy way out. Killing seems  to be all too easy already. Maybe that is the
problem.  (MRS.) D. ARNOLD-PUGH  Tampa

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 28, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Environmental bad guys;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1394 words


Kudos for your editorial pointing out the ugly spectacle of the riders gutting
our environmental  regulations "Congress bushwhacks environment" (July 9). What
could be more short-sighted than any  support on the part of the Florida
delegation for the VA-HUD riders aimed at the Kyoto Protocol?  Florida has more
at risk from global warming than almost any other state, because of the double
threats of agribusiness losses and the flooding of coastal property caused by
sea-level rise. These  riders are a telltale footprint of the influence of
lobbyists for big corporate polluters. They  will obstruct several programs
which would cut energy costs for families and small businesses and  protect
public health as they reduce greenhouse gases, the cause of global warming. The
VA-HUD  riders will also effectively gag EPA by eliminating funding for public
education about global  warming and related issues.

Other riders would thwart efforts to protect children from pesticide residue in
food and delay  the cleanup and reduction of toxins like mercury in Florida
rivers and bays, effectively trading  food safety for corporate welfare.

Even if one doubts the value of programs like these, certainly one could
acknowledge the  importance of debating them publicly, especially in an election
year. Instead, by attaching riders  to appropriations bills, elected officials
are able to do polluters' bidding in back-room deals,  out of the light of
sunshine. Too many of these incumbent environmental bad guys are running
unopposed, their war chests too well filled by the corporate polluters whose
interests they  protect. Nevertheless, Floridians should sound off to all
candidates for congressional office about  our awareness of and concern over
these anti-environmental riders.

- M.J. WILLIAMSON

Tampa

The writer is an organizer for the Florida Consumer Action Network.  In support
of Johnnie Byrd

If my father knew what I was about to write, he would turn over in his grave. He
served in World  War I and later worked in the Works Progress Administration
program in order to feed his family. He  always voted a straight Democratic
ticket because he blamed the Republicans for causing The Great  Depression.
Today, I am still a registered Democrat. I guess mainly out of respect for my
late  father. I will probably always be a Democrat, but for many years, I have
voted for the person not  the party. I don't usually get involved in political
matters, but this time I must speak out.

During the past winter, when El-Nino was in full force, our farm was in danger
of flooding. We  received a phone call. "This is Johnnie Byrd your state
representative. How are things on the farm  and what can I do to help?" My reply
was "Thanks, but I believe we have everything under control, and  by the way you
caught me off guard." We have never had a state representative call and offer to

 help. His answer was "Ruis, we are all in this thing together."

The word quickly spread through my family and the community. Wait, that's not
all. Remember the  Medfly? Even though our farm was in a no-spray zone, it
looked as if the DC-3s came from miles in  every direction just to fly over our
farm. We were nervous wrecks for we knew that if our farm was  sprayed, it would
be a total loss. We even placed mats in areas to be able to detect any spray.
None was found. Would you believe it? Byrd called again. "How are things, and
how can I help?"

Dad, please forgive me, but this is one Republican that we are going to support.
We all know he  is sincere. I have great respect for Byrd and consider him a
dear friend. As I talk to other people  in his district, I am not amazed to hear
that he called them during this same period and offered  his assistance.

People, wake-up! We have a state representative who cares, he needs your
support.

- RUIS DRAWDY

Plant City  Secondhand smoke OK

Regarding "EPA likely to appeal smoking rule" (Nation/ World, July 20): how odd
your newspaper  headlined this article as it did, considering this story was
such a big one.

The headline should have read "EPA wrong about secondhand smoke."

Because in a federal court, U.S. District Judge Thomas Osteen declared, "The
Environmental  Protection Agency "aggressively utilized' the reports findings
"to establish a de facto regulatory  scheme intended to restrict plaintiffs
products and to influence public opinion.' "

In layman's terms, that means they tinkered around with normal procedures and
normal science to  come up with a fraudulent report that secondhand smoke is
killing everyone. Voila, smoking bans  everywhere!

The EPA is an agency run amok, and I for one am pleased they will be reined in
by this sham  regarding secondhand smoke bunk. It is a great day for smokers
whose lives have been made miserable  by these misdeeds of Carol Browner and The
Environmental Protection Agency.

They need to be put under oath and testify before Congress about this sham! The
sooner the  better in my opinion.

- JACQUELINE S. MILLER

St. Petersburg

The writer is president of Florida Smokers' Rights Association, Inc.  Thanks to
Steinbrenners

I teach mentally handicapped youngsters in the Hillsborough County schools. Each
morning they  enter the classroom proudly sporting their New York Yankee tote
bags given to them at George  Steinbrenner's annual Christmas Concert at the
Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center. These children had  never seen a live
performance of any kind, but thanks to Steinbrenner's generosity, they saw and
heard our wonderful Florida Orchestra in a concert produced just for children.
They were dazzled!

Now the community has learned that Steinbrenner has given the school system
enough money to  reinstate intramural sports at the middle school level. What a
terrific way to engage young  adolescents in worthwhile after-school activities!
The long-term benefits are immeasurable.

In my opinion, George and Joan Steinbrenner are treasures of the rarest kind.
They give freely  of their resources for the benefit of all of Tampa's children.
As a classroom teacher, my hat is  off to them, and I would like to say thank
you on behalf of the children.

- CAROL McKAY IRVIN

Tampa  Campaign finance reform

Finally the public has forced the House to pay attention to Washington's most
unpopular topic:  campaign finance reform.

After much delay and party squabbling, House Speaker Newt Gingrich has finally
allowed an open  debate on campaign finance reform onto the House floor. Since a
bizarre parliamentary rule is  permitting the consideration of one dozen
proposals and over 250 amendments, we must remind our  representatives that only
the bipartisan Shays-Meehan bill will enact true reform.

If passed, the Shays-Meehan bill will effectively ban all soft money donations -
the unlimited  and unregulated campaign contributions made by wealthy
individuals and special interest groups.  Shays-Meehan also strictly defines
"issue advocacy" advertisements and closes a legal loophole which  permits
special interest groups to buy ad time promoting a specific candidate.

As the summer wears on in our nation's capital, the ongoing battle for campaign
finance reform  has more than a few politicians sweating under their collars.
House Majority Leader Dick Armey has  promised to take a final vote on
Shays-Meehan before the August recess, and the time to press for  reform is now.

While we still have your attention: politicians listen up. A vote for the
Shays-Meehan bill  means more than campaign finance reform. In an election year,
this vote will show us whose  interests you really stand for - those of the
people or big money.

- LETITIA E. STEIN

Tampa  Stadium madness

Now let me get this straight. The Mutiny have to vacate Houlihan's Stadium
because it's being  torn down to provide the Glazers with a new building site
and parking lot. But the Mutiny won't  play in the new stadium because the
Glazers won't share concessions and other revenues, even though  the facility
was built with hundreds of millions of taxpayer revenues, and these fees might
help  service the stadium debt.

- MICHAEL N. CANTWELL

Tampa

Editor's Note: This letter was published recently but was incorrectly attributed
to another  person.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 29, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

EAST PASCO;

BYLINE: Carol J. Hedman;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 629 words

 Tote bags, suitcases sought

Eagles Aerie 3752 in Zephyrhills is asking for donations of tote bags and
suitcases. The Tampa  Police Department crime prevention program is seeking the
items for foster children who are moving  this area.

Items can be brought to the Eagles Nest, 33710 State Road 54 W.

Snowbird blessing: The Rev. Ralph J. Mehle, pastor of Bradford United Church of
Christ in  Zephyrhills, assisted in a "blessing of the snowbirds" Sunday at
South Parish Congregational Church  in Augusta, Maine.

About three dozen members of that congregation spend their winters in Florida or
other warmer  climates and return to Maine in the spring. Mehle is pastor to
some of those winter residents in  Zephyrhills.

Kiwanis golf tournament: The Kiwanis Club of Zephyrhills will host its 8th
annual golf  tournament to benefit local scholarships and the club's youth fund
at 1:30 p.m. Sept. 19 at  Scotland Yards Golf Club.

The format is a four-person scramble. The entry fee is $ 50 per person and
includes green fee,  cart fee, prizes and a steak dinner.

Deadline to enter is Sept. 11. For information or entry forms, call Randall
Poston, (813)  780-4172, or Darla Wright, (813) 783-3507.

Hole sponsorships also are available for $ 50.

Last year, the youth fund benefited more than 100 students at West Zephyrhills
and Woodland  elementary schools who were named Kiwanis Super Kids, as well as
scholarship recipients Brian  Fettig, Jennifer Strickland, Travis Thomas and
Lanika Harrold.  WEST PASCO  BY: Diane Loebel  Officers to begin new term

New term beginning:

New officers for the Kiwanis Club of West Pasco will begin their term of office
in October.

Those serving are: Paul Votinelli, president; Terri Osteen, vice president;
Walter Hartshorne,  secretary; and Keith R. Thibault, treasurer.

Elected to the board of directors were William Duff, David Neal, Richard B.
Sherwood and Henry  G. Spenceley.  Miss Teen candidate:

Stacey Schwendeman, daughter of David and Darla Schwendeman of New Port Richey,
will be among  the candidates vying for the title of Miss Teen of Florida at the
1998 State Pageant.

Winner of the competition will receive a $ 2000 savings bond to be used at the
college or  university of her choice. In addition, her high school will receive
$ 500 from the Miss Teen of  America Scholarship and Recognition Program.

Each candidate will be scored in six areas: scholastic record; achievement and
service to school  and community; personal development of hobbies, talents and
skills; general awareness written test;  personality projection in formal wear;
and judge's interview.

Stacey is being sponsored by Signature Painting, First Class Concrete and the
First Assembly of  God Church in New Port Richey.  VETERANS  BY: Katie Robinson

 Officers installation set

American Legion Post 118 Auxiliary will hold installation of officers at 6:30
p.m. Wednesday at  the Village Inn Restaurant in Zephyrhills.

Veterans meeting: The Suncoast Veterans Affiliated Council will meet at 7 p.m.
Wednesday at the  Non-Commissioned Officers Association, 8624 Broad St., New
Port Richey.

Any veterans group that would like to be represented should send a delegate. For
information  call (727) 847-4184 or (727) 934-5596.  Send news of Dade City,
Lacoochee, Richland, Trilby, Trilacoochee, San Antonio, St. Leo, Zephyrhills and
other east Pasco communities to Carol Jeffares Hedman, 38112 15th Ave.,
Zephyrhills,  FL 33540.  Send news of New Port Richey, Port Richey, Hudson and
other west Pasco communities to Diane Loebel, 6214 U.S. 19, New Port Richey
34652. Telephone: 815-1081.  Send news of veterans organizations to Katie
Robinson, 6214 U.S. 19, New Port Richey 34652.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE 3

NOTES: COMMUNITY NEWS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  September 19, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The right way to cool the globe;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 927 words


In the noise of the battle between alarmists and skeptics on what to do about
global warming,  many rational suggestions are being drowned out.

The alarm goes like this: "A real solution to the problem would seem to require
a rejection of  the civilization of mass consumption that originated in the
United States in the first half of this  century and spread from there through
the rest of the world."

That sort of challenge to business, from an article by Yonemoto Shohei in the
current issue of  Japan Echo magazine, enrages the skeptics who dismiss any
evidence of global warming as poppycock.  Such indifference provokes in turn an
overreaction among the believers. Shohei says that to reject  U.S.
irresponsibility "is a small matter compared with the future of human
civilization."

He may exaggerate, but he is no crackpot. Shohei is a graduate of Kyoto
University and is a  high-ranking member of the Mitsubishi Kasel Institute of
Life Science. Even if you believe the  future of civilization to be threatened,
you must also concede how doubtful it is that U.S.  politicians will declare
U.S. prosperity to be a mistake that needs correcting by, for example, a
painfully high tax on fuel.

But between warnings of environmental doom on the one hand and economic gloom on
the other,  there is great cause for optimism. It comes from the Rocky Mountain
Institute in the form of a  climate article called "Making Sense and Making
Money."

The authors, Amory B. Lovins and wife L. Hunter Lovins, convincingly propose
that almost  everyone who uses energy can find big opportunities to save money.
The idea sounds silly at first,  because we are all free now to save all we
please. But the truth is, almost everyone is too  ill-informed to make the
wisest choices.

Consider electrical wiring. "Almost all U.S. buildings use wire sizes equal to
the National  Electrical Code minimum requirements, because the wire size is
selected and its costs passed  through by the low-bid electrician," the
institute says. "But in a typical lighting circuit, the next  large wire size
yields about a 169 percent per year after-tax return. Few electricians know
this;  even fewer care, since their reward for lower-loss wires is typically a
lost bid."

Consider the example of an American carpetmaker building a new factory in
Shanghai. An engineer  decided to try to improve efficiency by replacing
95-horsepower electric pumps with pumps of only 7  HP. The smaller pumps would
do the job if the factory's small-diameter pipes were replaced with  larger
ones. The result was a lower cost to install the new equipment and tremendous
continuing  savings in electricity.

The engineer was amazed that he and his colleagues had for decades overlooked
such an easy way  to save money and increase the company's bottom line. That's
often the way it is - we continue doing  things the old way instead of the best
way.

Consider the purchase of a 50-cent light bulb. Most of us give it little
thought, but to replace  it instead with a $ 15 fluorescent bulb that lasts 13
times as long would save the aggravation of  frequent replacement and, by saving
electricity, would keep nearly a ton of carbon dioxide out of  the air.

Many environmentalists are content to score political points by criticizing a
do-nothing  Congress, but instead they should be offering practical changes that
even conservatives would buy.  For example, the Lovins report offers an easy way
to cool a city: "Light-colored roofs and pavement,  plus shade trees and
revegetation to help bounce solar heat away, could cool Los Angeles by about 6
degrees F. and cut the city's cooling loads by about 20 percent, and its smog by
about 12 percent,  saving $ 500 million a year."

The report outlines many other ways to save energy and money and also explores
reasons why so  few of us take full advantage of available cost-saving
technology.

"Why should you fix up your rented premises if you don't own them?" they ask.
"Why should the  landlord do it if you pay the energy bills?"

In manufacturing, electric bills are usually less than 2 percent of the value of
the products  shipped. Managers don't worry about finding ways to cut the bill,
partly because it is  government-subsidized - the electric bill is deducted from
taxable profits as a cost of doing  business.

Federal taxes penalize work and employment and subsidize waste and pollution -
"just the opposite,"  says the Rocky Mountain Institute, "of what we want."

While intelligent tax reform may be a long way off, help finding ways to save
energy costs will  soon be on display locally.

A public-private demonstration called Project Greenhouse plans to break ground
early next year  on three buildings: a low-income house, a middle-income house
and a small commercial building. The  three will provide concrete examples of
what can easily be done now to save remarkable amounts of  money, says Brian
Schatz, a project member.

Already the Hillsborough County Commission has approved a voluntary
energy-efficient guidelines  that is available to help builders take advantage
of its money-saving specifications. Public  schools are also planning to
incorporate increased efficiency into new construction.

Saving money without hardship is an easy sell - and could become a lucrative
U.S. export to  developing countries desperate for cheaper energy - but it has
no potential to spark partisan  fistfights. Perhaps that's why it hasn't gotten
the attention it deserves.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 27, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Pyne refuses to reflect on Bucs' past; rather on Lions' future;

BYLINE: HEATHER KAMINS, Tribune correspondent;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 517 words


PONTIAC, Mich.  - Former Buccaneers guard Jim Pyne would rather talk about the
Lions than his  previous employer.

Jim Pyne's move from Tampa to Detroit brought more challenges than just a
climate adjustment.

Stepping into the starting job left by three-time Pro Bowl center Kevin Glover,
Pyne was forced  to change positions from guard and battle the large imprint of
Glover's leadership role.

From the beginning, Pyne said he wasn't replacing Glover, who bolted to Seattle
via free agency.  He was going to be himself and play physical and help open
holes for Barry Sanders.

The Bucs and their fans will see firsthand how Pyne has handled those challenges
Monday night,  when Tampa Bay plays Detroit at the Silverdome. Despite the
familiar faces on the other side of the  line, Pyne says this is only a game.

A game the Lions (0-3) have to win, that is.

"I'm just looking at it as another game," Pyne said after practice Friday. "I
don't really want to  talk about my Tampa days."

Pyne signed with the Lions as an unrestricted free agent in February, after
three years as the  Bucs' starting left guard. For the first two seasons as a
starter, Pyne was just a cog in Tampa's  effective, but unspectacular, line.
Then, last season, he and his linemates helped open holes for  tailback Warrick
Dunn and fullback Mike Alstott as each earned Pro Bowl honors.

Dunn and Alstott are now running behind Jorge Diaz, who replaced Pyne in the
starting lineup.

"That's behind me," Pyne said. "I'm looking forward to my future. I still have a
lot of friends  down there, but this is a new year."

One reason Pyne signed with Detroit was to return to center, the position he
played at Virginia  Tech. The Bucs apparently promised Pyne he could shift to
center once Tony Mayberry retired, but  Pyne didn't want to wait.

"A promise gets you nowhere," Pyne told the Detroit Free Press during training
camp. "I had the  opportunity and I jumped at it. It's tough to pass up. Yeah,
they're winning down there, but I'd  rather be here."

Pyne, part of a three-generation pro football family, realizes the Bucs (1-2)
have struggled in  September. But not as much as the Lions.

"This is a big game," Pyne said. "We need to win. We need to get on our game. We
need to get out  and play our game."

A quiet voice comes out of Pyne's 6-foot-2, 297-pound frame, leaving the Lions
to look elsewhere  for a vocal leader. However, last week, Pyne's leadership as
the line's anchor was crucial after  starting quarterback Scott Mitchell was
demoted to third string, forcing rookie Charlie Batch into  the starting lineup.

The Lions lost their third consecutive game, but Batch and Pyne worked well
together.

That's no surprise to Lions coach Bobby Ross, who has called Pyne "a tough,
hard-nosed football  player" who has the perfect build for a center.

While Pyne downplayed the "Monday Night Football" matchup against the Bucs,
Batch expects a tough  battle.

"Tampa's defense is pretty good," Batch said. "We need to go out there and
execute. We need this  game."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Former Buccaneer Jim Pyne is now the starting center for the Lions.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 4, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

MUMMIES & MORE;

BYLINE: CARLOS MONCADA, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words


ST. PETERSBURG - You won't encounter poisonous snakes, spike-filled pits or
giant rolling  boulders.

But visitors to "Empires of Mystery: the Incas, the Aztecs and Lost
Civilizations," the upcoming  exhibition at the Florida International Museum,
will come across plenty of other Indiana Jones  trademarks.

The Peruvian exhibit, which opens Oct. 23 at the downtown St. Petersburg museum,
will take  visitors on a quest through simulated rain forests and a vast
corridor maze in search of gold. But  watch out for the perils that lie ahead:
ancient mummies, tomb guardians and more.

Along the way you'll learn a thing or two about some of the most advanced
cultures the ancient  world ever saw.

"We think it can be a lot of fun and at the same time be a wonderful educational
experience," said  Joseph Cronin, the museum's president and chief executive
officer.

"Empires of Mystery," the museum's fifth blockbuster exhibit since 1995, follows
the hugely  successful "Titanic: The Exhibition," which closed with a record
830,109 visitors after a six-month  run that ended May 31.

Billed as the largest exhibit of Peruvian artifacts ever to travel to the United
States, it  includes more than 300 items - including three mummies - produced by
a string of ancient Indian  civilizations spanning 3,000 years.

Opulent gold ceremonial objects, intricately patterned textiles and skillfully
crafted ceramics  decorated with symbols of everyday life are among the items to
be displayed.

Examples of Peruvian sophistication will include human skulls that show evidence
of successful  brain surgery performed 1,500 years ago.

The artifacts, which debuted in Memphis, Tenn., this summer and arrived here
last week, are from  the Institutio Nacional de Cultura del Peru in Lima and
four other public and private collections.

The exhibit will include pre-Columbian artifacts U.S. Customs Service officials
seized in 1995  in Miami.

At a Thursday news conference in Miami, the U.S. government will officially
return the 160  seized items to the government of Peru, which will loan about 20
to the Florida International  Museum.

Customs service officials have said the seized artifacts, which have been
warehoused for three  years, could be sold in the antiquities black market for
at least $ 2 million. Among items to go on  display here are gold rattles with
elaborate headdresses and mummy masks from the Chancay  civilization, which
dates from 1100 A.D. to 1300 A.D.

The materials in "Empires of Mystery" are intriguing partly because they
originated in societies  that, while technologically and culturally advanced,
did not have the wheel or formal writing  systems. So the meaning of images that
pervade objects of clay, gold and textiles is mostly a  matter of conjecture.

For instance, a Nazca culture double-spouted ceramic pot with a painted sea bass
suggests the  importance of water and sea life to the survival of ancient
Peruvians, who adapted to some of the  world's harshest environments.

But such artifacts by themselves do not guarantee a successful exhibit, as
Memphis learned.  About 155,000 people visited "Ancestors of the Incas: The Lost
Civilizations of Peru" during a  five-month run that ended Sept. 18.

To break even on the $ 5 million Peruvian exhibit - about the same cost as the
Titanic exhibit -  Florida International Museum must draw 325,000 visitors.
That's 75,000 less than the Titanic's  break-even point.

As of last week, the museum had sold about 20,000 advance tickets, said Wayne
Atherholt,  director of marketing and public relations. That's in line with the
museum's "Treasures of the Czars"  exhibit in 1995, which drew more than 600,000
people.

Museum officials acknowledge the Peruvian exhibit lacks the populist appeal of
the Titanic,  subject of a blockbuster movie and continued public fascination 86
years after it sank on its  maiden voyage.

But officials hope some creative marketing - such as coinciding the exhibit's
opening with  Halloween - and changes from the way Memphis presented the exhibit
will make it more successful  here.

In promotional materials, the museum emphasizes the mystical realm in which
ancient Peruvian  societies existed in and around the Andes before the Spanish
invasion early in the 16th century.

Of the 35 cultures documented in the exhibit, probably only the Incas will be
familiar to most  visitors.

More than one-fourth of the exhibit will be devoted to the Incas, who ruled a
2,500-mile stretch  of western South America from Ecuador to northern Chile and
Argentina from their imperial city of  Cuzco. They were at the height of their
empire when Spanish conquistadors in search of gold arrived  in 1532, unleashing
a wave of violence and disease.

At the museum, visitors will be told they are on a similar quest for a lost
temple filled with  gold - specifically a solid gold Tumi, a knife designed for
ceremonies, including sacrifices, of the  Lambayeque culture. Inset with
turquoise, it depicts the god Naymlap.

In keeping with the Indiana Jones theme, the exhibit will feature an audio tour
narrated by  actor John Rhys-Davies, best known for playing a rogue in "Raiders
of the Lost Ark" and "Indiana Jones  and the Temple of Doom." The Welsh actor's
distinctive voice also will be heard on radio commercials  and the introductory
multimedia presentation in the museum's theater.

"You're going to go on a quest," Cronin said. "You're going to leave our theater
and plunge  yourself into a jungle. And rather than going from gallery to
gallery, you'll be on this very  serpentine path as you make your way through
the exhibit."

Exhibit galleries will be designed to resemble the Peruvian environment and
archaeological sites  - within limits.

"We're not going to try to outdo Disney," Cronin said.

Complementing the artifacts will be photo murals - including one of Machu
Picchu, the fabled "Lost  City of the Incas" and Peru's top tourist destination
- as well as life-size and scale reproductions.

These include examples of adobe-finished walls with fish and sea otter designs
from Chan Chan,  the world's largest adobe city and capital of the Chimu empire.

The Nazca lines - intricate patterns and shapes carved into the desert floor of
southern Peru and  visible only from the air - also will be re-created. A video
monitor will show aerial footage of the  mysterious lines, their origin and
purpose still unknown.

But the three mummiesare perhaps the most dramatic items to be displayed.

One 1,500-year-old mummy sits upright, her bony hand propped under her chin. Her
8-foot-long  braided hair runs down her side and across her lap. Alternately
described as a sorceress, a healer  and a priestess, she seems to stare at you
from empty eye sockets as you view her.

Ancient Peruvians practiced mummification 1,000 years before the Egyptians. Most
bodies were  preserved naturally by the cold, dry climate of the mountains or
the dry heat of the desert coast.  Rope was used to bind the deceased into a
squatting or fetal position, indicating that the dead  await rebirth.

Bodies then were wrapped in cloth until the bundle resembled a seated person.
They were placed  in individual or collective tombs, accompanied by funerary
goods such as vessels for food and  drink. The bodies of illustrious men would
be accompanied by their wives or concubines, who might  have been ritually
killed or sacrificed.

As recently as 1995, archaeologists discovered high in the Andes the
well-preserved remains of a  young girl. Known among scientists as Juanita, she
was sacrificed by the Incas 500 years ago.  Neither she nor two other poorly
preserved mummies found nearby are part of the Peruvian exhibit.

President Clinton caught flak in 1996 when he joked about Juanita's sex appeal,
saying the mummy  was "good-looking" and that if he were single he might ask her
out. A Peruvian anthropologist later  called those comments "tacky."    (CHART)
EMPIRES OF MYSTERY: THE INCAS, THE AZTECS AND LOST CIVILIZATIONS   WHAT:
exhibition of more than 300 artifacts produced by some 35 cultures that occupied
ancient  Peru for 3,000 years   WHEN: opens Oct. 23 and continues through
spring; hours are 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Sunday through  Friday; 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Saturday; closed Thanksgiving and Christmas.   WHERE: Florida International
Museum, 100 Second St. N., St. Petersburg   TICKETS: Single tickets are $ 13.95
for adults and $ 5.95 for students. Season passes, for  unlimited admission for
Florida residents, are $ 28.95 for adults and $ 12.95 for students. Group  rates
also are available. Call (727) 822-3693.  Carlos Moncada covers St. Petersburg.
He can be reached at (727) 823-7732.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5(4C),
 Workers get the galleries ready for the new exhibit opening Oct. 23 at the
Florida International Museum in St. Petersburg.  MARK GUSS, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 5, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Tampa's cultural district;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1322 words


Daniel Ruth, in a recent column bashing the Tampa Heights Cultural District
Initiative (Florida  Metro, Sept 8), tells us what he thinks:

1. There isn't very much of value going on in the arts in Tampa.

2. He's glad.

3. He hopes it will stay that way.

He lumps every altruistic, environmental, arts and intellectually alive group
together, making  it clear he regards the whole lot as part of a flaky, marginal
fringe. Most people, we learn from  Ruth, are much more interested in having
trendy shops in Tampa than in improving Tampa's cultural  climate (an attitude
he seems to applaud).

From the examples Ruth uses, it appears the last play he saw was in 1955. As
such an expert on  the arts, it is no wonder he is so misinformed about the
Tampa Heights Cultural District  Initiative.

This proposal, far from being diametrically opposed to developers (as Ruth
presents it),  involves working collaboratively with developers, some of whom
are already embracing it as good for  them also.

The "arts" are only a part of the plan, which primarily involves making a
historic section along  the Hillsborough River, across from Blake High School,
available to the citizens of Tampa Bay. It  eventually may have a marina, an
outdoor band shell, walking and jogging trails, a children's  museum and
possibly a branch of the Smithsonian.

And, oh, yes, even shops, restaurants and kiosks.

This is our last historic area. Ybor City became a rowdy playground for
teenagers. Hyde Park  became a very nice but economically exclusive residential
area. Tampa Heights is the natural  extension to the existing cultural area in
downtown Tampa (Performing Arts Center, Tampa Museum,  etc.).

It is our last chance to create a cultural district comparable to those of every
major thriving  city in America.

Even if individuals do not feel they personally would utilize such a district,
just a little  research would make it clear that its presence would attract
businesses to Tampa, making it  economically advantageous.

I hope the Tribune will give the Tampa Heights Cultural District Initiative the
coverage it  warrants before printing more misinformed and misleading reactions.
I don't know if this particular  proposal is one we, the citizens of Tampa Bay,
will want to support but we should be given the  opportunity to make an informed
judgment.

I certainly hope and do have some faith that we are not as shallow, ignorant and
selfish as  Daniel Ruth seems to think.  MERNET LARSEN  Tampa  Regarding Linda
Greco

In response to Susan Rattabush's letter (Sept. 26) regarding Linda Greco and
what she does:

Linda McClintock-Greco, Tampa's first lady, represents our city nationally and
internationally  in a style reminiscent of Jacqueline Kennedy. She is fluent in
several languages and exudes class,  manners, modesty and poise. She is a
considerate, loving daughter to Constance McClintock, who  raised her to carry
on a family tradition of philanthropy, humility and grace.

As a physician, Linda established the first neonatal crisis unit in the hospital
she staffed. As  a pediatrician, she flew helicopter rescue, often in dire
weather conditions, to bravely save  infants near death. To this day, nearly 20
years later, Linda still receives Christmas cards and  photographs from grateful
parents of those babies.

The business community of Tampa gives her high accolades for her
accomplishments. Linda has been  responsible for raising hundreds of thousands
of dollars for local groups like the crisis center,  police nonprofits, etc.
When she attends charitable fundraisers with our mayor (often several a  week),
she pays out of her own pocket. Her personal donations are so benevolent that
she doesn't  even take advantage of their tax-deduction status. Linda was reared
to be a true humanitarian.

On any given day, Linda may be seen helping the elderly, painting houses for the
needy, planting  shrubs for the city, wrapping gifts for her step-grandchildren,
planning a surprise party for her  mother-in-law, getting late-night telephone
calls from panicky parents with sick children, singing  opera in Italian for
Italy's U.S. diplomat, or accompanying her husband to countless numbers of  town
meetings, school functions, graduations, funerals, church events, etc.

People who know Linda well will tell you that one thing she does very well is
make Dick Greco  happy and very, very proud.  ROSE ROSANELLI  Tampa  Just
describe the platform

Don't you think we, whether Democrat or Republican, have had enough sleaze to
last a lifetime?  And now the election ads are back. For one year, can't we just
hear the candidate's platform so we  will know who and what we are voting for?
MARION GRAY  Tampa  Appreciation for Stayskal

Thank you, thank you to Stayskal: The cartoon stating the scandal sentiment
often heard - "So  what?" - hit the nail on the head!

I never thought I would live to see the day the American people would say "So
what?"

I don't care if the president did lie to us. He also lied to the grand jury
investigating him  and his actions. We should hang our heads in shame. If I lied
under oath in court and got caught, I  do not believe I would be allowed to say
"So what?" and go on my merry way as if nothing happened.

This scandal proves that America has no morals left.

I hope Congress does the right thing by getting rid of the nation's lying leader
before the rest  of the world realizes what I have realized - that our leader
has made us the laughingstock of the  world. But of course, only in Washington
could a crack-addict felon be re-elected mayor. Enough  said.  KELLY CLIFTON
Tampa  Impressive program

I recently had the opportunity to tour the Florida Aquarium and observe a
diver-training  exercise that involved volunteers. As a professional diver, I
wanted to see what kind of operation  the volunteer program was before making a
commitment.

For those who aren't aware, the aquarium utilizes many volunteers in various
capacities  throughout their facility.

My experience was led by the education liaison/volunteer coordinator. She was
extremely  enthusiastic about her job and the program itself. The tour was
methodical and thorough. All of the  personnel that I encountered that evening
were very professional, courteous and personable. The  training given the two
divers that evening was also done very professionally. My guide displayed
expertise regarding all aspects of predive training and equipment
familiarization and the ability  to make this serious training fun for all
involved.

It appears that the aquarium is doing everything possible to provide the best
entertainment for  the public and keep costs to a minimum with the utilization
of a top-notch volunteer program.

I was impressed enough to sign up for the next orientation and I hope that those
who read this  letter will show their support for our aquarium too.  SAM CHIODO

 Tampa  Regarding Dan Ruth

Recently I read one of Dan Ruth's less rabid anti-gun columns (Florida Metro,
Sept. 17). In the  process, Ruth explained where he actually got his views.

Very few writers ever bother to let the reading public know why they feel the
way they do.  Sometimes when I read an article I really have to wonder what
prompted this person to feel this  way. It is too bad more people in the
editorial business don't do so.

Ruth and I have crossed swords more than once in The Tampa Tribune over gun
control issues.  However, at least now I understand why he feels the way he
does, and I respect that.

We also have a common experience. Both of us have been victims of gun crime.
Ruth blames the  gun; I blame the man who held one to my head.

I believe in criminal control. Ruth believes in gun control, and probably
neither of us will  ever change his viewpoint.  RAYMOND C. SCHMIDT  Lutz

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 6, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

An unimaginable tragedy;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1396 words


In March, Kelly and Wylie Johnson were acquitted of misdemeanor charges for
failing to report  1-month-old Alexus Aitcheson's death (front page, Oct. 1).

The yellow jacket sting count on Harrison Johnson's 2-year-old body was 432. I
can't imagine.

My horse pounded four hooves up an embankment over the opening to a yellow
jacket nest nestled  between two tree trunks. The 12-year-old level-headed
gelding listened to my voice commands rather  than throw me to the ground at the
nest's opening. He spun to my leg command as we were both  getting stung
mercilessly, returned down the embankment through the nest's opening and rode me
at a  full-hand gallop to the barn where a stable hand knocked the stinging
yellow jackets off both of us  with a water hose.

Within 10 minutes I was nauseated and burning with fever. I wouldn't deny the
animal that saved  me from further stings veterinary attention, much less deny
myself a doctor's attention. To this  day I remember the repeated stings of
those yellow jackets as one of the most painful ordeals I've  ever had to go
through.

Something is wrong when Wylie Johnson, a supposedly very bright guy, and Kelly
Johnson are both  stupid enough not to seek medical attention for their own
child. How could that child get stung 432  times? Was the 2-year-old
unsupervised? Even if so, state law requires parents to give children
reasonable medical attention. Thirty minutes after the child stopped breathing
was not the time to  call 911. Prosecutors, listen to your souls on this one.  -
KAY CHIRICHIGNO Tampa  Investigate release of Crain

When are we going to stop allowing the senseless murdering of our children? When
are we going to  start holding people accountable for their actions? How many
more stories such as the one of Amanda  Brown will there be? There have been too
many before her.

My question is why was Willie Crain let loose on our streets anyway? The judge
should resign if  she hasn't already done so. Doesn't anyone in our (in)justice
system realize that when they let  these violent criminals loose, they are
likely to commit another crime that is more serious than  the one they were
being punished for? It is time to deal with the criminals. Let's start with
making life sentences equal to the lifetime of the criminal, not some number of
months or years,  which appears to be today's standard. Let the death penalty
equal death in 30 days or less, not 30  years.

Victims like Amanda didn't get an appeal. Let's remember come election time that
we can't keep  releasing these homicidal maniacs and allowing a system that
keeps opening the prison gate. Let's  start keeping track of these elected
officials and their appointees and hold them accountable.  Prisons are
overcrowded? Tough! Criminals are placed in prison for committing crimes. If
they  didn't break the law, they wouldn't be there. Remember the innocent child
victims who did nothing  to deserve their fate. What needs to happen is the
victims' families need to say enough is enough.

I personally would like to see parole hearings posted with the name of the
criminal and parole  board officials. Accountability would start there. After
all, somebody let Crain loose.  - WILLIAM J. CHAREST Valrico  Workplace double
standard

It's holiday time. No, not Thanksgiving and Christmas, but Rosh Hashana, Yom
Kippur, Sukkot and  Simchat Torah. There will not, however, be any fanfare. No
office parties or agency-wide  fund-raisers to feed the indigent of the local
Jewish population.

It is time when Jews must ask forgiveness. Not only of a divine authority, but
of their bosses  and coworkers, as they skulk around the office, tail between
their knees, requesting yet another  day off in the name of religious
observance. It is a time when Jews across the world are faced with  unmitigated
scorn as they ask to be released from the last-minute projects due on Rosh
Hashana or  the mandatory late afternoon meetings scheduled on the eve of Yom
Kippur, the holiest day of the  Jewish year.

What Jew doesn't know the taste of suppressed anger while making these "special
requests," knowing  full well that in a few short months the whole world will do
nothing but eat, live and breathe yet  another set of holidays. When offices
will be transformed into winter wonderlands and moneys will  be requested, along
with a covered dish. When Jews will be given blank looks of incomprehension as
they decline attendance at Christmas caroling or refrain from wearing red caps
with pom-poms in  front of large groups of people.

And as the non-Jewish world changes its focus to its holidays, and no competent
manager has  begun a new project in the entire month of December, let alone
schedule a meeting on Christmas Eve,  Jews across the world watch their
colleagues scurry out early as offices close tight for days on  end. It is then
that the Jewish work force comes to the ready to cover those precious hours in
hospitals and on-call phone lines across the country and breathes a sigh of
relief, thinking: "We  have gotten through another year."  - JANET MARKS Tampa
Weakening Clean Air Act

At a time when initial reports from NASA indicate that the ozone hole is larger
than ever this  year, Congress is poised to further damage the ozone layer by
weakening the Clean Air Act. As the  clock runs out for this congressional
session, the House of Representatives has slipped in a last-  minute,
closed-session amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations Bill (HR 4101) that
would delay  a ban on the ozone-depleting pesticide methyl bromide. The ban is
now set for 2001 under the Clean  Air Act.

Methyl bromide is a potent destroyer of the ozone layer - 50 times more
destructive than  chlorofluorocarbons, which have been banned in this country
because of their ozone-destroying  properties. The thinning ozone layer is
allowing more ultraviolet radiation to reach the Earth,  putting millions at
risk of developing skin cancer, eye cataracts and a weakened immune system.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, skin cancer is the
most rapidly  increasing form of cancer in the United States, and more than 1
million new cases are expected in  1998.

Actions that undermine current global efforts to protect the ozone layer are
unacceptable. With  strong evidence of threats to public health, to crop
production and to the survival of numerous  animal species, the Clinton
administration must take a firm stand against the harmful House  amendment.

The administration - including Al Gore, known for his outspoken concern for the
ozone layer -  needs to send a solid message to Congress that it should not
weaken our nation's environmental  laws, raise the specter of skin cancer for
millions of people and undermine global efforts to  restore the ozone layer.  -
BRENT BLACKWELDER Washington, D.C.

The writer is president of Friends of the Earth, a national environmental
advocacy organization.  A natural phenomenon

When you can't refute the message, attack the messenger.

That's apparently the view of Kevin R. Burke, who asserted in his letter (Oct.
3) that "The  National Center for Public Policy Research is a smoke-screen group
supported by industries opposed  to any legislation or policy that addresses the
very real problem of global warming." His claim is  patently false. We have
never received such funding support and it was irresponsible for Burke to
suggest otherwise.

His claims about the satellite data showing a warming trend are equally false.
Even adjusting  for orbital decay, the satellites have indicated a slight
cooling trend of 0.01 Celsius per decade  since 1979. Burke relied on a faulty
study of the satellite data - which neither utilized the raw  satellite data nor
adjusted for orbital drift (side-to-side drifting of satellites) - to draw his
conclusion.

Finally, his statement that a majority of climate scientists believe global
warming is a fact  has little basis in fact. A 1997 survey of state
climatologists found that these climatologists  believe that global warming is
largely a natural phenomenon by a margin of 44 percent to 17  percent.  - DAVID
RIDENOUR Washington, D.C.

The writer is vice president of The National Center for Public Policy Research.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 2, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

First lady stumps Tampa for MacKay;

BYLINE: MICHAEL FECHTER and WILLIAM MARCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words


TAMPA - First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton urges a partisan crowd to pull out the
stops for Buddy  MacKay.

First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton joined Democratic Party leaders in a
cross-state satellite  teleconference rally Sunday night aimed at boosting Lt.
Gov. Buddy MacKay's bid for governor.

Clinton appeared in Tampa, and MacKay, Gov. Lawton Chiles, U.S. Sen. Bob Graham
and other  leading Democrats were in a Deerfield Beach Century Village
retirement community.

"It's good to see you even long distance like this," Clinton said to MacKay's
image on a large  video screen after being introduced.

She told the more than 1,000 people in a ballroom at Tampa's Doubletree Airport
Hotel that she  met MacKay in 1983 at a conference on education.

"He is no Johnny-come-lately to the issue of public education. He's been
studying it and working  on it for 15 years," she said.

Education has been the dominant issue in this governor's race. But MacKay
trailed Republican Jeb  Bush by at least 8 points in a Tampa Tribune-WFLA,
Channel 8, poll last week. On a bus tour of the  state, Bush appeared confident
and said he has stopped his own polling.

Clinton urged supporters to walk precincts and work telephone banks.

"Change the message on your answering machine. "Hello, I'm not here. But vote
for Buddy MacKay,' "  she said.

Joining Clinton on stage were MacKay's wife, Anne, and running mate Rick
Dantzler and his wife,  Julie.

Democrats at both rallies repeatedly cited MacKay's long history in politics in
contrast to  Bush, who has never held office, as if hoping that repeating it
often enough might somehow bridge  the gap.

Her visit comes on top of two other state treks by President Clinton to help
MacKay.

"The Clintons seem to be close friends with the lieutenant governor and they're
out to help him  in this round," Bush said.

But this is the first Clinton-MacKay event attended by MacKay's running mate,
Rick Dantzler. He  has declined to give his reasons for skipping events with
Bill Clinton.

Bush's only advantage is money, Hillary Rodham Clinton said.

"By any measure when you compare the two candidates, Buddy MacKay is far
superior, far more  qualified, far more experienced," she said.

She also took a swipe at Bush's plan to send tax money to private schools in
areas where public  schools chronically fail. Bush "wants to turn back the
clock," she said, again pointing out  Democratic opposition to vouchers.

"Thanks to this president's perseverance there will be more teachers in the
classroom," she said,  alluding to a $ 1.1 billion federal budget allotment to
start hiring 100,000 new elementary school  teachers.

Rather than sending voucher money to private schools, the state needs to be
building new  classrooms, she said.

"These voucher schemes are not only risky but they are the beginning of a
slippery slope that  will undermine the nature of public education in this
state," she said.

The theme, and the mention of protecting abortion rights, consistently drew the
Tampa crowd's  strongest reactions.

Clinton also touted MacKay's work with Chiles on health care and the
administration's creation  of the Department of Elder Affairs.

Earlier, Tampa City Councilman Bob Buckhorn introduced Tampa Mayor Dick Greco
and a host of  Democratic legislators and candidates.

Many mocked the Bush campaign's "He's not my Buddy" slogan.

"Jeb Bush has his buddies, too," said state Palm Bay Sen. Patsy Kurth. "He's
buddies with big  tobacco. He's buddies with the oil companies. He's buddies
with big business. He's buddies with the  gun lobby. We know who our Buddy is."

About 500 people, mostly senior citizens, attended the Deerfield Beach end of
the rally.

The event was arranged by the semi-legendary Amadeo "Trinchi" Trinchitella,
informal godfather of  the so-called "condo commandos," political activists who
organize the retirement centers for  Democratic candidates.

Broward, its condominiums and activists are crucial for MacKay and all other
Democratic  statewide candidates.

Broward is the county with by far the largest Democratic voter registration in
the state.

In 1994, Chiles' victory margin in Broward, Dade and Palm Beach counties
overcame his loss in  the rest of the state and helped make him governor.

The crowd was wild for Hillary Rodham Clinton.  "I love her," said Lillian
Groveman, Century Village retiree who once worked as a secretary in the
Franklin D. Roosevelt administration."I compare her to Eleanor Roosevelt. They
both stuck by their  husbands despite what the media said."

Ruth Goldstein said Hillary "is doing the right thing for her husband. If he
came here, it would  all be negative."

Some in the highly partisan crowd said they think Democrats will be just as
enthusiastic this  year for MacKay as they were in 1994 for Chiles.

"I think it'll be stronger, said Lew Groveman. "There are so many important
things (MacKay)  represents" - gun control, freedom of choice on abortion,
support for public schools.

But Trinchitella was more cautious in appraising political climate.

"I'm going to be optimistic - the glass is half full," he said. "I hope we can
do it."  Michael Fechter covers politics and can be reached at (813) 259-7621 or
mfechter@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C),
 Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay greets Sylvia Marcus, left, Sylvia Horowitz and Kitty
Stein after his get-out-the-vote rally at Century Village in Deerfield Beach on
Sunday.  COLIN HACKLEY, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  November 7, 1998, Saturday, FLORIDA EDITION

Republicans keep county majority;

BYLINE: BILL HEERY, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: POLK, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 715 words


BARTOW - With two newly elected Republicans replacing defeated Republican
incumbents, the Polk  County Commission will retain a GOP majority.

Observers of the Polk County Commission are anxiously or warily waiting to see
what happens when  newly elected District 2 Commissioner Randy Wilkinson takes
his seat on Nov. 17.

While a member of the Polk County School Board from 1994 to earlier this year,
Wilkinson - a  staunch fiscal conservative - earned a reputation as a maverick,
often going against his peers on  spending and taxing issues.

Lakeland stockbroker Hollis Hooks, who served on the school board with
Wilkinson, said when  Wilkinson first came on the board, he "felt like he had a
mandate to rearrange the school system  with or without the support of the other
board members."

Wilkinson, a Mulberry real estate agent, admits that he made some mistakes but
says he has  learned from them. "I think I can present things in a more
diplomatic way. But I certainly will be  saying what I think."

With Tuesday's election of Wilkinson and fellow Republican Bruce Parker to the
District 4  commission seat, the board will retain a Republican majority. Before
defeating their Democratic  opponents in the general election, Wilkinson
disposed of incumbent Nancy Rouse Hedrick in a  Republican primary runoff and
Parker defeated incumbent Jerry Carter in the Republican primary.

Wilkinson and Parker will join Republican Neil Combee on the commission, along
with Democrats  Marlene Young and Janet Shearer.

Parker, a real estate agent and former Winter Haven city commissioner, has a
short track record  on the county commission, having served four months on the
board after winning the 1996 election  for District 3 by 19 votes. But incumbent
Young challenged the results in court, and a hand recount  returned her to
office by 18 votes.

"I didn't have any problem getting along with anybody," said Parker. "As a
matter of fact everyone  complimented me on how I got along with those folks
down there."

During the campaign, many of the commission candidates said divisions on the
board in recent  years slowed problem-solving, and a top priority among
candidates was to bring some leadership and  cohesiveness to the board.

"We've got to create trust, and we can't do that if we fight among ourselves,"
said Parker. "During  the campaign, voters told me they expect us to get along
and they were not interested in us making  this a personal thing."

Veteran board member Combee, completing his 10th year on the commission, said he
doesn't expect  Wilkinson to change a lot from his days on the school board. "I
believe that Randy will certainly  try to concentrate on and focus efforts to
essential services. I think he'll be pretty hard line on  that, and then it
becomes a matter of what are essential services.

"If someone can make a compelling argument that spending money can ultimately
save money and can  demonstrate that, then you can probably get him to lend his
support. A lot of that depends on the  other board members. It just isn't all up
to him," Combee said.

"We can all try to work cooperatively as much as possible or we can just come
out of the gate  agreeing to disagree, and then I think we won't be real
productive," he said.

Parker, described by Combee as "more middle of the road" than Wilkinson, said he
has been on the  campaign trail with Wilkinson and "think we'll all get along."

Parker said he doesn't believe the 3-2 Republican-Democrat split on the board
will be a problem.

"I think individuals are going to have to solve the problems, not the party
affiliation," Parker  said. "Generally speaking, I think the Republican
philosophy is a little more conservative, but I've  seen some very conservative
Democrats in my day."

Shearer said she hopes to work in harmony with the two new board members. "We
certainly are not  always going to agree on everything, but I hope we agree to
disagree whenever necessary so that  it's not personal. I hope we can move
forward on a positive, progressive agenda."

Wilkinson said he believes the commission has a different climate from the
school board.  Bill Heery works in the Tribune's Lakeland office and can be
reached at (941) 683-6531.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (1C),
 Commissioner Neil Combee, left, announces early returns. GREG FIGHT, Tribune
photo

NOTES: DECISION '98

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 22, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

DOLLARS AND DYING;
An unexpected threat of death can wreck almost anyone's finances, and options
may be few, as one woman's tale shows.

BYLINE: SCOTT BERNARD NELSON of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words


Images from Aug. 7, 1996, come quickly for Donna Herlong, if not easily.

Two doctors waiting in a sterile, Tampa office. Mom and sister on hand for
support. A lifetime  of memories. A few tears. Complete disbelief.

"The next step (at work) was vice president," Herlong says, smiling at the
thought. "That's what I  had been busting my butt for all those years. And this
is what it had come to."

Until that day, Herlong, 42, had her life pretty well in order.

The Town 'N Country resident spent eight of 10 working days on the road as
national sales  director for Evenflo baby products, but she didn't mind the
travel.

At home, she had $ 10,000 of credit card bills to be paid, but she could handle
that, too.  Between salary and bonus, she made $ 80,000 the year before.

"I was a typical yuppie doing typical yuppie things," she says.

These days, there's very little typical about her life. That goes double for her
finances.

Herlong has fought to keep the heart of a stranger beating in her chest for
nearly two years. In  a story familiar to doctors and social workers, dealing
with a terminal illness has forced her to  empty her savings, drain her
retirement accounts, sell her life insurance policies and, ultimately,  declare
bankruptcy.

The kicker is that it's not enough. Herlong's biggest worry is finding a way to
live out the  years she has left in the comfort of her own home.

"It's sad that I have to spend so much time thinking about financial issues,"
she says. "But that's  reality, I guess. That's life."

UNFORTUNATELY, IT IS reality for all but the wealthiest people with catastrophic
medical  conditions, says Gloria Grening Wolk, author of "Cash for the Final
Days" and "Viatical Settlements:  An Investor's Guide."

At a time when people are struggling to deal with news of possible terminal
illness and explore  medical options, they typically get hit with a financial
double whammy, Wolk says.

First, it's often impossible to keep working, forcing them to live off
lower-income disability  or Social Security checks. Second, thousands of dollars
in doctor, hospital, pharmacy and related  bills can add up quickly, even for
those covered by health maintenance organizations.

Sick and under pressure to pay the mounting debt, people get desperate to
convert whatever  assets they have into cash.

"It's not easy to deal with the stress and still be able to step back and look
at your financial  picture with an impartial eye," Wolk says. "Without help,
people in this situation are really  vulnerable."

Herlong's troubles began a long way from home, on a pleasant July day in Newark,
N.J. Bone tired  after hitting three cities in four days, she flew from Dayton,
Ohio, to meet with the manager of a  Newark Toys 'R Us.

As the meeting progressed, she began to wonder whether something serious was
wrong. She was  sweating profusely, felt short of breath and had difficulty
concentrating on the sales pitch.

As soon as the meeting was over, Herlong excused herself from a working dinner
to catch an early  flight home.

"I was really frightened," she says. "I felt nauseous the whole way down, and I
could tell it was  something more than a flu bug or jet lag."

Three days later, Herlong was diagnosed with idiopathic cardiomyopathy, medical
jargon for heart  disease of an unknown origin. Some kind of virus had attacked
her heart, doctors said, swelling her  body's central organ to three times its
normal size.

By that point, Herlong's heart was pumping only 23 percent of its normal volume;
later, it would  drop as low as 13 percent.

At Tampa General Hospital, cardiologist Eduardo Pascual told Herlong she would
be dead within  months if she didn't get a new heart - and even if she did, she
probably wouldn't work again.

"I was devastated," Herlong says. "When you're in your 30s and at the peak of
your career, ...  hell, you just don't expect that kind of thing. So we all had
a good cry, and then I had to figure  out what to do with myself."

Because her condition was so serious, she jumped ahead of others on the
transplant list and had  a new heart by Christmas. Moving so fast left doctors
few options, though, so she got the first  available heart - which wasn't the
best match. She still suffers complications, she says, but "I was  in no
position to be picky."

Since then, Herlong has gone back under the knife twice to head off coronary
artery disease. And  she senses that when she returns for a checkup in December,
doctors will find something else wrong  with her heart.

Statistics show a woman in her situation should live another one to five years.
The way things  look now, she'll be broke in three and a half.

"Ultimately, the lack of money could cut my life short," she says. "If it gets
to the point where I  can't pay for prescriptions, that's it. We're not talking
about a car I could do without."

The math involved in reaching this juncture is simple: Herlong now has more
expenses and half  the income.

Long-term disability insurance pays 60 percent of her old salary, but that
excludes the  lucrative bonuses she once received. Disability pay also is
subject to federal income tax, which  takes another bite.

Herlong still must buy food, cover her mortgage, pay power and phone bills, and
deal with dozens  of other, normal costs of life. So the abnormal costs really
cause problems.

Herlong pays $ 200 a month in premiums for COBRA - named for the 1985 law that
created  emergency-insurance protection that, in this case, allows her to keep
her old health insurance.  Co-payments for prescriptions run another $ 150. And
her periodic visits to the hospital average  $ 13,000, of which she must pay 10
percent, or $ 1,300 per visit.

Physically too weak to do the upkeep on her house, she also pays for
housecleaning, laundry  service and yard work. Combined, that's another $ 200 a
month.

It cost her about $ 8,000 after the transplant to make her home livable - $
4,000 for a new  climate-control system, $ 2,000 for a new water-filtration
system and $ 2,000 for an air-filtration  system.

COMBINED WITH THE old credit card debt, the financial burdens overwhelmed her as
her body tried  to reject the the new heart. At the urging of friends, Herlong
declared bankruptcy in February  1997.

"That stung my pride," she says. "It felt like a real personal failure to admit
that I couldn't  keep carrying all this myself."

After emerging from bankruptcy, she sold both of her life insurance policies to
a viatical  company for immediate cash. She put $ 30,000 back into the house,
which she also refinanced to slash  the monthly mortgage payment from $ 900 to $
500. The remainder of the insurance money went into an  annuity, which now
provides a small monthly payment to supplement her disability income.

The next problem on the horizon is that Herlong's COBRA coverage expires in May.
Without it, her  health insurance will be picked up by Medicare, which so far
has refused to cover her $ 3,000  monthly prescription costs.

If she converts the annuity from an income stream back into cash, she figures
she could pay the  prescription costs for about two years. After that, the only
asset left is her house. If she sells  it outright or gets a reverse mortgage,
the equity might keep her afloat for another 18 months.

"After that, I don't know what I'd do," she says. "I don't have anything left to
sell."

Herlong is determined to find a way through the situation, in any case. Rather
than waiting and  hoping for something to change, she spends many of her waking
hours scheming to get prescriptions  paid for after she loses the COBRA
coverage.

"If I get the 'scrips covered, I can make it," she figures.

She has written the manufacturer of her immunosuppressant drugs to ask about any
ways to cut  back on the costs. She has inquired about Medicare's "Share the
Cost" pharmaceutical program. And she  looks to mail-order drug companies for
lower rates than the local Wal-Mart's.

Next, she plans to meet with her old employer to see if there's anything else it
can do. She  also plans to appeal Medicare's decision not to cover her pills.

If she had received the heart transplant under Medicare, she has been told, the
government  agency would have covered related prescriptions. Because she had
applied but had not been accepted  to the program by the time she received her
heart, though, the agency doesn't have to cover  pharmaceuticals.

If Herlong was richer or poorer, she knows she would have an easier time -
either paying for  things herself or getting government help.

But she refuses to dwell on what she can't control. She doesn't have time for
it.

"I don't know what it is yet, but something will work out," she says
confidently. "I'm just going  to keep going through my options. It's all I can
do."  Scott Nelson covers personal finance. He can be reached at snelson@

tampatrib.comor at (813) 259-7804.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); DRAWING,
 (C) (DRAWING) (Hourglass with money falling through it)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 18, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Crucifix joins Mary image;

BYLINE: GEORGE CORYELL, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511 words


CLEARWATER - A hand-carved crucifix now complements the shrine honoring the
image of the Virgin  Mary along U.S. 19.

Two years ago, news spread rapidly that the image of the Virgin Mary had
appeared on the  mirrored windows along the south wall of a finance company
headquarters at one of the county's  busiest intersections.

Within hours, thousands began a daily pilgrimage to the 22,000-square-foot
office near U.S. 19  and Drew Street, clogging traffic and attracting attention
around the globe.

On the second anniversary of the first sightings, the faithful have dwindled,
but still they  come. Now watched over by the Shepherds of Christ, a religious
group that prays for Catholic  priests, the image, formed by a rainbow swirl of
color, has been joined by a 20-foot, hand-carved  cedar crucifix.

The cross, crafted by Felix J. Aualos of Texas, weighs 1,300 pounds. The figure
of Christ adds  890 more pounds. Erected Thursday, Aualos will finish carving
the Christ figure over the next two  weeks.

"It puts the window in perspective," said ministry president John Weickert. "The
Blessed Mother  didn't appear here just to put on a pretty light show. She wants
to bring us back to her son,  Jesus."

Don Meyer, site leader for the ministry, said Rita Ring of Ohio, has received
messages from  Mary, Christ and God concerning the image on the building. Meyer
said the ministry was told to  erect the crucifix by God, through Ring, on Oct.
25.

Shepherds of Christ Ministries leased the building in July and plans to buy it
next year. Based  in Cincinnati, the group was founded in 1994 by Father Edward
Carter, a Jesuit priest and professor  at Xavier University.

Along with sponsoring ministries to nursing homes, prisons and schools, the
group believes it is  a prophetic ministry, following the divine instructions
given to Ring.

"You can pursue all the worldly things, but your soul is still empty," Weickert
said. "Mary tells  us how to build a society based on love."

More than a half-million people have traveled to this city, more widely known as
the  international spiritual headquarters of Scientology, to see the sweeping
hues on the building. Some  came with motives less pure.

Once, it was defaced by vandals who threw acid on the image. A large chunk of
the face and left  shoulder of the image was eaten away, but a fierce rainstorm
restored it.

The shrine became a death scene when a Clearwater Police officer killed a
disturbed 44-year-old  man while trying to arrest him. The officer, later fired
for buying steroids, was cleared in the  death.

Scientists contend the image was created by the climate. The glass panes' mirror
effect was  caused by a bronze reflective agent that can change as it ages, they
say. It is also affected by  heat, moisture and sunlight.

Meyer said the science behind the image doesn't really matter. He said the image
is there  because peace is so badly needed in the world.  George Coryell covers
north Pinellas County and can be reached at (727) 799-7413.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LOCAL FOCUS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 16, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Jackson's does dining with style;
This new bistro on Harbour Island has it all under one roof.

BYLINE: Warren Johnston

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Cocktails on the patio at sunset and champagne dinners are back on Harbour
Island.

Jackson's Bistro, which opened last month, brings to the riverfront an old
concept with a fresh approach - separate rooms and different menus.

Dark woods and soft lights give the main dining room an elegant atmosphere,
while chrome, glass and late-night music crank up the pace of the separate sushi
bar. And the bar and outside tables are a nice place for drinks, conversation
and sandwiches.

There's a lot going on at Jackson's, and they are doing it well.

"We are trying to be the place where people feel like coming here two or three
times a week and don't feel pressured to spend a lot of money," said co-owner
Jack Campbell. "But we're also there when they want to come in for that special
occasion."

Campbell and operating partner Greg Stinson are hoping years of experience in
other parts of Florida will pay off with the new Tampa venture that awakens the
dormant waterfront for the first time since the shops and restaurants were
closed more than two years ago.

Jackson's has an extensive fine dining menu that showcases the talents of Chef
Michael Rigberg and features a fusion of global cuisines.

For starters, the choices are many, but try the Carpaccio, paper thin slices of
beef tenderloin, shaved Parmesan and roasted red peppers, lightly drizzled with
grape seed oil and mustard sauce. Another outstanding choice is the Shrimp, Crab
and Scallop Strudel baked in phyllo with a delicate lobster cream sauce.

The sushi menu is extensive and makes an excellent appetizer or meal.

As a main course, the Peppered Ahi Tuna honors this fish and doesn't disappoint
even the highest expectations. It is served properly, pan-seared with a cool
center, with ginger-infused rice on a bed of wilted greens.  In addition to very
good nightly specials, oak-grilled prime steaks and pasta and poultry dishes
round out the menu. The spinach salad with warm chorizo vinaigrette, apple,
walnuts and Gorgonzola is a great accompaniment to any entree.

There are more than 300 selections on the wine list, priced at retail and served
with a $ 4 corking fee. It makes it easy to order a bottle.

A complete meal for two with wine is about $ 80.

(CHARET) DINING REVIEW

JACKSON'S BISTRO

FOOD: ***+

SERVICE: **+

WHERE: 601 S. Harbour Island Blvd., Tampa

HOURS: lunch, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, noon to 2:30 p.m.
Saturday; Sunday brunch, 10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.; dinner, 5-11 p.m. Monday through
Sunday; sushi served all day

CREDIT CARDS: MC, AE, V, Discover

CHILDREN'S MENU: No

SMOKING: Yes, but nonsmoking section available

CALL: (813) 277-0339  Tribune reviewers eat anonymously. Restaurants are rated
from zero to four stars. Warren Johnston can be reached at (813) 259-7656 or
wjohnston@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART; PHOTO (C),
 (C) Jackson's Bistro on Harbour Island offers a fine selection of sushi and
tasty entrees and appetizers.  CLIFF McBRIDE, Tribune photo

NOTES: DINING REVIEW RESTAURANTS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               90 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 20, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Preaching the fitness gospel

BYLINE: JANIS D. FROELICH; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words


"There's fun in moving," says fitness veteran Judi Sheppard Missett, who brinigs
her Jazzercise national convention to Tampa this weekend.

TAMPA - Jazzercise founder Judi Sheppard Missett, a gale force in the field of
exercise the past 30 years, says she has been spending a lot of time lately "not
surrounded by wellness."

The reason is she has been grounded in Iowa, a state where pork tenderloins rule
supreme on restaurant menus.

She has been in a Midwestern hospital with her 87-year-old father, who has
suffered from bladder cancer and received a transplant.

"He's a 70-year smoker," she says flatly. She then adds, heavy-voiced, that her
mother died 12 years ago from Lou Gehrig's disease and that she's an only child.
Her own family includes her husband, Jack, a former TV reporter who runs
Jazzercise's video division; her son, Brendan, 15; and daughter, Shanna, 29.

Along with the bedside vigil for her elderly father - unnerving for any adult
child looking after an ail-  ing parent - has come a rededication for the highly
buffed Missett.

At the age of 53, Missett actively heads the worldwide, $ 48 million Jazzercise
operation, although she has already declared Shanna her successor. But Missett
is more determined than ever to reach out and motivate the 80 percent of the
population who don't regularly get off their duffs and work out.

If anyone is up to such an impossible task - preaching the gospel of fitness to
the shapeless masses - it's Missett.

She's on a global tour from Atlanta to Tokyo for the Jazzercise Convention
Series '98. The Tampa stop, held today and Saturday at the downtown convention
center, is expected to attract 1,000 dancing exercisers.

In a telephone conversation from her hillside home near Carlsbad, Calif.,
Missett begins to proselytize.

"Taking a walk counts. Did you know that walking six times a month increases the
time you live? Yet people say to me, especially recently," she says - in an
obvious allusion to the weeks she spent in her Iowa hometown of Red Oak - " "Oh
my gosh, I'll have to sweat.'

"Is this such a turn-off? It (working out) should be joyous. Be a kid. Let go
and laugh. There's fun in moving."

Missett has had fun moving all her life.

When she was 2+ years old, she was put in a ballet class to correct her pigeon
toes. By 12, she was teaching ballet and tap to other children in Red Oak. In
1966, after graduating from Northwestern University with a degree in theater and
radio-television, she began studying jazz dance.

When she began teaching this form of high-energy dancing, she faced a problem.
Her students, mostly suburban mothers, were dropping out of her classes. The
"West Side Story"-like intricacy of the movements was too much for these
Chicago-area women to keep up with.

So, in 1969, Missett devised what she calls a "user-friendly jazz class."

Today, Missett's Jazzercise is the largest dance-fitness program in the world,
with 4,700-plus franchised instructors. What this means is 19,000 classes per
week where students - mostly women - do steps such as a "grapevine" or a "slap,
ball, change" or a "plie ," an obvious Missett earmark among the various aerobic
movements from her strong dance background.

In recent years, she has added the use of ankle and hand weights for some
classes, combined dance with resistance-band strengthening exercises, and thrown
in a large blue ball that helps to squeeze those thighs firm.

"We're not for everybody," says Missett, conceding that some calisthenics-doers
don't care for the dancing. But her company is armed with enough statistics
about her current students to convince fitness skeptics that Jazzercise may be
worth a try.

The most impressive statistic is that one-third of Jazzercise participants had
never tried a fitness program before signing up for the $ 40-a-month, unlimited
classes.

In addition to introducing such classes as Simply Jazzercise for beginners and
Jazzercise Lite for seniors and expectant mothers, Missett encourages her
franchisees to hold classes in non-gym settings - such as church halls or strip
shopping centers - to attract newcomers.

While Missett says she feels intimidated walking into a Gold's Gym, that's hard
to imagine with her pumped biceps. She explains: "All those glistening muscles
and machines I could never figure out."

What is a Jazzercise class like?

"We'll be holding in our abs in this class," instructor Elizabeth West playfully
informs students at the start of a recent south Tampa workout. "Is that a
problem for anyone?"

West says before the class - which features a new Janet Jackson tune from one of
the five instructional videos Missett choreographs for her instructors every
year - that if a person can prance around a living room, they can do Jazzercise.
The challenge is to stay on one's feet, moving even if the steps get too
complicated.

But most routines are broken down into low- and high-impact versions by teachers
such as West, who has 145 instructors under her wing as district manager for a
region extending from the west coast of Florida to Orlando.

The room is populated by women of all ages, getting energy-charged at their own
speed. West keeps the hour chatty, telling the class about missing her son's
first soccer game, where he scored a goal.

"Is he scarred for life?" she queries the group, all the while conducting a
round of "attitudes," high kicks with arms outstretched. Missett insists her
instructors "try to touch people" through such a personalized approach.

"We are very technically minded in this society," she says. So she believes
exercisers crave a warm and fuzzy workout - a trait that far and away
distinguishes Jazzercise from other aerobic classes.

"If a boss ragged on you all day," Missett concludes, "you should be able to
forget all about it by the end of a Jazzercise class."     (chart) JazzerBlast
'98   When: today and Saturday   Where: Tampa Convention Center   What: national
fitness convention organized by Jazzercise Hours: noon to 7 p.m. today and 8
a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Saturday   Activities: shopping expo by health- and
beauty-related vendors, plus Jazzercise classes and seminars   Cost: $ 99 at the
door for the weekend or $ 25 for the Saturday afternoon-only sessions
Information: (813) 289-2352  Janis D. Froelich is a feature writer in the Tampa
office. Reach her at (813) 259-7615.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); CHART,
 (C) Judi Sheppard Missett says exercise "should be joyous. Be a kid. Let go and
laugh."

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               92 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 18, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Turtle movers;
Hunting gopher tortoises is no longer legal as sport, but some companies capture
and move the;
endangered turtles out of harm's way before their homes are turned into
suburbs.;

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 688 words


Unfortunately, development in Florida races on at a pace more similar to a hare
than a tortoise.

And that means that the gopher tortoise, a slow-moving land turtle that inhabits
much of central  and north Florida, is often in danger of being run over by the
bulldozers and draglines.

To the rescue comes environmental businesses such as Southeast Environmental
Solutions of Plant  City, which among its other services is in the turtle-moving
trade.

Company president Rosanne Clementi and partner Fred Crabill find, capture and
move gophers to  remote areas where they can survive when their home turf is
turned into suburbs and shopping malls.  Until the turtles are moved, by state
law the development goes nowhere.

Because a gopher can live up to 50 years, most animals captured have a lot of
their lives ahead  of them to contribute to the survival of the species. They
reach weights of 10 to 15 pounds, and  the diameter of the shell maxes out at 12
to 13 inches.

At one time, lots of other Floridians went "gopher hunting," but not with the
best interests of  the turtles at heart. The meat reportedly is white and tasty,
and consequently the creatures were a  backwoods staple of Floridians for
decades until harvesting them was outlawed in 1988.

But Clementi and Crabill use some of the same hunting tactics once used by those
in pursuit of  turtle soup.

"We know they're not going to be in low, wet areas because they have to have a
dry burrow, so we  always look on ridges. And they have to have relatively soft
sand to dig through, so that's another  clue," Clementi says.

They're also known to feed mostly on prickly pear cactus, so any areas on a
given plot that have  the juicy plant are likely hunting grounds. (Apparently
the spines of the plant have no effect on  the bony mouths of the animals.)

"They have only one entry on a borrow," Crabill says, "so their passage in and
out clears a path  that you can follow to find that entry."

However, one gopher might have several borrows, using one for several months
before moving on to  the next. They roam over an area of about one acre, but all
establish home territories. Crabill  said gophers stay underground during the
heat of day in the warmer months, coming out to feed at  dawn and dusk.

In winter, they sometimes come to the surface to sun on warm afternoons after
chilly nights.

When they find a borrow that appears to be active, the turtle-hunters break out
their "tunnel cam"  - a tiny television camera that can "see" infrared light.

A flexible 25-foot-long tube attaches the viewing lens to the camera, and the
tube is run down  each burrow to see if it's occupied. "We find possums,
rabbits, sometimes rattlesnakes," Crabill  says. "Only about half of the burrows
we look into have tortoises."

Once a gopher is found, the hole is marked with a colored flag, and its exact
location recorded  on a portable global positioning system or GPS, much like
those used by grouper fishermen to find  their favorite rock piles offshore. The
locations then are marked on a map, allowing them to  relocate the spots
quickly.

Most gophers are caught in simple "bucket traps," 5-gallon buckets buried at the
lip of the  entrance. The gopher crawls out, falls into the bucket and can't
climb out due to the smooth  plastic sides.

For those that won't come out (some stay underground for a week at a time) a
back-hoe is brought  in to dig down to the nest area, typically eight to 10 feet
below the surface.

The last few feet of sand are removed by hand with shovels to make sure the
turtle is not hurt.

The gophers have no defenses, though their sharp claws can scratch a careless
handler. Once  they're captured, they're transported to wild areas and released.

Each release site must be surveyed by the Game & Freshwater Fish Commission to
make sure it's  suitable habitat for the turtles, and that there are not already
an excessive number of them on the  land.

"They're not that particular," Crabill says.

"Usually, within a few days they settle into the new habitat and do fine."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C),
 (2C) Rosanne Clementi and Fred Crabill of Southeast Environmental Solutions use
a "tunnel cam" and some accessories to locate gopher tortoises underground.
FRANK SARGEANT, Tribune photos

NOTES: OUTDOORS

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               94 of 94 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 7, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Baffert logic:;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 891 words


It is strange to hear Bob Baffert say he is afraid of being embarrassed on the
race track. After  all, he has trained the past two Kentucky Derby winners.

But Baffert knows once he has saddled Silver Charm for today's $ 5.12 million
Classic and given  jockey Gary Stevens a final word of advice, the outcome is
out of his hands.

"It's like I've turned in the test, now I'm waiting for the result," Baffert
said. "Usually the  riders know what they have that day when they warm up the
horses on the backstretch.

"The thing about (the Classic) is, you could take every horse in it, except for
Running Stag, and  if they win say "Of course. Look at this race right here.'

"Whichever horse runs the race of his life will get the money. If Silver Charm
runs subpar today,  he'll get beat."

Baffert also has two runners entered in the Juvenile Fillies, favorite
Silverbulletday and  second-choice Excellent Meeting. "There really is more
pressure in that race because one of them  should win," he said. "Silver Charm
is not a slam dunk in the Classic."

Building an empire: Trainer D. Wayne Lukas said owner Satish Sanan of Clearwater
will be a major  factor in thoroughbred racing in the years to come.

Sanan, in the name of his Padua Stables, has three horses entered in the
Breeders' Cup: Yes It's  True and Time Bandit in the Juvenile and Unbridled
Delight in the Juvenile Fillies. All are trained  by Lukas, who leads all
Breeders' Cup conditioners with 13 victories.

Sanan, a native of India, owns Information Management Resources, an
international computer  software development company.

Earlier this year, Sanan purchased Silverleaf Farms in Ocala for $ 7.5 million
and appointed  Lukas as general manager. Sanan has been active worldwide in
purchasing bloodstock this year.

"I don't know if I've met anyone with the passion for the sport that he has,"
Lukas said.

"He has already made people sit up and take notice by his presence in the sales
ring."

Lukas will be moving all his horses to the property in Marion County, including
those he trains  for Robert Lewis and Michael Tabor.

Sheikh and beikh: The royalty at Churchill Downs this week isn't limited to the
four-legged  variety.

Even oil billionaire Sheikh Mohammed, who is running Swain in the Breeders' Cup
Classic, tends  to blend in on the backside.

The sheikh's Godolphin Stable also has entered Daylami in the Turf and the entry
of Cape Cross  and Fly To The Stars in the Mile.

Sheikh Mohammed said he would love to see the Breeders' Cup contested in Dubai.
"It would be  great, but I don't know how to go about it," he said.

Ultra Pick 6: Simulcast bettors can participate in a nationwide $ 5 million
guaranteed Ultra Pick  6 wager for as little as $ 2. They will be required to
select the winners of the Juvenile Fillies,  Sprint, Mile, Distaff, Turf and
Classic (the Juvenile is excluded from the Ultra Pick 6).

Bettors correctly selecting all six winners will share 75 percent of the pool,
with the  remaining 25 percent going to those selecting five of six.

Odds and ends: Trainer Bobby Frankel thinks Distaff entrant Keeper Hill is
feeling as well as  she did before her Kentucky Oaks victory at Churchill Downs
on May 1. ... Classic runner Coronado's  Quest arrived at Churchill Downs on
Friday morning at 3 a.m. on a van from Dayton, Ohio, after  flying there from
New York. ... His entry mates, Awesome Again and Touch Gold, galloped a mile and

 three quarters.    (CHART) Breeders' Cup winners  Juvenile Fillies
1984-Outstandingly; 1985-Twilight Ridge; 1986-Brave Raj; 1987-Epitome; 1988-Open
Mind; 1989-Go for Wand;  1990-Meadow Star; 1991-Pleasant Stage; 1992-Eliza;
1993-Phone Chatter; 1994-Flanders; 1995-Desert  Stormer; 1996-Storm Song;
1997-Countess Diana  Sprint  1984-Eillo; 1985-Precisionist; 1986-Smile;
1987-Sacahuista; 1988-Gulch; 1989-Dancing Spree; 1990-Safely  Kept; 1991-Sheikh
Albadou; 1992-Thirty Slews; 1993-Cardmania; 1994-Cherokee Run; 1995-My Flag;
1996-Lit  de Justice; 1997-Elmhurst  Distaff  1984-Princess Rooney; 1985-Life's
Magic; 1986-Lady's Secret; 1987-Success Express; 1988-Personal Ensign;
1989-Bayakoa; 1990-Bayakoa; 1991-Dance Smartly; 1992-Paseana; 1993-Hollywood
Wildcat; 1994-One Dreamer;  1995-Inside Information; 1996-Jewel Princess;
1997-Ajina  Mile  1984-Royal Heroine; 1985-Cozzene; 1986-Last Tycoon;
1987-Miesque; 1988-Miesque; 1989-Steinlen; 1990-Royal  Academy; 1991-Opening
Verse; 1992-Lure; 1993-Lure; 1994-Barathea; 1995-Ridgewood Pearl; 1996-Da Hoss;

 1997-Spinning World  Juvenile  1984-Chief's Crown; 1985-Tasso; 1986-Capote;
1987-Very Subtle; 1988-Is It True; 1989-Rhythm; 1990-Fly So  Free; 1991-Arazi;
1992-Gilded Time; 1993-Brocco; 1994-Timber Country; 1995-Unbridled's Song;
1996-Boston  Harbor; 1997-Favorite Trick  Turf  1984-Lashkari; 1985-Pebbles;
1986-Minaila; 1987-Theatrical; 1988-Great Communicator; 1989-Prized; 1990-In
the Wings; 1991-Miss Alleged; 1992-Fraise; 1993-Kotashaan; 1994-Tikkanen;
1995-Northern Spur;  1996-Pilsudski; 1997-Chief Bearhart  Classic  1984-Wild
Again; 1985-Proud Truth; 1986-Skywalker; 1987-Ferdinand; 1988-Alysheba;
1989-Sunday Silence;  1990-Unbridled; 1991-Black Tie Affair; 1992-A.P. Indy;
1993-Arcangues; 1994-Concern; 1995-Cigar;  1996-Alphabet Soup; 1997-Skip Away

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: BREEDERS' CUP NOTEBOOK

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
