
                               2 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers Can't Hide From Climate Change

BYLINE: PAM MCVETY And ELLIE WHITNEY

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words


By PAM MCVETY And ELLIE WHITNEY

Many of our legislators want to refuse to follow the governor's lead and mandate
greenhouse-gas emission reductions to curb climate change. They want to keep
reductions voluntary. This is a huge gamble. It threatens the well-being of our
families and communities. The stakes are enormous.

The Threat Of Climate Change

This is not a matter of politics, but of science. The Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, a group of some 2,000 meteorologists, oceanographers, physicists
and other highly qualified scientists, have reviewed the literature for some two
decades. Last November, they again, in plain English, declared that climate
change is real, serious and largely human-caused. All of the major scientific
organizations in the United States whose members' expertise bears directly on
climate science have issued statements to the same effect.

Recent scientific papers report that the Arctic and Greenland ice sheets are
melting faster than predicted just last year. The summer Arctic sea ice may be
gone within 10 years. MIT scientists state that U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions
could grow more quickly in the next half-century than in the last and that only
policy changes, not technological advances, can combat this threat.

Tufts University scientists report that the cost of not responding to climate
change for all Floridians by 2025 would be $27 billion. That is just 17 years
from now. They also said that with a business-as-usual scenario, sea level could
rise 27 inches by 2060, affecting more than $130 billion of real estate, two
nuclear reactors, three prisons, 37 nursing homes, 68 hospitals, 74 airports, 82
low-income housing complexes, 115 solid-waste disposal sites, 140
water-treatment facilities, 171 assisted-living facilities, 247 gas stations,
277 shopping centers, 334 public schools, 341 hazardous-material cleanup sites,
1,025 places of worship, 1,362 hotels and 19,684 historic structures. This list
doesn't include bridges, roads, sewers, and other infrastructure.

In short, climate change is real. It is the result of human activity. Its
impacts are serious and accelerating. The need to reduce our carbon emissions is
urgent. We must cut out greenhouse-gas emissions and quickly; hence the
governor's goal of 80 percent reduction by 2050.

Only mandatory reductions can achieve this goal. There is no magic bullet. This
will require sacrifices.

The Trouble With Our Legislators

Why don't our legislators face up to this? Perhaps for lots of reasons; pick
one. They find climate science too difficult and the predictions too scary to
face. Or they don't fully realize what is at stake. Or they don't understand
tipping points or feedback mechanisms. Or they naively buy into the
special-interest position that climate change is a myth. Or they hope their
constituents won't know whom to blame when the problems get really bad. Or they
hope the worst will come after they have left office. Or they think the adoption
of tough measures threatens their ability to raise re-election funds.

Whatever the reason, if they don't mandate greenhouse-gas emission reductions,
they are making a colossal mistake.

We believe that they wouldn't put us in harm's way if they truly understood the
urgency of responding to climate change. We think that if they really do their
homework on the science, they will rush to mandate emission reductions. They
have an unprecedented opportunity to step up on the world stage and help lead
this country and the world to abate the coming climate disaster.

Let's help our elected officials by letting them know we value our future and
that of our children. Let's insist that they mandate carbon-emission reductions
of 80 percent by 2050. Write or phone them today. And while you are doing that,
thank the governor for his leadership on this issue. It can't be easy.

Pam McVety, a former manager at the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection, has written and lectured on climate change science and energy issues
since 2000. Ellie Whitney, Ph.D., has served on the faculties at Florida State
and Florida A&M universities and is the author of many books, most recently
"Priceless Florida" with ecologists Bruce Means and Anne Rudloe.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                               5 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Welcome To The Anthropecene

BYLINE: BUZZ KELLY, commcol@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 447 words


BY BUZZ KELLY

commcol@tampatrib.com

ALERT: If you are a denier of global climate change and that man has anything to
do with it, and you think that Glenn Beck and Rush Limbaugh are science gods,
you won't like this column. Now, read on ...

Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, Holocene - the names denote pieces of geologic time
in what's called the Cenozoic era. Now we're in what scientists call the
Anthropocene, an epoch that began in the 18th century when man attained the
ability to affect Earth's biosphere for good or ill. At this point it appears
we're changing it for ill, knowingly or not.

Most of the megafauna (big nasty animals) of ancient periods - mammoths,
mastodons, dire wolves and saber-toothed tigers - are gone. We remain and rule,
but for how long?

Earth has been through climate changes before, some in human memory, like the
Medieval Warming and the Little Ice Age. And before those, there were major
changes affecting every life form on the planet.

All of them were caused by normal fluctuations in the planet's climate, nothing
unusual or extraordinary. Difference is - and it's a big difference - the
changes happening today are due in part to our own activities, and our children
weren't around back then but they are now.

Beck and Limbaugh and their fellow deniers insist that human activity is only a
small percentage of the change, so why should we try to reverse or ameliorate
the change, especially if it costs us money?

Think of it this way: If your son has a fever of 104 degrees, he will probably
survive. But if his temp goes up one more degree to 105, his brain becomes a
hard-boiled egg and he dies. Less than 1 percent increase means a dead kid.

Or, if you step into quicksand and you're 6 feet tall, you're okay as long as
you don't sink more than 98 percent of your height. Sink another percent or two,
and it's "GLUB!" and you're on your way to being a fossil.

Point is, even if humans are responsible for only a small percent of global
climate change, it's a percent we can do something about.

In case you haven't noticed, the Arctic and Antarctic ice caps are shrinking.
Glaciers on every continent are melting. It's time to face it: the change is
real; the vast majority of Earth's scientists say so.

If you prefer to believe Beck and Limbaugh, fine. I've already bought a lot in
Georgia, high dry land. I'll be there, with my family, while you're treading
water three feet above your St. Augustine lawn. But I'll sell you water-wings,
if you have gold to pay for them.

Buzz Kelly is a Tampa native, former advertising executive and freelance writer.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 31, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Storms Could Overshadow McCain's Pitch

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH and BILLY HOUSE, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words


REPUBLICAN CONVENTION BEGINS MONDAY

By WILLIAM MARCH and BILLY HOUSE

The Tampa Tribune

MINNEAPOLIS - Terrible luck involving two storms, particularly Hurricane Gustav,
threatens to distract America from a Republican National Convention in which
John McCain hopes to convince voters he's the one ready to lead the nation.

Even without weather issues, McCain faced some distractions in making his pitch
to the nation.

First, he must accommodate a goodbye to an unpopular president as part of
festivities intended to cement his own relationship with voters.

Second, just as the Democrats had to deal with divisiveness between supporters
of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama in Denver last week, McCain - with
his newly announced vice presidential pick, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin - must try
to unite the conservative and moderate sides of his party and answer questions
about how his stances on some crucial issues differ from the Republican Party
platform.

But as Republicans fly into Minneapolis from across the nation, Hurricane Gustav
is bearing down on New Orleans, in an unfortunate reminder of the Bush
administration's response, widely perceived as a failure, to Hurricane Katrina's
devastation there.

To make things worse, the convention is beginning on the third anniversary
weekend of Katrina's Aug. 29, 2005, landfall.

Meanwhile, Tropical Storm Hanna is moving west and has the potential to hit
southern Florida as a hurricane just as the convention is ending.

The storms are affecting big and small aspects of the convention.

Crist Scheduled To Speak Thursday

There's speculation that Gustav could prevent Bush's planned appearance Monday
night for a tribute to the outgoing president, although the White House has not
announced any change in Bush's plans. Or the storms could dampen the spirits of
the Florida delegation, which plans a tropical beach party with Hawaiian shirts
Monday night.

Gov. Charlie Crist, expected to speak along with Sen. Mel Martinez on the big,
final night of the convention Thursday, will delay his arrival until at least
Tuesday - or depending on the situation in Florida, he may not show up at all.

Florida Republican Party Chairman Jim Greer has been named one of a committee of
six individuals from Florida, Louisiana, Texas and the McCain campaign that will
monitor the weather situation daily and suggest appropriate changes to
convention plans.

"Everything is being considered, but at the present time there is no change to
the schedule," he said Saturday. But schedule changes "are on the table. You may
see a reduction in some of the events."

University of South Florida political scientist Darryl Paulson, an active
Republican, called the storms "kind of a double whammy."

First, he said, they will distract the nation's attention from the convention
and the message McCain hopes to convey.

Second, they will remind the voters of Hurricane Katrina - "as devastating an
incident as anything for the Bush administration," he said. "Anything that
refocuses attention away from McCain and back to Bush is not good for McCain."

There already are indications that media attention to the Republican event may
be less than was paid to the Democratic convention in Denver.

For example, the Miami NBC affiliate station, which sent a crew to Denver, isn't
sending one to St. Paul, which one GOP press operative called "frustrating and
unfair."

But Greer said the Republicans will soldier on and make the best of the
situation. "This is not going to be a repeat of Katrina - those states are very
prepared," he said.

He said the party has to go through the legal and procedural process of
nominating its candidate and doing other party business, which makes it
impossible to cancel or even shorten the convention. Logistically, it would be
virtually impossible to reschedule a meeting of this size.

But, Greer said, the public will see the party "giving consideration to the
events that are taking place. People will see that the Republican Party and
those governors are focused on serving the citizens in those states."

State Delegates Get Prime Seating

Greer has been battling some of the party hierarchy to restore what Floridians
consider their rightful role of importance in the convention.

The state's Jan. 29 primary, which violated the scheduling rules of both parties
because it was too early, resulted in sanctions by both parties. In
pre-convention meetings, Greer said, he has argued successfully that the Florida
delegation, cut in half by the sanctions, be fully restored.

Florida delegates also will have prime seating on the floor of the convention,
very near the center front - a sign of the state's political prominence.

"Believe me, they didn't want to do that," Greer said.

But it's hard to imagine the Republicans would do any less, after the prominent
role Floridians played in Denver at the Democratic convention, which granted the
Florida delegation front-and-center seating and included a parade of Floridians
who spoke from the podium.

In addition to Martinez and Crist, U.S. Rep. Adam Putnam also will speak at the
Republican convention, and possibly other Floridians as well.

McCain has repeatedly summed up the theme of his convention with one line: "I'm
prepared to be president of the United States, and I'll put my country first."

But McCain is sure to be asked during the convention about his disagreements
with the GOP platform on issues including immigration, stem-cell research,
climate change and gay marriage:

*The platform's section on immigration has been revised to include far tougher
language than in 2004, which mirrored Bush's philosophy - similar to McCain's
legislation that allowed a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

McCain has recanted that approach, saying he wouldn't vote for the bill he
proposed.

The new platform, not yet officially approved, calls for a border fence and
English as the official language; calls immigration "a national security issue"
and emphasizes deportation and law enforcement; opposes "amnesty" and driver's
licenses, in-state tuition rates, Social Security and other government benefits
for illegal immigrants.

*The platform acknowledges "the challenge of climate change," but says the
solution is "technology and the market." It warns "against the doomsday climate
change scenarios peddled by the aficionados of centralized command-and-control
government."

It does not include a specific endorsement of McCain's proposal for a system to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

*McCain supports federal funding for research involving embryonic stem cells,
but the platform calls for "a ban on the creation of or experimentation on human
embryos for research purposes."

*The platform calls for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage,
while McCain takes the position that states should decide the issue.

RELATED STORY, Page 13:

Palin focus of probe in police chief's firing.

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761 or wmarch@tampatrib.com
Reporter Billy House can be reached at (202) 662-7673 or bhouse@tampatrib.com

Photo: John McCain

Photo: Sarah Palin

Republican Convention Monday-Thursday in St. Paul, Minn.

TBO.com Keyword: Election 2008, to follow the convention through blogs by
Tribune reporters and area conventiongoers.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation Must Get Real About Greener Energy

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 863 words


Environmentalists determined to escalate the fight against climate change are
delighted with President-elect Barack Obama's promise to make burning carbon
more expensive.

Consumers are right to be concerned. Almost everyone wants lower emissions, and
many Republicans, including Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, support cleaner power
plants and more efficient cars.

But as the theoretical need to reduce greenhouse gases meets the necessity of
paying household electric bills, certain political and economic realities must
be faced. Today's economy is simply too weak to support sharply higher energy
prices. The energy debate needs to focus first on how to save money and create
jobs.

Earlier this year, Obama said, "If somebody wants to build a coal-powered plant,
they can. It's just that it will bankrupt them because they're going to be
charged a huge sum for all that greenhouse gas that's being emitted."

Rushing to make coal power unaffordable might also bankrupt Florida, a state
heavily dependent on coal and natural gas. It's easy to discourage TECO from
building another coal plant, as the regulatory uncertainty already has done.

It's much harder to figure out how Hillsborough County is going to get enough
clean electricity to reduce the county's carbon footprint by 80 percent from
1990 levels by 2050, which is Obama's goal.

Beyond the talking points on energy are many troubling obstacles.

The public supports investing in clean technology, but which technologies will
Congress favor? Probably those making the most generous campaign contributions.

Heavy government involvement will have consequences the public may never see.

For example, if tax dollars are invested in today's windmills, an inventor on
the verge of making a better wind turbine will be put at a competitive
disadvantage.

And if the government invests willy-nilly in research, how do you make sure it
pays off?

The Internet is full of schemes to solve the energy problem, including a
proposal to build a chimney three miles high that could harness the power of hot
air rushing up to the cold heights.

Another reality is that the climate problem is global. In a recent thoughtful
article on climate change in Foreign Affairs magazine, Carter Bales of Wicks
Group of Companies and Richard D. Duke of the Natural Resources Defense Council
conclude that "even if the wealthy countries cut their total greenhouse gas
emissions by 80 percent by midcentury, aggregate emissions from the developing
countries cannot be permitted to continue increasing long after 2020."

Agreement is building that the United States and other advanced countries should
help backward countries develop cleaner sources of energy. That's easier said
than done.

Who will track global emissions and enforce a cleanup? Bales and Duke correctly
observe that only after the United States cleans up its own energy will it have
the credibility to lead worldwide. That raises the question of how it can build
political support for higher short-term fuel costs while pollution from the rest
of the world is canceling out any environmental gain.

With China building a new dirty coal plant every week, TECO's decision not to
build a clean coal plant here is insignificant.

And with local electric bills going up, ratepayers are in no mood to pay more to
help China or anyone else.

The challenge of helping the rest of the world energize with green technology
will be even tougher if lower production costs in the dirty countries steal U.S.
jobs.

The Foreign Affairs article concedes that "the prospect of sending tens of
billions of dollars a year to developing countries - much of it to China - will
not go over easily on Capital Hill, where displeasure over the U.S. trade
deficit is already acute."

In the present economic climate, such a transfer of money won't go over at all.

Another complication is that more is involved than cleaner smokestacks. Values
and lifestyles are part of the debate.

China says its one-child policy makes it cleaner than countries where big
families are common. By avoiding 300 million births, China says it has already
saved the earth the equivalent of the entire U.S. population, so it has earned
the right to pump more pollution into the atmosphere.

Such disputes will further pit conservatives against liberals and make
compromise solutions unlikely.

The best approach for the nation and Florida is to aggressively seek energy
solutions that bring immediate economic benefits, such as home-grown bio-fuels,
tighter development patterns, more transit and conservation.

The federal government should invest in pure research and let the market decide
which technologies make sense.

The only way the clean-energy revolution will take off here and around the world
is if it can power itself.

Photo credit: AP Photo

Photo: Smoke billows from the chimneys of a brown coal power plant near
Duesseldorf, Germany. Leading industrial nations have endorsed halving world
emissions of greenhouse gases by 2050. But rushing to make coal power
unaffordable could bankrupt Florida, which is heavily dependent upon this form
of energy.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              10 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1275 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Be An Informed Voter

This is a tipping point in the history of our nation. Never before has it been
as crucial, as it is now, to be knowledgeable and informed about the potential
leadership at the helm. We need to know the political position of our
candidates, their background, their preparation for, and the direction in which
they intend to lead these great United States.

Unfortunately, most of us know more about the athletes and the teams who are
preparing for the Super Bowl than we do about the candidates who are running for
president - the most powerful office in the world.

There are big decisions looming on the horizon. We will decide if we want to
stay a democratic capitalist free enterprise nation, or a democratic socialist
state. How big a part do we want our government to play in our lives and the
lives of generations to follow? How much debt can we impose on future
generations?

Before any one of us walks into the voting booth, we must be informed, to have
understanding of the information available to all of us. For an uninformed
voter, casting a vote is worse than no vote at all. The hunt and peck method of
voting is dangerous and unpatriotic! We must not vote for our own
self-interests. We must vote for properly inspired and prepared, selfless
leadership, regardless of party, for the greatest nation in the world - our
beloved United States of America.

NANCY RIPLEY

Apollo Beach

It Started With Naimoli

As we celebrate the Tampa Bay Rays' growth and success, let's not forget to
recognize the Rays' founding father, Vince Naimoli.

For 20 years, the Tampa Bay area struggled to get a baseball franchise. But it
was Naimoli - and silent partners - who had the acumen, courage and cash to get
it done in 1995. He endured many slings and arrows from fans and journalists as
he developed this brand new team.

While current owners and management were able to get the team to the next level,
Naimoli took the first big step. Hats off to Naimoli, and Go Rays!

CATHLEEN DIETZ

Lutz

Windfall In Bay Area

I was watching the local news Wednesday and they had a segment on how the
Pinellas hotels and restaurants are enjoying an unexpected windfall in room
bookings and business, during what is normally a slow period, as a result of the
Rays being in the playoffs. They're expecting millions in additional revenues.

But wait, that can't be right. After all, everyone knows that professional
sports teams have no economic impact on the area's economy. Just ask Daniel
Ruth.

TERRY KOCH

Land O' Lakes

No Temporary Fixes

"Now is not the time to place blame, now is the time to fix this mess," or words
to that effect, is what we are hearing out of Washington. How can the mess be
fixed if they will not acknowledge who created it and how it happened? It seems
that the same people will be managing the "rescue" as managed to get us into the
mess - and personally profited from it.

Rush to a temporary fix and fix it again later. Have you heard that one before?
This government does nothing until it reaches a crisis level.

We have reached a sad state of affairs, but nothing compared to what is coming.

IRWIN SCHUSTER

Tampa


A House Of Cards

Our financial crisis is the direct result of a public who has been fooled once
but refuses to be fooled again. George Bush's total inability to provide
leadership in these dire circumstances is the direct result of lost credibility
from leading us into a costly and unnecessary war. We're not buying the
"mushroom cloud" a second time, even when the evidence is staring us in the
face.

We want experts other than a Wall Street mogul such as Secretary Paulson
suggesting solutions. He and his cohorts stand to benefit, but we question how
middle class America stands to benefit. After decades of "free market" "no
regulation" Republican ideology which has been sold successfully to the voters,
the house of cards is collapsing.

GAIL PARSONS

Odessa


Vote Them All Out

McCain is trying to sell the idea that he will reform spending by vetoing
earmarks and other pork.

He had a chance with the bailout bill and failed to stand up - and neither did
our "conservative" senator, Mel Martinez. So much for political posturing.

Maybe our Congress will realize the ridiculousness of the package and send it
back for revision.

I would suggest that anyone up for election this year be voted out.

PAUL FARLEY

Tampa


Palin Abused Power

Regarding "Palin's Dirty Laundry" (Letters, Oct. 1):

The letter by Judy Wise whines that the media could not find any real dirt to
dig up about Sarah Palin.

She asked, "Is this the best the media can do?" In keeping with Republicans who
like to spin and not be forthcoming with the facts and truth, Wise conveniently
forgot to mention the one big thing the Tribune did report.

The investigation to determine whether Governor Palin abused her power by firing
Public Safety Commissioner Walter Monegan for his refusal to fire an Alaska
state trooper who divorced Palin's sister.

So, no Judy, what you wrote about is not the best the media can do and had you
had the integrity to state all the facts, it would have undermined your point
that Palin has no skeletons in the closet.

KILAHAL ARTURO

Riverview


A 21st Century Man

Issues aside, Barack Obama is a better bet in dealing with the complex needs of
the 21st century. Yes, we must not forget that both candidates are mere men,
fraught with limitations that beset all mortals. However, the world is ever
changing and we need a leader who not only understands but is equipped to deal
with these changes, employing a cool head, even resolve and the capacity to
listen.

Issues can't be put aside. They are important, but so is one's basic philosophy
of how things work. Very few things in life are black and white, from family
disagreements to global issues, the acknowledgement of the perspective of others
is fundamental to the resolution of disagreements.

The polarization of good (us) vs. evil (them) may feel like the moral high
ground for some, but it will increasingly accomplish less, particularly on a
global level.

Like it or not, the 21st century will require a "New American" responsiveness on
the world stage. Obama represents the New American of the 21st century. One that
understands his responsibility to his fellow Americans, his place in the global
community and his relationship to the planet's health.

There are no other choices if our country and world is to survive, much less
prosper.

W. ROGER FINGAR

Temple Terrace


Uncle Alaska's Governor

Sarah Palin governs the only state of this union which, fundamentally, operates
as a welfare state.

In 2008 every man, woman and child will receive $2,069 from the state of
Alaska's "permanent fund," which is sustained by oil revenues. This year every
warm body will also receive $1,200 from the government to offset "high energy
costs." The state does not have a sales tax or an income tax. To her family of
seven, that equates to $22,886 being given to the Palins for simply existing.

When she rails about fighting "Big Oil" by insisting they pay higher taxes, she
forgets to note that she is simply adding more revenue to the state coffers for
distribution to her constituents, as well as family and friends. When she prays
that God will help with the development of a new $30 billion oil pipeline, she
is simply praying for more money in the pot.

Her claimed accomplishments in this area must be evaluated in the context of
life under the warm umbrella of "Uncle Alaska." He takes care of his people like
nowhere else in our country. It is a very un-Republican concept.

ARTHUR N. EGGERS

Tampa

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              13 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAL RUSH

BYLINE: SEAN MUSSENDEN, Media General News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1753 words


Facing future energy shortages, utilities move to build more of the CO2-emitting
power plants before Congress institutes controls.

By SEAN MUSSENDEN

Media General News Service

WASHINGTON - Of the fuels commonly used to run power plants, none releases more
carbon dioxide than coal - an unfortunate reality for utilities hoping to build
a new generation of coal plants.

With Congress set to pass strict controls on climate-changing gases such as
carbon dioxide, perhaps as soon as next year, a nationwide push by utility
companies for new coal-fired plants in recent years has begun to soften.

Global warming fears have led to the cancellation or indefinite delay of dozens
of proposed coal plants in recent months in almost every corner of the country.
But with a few notable exceptions, the debate over coal's role in global warming
has had much less of an impact on development of new coal plants in the
Southeast.

New or expanded coal plants are in the works in Southwest Virginia, South
Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia, which could collectively pump tens of
millions of tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

In Florida, plans for two plants have been shelved as Gov. Charlie Crist pushes
for solutions to the state's future energy needs that won't have big
environmental impacts.

"We're in a position of flux," said Cale Jaffe, an attorney for the Southern
Environmental Law Center, which has brought several lawsuits against new coal
plants in the Southeast.

"People are just beginning to clue into the fact that carbon regulation is
coming. But, for now, it means we have new coal plants with no plans whatsoever
to address global warming emissions" in much of the region.

After two decades in which few new coal plants were built in the United States,
the energy industry's interest in coal began to swell in the past few years.

Rising costs of natural gas, another popular power-plant fuel, provided
utilities incentives to consider coal more strongly. Regulatory hurdles that
made new nuclear plants virtually impossible to build provided another.

And more environmentally friendly energy sources, such as wind and solar, were
too expensive and not reliable enough to provide a constant supply of power, the
utilities argued.

According to the Energy Department and the Sierra Club, plans for about 170 new
coal plants have been announced since 2005. Utilities argue that unless more
plants are built, the country will face disastrous energy shortfalls within a
few years.

In South Carolina, the quasi-public utility Santee Cooper is obtaining permits
to build a new coal-fired plant near Florence. The utility projects that
population growth will leave the state with a shortfall of 525 megawatts by
2013, enough to power more than 250,000 homes, unless the new plant in the Pee
Dee region is built.

"If we had our druthers, we'd much rather be building a nuclear plant at Pee
Dee. The biggest thing we know is that we can't get a nuclear plant by 2013,"
said Laura Varn, a Santee Cooper spokeswoman.

Environmental groups are critical of the industry's ration- ale for the coal
boom. The Sierra Club, which is waging a nationwide legal battle with other
groups to stop the construction of coal plants, has termed this boom period a
new "coal rush."

The group and others charge that the industry is rushing to build coal plants
before new carbon controls under debate in Congress are put in place. Under
current law, power plants in most states are under no obligation to restrict
carbon emissions.

Although federal regulations are still under development, they likely will
require utilities to pay for carbon emissions under a "cap-and-trade" system,
eventually install technology to capture carbon or a combination of both.

Coal is a much cheaper fuel if the carbon costs are ignored. Factor in the cost
of capturing carbon, which is not yet possible on a commercial scale, or paying
to offset the environmental impact, and the cost jumps markedly.

A recent report by Synapse Energy Economics, a Massachusetts firm, estimated
that electricity rates from coal plants would rise about 75 percent under a
mandate for carbon-capture technology.

And an analysis by Duke Energy in Charlotte, N.C., of one of the leading
climate-change proposals in Congress found that it would raise the utility's
electricity rates between 10 percent and 60 percent by 2020.

The legislation, America's Climate Security Act of 2007, sponsored by Sen. John
Warner, R-Va., and Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., is expected to reach the Senate
floor in June. It would set up a national cap-and-trade system to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and provide financial incentives to switch to
low-carbon power sources.

Legislation Threats

For that reason, environmentalists, energy analysts and some in the industry say
the outlook for new coal facilities is in question.

Though Congress has not yet regulated carbon emissions, several states have
raised the possibility of future regulation in blocking plant construction.

The uncertainty over the scope of legislation to address the impact of energy
use on climate change in Congress and state regulation has dampened enthusiasm
on Wall Street to bankroll new coal plants.

For example, in February, three leading investment banks - Citi, JP Morgan Chase
and Morgan Stanley - said they would put more emphasis on the costs of
regulating carbon emissions in financing future energy projects. And in a
January report on crucial financial challenges facing utilities, the credit
rating firm Standard & Poor's said the No. 1 issue it would consider is the
financial impact of carbon regulations on coal plants.

"It seems likely that the new administration in Washington will try to make its
mark on greenhouse gas sometime in 2009," the report forecast.

For now, funding is still available for new coal plants. But the likelihood of
added future costs to control carbon has made the plants a riskier bet for
lenders. More risk generally means higher borrowing costs.

And it isn't just Wall Street that's wary of funding new coal plants. The
federal Rural Utility Service revealed this year that it had stopped providing
government-backed low-interest loans for coal facilities until it could better
account for carbon emission risks.

"Funding from the street has not dried up. But has it become more expensive?
Yes. Every indication is that borrowing will be more expensive in the future,"
said Patrick Lavigne, a spokesman for the National Rural Electric Cooperative
Association.

"It's not necessarily if, it's when we'll have carbon regulation. Look at the
positions of the three major [presidential] candidates. It will be a priority,"
he said.

Crist's Goals Stifle Coal Plans

In 2007, lawsuits, permit denials and the uncertainty over future regulation led
to the cancellation or delay of 59 new coal plants nationwide, according to the
Sierra Club.

In Florida, which is vulnerable to rising sea levels, Crist has made reducing
global-warming emissions a priority, squelching interest in new coal plants.

Last year, the state Public Service Commission blocked plans by Florida Power &
Light to build a coal-fired plant near the Everglades because of greenhouse gas
emissions, and Tampa Electric Co., a subsidiary of TECO Energy Inc., shelved
plans to construct a coal-fired unit in Polk County, in part because of
uncertainty over future government regulations.

Most states in the Southeast get half their electricity from coal.
Environmentalists and those in the industry say that dependence has helped
prevent the carbon-emission argument from gaining much traction in the region
other than in Florida.

While most scientists are convinced global warming is a real phenomenon worsened
by rising carbon levels, some regulators in the Southeast remain skeptical that
the positives of restricting carbon emissions outweigh the negatives.

During a hearing this year on a new coal-fired plant in Wise County, Va.,
proposed by Dominion Virginia Power, the Richmond-based utility, a top utility
regulator on the State Corporation Commission complained that "this country will
go back to the Dark Ages if this carbon hysteria takes over."

Unlike California and four other states that have set binding carbon-reduction
targets, the targets in Florida and Virginia are not mandatory.

Utilities building plants in the Southeast refer to their new facilities as
"clean coal" plants. But environmentalists complain they will utilize outdated
pollution-control technology instead of newer - and more expensive - methods of
reducing emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide and other
pollutants.

For example, none of the plants under way in Virginia, South Carolina or Georgia
will make use of a newer coal-plant technology called Integrated Gasification
Combined Cycle, or IGCC, that energy analysts predict will be the most
cost-effective type to retrofit with carbon capture technology when it becomes
commercially available.

(CHART) A CLEANER COAL PLANT

A newer type of coal-fired power plant, called Integrated Gasification Combined
Cycle, transforms coal into gas to generate electricity more cleanly and
efficiently than traditional coal plants. Only a handful have been built in the
United States.

Gasifier coal is transformed to "syngas" - a mix of carbon monoxide, carbon
dioxide and hydrogen - under high heat and pressure.

Sulfur, ammonia and other impurities are stripped away.

Heat Recovery

Hot exhaust emitted by the gas turbine generates steam to drive a second
turbine, increasing energy efficiency

Storing Carbon

Scientists are working on ways to capture carbon dioxide and store it
underground. The technology probably will not be commercially available for
decades.

Methane Gas

The coal readily absorbs carbon dioxide, releasing trapped methane gas that can
be recovered for future use.

Potential Storage Sites

(1) Old coal mines

(2) Porous underground rock formations or aquifers

(3) Offshore oil fields

Graphic by Winston-Salem Journal; Sources: Media General research, Sierra Club,
Environmental Protection Agency, World Coal Institute, cleancoalillinois.com

Reporter Sean Mussenden can be reached at smussenden@mediageneral.com or (202)
662-7668.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by ROBERT BURKE (2007)

Photo: TECO shelved plans to build a coal-fired unit at its Polk Power Station,
in part because of uncertainty over future regulations. Gov. Charlie Crist has
made reducing global-warming emissions a priority.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              19 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

State's Slump Offers A 2nd Chance For Sustainable Development

BYLINE: VICTORIA TSCHINKEL, Special to the Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words


The slowdown allows us breathing room to plan transit and communities.

By VICTORIA TSCHINKEL

Special to the Tribune

Florida is in a painful pause, as is most of the world. I suggest that we view
this period, to the extent that we can, as not as being in the middle of a bad
accident on the way to the emergency room, but allow ourselves to be in a sunny
convalescence, planning for our healthful future.

True, a lot of terrible things are happening. Many are hurting as the national
financial crisis deepens. We are third in the country in the rate of
foreclosures (one in every 157 homeowners in Florida are now in foreclosure) and
thousands more families are facing the loss of their homes. Our net worth is
declining from deflating housing values. With today's higher food prices we are
paying considerably more for everyday needs, and we have seen how quickly a rise
in fuel prices makes commutes to work, school and the store a source of
financial misery.

As if that were not enough misery, we know that Florida will be expensively and
heartbreakingly affected as hotter temperatures increase the risk of devastating
hurricanes and loss of habitat. We have borrowed $672 million from the hurricane
recovery fund just to keep us afloat until the Legislature can meet to revise
our budget.

Floridians are paying the price for the way this state has grown and developed
during the past 50 years. Although it's true that growth management laws have
lessened the catastrophic public costs of unwise growth, taxpayers are still
subsidizing roads and sewer lines for sprawling development. We get hit in the
pocketbook again when we pay for long commutes on congested roads.
Transportation in Florida generates almost half of the state's contribution to
greenhouse gases, speeding the impacts of climate change. Water managers have
already declared portions of the state off-limits for additional withdrawals,
and expensive non-traditional sources are contemplated. If we continue the same
sprawling pattern of development for the next 50 years, the state could lose as
much as another 7 million acres of agricultural lands and natural habitat,
permanently altering the face of Florida and leaving our grandchildren the bill.

Some are looking for a quick fix to the state's crippled real estate industry.
Wasting no time to find yet another excuse to maintain the old development
model, they are proposing policies to roll back land management and
environmental laws and regulations under the guise of "jump-starting" the
economy. These include proposals to eliminate Florida's growth management laws,
and dismantle the Florida Department of Community Affairs. We know that this
will just make our existing challenges impossible to overcome.

Florida has a second chance! More than ever, Florida needs strong leadership and
a strong backbone to meet these challenges. We must and can save taxpayer
dollars, promote sustainable economic development, protect natural lands and
address climate change, wisely reduce water and energy consumption and lessen
greenhouse gas emissions. Gov. Charlie Crist has set a good pace with his bold
energy policies and the protection of the Everglades. Now is not the time for
our Legislature to hunker down and hide out in Tallahassee.

Let's focus our efforts and our financial resources on creating great urban
places and keeping Florida's rural lands rural. Federal dollars will be
available, and we must not waste them. We will promote affordable,
energy-efficient housing close to jobs, schools and shops.

Florida will continue to grow and lead in adopting green residential technology,
making us the envy of the world. Our communities will be energy-efficient,
walkable and bike-friendly, reducing our dependence on the automobile but also
helping our waistlines and health.

We will support public transportation to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and
give citizens alternative, less costly ways to get to their jobs. Public
investment in the building of this new infrastructure will create jobs and
stimulate the economy.

Vibrant cities include attractive and usable parks and recreation areas and
protected natural features. Recycling historic and older buildings for new uses
can save energy and help maintain a community's unique identity. Promoting
cultural opportunities is essential. These must remain high priorities if our
cities are to flourish.

Much of our rural land can maintain its character. Some will remain natural,
providing opportunities for recreation for humans and habitat for wildlife. This
state's great farmlands will remain productive, providing fresh and reasonably
priced nourishment for Floridians and others, and hopefully significant energy
supplies.

These undeveloped lands also offer the greatest potential for carbon
sequestration to offset the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions. Thirsty
Floridians will be grateful for the water supplies rural lands protect.

Finding the way to acquire lands identified as essential for maintaining
Florida's natural balance, and to encourage landowners to keep their lands in
agriculture, forestry or other sustainable land practices needs to be one
primary goal. The other is to support responsible and meaningful local planning
with state oversight. Florida's citizens will have access and meaningful
participation in their future.

While Florida's growth management process showed great promise when it was
enacted in 1986, it has been steadily chipped away over the years. We need to
cheerfully applaud the successes achieved, and rededicate ourselves during this
opportunity (not wished for, surely) to recapture the Florida dream and
thoughtfully rededicate ourselves to a sustainable Florida.

Let's give short shrift to those who want to give up on the dream for their own
short-term gain. Our country has learned a lesson forever that the common good
is not served by the narrow focus of a few. We must commit to smart, sustainable
communities throughout our state.

Urgent, strong and decisive leadership is needed to bring Florida into the 21st
Century. In this time of economic hardship and declining natural resources, no
longer can we afford to pay the high costs associated with sprawling,
automobile-dependent, resource-wasting development.

The basic tools are in place. Even as we help those who are struggling through
these financial times, let's plan and direct ourselves to the exciting and
sustainable Florida in our future.

Victoria Tschinkel, former head of Florida's environmental enforcement, is
chairwoman of 1000 Friends of Florida. This statewide nonprofit organization was
created in 1986 to serve as watchdog over Florida's growth management process.

Photo: Victoria Tschinkel

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              20 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suburban Dictionary

BYLINE: The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE MAGAZINE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 397 words


TODAY'S WORDS ARE:

Recessionista (pronounced ri-sesh-in-eest-a)

A woman who manages to dress stylishly on a budget tightened by an economic
slowdown.

de-friend (pronounced de-friend, duh!)

To remove a name from one's list of friends on a social networking site, such as
Facebook.

THIS WEEK'S TOPIC:

CHANGE OF SEASONS (OR LACK THEREOF)

"As the seasons change, the refueling continues ..."

Comedian Mike Nelson, "Mystery Science Theater 3000"

"Florida. You get me to Florida."

Enrico "Ratso" Rizzo (Dustin Hoffman) in "Midnight Cowboy"

"Is moving to Florida from a 4-season climate a good idea? It would mean living
in Florida year-round. I hear it's very hot."

Question from "Tina" on "Yahoo! Answers"

"Northerners can have their change of seasons; for me, the change of seasons
always

wound up involving jumper cables."

Humorist Dave Barry

"SHIPS SAIL AWAY YOU LONG TO SAY A THOUSAND WORDS BUT SEASONS CHANGE."

Seasons Change By Exposé

"I also learned during this time that Florida had several other 'seasons' which
one must learn to handle. Besides the "HOT" season, you have the "Rainy" season.
There is also "Fire" season and "Tornado" season and "Hurricane" season. It got
to be that I felt I was constantly fearing one of those "seasons" with little to
no break.

"Dackel Princess" blog at www.dackelprincess.com

If You Do Only One Thing This Month: Be A-mazed

General public hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and 1 to 5 p.m. Sundays (last
ticket sold at 3 p.m. both days) We highly recommend Busch Gardens
Howl-O-Scream; it's a pretty cool, pretty scary place to be every fall. But
let's face it; it's not for everyone. (The radio spots give us goose bumps!)

So for our very first IYDOOTTM we're going with the safer and more wholesome
2008 Corn Maze and Scott's Maze Adventures, open now through November at Long &
Scott Farms in Zellwood (30 miles northwest of Orlando off Highway 441).

It's not scary, but there are clues in the cornstalks and an educational Florida

Agriculture theme. It isn't heaven, or Iowa, but it is a fun day for the whole
family.

Admission: $10 for those 17 and older, $8 for kids 3 to 16 and free for kids 2
and under

For information, call (352) 383-6900 or go to
www.longandscottfarms.com/Corn_Maze.htm.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo

Photo: Scott's Maze Adventures

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              21 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Energy Debate Weighs Clean Versus Costly

BYLINE: RUSSELL RAY, rray@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words


State to study renewable resources, but a standard may be hard to establish.

By RUSSELL RAY

rray@tampatrib.com

How will Florida be judged in the battle against climate change?

For many, it will hinge on what state regulators and legislators do with a
proposal to generate more electricity from renewable resources.

In the next few months, after intense study and debate, state officials will
decide just how much wind, sunlight and biofuels Florida should use to produce
power, and how fast the state should move toward that goal.

Move too slow, and dependence on nuclear, oil and natural gas-fired power could
grow, environmentalists warn. Move too fast, and the cost of electricity could
surge to unreasonable levels as ratepayers are forced to pay for more expensive
renewable technologies, utilities and consumer groups say.

Whatever the state decides, the decision will dictate the cost of electricity
and the volume of renewable power consumed in Florida for decades. What's more,
it will be a factor in just how fast or slow the renewable energy market grows
in Florida.

Environmental groups, electric utilities and consumer advocates are grappling
over the issue.

But most agree that establishing a fair standard will be difficult without first
knowing how much renewable power is available in Florida and how much it will
cost.

One thing is certain: Electric bills will rise.

"We are past the days of cheap electricity," said Suzanne Brownless, a lawyer
for the Florida Solar Energy Coalition. "If you want clean electricity, you have
to cut your consumption or you have to use cleaner alternatives, and all cleaner
alternatives are going to be more expensive than dirty coal."

With the election over, the focus nationally will be on renewable fuels. The
Obama-Biden energy plan is to ensure that 10 percent of the country's
electricity comes from renewable sources by 2012, and 25 percent by 2025.

The goal in Florida is to encourage the development of renewable energy and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions without creating unreasonable costs for
customers.

"It's imperative that they do it in the most cost-effective manner possible,"
said Mike Twomey, a consumer advocate for AARP.

In these tough economic times, consumers can't afford to pay much more for
electricity, Twomey said. Already, electric bills for Tampa Electric and
Progress Energy customers will rise substantially next year as both utilities
raise fuel prices and pass on higher costs.

Also at stake are hundreds of millions of dollars in profits for a growing
number of renewable energy companies in the state.

So far, a couple of options have been pitched to regulators.

2020 Or 2041?

The most aggressive plan would require electric utilities to get 20 percent of
their power from renewable energy sources by 2020, a standard recommended by the
Governor's Action Team on Energy and Climate Change and supported by
environmental groups.

"It decreases the likelihood you will have to build more nuclear power plants,"
Brownless said. "When you have these kinds of incentives for renewable energy,
you can develop a green energy market. You're also creating small businesses in
a time of recession."

Last month, staff for the Public Service Commission recommended the commission
adopt a less aggressive plan that would have required 20 percent of Florida's
power come from renewable sources by 2041. The plan also capped the cost to
customers at about $2.40 a month, or 2 percent of a utility's annual revenue.

Environmental groups blasted the staff proposal, saying it was too weak.

The proposal, though, was based on several factors, including the potential cost
to utilities and their customers.

The commission postponed action on the proposal, telling staff members to
reconsider its recommendation.

"The rule they had developed was a placeholder," commission Chairman Matthew
Carter II said. "I believe we can get 20 [percent] by '20."

The delay will give commissioners and staff a chance to review a study on the
cost and availability of renewable energy in Florida. The study will be released
in late November. The commission will discuss the proposal again at a public
hearing Dec. 3, and a vote is scheduled for January.

Barry Moline, executive director of the Florida Municipal Electric Association,
said the government-funded study will be crucial in determining a standard that
can be achieved at a reasonable cost to consumers.

The recommendations made thus far aren't backed by any hard information, Moline
said.

"They're not based on any analysis," he said. "We don't have a position because
we don't know how much renewables are available."

To shield consumers from skyrocketing electric bills, the amount a utility
spends on renewable power should be capped at 1 percent of its annual revenues,
Moline said.

The state should adopt a renewable standard "that recognizes the potential of
Florida's renewable energy resources," Tampa Electric spokesman Rick Morera
said.

St. Petersburg-based Progress Energy Florida said any mandate for renewable
power should not favor one renewable resource over others. Such a provision
could drive up consumer costs to unaffordable levels, the utility said.

"We recommend a design that is achievable, affordable and spreads the costs
equitably among all consumers in the state," Progress Energy spokeswoman Suzanne
Grant said.

Debate May Be Contentious

Utilities in other states have fought efforts to establish standards for
renewable energy, arguing the free market should determine how much power is
made from renewable resources. Anything beyond that could lead to unreasonable
costs for utilities and their customers, executives argued.

"The utilities would prefer the state of Florida not to tell them how to run
their business," Brownless said. "They would like to be able to maximize their
own generation in exactly the way they would like to do it."

Tampa Electric and Progress Energy Florida each generate about 3 percent of
their power from renewable resources. Statewide, utilities use renewable
resources to produce 3.6 percent of their power.

The debate over a mandate for renewable power will likely be one of the most
contentious issues of next year's legislative session. Lawmakers under pressure
to bolster the economy are counting on the development of renewable energy as a
way to bring more jobs to Florida.

But job creation should not be one of the goals of a mandate for renewable
power, Twomey said. "We don't think that in the hard times we're facing now and
electric rates going up substantially that any customer money should be spent
directly on job creation," he said. "Those are tax issues."

(CHART) THREE ALTERNATIVE FUEL SOURCES

SOLAR

Sunshine is prevalent in Florida and a good source of clean energy. But the high
cost of solar power has discouraged widespread use. At 20 cents to 30 cents a
kilowatt hour, solar energy is more than twice as expensive as power from coal
and natural gas.

WIND

Power generated from spinning wind turbines doesn't create greenhouse gases, and
the fuel is free. But wind speeds vary, which means utilities can't count on
wind farms to provide a reliable source of electricity. Also, the spinning
turbines pose a threat to migrating birds.

BIOMASS

Wood waste and perennial grasses, which are renewable, can be burned to generate
electricity. Burning biomass, however, can result in air pollution. In addition,
power from biomass is more expensive than conventional power.

2020 or 2041?

Florida's leaders will soon have to develop a plan to use more alternative
energy. One plan requires that 20 percent of power come from renewable energy
sources by 2020. The other stretches that requirement to 2041.

Photo: solar panels

Photo: wood waste

Photo: turbines

Reporter Russell Ray can be reached at (813) 259-7870.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              22 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Workshop Offers Painting Tips That Will Help Hue

BYLINE: LAURA FRAZIER, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 734 words


Decorators present demonstrations on faux finishes and discuss technique.

By LAURA FRAZIER

The Tampa Tribune

LITHIA - Elizabeth Travis was delighted to pick up valuable decorating advice
for free at a home decorating workshop at the Palmetto Club in FishHawk Ranch.

The clinic, Decorating With Color, was sponsored Feb. 9 by Fine Designs, a
Benjamin Moore paint and interior design center in Valrico, primarily to
introduce a new line of paint, Benjamin Moore's Aura series. Brant Wensloff, who
owns the consulting business with his mother, Kay Wensloff, said it was an
opportunity for local businesses to show homeowners how to use color to feather
their nests in style.

Travis dropped by to check out a faux-finish painting demonstration by Kristi
Caterson of Dream on Designs of Valrico, which specializes in creative custom
painting techniques. The FishHawk Ranch woman said decorators at the event were
helpful and sent her away with great ideas to help her apply a faux-marble
finish to a wall in her master bedroom.

"It was unusual and fantastic because even though I want to do the work myself,
they helped me pick out colors and glazes and shared techniques with me for
free," Travis said.

Angela and Richard Kelly of Plant City came to look at the new line of paint and
picked up ideas for redecorating their children's rooms.

"This event is great. It sort of stimulates the juices," Angela Kelly said. "I
saw a paint with a chalkboard finish that would be really cool for the kids. I
could write all their chores on the wall."

Fine Designs offered free color and décor consultations. Susan and Felipe Zagal
scored a sample of the new paint in a shade of burgundy.

"All the walls in our house are the same color," Susan Zagal said. "We want to
customize it and make sure there's some flow between the rooms."

Rosemary Cosme of Brandon brought family members to get a glimpse of the
Palmetto Club, where her daughter will be married Nov. 2. After a tour of the
building, the ladies happily stumbled upon the workshop. They perused the
displays and picked up a free vanilla coffee crème offered by Joffrey's Café of
Valrico.

"We learned some great decorating ideas, and also that there is live music at
Joffrey's 'til 10 p.m. on Fridays, so we plan to check it out," Cosme said.

Debbie Ploor, owner of Orange Home Accessories in Valrico, said it was an
opportunity for businesses to get together and illustrate how their diverse
products and services can combine to create a cohesive, fashionable décor.

"People have a hard time pulling a room together," Ploor said. "All these
businesses here, we have a nice partnership. Someone working with decorators at
Fine Designs can bring their paint colors here, and we can show them how to
incorporate accessories into the room. It's all about color."

Using color as a guide, Ploor said, "You can build an entire room around one
object that you really love."

(CHART) COLOR TRENDS 2008

Home decorating color trends for 2008 fall into three categories: Eclectic Chic,
celebrating the spirit of individuality; Pure Harmony, in tune with the movement
back toward nature; and Global Artisan, reflecting the world's artistry and
beauty.

*In Eclectic Chic, refined taste meets relaxed lifestyle. It is a cosmopolitan,
sophisticated palette that includes soft violets and sages, sleek greens and
blues and rich terra cotta paired with plum and warm neutrals.

*Pure Harmony is an organic, timeless color scheme, inspired by light, air,
water and earth - the elements of nature. Beautiful, serene shades reminiscent
of clouds, foliage, driftwood, stones and sand harmonize with cheerful, warm,
sunlit colors and ethereal blue accents.

*The Global Artisan palette, with its worldly, exotic feel, features deeper hues
of delectable spicy tones of paprika, cinnamon and golden curry, along with
saturated, jeweled hues of blue, green and gold.

Source: Fine Designs of Valrico

Reporter Laura Frazier can be reached at (813) 657-4523 or
lfrazier@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photos by LAURA FRAZIER

Photo: Kay Wensloff, left, owner of Fine Designs in Valrico, offers a free color
consultation and paint sample to Felipe and Susan Zagal who are decorating their
home in FishHawk Ranch.

Photo: Madison Santiago, 8, experiments with paint in a children's play area at
the event.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              23 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warm Up To Solar

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER O'DONNELL, Sarasota Herald-Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words


A couple find going solar for electricity fits in with their historical home and
their goals for a more Earth-friendly approach.

By CHRISTOPHER O'DONNELL

Sarasota Herald-Tribune

BRADENTON With its wraparound porch and leaded windows, Fred and Tina
Colagiovanni's Craftsman home still looks much the way it did when it was built
in 1913.

But its new, high-tech system of solar panels may make one of the oldest homes
in the city also one of its most modern.

The south and west roofs sport 28 solar panels. It's the couple's way of putting
their money where their mouths are, as 40-year-old Fred says. And with new
financial incentives taking effect, that really won't amount to a whole lot of
money.

"Everyone is aware of what is going on with global warming," he says. "I've got
to do what I think is right. I've got two little kids. I want there to be
something left for them."

And his vintage home still looks like a vintage home.

"You can't even see the panels; they're sleek and streamlined," he says. "If a
1913 home can put solar in, everybody should be able to do it."

Best yet, the Colagiovannis just got their first electric bill since installing
the system; Florida Power & Light provides their power when the sun isn't
around.

Fred had expected to owe about $100. Instead, he got a big surprise.

"We got a $5 credit!" he says.

Colagiovanni, who owns a landscape company, paid $40,000 to buy and install the
system in early December. With federal and state rebates and tax credits - one
of which just became effective Dec. 1 - they expect the final cost to be
$13,000. And that, he says, should be recouped in just a few years.

He's still trying to figure out how much power he's generating. During these
short winter days, when the sun's rays don't hit the roof as intensely or as
long, it looks to be about 35 kilowatt hours a day.

As the days grow longer, that number should go up; his 5-kilowatt system is
designed to generate about 5,000 kilowatt hours a year.

At times, he'll also be able to sell back excess power to Florida Power.

Utility companies throughout Florida - including TECO, which serves Hillsborough
and parts of surrounding counties - have programs that allow solar system users
to interconnect to the utility's power grid. The companies buy back excess
power, usually at 40 percent to 50 percent of the wholesale price.

That deal may soon get sweeter. The Public Service Commission last month
proposed a rule requiring companies to buy the excess power for the same price
they sell it. Called net metering, the rule will take effect Feb. 15 if no
utilities challenge it, says Todd Brown of the commission.

So far, none has.

Such incentives are designed to encourage more people to use alternative sources
of energy, a top agenda item of Gov. Charlie Crist's. Despite concerns about
global warning and the rising price of fossil fuels, as few as 300 homes in the
Sunshine State are running off solar power, according to Florida Department of
Environmental Protection officials.

Only eight residential and two commercial TECO customers - out of 661,000 - have
interconnected solar systems; for Florida Power, it's 130 of 4.3 million
customers.

That should change now, Fred says:

"There's so many incentives that allow you to do it. The public needs to know."


Editor Penny Carnathan contributed to this report. She can be reached at (813)
259-7612 or pcarnathan@tampatrib.com

(CHART) HARNESS THE SUN

State incentives for installing solar energy panels:
www.dep.state.fl.us/energy/energyact/solar.htm

Federal incentives: www.energy.gov/taxbreaks.htm

TECO customers can learn about interconnecting and find links to information
about choosing and buying systems at www.tampaelectric.com/environmental or
(813) 228-4848.

See what system may be best for your home, how much it would cost and how much
it would save by plugging in just a couple of answers in My Solar Estimator at
www.findsolar.com.

Don't have the money to invest in solar panels? Join TECO's Renewable Energy
program. For every $5 a month you pay, the utility will ensure that 200 kilowatt
hours of electricity heading to your power grid comes from renewable sources. To
learn more and sign up, go to www.tampaelectric.com and follow the environmental
link.

(CHART) Seeing the light

What does it take?

The Colagiovannis' solar panels are generating about 35 kilowatt hours per day
during these short winter days. How much is that? Here's what it takes to run
some common items around the home.

These numbers are averages; usage varies widely depending on how new the items
are, how energy-efficient and, in some cases, how powerful.

For those more interested in counting pennies than kilowatts, calculate this: If
you're a TECO customer, each kilowatt hour costs you a little more than 10
cents.


Electric clothes dryer - 4 kWh per load

Switch to gas; it's cheaper. Clean your lint catcher with every load.

Side-by-side refrigerator - 680 kWh per year

If yours is old, get a new, energy-efficient model. Don't put it near a heat
source, such as the oven, because it'll just have to work harder.


Computer - 55 kWh per year if used two hours a day, five days a week and turned
off the rest of the time

When it's not in use, turn the computer off or at least put it on standby.

60-watt incandescent light bulb - .06 kWh

It doesn't sound like much, but multiply that by all the light bulbs in your
house. One 15-watt compact fluorescent bulb provides the same light but burns
only .15 kWh.

Source: Mr. Electricity, michaelbluejay.com

Photo credit: Sarasota Herald-Tribune photo by E. SKYLAR LITHERLAND

Photo: Scott Tombaugh, left, and David Gebhart of Schroders Homes Inc. secure
the solar panels on the roof of Fred and Tina Cola giovanni's house in Bradenton
on Nov. 30. Their first electric bill since getting a system to generate their
own power was a $5 credit.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Everything Came Up Green In The Sun Dome

BYLINE: MIKE WELLS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words


EXPO SHOWCASES ECO-FRIENDLY ITEMS

By MIKE WELLS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - A partnership between the University of South Florida and community
leaders concerned for the environment blossomed in the Sun Dome on Saturday.

Going Green Tampa Bay Expo showcased nearly 100 providers of eco-friendly
products and services to residents and small-business owners.

The event was the brainchild of USF, the Hillsborough Planning Commission and
the Urban Charrette, a nonprofit organization of local design professionals and
community leaders who advocate for a sustainable urban core.

Visitors were given ideas about renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable
design and green building. Workshops included information on urban bicycling,
biodiesel fuels and water conservation.

Phyllis and Everett Henderson of Tampa, intern architects with the design firm
GouldEvans, went to the expo as visitors to look at building products.

"We are always looking for ways to add something Earth-friendly to our
projects," Phyllis Henderson said. "We're interested in the topic in general and
we wanted to see what they had to offer."

During the Expo, USF President Judy Genshaft signed the American College &
University Presidents Climate Commitment, which aims to address climate-change
issues. Participating schools are trying to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
integrate sustainability into the curriculum.

So far, 500 schools have signed on, including the University of Florida, Stetson
University and Florida Gulf Coast University.

USF aims to be a leader in the field of sustainability - the practice of meeting
the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their needs.

The school pairs business and environmental science students together on
projects to reconcile competing interests in land use, namely tourism,
development and agriculture, said Sharon Hanna-West, a graduate faculty member
of USF's College of Business.

"Every student, regardless of what degree program they are in, needs to have
some kind of environmental literacy," she said.

She credited former Vice President Al Gore's "An Inconvenient Truth" movie with
raising awareness among the public, but she said the recent upswing in interest
in saving the environment is not a passing trend.

"To me, this movement is not like the one we saw in the '70s," Hanna-West said.
"It's deeper. We've learned to better calculate the impact and damage and to
project what's going to happen in the future.

"It's a new era, and I think this one's really permanent," she said.

Reporter Mike Wells can be reached at (813) 259-7839 or mwells@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER

Photo: Nearly 100 providers of eco-friendly products and services show their
wares Saturday at Going Green Tampa Bay Expo at USF's Sun Dome. The university,
county planning commission and the Urban Charrette, a sustainable urban core
advocate, presented the event.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              30 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stiffer Emission Rules Proposed

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 659 words


The auto industry opposes governor's proposal to adopt California's strict
standards.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

State officials return to the Florida Environmental Regulation Commission next
week to argue that Florida should adopt California's tough emission standards
for cars and light trucks.

It's the first major test of Gov. Charlie Crist's multipronged effort to cut
greenhouses gases across the state. The commission planned to vote at its
meeting in October, but delayed the vote to gather more information.

Under pressure from industry lobbyists, three of the seven commissioners are
leaning against the change, three are leaning toward it and one is undecided,
said Eric Draper of Audubon of Florida.

If the measure passes at the next commission meeting in Tallahassee on Tuesday,
it will also have to be approved by the state Legislature.

The standards would allow the statewide sale of only vehicles that meet
designated levels of carbon dioxide emissions. Those levels are 20 percent to 30
percent lower than current emissions from many vehicles, although many others,
including Hondas and Toyotas, already meet the standard.

Industry lobbyists say the rules would increase vehicle prices and make certain
models of light trucks hard to find in Florida.

State Department of Environmental Protection officials counter that the rules
would also increase fuel efficiency and the gas savings would more than make up
for the price increases. Also, they say, the emissions are measured on a
fleetwide average for the state. So if one type of car is over the limit, the
excess could be offset by lower emissions in another type.

"The rule is extremely flexible," said Greg DeAngelo, state DEP project
engineer. "It allows lots of ways [for manufacturers] to comply. In 2013, for
example, if they have a debit, they have five years to make that up, so we
wouldn't be looking at any penalties until 2018 or '19."

These standards are important for Florida, DeAngelo said. Cars and trucks are
responsible for more than one-fourth of the greenhouse gases created statewide.

Florida is also at risk to the effect of greenhouse gases and global warming,
Draper said. "With low coastlines, it's highly at risk. That is the reason Crist
has advanced this idea."

"Florida is ground zero for global warming," said Mark Cooper of the Consumer
Federation of America, which is helping with the lobbying effort in favor of the
new standards. "We think Florida should be taking a lead on this."

In addition to Florida, 14 other states have proposed adopting California's
emissions standards. The proposals have not gone into effect because after
California adopted its rules in 2004, the Environmental Protection Agency under
the Bush administration denied its request to diverge from federal fuel
efficiency requirements. Draper said the Obama administration is expected to
grant that waiver.

Industry lobbyists fighting the change argue that it's confusing for states to
have different vehicle efficiency rules from the federal government. They had
asked the environmental commission to postpone its vote in October because they
are expecting new, tighter rules from the Bush administration. As of Wednesday,
no announcement was made.

"The federal standard would bring Florida the same emissions benefits without
having to give up its authority to California," said Charles Territo, with the
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers.

Draper said that over time, the federal standards won't limit greenhouse gases
as much as California's will. The more important question, Cooper said, is
whether Florida should adopt the standards it wants "versus letting the feds do
it. ... You can't trust the feds to protect the environment."

If adopted in 2009, the rules will apply to cars produced in 2011.

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              34 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Here's A NASA Control Panel - Wait, It's Your Dashboard

BYLINE: RICH SHOPES, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words


Gadgets Make Drivers Feel Like James Bond- And More Are Coming

By RICH SHOPES

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Cookie Ginex likes the keyless remote system and the ability to load up
her CD player with a half-dozen country recordings, but mostly her needs are
"pretty basic" when it comes to cars, she says.

Ginex chose the factory option rear-seat DVD player, mostly for the grandkids,
when she bought a Kia Sedona minivan last summer. Given a choice of after-market
options, however, she is skipping a satellite radio, navigation system and the
Bluetooth feature to allow hands-free cell phone use.

"As long as it has heat, air and a radio, I'm happy," said Ginex, a 65-year-old
grandmother of four who lives in South Tampa. "I don't need all those bells and
whistles."

Shopping for a car these days, though, is an exercise in bells and whistles.

In-vehicle technology is abundant, and car makers and after-market manufacturers
are waging pitched battles to outfit cars with what once was the domain of homes
and offices.

From navigational touch screens to On-Star "concierge service" to steering wheel
temperature and volume control buttons, technological accouterments are piling
up.

Automakers are betting the same consumers fueling sales of PCs, iPods and
Blackberrys will propel sales of cars loaded to the gills with technology. Among
the latest options: voice-activated compact disc players, GPS systems, video
cameras to help in backing up, touch screens, light-sensitive rear-view mirrors
to screen out glare and, of course, iPod docking stations.

Those gadgets don't come cheap, but that's not stopping consumers. In-vehicle
technology sales topped $10 billion, and the market is expected to balloon to
$12 billion wholesale this year, according to the Consumer Electronics
Association.

"For a long time the motor vehicle was seen as an island, but now that's
changing," said Steven Koenig, the association's senior manager of industry
analysis.

All this technology is designed to keep us better informed and entertained, but
it also can change how motorists and passengers experience driving. Koenig said
tomorrow's dashboards are being influenced by today's consumer gadgets.

As Internet speeds increase, drivers soon might be able to stream music from the
Web directly into their cars and download videos from home computers.
Voice-activated software might allow motorists to send and receive e-mail while
driving.

"We do lead increasingly itinerant lives. We're always on the go, and consumer
electronics products and technologies have really enabled us to stay connected,"
Koenig said.

SYNC, a partnership between Microsoft and Ford, is an example. The technology,
available on the Ford Focus and other models, uses voice-activated software that
lets drivers play music and make phone calls if their phone is connected to
Bluetooth, a wireless technology.

"It allows for people who don't have all the money in the world to have some of
these gadgets you might see on higher-end cars," said Tamari Thompson, a
salesman at Bill Currie Ford in Tampa.

Automakers haven't always been quick to introduce technology. Things such as
seat belts and in-dash AM radios were well-established after-market products
before auto manufacturers started inserting them into new cars.

From there, after-market companies started introducing GPS systems and DVD
players to cars. Again, automakers followed.

"Our part of the industry isn't always what you really need but all the stuff
that you want," said Peter MacGillivray, vice president of events and
communications at the Specialty Equipment Market Association, which represents
companies specializing in after-market products.

The after-market trend is specific to North America and started after World War
II when returning GIs started tinkering with their cars, MacGillivray said.
Today, the auto after-market is worth $37 billion.

Dave Dunphy, co-owner of Arrow Systems, a technology company in Ingersoll,
Ontario, says computers are the next step in the after-market technology trend
and, eventually, will be an option on new cars.

"Everybody wants to take their living room with them," he said. "Even in offices
these days, people have nice streaming music."

Dunphy should know. His 3-year-old company has developed a computer for the
after-market. The 8-inch screen installs on the dash and runs Windows XP. The
wireless keyboard fits inside the glove box.

Many of the functions, including the Windows Outlook messaging program, won't
operate while the car is moving, but the GPS and music functions will. He
expects to roll out a voice-activated option this year.

"This isn't Windows lite. This is a full-blown computer," he said.

(CHART) ON THE STEERING WHEEL...

(1) Temperature control

(2) Fan speed

(3) Radio channel adjuster

(4) Radio volume adjuster

(5) Buttons that manipulate a menu of options on a small screen in front of the
wheel, from climate control to music channels.

ON THE DASHBOARD...

(1) Climate control system, including temperature zone controls

(2) On-Star button for navigational help or concierge services (nearby
restaurants, dry cleaners, etc.)

(3) Video touch screen that can allow functions such as navigational systems and
Global Positioning Systems; on-board TV monitor to see what's behind the
vehicle; mobile phone touch-screen; distance of last trip; car diagnostics,
including tire pressure, date of last oil change and current gas mileage.

(4) Ipod docking station

Many of these features are voice controlled or Bluetooth enabled for using the
stereo system or phone.

IN THE FUTURE: Entire computers with wireless Internet access and voice
recognition to stream music and movies to backseat passengers. Cars that talk to
each other to warn about traffic accidents or delays ahead.

Tribune graphic by ANDY DORSETT

Reporter Rich Shopes can be reached at (813) 259-7633 or at
rshopes@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CANDACE C. MUNDY

Photo: Ghosts of dashboards past: A 1966 Dodge, above, and a 1959 Edsel Ranger
seemed futuristic then, but cars now are supercharged with high-tech gizmos.
"Everybody wants to take their living room with them," an expert says.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Play For Power

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words


DADE CITY - Progress Energy officials this summer plan to reveal the possible
locations of new high-power transmission lines through western Pasco County,
company officials said Tuesday.

In a presentation to the Pasco County Board of County Commissioners, spokeswoman
Gail Simpson said her company plans to reveal by June the narrowed-down list of
possible routes for 200 miles of transmission lines Progress Energy plans to
build from 2012 through 2016.

In Pasco County, one of those transmission routes parallels State Road 54.
Others are west of the Suncoast Parkway running north to south.

Power company officials will discuss their plans at public meetings today and
Thursday at Spartan Manor, 6121 Massachusetts Ave., New Port Richey.

The three-hour meetings will start at 4 p.m. Information is available at the
company's Web site: www.progress-energy.com /energyplanning.

The new power plants and transmission lines are needed because of growth in
population, home size and per-capita energy demand in recent decades, Simpson
said.

The corridors being studied are about a mile wide. The transmission lines would
need significantly less right of way - typically 250 to 500 feet, Simpson said.

The lines could need even less space if they share space with existing power
lines, she said.

The routes would carry power generated by a new nuclear power plant Progress
Energy has proposed for Levy County.

The new plant would be a few miles north of the existing nuclear power plant at
Crystal River in Citrus County.

This week company officials tripled the estimated cost of that plant to $1
billion.

The investment is needed, Progress Energy Florida President Jeff Lyasch said, to
reduce the use of coal, oil and other fossil fuels that contribute to climate
change.

Progress Energy will ask the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission to review its
plans for the Levy County nuclear plant.

That review process could take three years or more, Simpson said.

Also this year, the company will ask the state Department of Environmental
Protection to approve the planned transmission line corridors, Simpson said.

Progress Energy isn't alone in needing to increase its ability to generate and
transmit electricity, Simpson said.

Power companies across the state will add 900 miles of transmission lines during
the next decade, she said.

Reporter Kevin Wiatrowski can be reached at (813) 948-4201 or
kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

Photo: Kerry Gains walks her son Ayden in the Thousand Oaks East development,
almost in the shadow of a tower and transmission lines.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by ANDY JONES

Photo: New high-power transmission lines will be needed to distribute
electricity from a planned nuclear plant in Levy County, Progress Energy says.

Photo: A transmission route runs behind homes in the Longleaf development.
Progress Energy is narrowing down its list of new potential routes.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2008



CORRECTION: Progress Energy would spend $1 billion on a proposed nuclear power
plant in Levy County. A story in Wednesday's edition of The Pasco Tribune
misstated the amount.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              39 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trade Mission Strengthens State

BYLINE: CHARLIE CRIST

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 441 words


By CHARLIE CRIST

Every great business deal begins with a good relationship. As potential business
partners discover each other's strong suits and assets, they begin to consider
new possibilities for mutually beneficial ventures. In the same way, during the
10 days I traveled to Europe, I built relationships with some of Florida's most
important international trade partners.

As I led the Team Florida Trade and Business Development Mission to the United
Kingdom, France, Russia and Spain, I focused on developing and strengthening
international trade in aerospace and aviation, renewable and alternative energy
and economic opportunities from addressing the effects of climate change. These
four nations are among Florida's top foreign investors. Together, they have more
than 700 companies in our state, providing jobs to more than 60,000 Floridians
and pumping more than $7 billion into our state's economy. These nations are
strategic trading partners, with bilateral trade of $7.8 billion and more than
$1.7 billion in exports.

International trade is growing in our state. In fact, Florida exports increased
more than 12 percent in 2007 to $58.9 billion, and by almost 22 percent in the
first quarter of this year. The goal and purpose of this trade mission was to
make immediate and long-term sales, create investment leads, promote Florida
goods and services in foreign markets, and to learn from international leaders
how we can increase opportunities to benefit our economy here at home.

I anticipate tangible returns on the time and dollars spent on this trade
mission, similar to what we achieved last November during our trade mission to
Brazil. The largest single-state delegation in United States history to Brazil
yielded more than $340 million in actual and anticipated sales generated by our
presence there. International trade is integral to Florida's economy. About 1
million jobs in our state depend on international business, and about 39,000
Florida companies export products, giving the Sunshine State the second largest
concentration of exporters in the United States. Jobs in international trade
offer high wages and bring increased value to our economy.

It is short-sighted to think we can sit idly by in Tallahassee during these
challenging economic times. Floridians are counting on leadership and, now more
than ever, we must aggressively seek the opportunities and build the
relationships that will strengthen our economy and better the lives of our
people.

Charlie Crist is governor of Florida.

Photo: Charlie Crist

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              42 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gulf's Reefs Get More Federal Protection

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 272 words


Commercial activities involving two corals are banned.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Environmental regulators have expanded federal protections for two types
of coral reefs in the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean threatened with
extinction.

The new regulations will prohibit all commercial activities involving elkhorn
and staghorn corals, including collection for import or export. They also will
ban anchoring or dragging gear on the reefs and discharging pollutants or
contaminants that harm the species.

Roy Crabtree, Southeast regional administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration's Fisheries Service, said the rules will help the
corals' long-term recovery by addressing human threats.

"These corals were once the major reef builders in Florida and the Caribbean,
but now more than 90 percent of their populations are lost," he said. "That not
only threatens their survival - it affects the entire ecosystem."

The new regulations will not prohibit scientific research or restoration
activities carried out or permitted by authorized state and federal
environmental agencies.

Elkhorn and staghorn corals have been a mainstay of Florida and Caribbean reefs
for nearly half a million years. Decimated by global climate change and human
activities, the delicate species have suffered significant losses.

Both corals were listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act in May
2006.

The new regulations take effect Nov. 21.

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              44 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCain's Time To Shine

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1755 words


The Arizona Senator Talks With Us About His Presidential Run

Arizona Sen. John McCain has promised straight talk in his latest bid for the
White House, and his blunt and pragmatic message on the issues has been gaining
momentum as the candidates move through the 2008 primary season. Members of The
Tampa Tribune's editorial board caught up with McCain by telephone on Jan. 11 as
he campaigned in South Carolina for a wide-ranging interview on the issues as we
prepared to deliver our endorsement in Florida's Republican primary.

McCain was our pick. We found the veteran senator's candor refreshing and his
stand on the important issues of the war, immigration and government spending
well-grounded in his years of experience on Capitol Hill. As for the senator's
reputation as a bit of a grump - well, that's true. He referred to our interview
as engaging "the enemy"; we laughed and endorsed him anyway.

Here are some of the highpoints of our discussion:

Q: What do you think is the defining issue of this election?

A: There are two; secondary is restoring trust and confidence in government,
which has evaporated. The transcendent issue, I believe, is the struggle against
radical Islamic extremism. As opposed to 2000, we are in two wars and are facing
confronting this enemy in ways that many of us had never imagined even after
9/11, such as the doctors in Glasgow, Scotland, and the manifestations of this
struggle are quite complicated.

If I had talked to this board over a month ago we wouldn't have said much about
Pakistan. As you know, a couple of days ago the Iranians had a confrontation to
some degree with our Navy ships in the Straits of Hormuz.

I guess what I'm saying is this transcendental challenge is going to be with us
for many years, and I believe I have the knowledge and the background and
experience to make the right kind of judgments. I've been involved in every
major national security issue for the last 20 years and ? I believe that my
qualifications, particularly at this time in history, warrant my selection.

Q: On the domestic front?

A: Probably health care is the most talked about issue at the town hall
meetings. Our Republican base is alienated because of spending and corruption,
the immigration issue continues to be a very hot-button issue here in South
Carolina as well as around the country, and we may be on the brink of a
recession.

Q: What is your philosophy on preemptive wars?

A: It's obviously only when America's national security issues are directly
threatened. I would hope if that action ever had to be taken, such as, for
example, the Iranians, that would be done with close consultation with the
Congress and if necessary because of the nature of the threat at least with the
leaders of Congress. They've got to be in on the takeoff if you want them in on
the landing.

But in broader terms I think that there's always a struggle between real politic
and Wilsonian principles. I'm an idealist, and I believe those words about all
of us being endowed with certain inalienable rights meant all of us, not just
people who live in the Western Hemisphere.

I remain committed to the belief that we are on a mission to spread democracy
and freedom throughout the world, but it is also tempered by real politic and
some of the experiences we've had in the pursuit of democracy.

Q: Can you tell us your position on extending President Bush's tax cuts?

A: I think the tax cuts have to be extended. ? and I think they need to be made
permanent. I also think that we've got to stop the spending. The spending is
what's gotten us into trouble. Back in the days of the Reagan revolution, we cut
taxes, but we made a commitment that we'd cut spending $3 for every $1 in tax
cuts. When we did the 2001 tax cut, there was no restraint of spending, and we
paid a very heavy price for that. I had a proposal for tax cuts, I had a
proposal to cut spending, and if we had enacted that I believe we'd be talking
about further tax cuts today.

We Republicans presided over the biggest increase in the size of government
since the Great Society, and it led to corruption and I don't say that lightly.
We now have former members of Congress residing in federal prison.

Q: It's been a surprise to see how angry some parts of the party are about your
immigration proposal. How do you proceed with getting comprehensive reform?

A: We're going to have to secure the borders first. Because of this lack of
trust and confidence that I described earlier, when I said we had a proposal
that secured the borders and a temporary worker program and addressing the issue
of the 12 million people here illegally, without amnesty - there was a
punishment for breaking our laws by entering our country illegally - they didn't
believe us. We can secure the border, and I know how to do that. I come from a
border state that faces this problem. I believe we then move forward with a
temporary worker program that works. You've heard it described before with a
tamper-proof documents, etc.

I understand that some 2 million people, according to [Homeland ] Secretary
Chertoff, have broken our laws while being in this country. They have to be
deported immediately.

Then we have to address the other part of the people who remain here illegally
in that they have to pay fines, they have to get in line behind everybody else,
they have to work in the naturalization process, they have to learn English and
all of the things and even more. For us to do nothing is de facto amnesty.
That's what exists today.

Q: Could you tell us more about your leadership track record?

A: In the United States Navy ever since I graduated from the Naval Academy, I
was put in positions of leadership; that's what we expect young officers to do.
I had the privilege of being executive officer and then commanding officer of
the largest squadron in the United States Navy. We compiled a very fine record
during those years.

I led, not for profit, but out of patriotism.

I've led in the United States Senate on a broad variety of issues. I can tell
you when the Rumsfeld strategy was failing, I'm the only one that said this
strategy is doomed to failure and we've got to change the strategy. That's the
biggest change one can make. It saved I don't know how many lives.

Q: What would you like people to know now about your attempts at campaign
finance reform?

A: I'd like them to know that we've taken the million-dollar check out of the
political process. I'd like them to know that it's impossible now for what was
standard practice for a powerful member of Congress to call a union leader or
trial lawyer or corporate head and say I need all this money from you, and by
the way your legislation is up before my committee.

Take a look at the Telecommunications Act of 1996. I'm sure some people there
are familiar with it and see how every special interest was represented except
for the consumer.

I'm very proud of what we did, and it's very obvious that 527s are exploiting a
loophole which the Federal Elections Commission should have closed long ago,
because the 527s are a violation of the 1974 law that was passed after
Watergate. That is a gaping hole in this whole process.

If there's anybody that believes there's not enough special interests in
Washington, I respect that view, but we tried to reduce that influence, increase
the power of the parties both state and national, increase the small donors
which have increased by the millions in the political process, and I have to
give great credit to the Internet for that. I believe we did the right thing,
and I'm very proud of what we did. Some will say that money is free speech, and
I say that money is property. If money is free speech, then the richest people
and organizations have the biggest megaphone.

Q: How do you feel about our Cuba policy?

A: It concerns me when waves of them wash ashore; it's a terrible human tragedy.
But I also think it's symptomatic of how terrible a regime they live under. We
saw the same thing in Vietnam until the Vietnamese government woke up and
stopped their oppressive policies and gave people a chance to live better lives.

I think the fact that these people are washing ashore is an affirmation of that
policy, as tragic as it is. They live under such a brutal and oppressive regime.
People who have traded with Cuba have ended up with debts that haven't been
paid. I think the wet-foot, dry-foot thing is a very bad policy, but I just
don't know a better one.

Q: Our economy is sputtering. What can the federal government do to help get
things moving again?

A: I think we have to stop this spending because it has weakened us fiscally and
has put our safety nets in jeopardy - Social Security, Medicare, etc. - and we
continue to expand government and laying unfunded liabilities onto future
generations of Americans. That spending also increases interest rates at a time
when we need lower interest rates. I think we've got to understand the urgency
and the economic impact of sending $400 billion a year overseas to oil-producing
countries.

Some of that money ends up in the hands of terrorist organizations. The argument
for energy and oil independence, but also to eliminate our dependence on foreign
oil and also to address the issue of climate change, which is an issue I've been
involved in for many years.

Q: When we talk to people about you the question of your age comes up. How would
you like people to think about that?

A: Maybe you should repeat the question; I just nodded off.

I think they should meet my 95-year-old mother who I have taken around various
states with me. Last Christmas she flew to Paris because she wanted to drive
around France, and she tried to rent a car and they told her she was too old, so
she bought a car and drove around France.

If you woTam look at my schedule, look at my campaign and the way I conduct
myself both in the Senate and on the campaign trail. I said at the beginning
when things were darkest in our campaign, "I can out-campaign anybody; I can do
more town hall meetings, I can do more events and I can do them longer and
better." I think people should look at the vigor with way I conduct this
campaign, and I think I can comfort most of them.

Photo credit: The Associated Press photo

Photo: Sen. John McCain's connection with veterans has been a boost during his
campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

Photo credit: The Associated Press photo/Tampa Tribune illustration

Photo: (John McCain)

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              46 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants: Promises Broken

BYLINE: KAREN BRANCH-BRIOSO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2337 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


They say they paid $6,000 for work permits.

By KAREN BRANCH-BRIOSO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Plagued with debt, flush with charisma, Sergio Pinto arrived in Tampa in
2001.

Back in Pittsburgh, he was many things: a restaurateur, an actor on "Mister
Rogers' Neighborhood," owner of a translation business. He came to Tampa, a town
with a climate more like the one in his native Guatemala - and a far greater
need for his talent of interpreting Spanish to English and vice-versa.

The change of scenery didn't change his money woes.

By March 2002, five months after signing a $627-a-month lease, Pinto was evicted
from his Seminole Heights apartment for failure to pay.

That year, Pinto apparently found a new enterprise to supplement translating
work from clients such as the U.S. public defender.

His new clientele: illegal immigrants.

His sales pitch, according to many who said they responded to it: For $6,000, I
can get you a work permit and legalize your status.

Problem is, they said, he never did.

The venture continued through last year at least, according to interviews with
immigrants from Colombia, Guatemala and Mexico living in Hillsborough County.
The only difference is the asking price went down. The fee, originally $6,000,
dropped to $2,000 a person.

Pinto acknowledged he has acted "as an intermediary" to try to secure work
permits, but he portrayed it as a recent venture. He blamed the lack of results
on a woman he called Kenya Flores.

"She disappeared. We can't find her. She's a woman who offered to get work
permits through an office in Orlando," said Pinto, 66, who lives in South Tampa.
"I met her six months ago, eight months ago. She asked me to do translations for
those documents. She said she could get work permits."

Pinto denied that he had been taking money from immigrants for several years,
long before he said he met Flores. The Tribune could not locate public records
of anyone by that name in the Orlando area.

"Maybe since one year ago - I don't remember exactly," Pinto said of his
involvement.

Pinto agreed to two appointments for a more in-depth interview with the Tribune
about the allegations. Each time, after meeting with his attorney, Richard
Garcia, he canceled.

Joan Mathieu, an immigration lawyer in Clearwater who isn't familiar with Pinto,
said that generally speaking, it's illegal for nonlawyers to give immigration
advice.

"Someone needs to report this man to the Florida Bar. ? You have a possible
civil action for breach of contract. You have a possible criminal violation
because giving legal advice is a felony," said Mathieu, who often hears from
immigrants who lose money to people who promise - and don't deliver - on
regularizing their immigration status.

"People get away with it for years. People are too scared" to come forward.

The Promises

Sandra, a Guatemalan immigrant living in South Tampa, said that last February,
Pinto charged $6,000 for a promise to secure work permits for her, her husband
and son. Unlike the others who spoke to the Tribune about their dealings with
Pinto, Sandra and her family are in the United States legally - they arrived on
tourist visas. The Tribune agreed not to use Sandra's last name because she
feared a change in her immigration status.

She said she took Pinto at his word because he came recommended from their home
country.

"My husband's brother was a colleague of his in school, and he told me he could
help us legalize our [work] status," Sandra said.

"He deceives people, saying that as a part of his job he gets work permits for
people. He doesn't say the name of the visa. He only says it's a program that's
part of the federal public defender."

Fletcher Peacock, the federal public defender for the Middle District of
Florida, said he doesn't know of any visa processing that his office would be
involved in: "On occasion, there's a witness visa, but I can't ever remember us
doing one. We don't do that kind of a thing at all."

Peacock said he knows Pinto and that he has done translating and interpreting
contract work for the Tampa office for at least five years. He said, "He's very
good, very accommodating."

He said he was unaware that Pinto had a sideline of soliciting immigrants' money
with the promise of work permits and visas.

In Sandra's case, she said Pinto gave her his Bank of America checking account
number. She said she made several deposits into the account, starting with an
$800 payment Feb. 6, 2007.

After months of no results, the family began to demand a refund. Pinto gave them
two Amscot money orders - for $500 each - on Feb. 1 and Feb. 15. He still owes
them $5,000, she said.

Other immigrants say they've sought refunds from Pinto for years.

One illegal immigrant, a man who spoke on condition that his name not be used,
said Pinto approached him in 2002 at his restaurant job. Pinto asked the
restaurant worker whether he wanted to legalize his status.

The man, who has a fifth-grade education, said he agreed to give Pinto an
initial payment of $2,000 to help secure a legal work permit. He said he trusted
the silver-haired man with the magnetic personality. He was a fellow countryman
from Guatemala. He was friends with the people at the restaurant where he
worked.

"I viewed him as an older man who lived near the restaurant, and I said, 'OK,'"
the worker told the Tribune.

He said he gave Pinto cash in two payments of $1,000 each. A few months later,
the man's two brothers also gave Pinto $2,000 apiece so he could help them get
legalized.

"He didn't offer me a receipt. I didn't ask for one," the worker said. "He said,
'Go back to Guatemala, and you'll get your visas there.'"

They returned to Guatemala. His brothers never came back. But he did.

"I returned to Guatemala and came back here four years ago, but nothing ever
arrived. This is money we've lost," the worker said. "He said he'd given the
money to a lawyer."

Soon after the man paid Pinto, he told Margarito, a Mexican co-worker, about
Pinto's promise of a work permit. An illegal immigrant, Margarito - and the
other undocumented immigrants mentioned later in this article - agreed to detail
their experience if their full names were not used. They fear deportation if
they are identified.

Margarito said he talked to Pinto and agreed to pay him $6,000. He said he paid
Pinto in three installments: $2,000, $1,000 and, about a year and a half after
the first payment, $3,000 more. He said Pinto collected the final payment in a
Walgreens parking lot in Brandon.

Margarito, who left school after the third grade to farm cornfields with his
family in southern Mexico, said he didn't ask for a receipt.

"He said, 'This is a sure thing. We're going to give you papers. I'll be in
charge of this. There's a person in immigration that I work with,'" said
Margarito, who lost hope of seeing his money until he heard that Pinto had
refunded another co-worker's fee.

"About 2 1/2 years ago, I spoke to him to see if he would return my money. He
said he was going to send me a check. He asked me for my address. He never sent
me the money. And that's it. He cut off his telephone. He changed the address
where he lived."

When told that several people had said he had been soliciting immigrants with
promises of work permits for several years - long before he said he met Flores -
Pinto denied it. He said he had been making work-permit offers for only about a
year.

Garcia, Pinto's lawyer, said in an e-mail that he could offer the Tribune a list
of lawyers to whom Pinto had referred clients "who can attest to his honesty and
integrity."

One couldn't remember Pinto. Another said she thought someone by that name had
approached her to offer immigration referrals, but she never took him up on the
offer.

Jamy Magro, a personal injury lawyer, said he has worked frequently with Pinto
when he interprets for insurance companies when they interview Magro's
Spanish-speaking clients. He said Pinto never referred clients to him, but he
praised his work as an interpreter - and Pinto's personality.

"Really professional. Very good. Plus he's a pretty gregarious guy," said Magro,
who said Pinto never mentioned anything about working with immigrants to him. "I
would be totally shocked if these allegations turn out to be true. Sergio's
always been on the up and up."

"I'm not a shameless person," Pinto said. "I don't have any money. I don't have
any properties. If it were true, I'd have a mountain of wealth."

A History Of Debt

Pinto has for years dealt with mountains of debt.

In Pittsburgh, he filed for bankruptcy in 1987 with his second wife. Throughout
the 1990s, he racked up thousands of dollars in unpaid utility bills. Landlords
took him to court for unpaid rent. After his divorce from his second wife, she
took him to court for unpaid child support. A dentist sued for nonpayment.
Pinto's former partner in the translation business filed a lien against the
business - and at least three former translators sued when he didn't pay them
for their translation work.

A mortgage company filed for foreclosure against his and his third wife's home.
When it sold - just about the time he moved to Tampa - some of those bills were
paid off.

But the IRS lien against his translation business - for $16,208 in unpaid taxes
as of Nov. 8, 1999 - still has not been released.

Despite Pinto's troubles in Pittsburgh, Magro said that in the past month, "He
mentioned to me he's interested in leaving the Bay area because he hasn't made
many friends here. He's looking to go back to his hometown of Pittsburgh."

A Receipt

Pinto said of anyone who suggests he was collecting thousands from illegal
immigrants for the past several years: "They'd have to prove it with receipts.
That's not true."

In most cases, such receipts do not exist.

Most of the immigrants told the Tribune they paid in cash - and didn't request a
receipt.

A Mexican man named Ignacio, however, demanded a receipt from Pinto.

He provided a copy to the Tribune. It is dated July 18, 2003, and the signature
appears to match Pinto's in other public documents. In it, Pinto agreed to act
as a "Hispanic advocate" working with an "immigrant expert" to help Ignacio
secure a work permit. "The below signed will receive no payment for his efforts.
? Mr. Pinto must turn over all payments to the immigration processing
professional."

The total cost: $6,000 - in three installments of $2,000.

The process, it said, would take 18 months.

"I asked for a receipt. I said, 'I'm not going to give you money, just like
that,'" Ignacio said of Pinto.

A high school graduate who speaks fluent English, Ignacio did get his money
back. He said he started pressuring Pinto when there was no sign of a work
permit. By then, he had given Pinto two of the $2,000 payments.

He said it took two years before Pinto refunded the money: two checks for $2,000
each written a few months apart in 2005. But he knows several co-workers who he
says didn't get their work permits - or a refund.

Enrique is a Colombian immigrant, living in Tampa on an expired tourist visa. He
said he's also waiting for a refund.

A Colombian friend who had already paid Pinto told Enrique about the plan in
2006. Enrique called Pinto.

"He told me over the phone he was a lawyer who helped immigrants," Enrique said.
"He said he could get me a residency card valid for two or three years that
could be renewed a second time to start the process to be here permanently. He
was going to get us a work permit and Social Security numbers."

Enrique said Pinto told him to meet in the Sports Authority parking lot across
from WestShore Plaza on Sept. 28, 2006. Enrique gave him a check for $2,000.

Later that year and in early 2007, Enrique said, he deposited $2,000 more in
cash into Pinto's Bank of America checking account. That money, he was told,
would help his son in Colombia get a student visa to the United States.

"He said he knew a university administrator who could help out," Enrique said.
"It's hard back in Colombia to get a student visa here."

At first, he was hopeful.

Pinto seemed to be processing their applications, Enrique said. He took them to
have passport photos made. Then, Enrique said Pinto took him and his friend to a
police station near the Falkenburg Road Jail to be fingerprinted.

"He was trying to get me a work permit to work with him as a translator," said
Enrique, trained as an electrical engineer in his home country. "He said,
'There's no need for you to seek a sponsor. I can employ you.'"

That station is the District 2 station for the Hillsborough County Sheriff's
Office. All district offices offer fingerprinting free, said Judy Swann, general
manager of District 2's Identification Section. People seeking professional
licenses - from doctors to real estate agents to stockbrokers - often come in
with empty fingerprint cards.

The employer-to-be sends the completed card to the state and pays for a criminal
background check.

"For immigration [processing], though, they have to go to immigration for
fingerprints," Swann said.

Enrique said that a few days after the technicians fingerprinted him and his
friend, Pinto called and said: "Good news, you're clean."

Since then, there has been no more good news, Enrique said.

Now it is Enrique who makes the calls to Pinto.

He wants his money back.

At first, he said, he feared it wasn't worth the trouble, given his illegal
status, to challenge Pinto.

"He's an educated person. Very calm. For a while, I thought I'd rather lose that
money than have problems with him," Enrique said.

"But I want him to be honest with me. He tricked me. A dirty trick."

Researcher Michael Messano contributed to this report. Reporter Karen
Branch-Brioso can be reached at (813) 259-7815 or kbranch-brioso@tampatrib.com

Photo: Sergio Pinto Says he served as "intermediary" Says he served as
"intermediary"

Photo credit: PBS

Photo: Sergio Pinto, who once worked as an actor on "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood,"
gained immigrants' trust through recommendations, many said. Some heard about
him in their home countries.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              50 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Between The Blue And The Reddish

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words


Obama's Florida win will impact state politics, but exactly how remains unclear.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - At least in presidential politics, Florida is purple again after looking
reddish for the past decade - but that doesn't guarantee Florida Democrats any
resurgence in state-level elections.

John McCain's loss, ironically, reopens the national political scene for Gov.
Charlie Crist.

Many Crist supporters and allies were angry when he wasn't chosen as McCain's
running mate. With McCain off the stage, they think Crist can be among the
contenders for national leadership of the party.

That's some of the political fallout from Tuesday's election, in which Obama
became the first Democrat to win the state's 27 electoral votes since 1996.

His Florida win, proving a Democrat can win here statewide, may embolden
Democrats to challenge Republicans in such contests as the coming 2010 governor
and U.S. Senate races.

Alex Sink of Tampa, the state's chief financial officer, could be among them.
She is considered a leading future electoral prospect for the Democrats.

But Obama's victory doesn't mean the Florida Democratic Party has suddenly
acquired the muscle and organizational skill of its rival. "This was an Obama
victory created out of whole cloth by the Obama campaign," said Alan Katz of
Tallahassee, one of Obama's earliest Florida supporters. The state party, Katz
said, must be revamped before it can duplicate such an effort.

GOP Remains Unfazed

Republicans contend the Obama win shows no underlying change in the political
leaning of the state, which they say is Republican.

In a recent memo on Republican talking points sent to party activists, party
spokeswoman Erin VanSickle said the overall election results "bode very well for
the future in Florida," noting that the Obama campaign outspent McCain heavily.

"If you look at Congressional races, State House and Senate, and Constitutional
Amendments, Florida Republicans had a good night" on Tuesday, she said. "The
2008 election results are simply not indicative of a huge change in the
electorate in Florida."

Still, the Obama campaign will leave behind benefits for state Democrats.

"A lot of volunteers got brought into the process by the president-elect, but
once people start getting involved, a lot of them tend to stay involved," said
state party spokesman Eric Jotkoff. "We know the people who were involved, and
we can go to them again in the future."

Research indicates that many of the thousands of new voters Obama recruited are
likely to remain loyal Democrats, said University of South Florida political
scientist Susan MacManus.

"You're excited as a first-time voter, especially if you volunteer, and if your
candidate wins you're even more excited," she said. "That locks you in to that
party for most of your life, if not all your life."

Obama's win, however, won't give Democrats much help in building the middle tier
of politics - the state legislative and congressional offices - that prepares
officeholders for the bigger races.

"On a statewide level Florida is winnable" for a Democrat, said Dan Gelber of
Miami Beach, a former state representative elected Tuesday to the state Senate.

But Gelber, who is also considered a potential statewide candidate, pointed out
that few legislative or congressional seats changed hands Tuesday despite the
Obama win, and said that is partly because the districts for those seats were
drawn to protect the electoral prospects of the incumbents - mostly Republicans.

"It's going to be hard to push the current totals much further without a
redistricting change," he said. That can't come until after the 2010 census, and
a district plan would have to be voted on by the Legislature, still
GOP-dominated. "We need a Democratic governor who can veto reapportionment
plans, or we're out of luck until 2020," the next census and redistricting,
Gelber said.

Democrats point out that the current districting plan has produced large
Republican majorities in the state House, state Senate and congressional
delegation, even though Tuesday's result and the last two presidential elections
all showed a relatively evenly divided state.

Sink said in a recent Tribune interview that she will look at the possibility of
a U.S. Senate run, particularly if Republican Sen. Mel Martinez decides not to
run for re-election in 2010.

Sink has said in the past that she'd rather run for governor but doesn't want to
run against a popular incumbent like Crist.

Races For Money Don't Wait

Martinez has not said yet whether he will run for re-election, but he has filed
a statement of candidacy and is raising money. He has raised about $1.7 million
in this two-year election cycle and had about $1.2 million in his campaign fund
as of Sept. 30.

Sink will have to decide soon if she is to raise the money and mount a
competitive campaign.

"It's very encouraging - it shows a good candidate with a good campaign and
organization can win statewide," she said, when asked if Obama's win will affect
her decision.

Crist is certain to run for re-election.

He is also being mentioned repeatedly in the national press and by GOP insiders
as among the rising new faces in the party. Two reasons for this: He was on
McCain's short list of running mate choices, giving him national media exposure,
and he is governor of the nation's fourth-largest state, one that's a must-win
state for a GOP presidential candidate.

Obama's win in Florida makes it more likely that Democrats will put up a
credible candidate to run against Crist, MacManus said.

Crist's job approval ratings remain high, seemingly insulating him from the
anti-Republican political climate. However, MacManus said, "He disappointed a
lot of Republicans by not being more active in the McCain campaign."

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo: Charlie Crist

Is likely to benefit from the national bump given by John McCain

Photo: Alex Sink

Is interested in running for governor, but not against Crist

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              55 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1060 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Downtown's Project In Waiting

I had a dream last night. My friend from Chicago came to visit. With pride, I
showed her our booming downtown - the Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center, the
Florida Aquarium, the beginnings of the new Tampa Bay History center, the Tampa
Art Museum and, soon, the Glazer Children's Museum.

Then we came to Ashley Street and the Platt Street Bridge. "What's that?" she
asked.

"Oh," I replied. "That's the Trump Tower Jungle. They say some developers went
in there and have never been seen since!"

ELAINE FANTLE SHIMBERG

Tampa

A Bad Comparison

Regarding "Bush Remarks Rile Obama" (Nation/World, May 16):

Is there anyone left in this country who believes that G.W. Bush has any
credibility? If Bush wants to make an analogy, it should not be between Barack
Obama and appeasement before World War II, but rather between what he has done
to the United States of America and what was done to Germany by its leaders
before and during the war.

It will be a long time before America recovers from electing Bush not once but
twice. We can begin in November by electing a new president and legislators who
can restore our moral standard and respect around the world.

DAVID A. CIMINO

St. Petersburg


President Was Right

Senator Barack Obama was upset by the word "appeasement" during President Bush's
recent remarks in Israel. He is a senator of the controlling party of Congress.

In 1938, when the phrase "peace in our time" was spoken, the controlling party
in Congress was Democrat and advocated isolationism. On Dec 7, 1941, "a day that
will live in infamy," the controlling party was Democrat when the Japanese
bombed Pearl Harbor and we entered World War II. In 1953, the controlling party
of Congress was Democrat when it demanded that we enter talks to end the Korean
War with a stalemate that is still in place today. In 1973, the Democrat
Congress demanded that we enter into protracted "talks" with North Vietnam which
culminated in the Paris peace treaty. The North Vietnamese waited about a year
and attacked and conquered South Vietnam while we turned our backs.

Now, Obama is upset that his stand of "talking" to terrorist-supporting nations
without reservations is criticized by President Bush. Once again, the Democrats
demand that their presidential candidate not be held accountable for his
remarks.

The president was right: Appeasement does not work. Our entry in World War II
and our failure in Korea and Vietnam prove that "you cannot be reasonable with
unreasonable people."

DON MILLIGAN

Lakeland


More Of The Same

The presidential race this fall will not be about John McCain or Barack Obama.
It will certainly result in one or the other becoming the next president, but
the race is about a vote to continue on the path laid down by the Bush
administration or a vote for change.

Right now, the majority of Americans are opposed to the war in Iraq; not to "cut
and run," but to execute an orderly withdrawal. The majority also is upset that
our economy is on the verge of recession with record gas and food prices. Upset
that 47 million people do not have health insurance and untold millions more are
underinsured. Upset that the dollar has lost its value. Upset that the energy
crisis has been ignored by a president with strong family ties to big oil who
hadn't heard that $4 gas was on the way.

John McCain, despite his honorable military service, has a voting record aligned
with Bush 95 percent of the time. He represents "more of the same" and simply
cannot be elected.

JOE YARBOROUGH

Tampa


GOP Is In Denial

I find it entertaining but somewhat embarrassing to hear and watch the "in
denial" Republicans and their pundits shamefully fib to themselves and everyone
else in an attempt to shield their partisan political pride from the current
anti-Republican climate. Maybe they can appease themselves for awhile, but
untruths and slime are not going to stop the overwhelming tidal wave of
justified disgruntled voters this round.

The writing is on the wall, but they refuse to look at it; they kind of remind
me of the three monkeys - see no evil, speak no evil and hear no evil.

Republicans have lost three straight special elections for House seats formally
long held by their party in Mississippi, Louisiana and Illinois. The latter seat
was vacated by former House Speaker Dennis Hastert. The desire for change
doesn't get any clearer than that.

In the most recent loss in Mississippi, we found the GOP pulling out the big
guns sending Vice President Dick Cheney to try and salvage a victory but instead
the big gun just ended up shooting another Republican in the face.

The Democratic Party is recording record sums of voters outnumbering the
Republican Party from the start in Iowa and continuing through every state.

WILLIAM ROBINSON

New Port Richey


Time For A Real Liberal?

Concerning Gary McCoy's May 14 cartoon depicting Senator Obama as a "big time
liberal":

He must have missed the last eight years. We have been governed by a
"conservative" foreign policy, leading to the war in Iraq; a "conservative"
economic policy, leading to a huge debt; a "conservative" health care policy,
leading to the breakdown of that system.

So exactly what was the point of that cartoon? That we should want more of the
same? Maybe it is time for a liberal.

LEN COLODNY

Tampa


Arrogance Of Congress

Regarding "New Tax Proposed To Benefit Veterans" (Nation/World, May 14):

The arrogance of Congress knows no bounds; now it's proposing a new tax that
will penalize achievers even more. If passed, it will charge 0.5 percent on
incomes over $1 million, to which one congressman said, "They're not going to
miss it." But the YMCA will miss it, the homeless shelter will miss it, the
parish will miss it and the Girl Scouts will miss it. You see, when Congress
passes new tax laws, it legally confiscates assets or income that would be spent
on goods or services that citizens would choose themselves and not those chosen
by lobbyists or bureaucrats.

Our veterans deserve every dime coming to them, but does anyone think that all
of the proposed $51.8 billion will be spent on their care? It won't; the skim
will go to special-interest groups, lobbyists and to pork-barrel earmarks. When
will Congress answer for this arrogance?

STEFFAN F. CRESS

Tampa

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              56 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 6, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Practical Steps To Safeguard Florida From Global Warming

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 562 words


If scientists are correct about global warming, the outlook for Florida is grim:
Rising seas will wash away beaches, flood marshlands and leave coastal
communities exposed to storm surge; saltwater intrusion will ruin municipal
water supplies; higher water temperatures will kill corals and spread marine
diseases.

The state will be plagued by more intense storms, droughts and severe weather
fluctuations.

While such gloom-and-doom predictions always should be accompanied by a degree
of skepticism, Floridians would be foolish to simply ignore the warning signs.

Already the state has experienced about a two-degree temperature increase since
1960 and scientists have found the higher concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere
is causing sea water to become more acidic, which is likely contributing to the
bleaching of the reefs that underpin the economy of the Florida Keys.

Warmer waters have enabled mangroves, once rarely found north of Central
Florida, to expand into the Panhandle.

Thus the importance and practicality of recommendations included in a report by
a coalition of environmental groups: "Preparing for Sea Change in Florida." The
Florida Coastal and Ocean Coalition includes such organizations as the National
Wildlife Federation and the Environmental Defense Fund. Its report offers a
strategy to protect the state against rising sea levels and turbulent weather.

Regardless of whether the global warming predictions are on target, these
sensible safeguards are needed to minimize threats to the public, economy and
the environment.

Among the recommendations:

* Discourage development in hazardous areas and protect or restore natural
buffers such as coastal wetlands and near-shore reefs.

* Eliminate federal, state and local incentives - insurance subsidies,
infrastructure and such - that encourage development in vulnerable coastal
areas. Florida, it should be noted, ranks third in the nation for properties
with repeat claims from national flood insurance.

* Upgrade stormwater regulations to allow the handling of more rainfall.
Encourage new developments to build in ways that minimize impermeable surface,
which increases runoff.

* Monitor the ocean pH rates in coral reef sanctuaries and study the ecological
impacts of ocean acidification.

* Require states to consider potential sea-level rise when developing coastal
management plans.

Gov. Charlie Crist, to his credit, is intent on limiting the state's emission of
greenhouse gases, another recommendation.

But even global warming doubters should recognize the necessity of these other
steps. After all, maintaining the state's natural storm buffers, protecting its
water quality and sustaining its marine life benefits the economy, enhances the
public safety and minimizes costs for taxpayers.

As Dr. Sylvia A. Earle, the former chief scientist of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration who helped prepare the report, says, the
recommendations represent "common sense" policies.

Elected officials should have the wisdom and foresight to transform them into
action.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo

Photo: Regardless of Floridians' thoughts on global warming, the fact is that
the states coastal waters are changing, and we should prepare for the effects it
has on our state.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              58 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Where Do Candidates Stand On The Issues?

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 3180 words


As presidential hopefuls John McCain and Barack Obama get ready for forums, you
can take a closer look at what they support regarding subjects most important to
you.

Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack Obama will share the stage this
Friday for the first of three presidential candidate forums. The first, to be
held at the University of Mississippi in Oxford, Miss., will focus on domestic
issues. The second, on Oct. 7 at Belmont University in Nashville, will be a
town-hall format with questions submitted by the audience. The third, on Oct. 15
at Hofstra University in New York, is devoted to foreign policy questions.

A debate between the vice presidential candidates, Democrat Joe Biden and
Republican Sarah Palin, is scheduled for Oct. 2 at Washington University in St.
Louis.

Here is a snapshot of where the presidential candidates stand, and a look into
what has been found about the public's mood, on 21 issues:

ABORTION

McCain: Opposes abortion rights. Has voted for abortion restrictions permissible
under Roe v. Wade and now says he would seek to overturn that guarantee of
abortion rights. Would not seek constitutional amendment to ban abortion.

Obama: Favors abortion rights.

You said: According to a Gallup poll in May, 54 percent of Americans think
abortion should be legal under certain circumstances.

AFGHANISTAN

McCain: Favors unspecified boost in U.S. forces.

Obama: Would add about 7,000 troops to the U.S. force of 36,000, bringing
reinforcements from Iraq. Has threatened unilateral attack on high-value
terrorist targets in Pakistan "if Pakistan cannot or will not act" against them.

You said: An Associated Press poll this month found that a plurality of
Americans favors increasing U.S. troop strength in Afghanistan, with 28 percent
strongly favoring and 20 percent somewhat favoring it.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE

McCain: The co-author of McCain-Feingold campaign finance law is running his
general campaign with public money and within its spending limits. He urged
Obama to do the same. He applied for federal matching funds for primaries but
later turned them down so he could spend more than the limits. The Federal
Election Commission belatedly approved his decision to bypass the primary funds,
but rejected McCain's claim that he needed no such approval. He raised more than
$160 million before having to stop to accept the $84 million in public money for
the fall. McCain accepted primary campaign contributions from lobbyists.

Obama: The presidential campaign's fundraising champion has brought in more than
$450 million. He is raising private money for his general election, despite his
proposal last year to accept public financing and its spending limits if the
Republican nominee does, too. Obama refuses to accept money from federal
lobbyists and has instructed the Democratic National Committee to do the same
for its joint victory fund, an account that would benefit the nominee. Obama
does accept money from state lobbyists and from family members of federal
lobbyists.

You said: According to an April 2007 Gallup poll, most Americans would prefer
that presidential candidates not take public financing for their campaigns.

CATASTROPHIC FUND

McCain: Opposes a national catastrophe fund as a way to help stabilize
homeowners insurance premiums. Says he will work with governors of the most
affected states to pool insurance risks against hurricanes. He says broad
pooling will improve prices and effective regulation can support the quality
policies needed by homeowners and businesses.

Obama: Supports the creation of a national catastrophic insurance program as a
way to help stabilize homeowners insurance premiums. He co-sponsored a
bipartisan bill that would spread the risk of hurricanes and other natural
disasters to provide homeowners some relief, and pledged to sign the bill into
law as president.

You said: Public opinion has not been measured by a major independent polling
organization. A bill to establish a national fund has passed the House, but not
the Senate, and President Bush has said he will veto the legislation if it does
pass. The congressional budget office estimated the fund would cost taxpayers
$25 billion annually.

CUBA

McCain: Ease restrictions on Cuba once the United States is "confident that the
transition to a free and open democracy is being made."

Obama: Ease restrictions on family-related travel and on money Cuban-Americans
want to send their families in Cuba. Open to meeting new Cuban leader Raul
Castro without preconditions. Ease trade embargo if Havana "begins opening Cuba
to meaningful democratic change."

You said: According to the 2007 Florida International University's Cuba Poll,
approximately 65 percent of the South Florida Cuban-American community would
support a dialogue with the Cuban government.

DEATH PENALTY

McCain: Has supported expansion of the federal death penalty and limits on
appeals.

Obama: Supports death penalty for crimes where the "community is justified in
expressing the full measure of its outrage." As Illinois lawmaker, wrote bill
mandating videotaping of interrogations and confessions in capital cases and
sought other changes in system that had produced wrongful convictions.

You said: According to Quinnipiac University poll in July, 63 percent of
Americans favor the death penalty for persons convicted of murder.

ECONOMY

McCain: On Friday, said the Federal Reserve should stop bailing out failing
financial institutions. As president, would create a Mortgage and Financial
Institutions Trust to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. Although he has
generally championed deregulation throughout his career in the Senate, he now
calls for a commission to find out what went wrong in the financial markets and
how to better regulate them. Supported legislation in 1999 that tore down
Depression-era legal walls separating commercial banks, investment banks and
insurers from one another. President Clinton, a Democrat, signed it into law.

Obama: On Friday, said he supports giving "broad authority" to the Treasury
Department to deal with credit crisis, but says he's not giving details of his
own plans in order to avoid roiling the markets further. Says a recovery plan
should not reward reckless business leaders. Refused to put a price tag on a
plan he would support, but said it would not bar him from advocating
middle-class tax cuts.

You said: A CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll this month found the economic
problems that most concern Americans are the price of gasoline (35 percent), the
availability of jobs (28 percent), mortgages and home values (18 percent) and
taxes (18 percent). The economy, the poll found, had replaced the Iraq war as
the most important issue voters would weigh in voting for a presidential
candidate: 31 percent cited the Iraq war in June 2007, but only 13 percent said
so in September.

EDUCATION

McCain: He is not proposing a federal voucher program that would provide public
money for private school tuition, in contrast to his proposed $5 billion voucher
plan in 2000. Only proposes expansion of District of Columbia's voucher program.
Sees No Child Left Behind law as vehicle for increasing opportunities for
parents to choose schools. Proposes more money for community college education.

Obama: Proposes an $18 billion plan that would encourage, but not mandate,
universal pre-kindergarten. Teacher pay raises tied to, although not based
solely on, test scores. An overhaul of No Child Left Behind law to better
measure student progress, make room for non-core subjects such as music and art
and be less punitive toward failing schools. A tax credit to pay up to $4,000 of
college costs for students who perform 100 hours of community service a year.
Obama would pay for part of his plan by ending corporate tax deductions for CEO
pay. Has backed away from his proposal to save money for education by delaying
NASA's manned moon and Mars missions.

You said: According to an AP poll in June, most Americans would be willing to
pay more in taxes if the money were spent on hiring more teachers and improving
public school facilities.

ENERGY

McCain: Favors increased offshore drilling, but is opposed to drilling in Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge. Argues that prohibiting more drilling in the Outer
Continental Shelf stands in the way of energy exploration and production. Thinks
states, including Florida, should be able to decide whether to expand drilling
off their coasts. Would use federal money to help build 45 nuclear power
reactors by 2030. Proposed suspending the 18-cent a gallon federal gasoline tax
but idea got no traction. Global warming plan would increase energy costs.

Obama: Now would consider limited increase in offshore drilling, but opposes
drilling in Arctic reserve. Proposes windfall-profit tax on largest oil
companies to pay for energy rebate of up to $1,000. Opposed suspension of the
gas tax. Proposed releasing 70 million barrels of oil from Strategic Petroleum
Reserve to boost supplies. Global warming plan would increase energy costs.
Supports forcing oil and gas companies to drill on the 68 million acres of
already leased areas, but remains skeptical that new offshore drilling will
bring down gas prices in the short-term. Says care must be taken to protect
Florida's coastal resources and the tourism industry they support.

You said: A CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll in August found most Americans favor
increased offshore drilling for oil and natural gas, and most favor drilling for
oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. A Mason-Dixon poll in
August found 61 percent of Floridians favor drilling for oil and natural gas off
the state's coast.

EVERGLADES

McCain: Expressed support this spring for Everglades restoration and his
commitment to doing so as president. He missed the vote on the issue and later
urged President Bush to veto a broader $23 billion water bill that authorized $2
billion for Everglades cleanup. McCain said that was because it included
millions of dollars for other projects he considered wasteful.

Obama: Says he supports the restoration of the Everglades and as president will
make this project a top environmental priority. He supported the Water Resources
Development Act, which would have allocated $2 billion in federal funding to
help Florida restore the Everglades.

You said: Public opinion has not been measured by a major independent polling
organization. As conceived in 2000, the restoration plan was to be a 50-50 split
between the state and federal governments. A bill to have the federal government
spend about $23 billion on water projects, including $2 billion on the
Everglades, passed Congress, was vetoed by President Bush, then overridden by
Congress.

GAY MARRIAGE

McCain: Opposes constitutional amendment to ban it. Says same-sex couples should
be allowed to enter into legal agreements for insurance and similar benefits,
and states should decide about marriage. Supports the federal Defense of
Marriage Act, which denies federal recognition of same-sex marriages and gives
states the right to refuse to recognize such marriages.

Obama: Opposes constitutional amendment to ban it. Supports civil unions, says
states should decide about marriage. Switched positions in 2004 and now supports
repeal of Defense of Marriage Act, which denies federal recognition of same-sex
marriages and gives states the right to refuse to recognize such marriages.

You said: According to an AP poll this month, 49 percent of Americans think the
federal government should not give legal recognition to same-sex marriages, and
47 percent said it should.

GLOBAL WARMING

McCain: Broke with President Bush on global warming. Led Senate effort to cap
greenhouse gas emissions. Favors plan that would see greenhouse gas emissions
cut by 66 percent by 2050.

Obama: Ten-year, $150 billion program to produce "climate friendly" energy
supplies that he'd pay for with a carbon auction requiring businesses to bid
competitively for the right to pollute and aimed at cutting greenhouse gas
emissions 80 percent by 2050. Joined McCain in sponsoring earlier legislation
that would set mandatory caps on greenhouse gas emissions. Increase federal fuel
economy requirements beyond 35 mpg.

You said: According to a Gallup poll in March, most Americans worry about global
warming and think the effects of it are already happening.

GUN CONTROL

McCain: Voted against ban on assault-type weapons but in favor of requiring
background checks at gun shows. Voted to shield gun manufacturers and dealers
from civil suits. "I believe the Second Amendment ought to be preserved, which
means no gun control."

Obama: Voted to leave gun manufacturers and dealers open to suit. Also, as
Illinois state lawmaker, supported ban on all forms of semiautomatic weapons and
tighter state restrictions generally on firearms.

You said: According to a Quinnipiac University poll in July, most Americans
support stricter gun control laws but oppose a constitutional ban on individual
gun ownership.

HEALTH CARE

McCain: Supports $2,500 refundable tax credit for individuals, $5,000 for
families, to make health insurance more affordable. No mandate for universal
coverage. In gaining the tax credit, workers could not deduct the portion of
their workplace health insurance paid by their employers.

Obama: Supports mandatory coverage for children, no mandate for adults. Aim for
universal coverage by requiring employers to share costs of insuring workers and
by offering coverage similar to that in plan for federal employees. Says package
would cost up to $65 billion a year after unspecified savings from making system
more efficient. Raise taxes on wealthier families to pay the cost.

You said: An ABC News/Washington Post poll in June found most Americans think it
is important to provide health care coverage for all, even if it means raising
taxes.

HOUSING

McCain: Open to helping homeowners facing foreclosure if they are "legitimate
borrowers" not speculators.

Obama: Tax credit covering 10 percent of annual mortgage-interest payments for
"struggling homeowners," scoring system for consumers to compare mortgages, a
fund for mortgage-fraud victims, new penalties for mortgage fraud and aid to
state and local governments stung by housing crisis.

You said: According to a Gallup poll in March, most Americans favor having the
federal government take steps to prevent people from losing their homes because
they can't pay their mortgages. Most Republicans oppose federal intervention and
most Democrats and Independents favor intervention.

IMMIGRATION

McCain: Sponsored 2006 bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants to stay
in the United States, work and apply to become legal residents after learning
English, paying fines and back taxes and clearing a background check. Now says
he would secure the border first. Supports border fence.

Obama: Voted for 2006 bill offering legal status to illegal immigrants subject
to conditions, including English proficiency and payment of back taxes and
fines. Voted for border fence.

You said: According to an AP poll in April, 49 percent of Americans favor
building a fence along the border between the United States and Mexico, and 48
percent oppose it.

IRAN

McCain: Favors tougher sanctions, opposes direct high-level talks with President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

Obama: Initially said he would meet Ahmadinejad without preconditions, now says
he's not sure. Says direct diplomacy with Iranian leaders would give the United
States more credibility to press for tougher international sanctions. Says he
would intensify diplomatic pressure on Tehran before Israel feels the need to
take unilateral military action against Iranian nuclear facilities.

You said: According to a Gallup poll in July, Americans ranked Iran as the
country's greatest enemy (25 percent), followed by Iraq (22 percent), China (14
percent) and North Korea (9 percent).

IRAQ

McCain: Opposes scheduling a troop withdrawal, saying latest strategy is
succeeding. Supported decision to go to war, but was early critic of the manner
in which administration prosecuted it. Was key backer of the troop increase.
Willing to have permanent U.S. peacekeeping forces in Iraq.

Obama: Spoke against war at start, opposed troop increase. Voted against one
major military spending bill in May 2007; otherwise voted in favor of money to
support the war. Says his plan would complete withdrawal of combat troops in 16
months.

You said: According to an AP poll this month, most Americans favor setting a
timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq.

SOCIAL SECURITY

McCain: "Nothing's off the table" when it comes to saving Social Security.

Obama: Would raise payroll tax on wealthiest by applying it to portion of income
over $250,000. Now, payroll tax is applied to income up to $102,000. Rules out
raising the retirement age for benefits.

You said: According to a CBS News poll last October, most Americans think the
financial situation of Social Security is threatened, with 30 percent saying
it's a crisis.

STEM CELL RESEARCH

McCain: Supports relaxing federal restrictions on financing of embryonic stem
cell research.

Obama: Supports relaxing federal restrictions on financing of embryonic stem
cell research.

You said: An April 2007 Gallup poll found a plurality of Americans, 38 percent,
think the federal government should ease restrictions on federal funding for
stem cell research.

TAXES

McCain: Pledged not to raise taxes, then equivocated, saying nothing can be
ruled out in negotiating compromises to keep Social Security solvent. Twice
opposed Bush's tax cuts, at first because he said they were tilted to the
wealthiest and again because of the unknown costs of Iraq war. Now says those
tax cuts, expiring in 2010, should be permanent. Proposes cutting corporate tax
rate to 25 percent. Promises balanced budget in first term, says that is
unlikely in his first year.

Obama: Would raise income taxes on wealthiest and their capital gains and
dividends taxes. Raise corporate taxes. Proposes $80 billion in tax breaks
mainly for poor workers and elderly, including tripling Earned Income Tax Credit
for minimum-wage workers and higher credit for larger families. Would eliminate
tax-filing requirement for older workers making less than $50,000.

You said: In a Gallup poll in April, 52 percent of Americans think the amount of
federal income tax they have to pay is too high. The poll found most Americans
think lower-income people are paying too much, middle-income people are paying
their fair share and upper-income people are paying too little.

Sources: The Associated Press, Tribune research by Michael A. Messano, and
Tribune reporter Billy House in Washington.

Photo: Republican presidential candidate Sen. John McCain said Friday that the
federal government should stop bailing out failing financial institutions.

Photo credit: Photos from The Associated Press

Photo: Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama said Friday he
supports giving "broad authority" to the Treasury Department to deal with credit
crisis.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              60 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cleaner Florida Cars Make Good Sense

BYLINE: DAVID GUEST, Special to the Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 659 words


Crist's plan would push automakers to cut emissions.

By DAVID GUEST

Special to the Tribune

On Tuesday, Florida has the chance to take a major step forward toward energy
independence. That's the day the Florida Environmental Regulation Commission
votes on Gov. Charlie Crist's common-sense proposal to make cars run cleaner.

Most people know that the pollution coming out of car tailpipes is one of the
main culprits in global warming. And when it comes to global warming, Floridians
are more vulnerable to both rising sea levels and more powerful hurricanes.

It makes sense for us to do something about this sooner rather than later. The
governor's proposal gets to the heart of the matter by creating incentives for
more efficient cars. The new standards would require a 23 percent cut in
heat-trapping emissions from new cars by 2012 and a 30 percent cut by 2016.

Because 40 percent of Florida's carbon dioxide emissions come from passenger
cars and light trucks, working to cut emissions from tailpipes is an important
place to start. Under Crist's proposal, individual vehicles would not have to
meet the standard. Instead, the standard is an average of all cars sold in the
state. Some vehicles - such as those used for emergency services or for the
military - would be exempt from efficiency requirements.

Expect Some Whining

No doubt, you will hear belly-aching from the high-priced Florida lobbyists for
the automobile industry. We've heard it before, when they fought safety
improvements such as seat belts and airbags. Instead of improving technology,
they have clung to old models, and I think we can all see where it has gotten
them.

If the public demands cleaner cars, automobile manufacturers will build them,
it's as simple as that.

Crist's proposal is modeled after California's clean-air standards. Twelve other
states have adopted the standards, and six more, including Florida, are
considering doing so.

Automobile industry lobbyists have been trying to scare Florida consumers. They
falsely claim that requiring cleaner cars will raise the price of a vehicle by
$4,000. An economic analysis by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection estimates that cleaner technology will initially add $100 to $700 to
the cost of a new car, depending on the make and model. That cost is offset,
however, because cleaner cars run more efficiently and use less gas. Over the
lifetime of their cars, drivers will see a net savings of $1,000 to $2,300 per
vehicle, the agency estimates.

A New Era Is Dawning

Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman has a new book
out called "Hot, Flat and Crowded: Why We Need a Green Revolution - And How it
Can Renew America."

Friedman's premise is that our last Industrial Revolution was information
technology - computers and the Internet. He says we are on the eve of the next
step: the energy technology revolution.

The country that dominates it will be the healthiest and most secure on the
planet.

Crist is wisely positioning Florida as a leader in America's Energy Technology
revolution.

Floridians are ready for more efficient and cleaner vehicles, and Crist has
found a way to make that happen. After the Environmental Regulation Commission
votes, the proposal will be considered by our representatives in the
Legislature. Let's let our leaders know that we're ready for cleaner cars in
Florida.

(CHART) GET INVOLVED

For the names and addresses of your lawmakers, visit www. leg.state.fl.us.

David Guest of Tallahassee is managing attorney for the Florida office of
Earthjustice (Earthjustice.org), a nonprofit organization dedicated to enforcing
and strengthening environmental

Photo credit: Tribune photo by MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER

Photo: Construction backups would been less harmful to the planet if cars were
more energy efficient.

Photo: Charlie Crist

Wants to take lead in energy game

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              67 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3921 words


AUBIN, Adrian G., 86, of Sebring, Fla., and formerly of Wooster, Ohio, died
Monday, February 4, 2008, at Highland Regional Hospital in Florida. Graveside
services will take place at 10 a.m. Saturday at Sherwood Memorial Gardens, with
the Rev. Kevin Phipps officiating. Online tributes may be made at
www.robertsfuneralhome.comMemorial contributions may be made to Central
Christian Church, 407 N. Market St., Wooster, OH 44691. Adrian was born July 16,
1921, in Ausable Forks, N.Y., to George and Ella Bola (Call) Aubin. He married
Audra Irvin December 27, 1973. She survives. He served in the U.S. Marines
during World War II. He was a supervisor for Ingersoll Rand, retiring after 15
years of service. He was a member of Central Christian Church in Wooster. He
will be deeply missed by his wife and stepdaughters, Lesle (Paul) Calvert of
Pennsylvania and Valerie Baldwin of Illinois; two granddaughters; two grandsons;
three great-grand-daughters; and a brother, James Aubin. A daughter, Virginia
McLaughlin, a brother and a sister died previously.

AVERBECK, Maria, 82, of Brandon, passed away Wednesday, January 30, 2008.
Survivors include her husband of 60 years, Bernard; children, Bernd, Jurgen and
Barbara; six grand-children; and seven great- grand-children. Affinity Cremation

BLAKE, Robert Gordon, 53, of Tampa, passed away February 2, 2008. Survivors
include his mother, Bertha Sumner Blake; wife, Valerie Blake; daughters, Barbara
McEathron and Robyn Blake; sisters, Carol Singleton and Barbara Schuldenfrei
(Denis); brother, John Blake (Kim); and grandchildren, Landon McEathron and
Melyna Blake. A memorial service will take place at 11 a.m. Friday, February 8,
2008, at Christ Cumberland Presbyterian Church, 19501 Holly Lane, Lutz, Fla.
Visitation will be 10 a.m. until the time of the service. You may view and sign
the guest book at www.floridamortuary.net

BRITTAIN, George Dameron III, 75, of Tampa, was called home February 2, 2008.
Born in Birmingham, Ala., December 15, 1932, he served in the U.S. Air Force,
graduated from Auburn University and spent his career as a registered
pharmacist. George was a cherished husband, proud father and papa to his family.
Preceded in death by his son, Scott, he is survived by his wife of 54 years,
Irma; children, Nanette, Tim, Charlotte and Angi; grand-children, Brandy, Bo,
Amber, Aubrey, Claire and Eva; and great-grandchildren, Julia, Devon and Trey. A
celebration of his life will take place at 2 p.m. February 9, 2008, at Henderson
Boulevard Church of Christ. In lieu of flowers, a donation to this church or the
charity of your choice may be made in memory of George Brittain III. Words of
comfort may be expressed at www.blountcurry.com

BURTON, Maria "Mary," 97, passed February 3, 2008, at Memorial Hospital of
Tampa. She was a lifelong resident of Tampa, born in Ybor City. Maria worked as
a cigar maker. She was a wonderful person, mother, sister, aunt, grand-mother,
great-grandmother and friend. She always made all feel like family. She will be
missed by all. She is survived by one daughter, four grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren. She is at rest and dearly loved by all. Lewers Funeral Home

CABAN, Joseph R., passed away January 27, 2008. He is survived by his mother,
Louisa Zabala, his children, Joseph Jr. and Yvette, and his grand-children,
Nikole, Lynette and Yogi. Graveside services will be 2 p.m. February 5, 2008, at
Rest Haven Memorial Park, 4615 E. Hanna Ave. He will forever be in our hearts.

COOPER, Thomas J., 81, of Gibsonton, died February 3, 2008. He is survived by
his wife, Patricia; his bird, Charlie; and loving family. He was a showman, a
clown, a show painter, candy butcher, a Merchant Marine during World War II and
a member of the Showman' s Club in Gibsonton. He was a friend to everyone; no
tears allowed. Zipperer' s Funeral Home

CUMMINS, Laymond M., 80, of Tampa, passed away Friday, February 1, 2008. He was
preceded in death by wife, Dianne; parents, John and Myrtle; and brother,
Foster. He is survived by his children, Betty (Harold) Valdez, Peggy Green,
Nancy Cummins, Ronald (Sandy) Cummins, David Cummins, Robin (Craig) Lumsden,
Marlene (David) Rose, Darlene (John) Baldwin and Thomas (Kim) Cummins; 16
grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren; dear to him, Virginia Porter; brothers,
Pat and Bill; sisters, Doris Rumore, Idie Rodriguez, Judy Wood, Mandy Hudson,
Betty Devitt, Sara Martin, Wanda Popp, Charlotte Cummins and Thelma Middlemiss;
and other family members and friends. He was retired from Eli Witt Co., served
25 years with the Florida Highway Patrol Auxiliary and was a member of American
Legion Post 111. The family will receive friends 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Wednesday, February 6, 2008, at Garden of Memories Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake
Ave., Tampa. Funeral services will take place at 12:30 p.m., with interment
following at Garden of Memories Cemetery. Donations may be made to LifePath
Hospice, 12973 Telecom Parkway, Suite 100, Temple Terrace, FL 33637.

DURANT, John, 92, of St. Petersburg, died January 30, 2008. He is survived by a
son, Robert Durant. Holloway Funeral Home (813) 855-2439

FARRELL, Larry, 63, of Tarpon Springs, died February 1, 2008. He came to this
area from New York, was a U.S. postal clerk and a Catholic, and is survived by a
one brother. Vinson FH, (727) 937-6111

FYFFE, James Theodore "Ted," 62, a longtime Red Cross volunteer, died Monday,
January 28, 2008, at James A. Haley VA Medical Center. Ted was born at Tampa
General Hospital and grew up through Tampa' s Roosevelt Elementary, Madison
Junior High and Plant High schools. He was active in the Madison' s band, Plant'
s Honor Society, Key Club, the Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church and also became an
Eagle Boy Scout. He graduated with an associate degree from St. Petersburg
Junior College and then enlisted in the U.S. States Navy, where he was elected
"Honor Man" of his boot camp class. While serving aboard the USS Kearsage,
operating off the cost of Vietnam, he was disabled and later retired. Since his
retirement, Ted volunteered many years in reading for the blind, was involved in
many church activities and dedicated 30 years to the American Red Cross. Ted is
survived by his mother, Mrs. Carol Fyffe of Tampa; his brother, Donald E. Fyffe
of Seattle, Wash.; his sister-in-law; a nephew; and a niece. A memorial service
will take place at 1:30 p.m. Monday, February 25, 2008, at Palma Ceia
Presbyterian Church, 3501 W. San Jose St., Tampa. Marsicano - B. Marion Reed
Stowers

GARNER, Helen P., 76, of Tampa, passed away February 1, 2008. Survivors include
her daughter, Dorothy Gardner, and two nephews. A graveside service will take
place at 11 a.m. Wednesday, February 6, 2008, at Glen Abbey Memorial Gardens,
2198 K Ville Avenue, Auburndale, Fla. You may view and sign the guestbook at
www.floridamortuary.net

GEERER, Richard Joseph, 47, of Tampa, passed away February 2, 2008. Rick was a
stage hand and was known by his friends and co-workers as "Tiny." He was a
member of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Tampa Local
321 and Orlando Local 835. Rick is survived by his wife, Nita Gail; son,
Fredrick L. Cagle; daughter, Jessica Lynn Clark; parents, Ken and Margitta
Geerer; brothers, Edward, Michael and Robert; sister, Patricia Gibson; and
grand-children, Ryan, Nathaniel, Taylor and Jordyn. The family will receive
friends 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Thursday, February 7, at the chapel of MacDonald Funeral
Home, 10520 N. Florida Ave., followed by a celebration of "Tiny' s" life 5-8
p.m. at St. Pete Times Forum, 401 Channelside Drive, Tampa. Send online
condolences to www.macdonaldfuneral.com

GONZALEZ, Lina, of Tampa, passed away January 2, 2008, at Hernando-Pasco Hospice
Care Center in Dade City. Ms. Gonzalez was lifelong resident of Tampa. She was
strong in her faith and was a loving, devoted mother and grandmother. Survivors
include son, Dr. Tony Gonzalez (Mae) of Kingsport, Tenn.; daughter, Norma
Jamison of Dade City; grandchildren, Derek Roberts, DeLynda Faudel (Tom), Twana
McCreery (John) and Tondria Robinette; six great-grand-children; and one
great-great- grandchild. Pallbearers include Derek Roberts, Tom Faudel, Eric
Ceron, Chad Morelaock, Lee DeSiano and Michael Lopez. Services will be conducted
by Dr. Tony Gonzalez at 11 a.m. Wednesday, February 6, at McFarlane Park Baptist
Church, 1606 N. Lincoln Ave., Tampa, with a visitation one hour prior to
service. Ms. Gonzalez' s final resting place will be at Chapel Hill Gardens in
Dade City.

HAM, Blanche, 87, died February 3, 2008. She is survived by a loving family.
Viewing will be 10 a.m. February 6, with services at 11 a.m, at The Seventh-day
Adventist Church, Brandon. Global Mortuary

HAYMAN, Leota T., 94, a native and lifelong resident of Tampa, passed away at
home February 2, 2008, in Tampa. She was preceded by her parents, Leffie T. and
Annie N. Hayman; her sister and husband, Evelyn H. and T. Gilbert Gordon Sr.,
M.D.; and nephew, Thomas G. Gordon Jr., and wife, Barbara B. Gordon. She is
survived by her niece, Judith G. Simpson, and her children, John R., Sallie and
husband, Sean Durden, and Patrick G. Simpson, of Alabama; her nephew, Alfred
Hayman, and wife, Deanna H. Gordon, and their son, Dean Thomas Gordon, of
Bradenton; her great-niece, Elizabeth Gordon, and husband, Terry Fite, and their
three daughters, of Texas; and many relatives and friends. A graduate of
Hillsborough High School, she was a member of Seminole Heights United Methodist
Church for more than 80 years, and she was retired from the Hillsborough County
Tax Collector' s Office. An Eastern Star member of more than 60 years, she
served as past matron of the Mystic Chapter 110, Order of the Eastern Star,
where she also served as treasurer for more than 19 years. The family will
receive friends 6-8 p.m. Wednesday, February 6, at Blount & Curry Funeral Home,
Carrollwood Chapel, 3207 W. Bearss Ave., Tampa. A funeral service will take
place at 10 a.m. Thursday, February 7, at the funeral home, followed by
interment at Myrtle Hill Memorial Park. In lieu of flowers, donations may be
made to Seminole Heights United Methodist Church or to a charity of your choice.
Words of comfort may be expressed at www.blountcurry.com

HULETT, Sondra L., 56, of Tampa, passed away February 2, 2008. She is survived
by her loving family members and friends. Brewer & Sons Funeral Home, (813)
835-4991

HURST, Darlene M., 74, of Land O' Lakes, entered into rest February 3, 2008. She
is survived by her beloved husband of 54 years, Rex Hurst; daughters, Deborah
Anderson and husband, Don, and Pam Dismang; son, Stephen Hurst, and wife,
Kimberly Shader; grandchildren, Casey Bartow, Christopher Anderson, Joshua
Sanders, Jacob Sanders and Harold Dismang Jr.; and great- grandchildren,
Nicholas Bartow and Alyson Anderson. She was a loving wife, mother, grand-mother
and great-grandmother. A member of Northgate Baptist Church, Tampa. Funeral
services will take place at noon Tuesday, February 5, 2008, at Garden of
Memories Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa, with visitation two hours prior
to service. Words of comfort may be expressed at gardenofmemoriestampa.com

LORENTSON, Ann Louise, 61, a resident of Tampa since 1958, born in Warren, Pa.,
passed away February 2, 2008. She is survived by her loving husband and son,
Harold and Brent Lorentson. Ann retired January 7, 2008, after 37 years of
dedicated service with the Hillsborough County Tax Collector' s office. The
viewing will be 5-8 p.m. Tuesday, February 5, 2008, with services following 8-9
p.m., at Gonzalez Funeral Home. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to
the American Cancer Society, 1001 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa, FL, 33629.
Arrangements have been entrusted to Gonzalez Funeral Home 7209 N. Dale Mabry
Highway Tampa, FL 33614 (813) 931-1833

MASSARI, Domenic Jr., 80, passed away Sunday, February 3, 2008, in Tampa.
Survivors include his wife of 58 years, Grace; children, Domenic Massari III,
Donna Bevis (Larry), Cathy Groh (Conrad), Sylvia Griswold and Patricia Massari;
his 10 adoring grandchildren, Charles, Domenic IV, Rino, Tony, Courtney,
Maxwell, Zachary, Lauren, Dylan and Kyle; great- grandson, Lucian;
sister-in-law, Sylvia Alberdi; and his best friend, his cat, Pretty Kitty. In
lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to The Humane Society of Tampa
Bay, 3607 N Armenia Ave., Tampa, FL 33607. A Mass of Christian Burial will take
place at 9:30 a.m. Wednesday, February 6, 2008, at Sacred Heart Catholic Church,
with entombment to follow at Garden of Memories Cemetery. Arrangements have been
entrusted to Gonzalez Funeral Home 7209 N. Dale Mabry Highway Tampa, FL 33614
(813) 931-1833

McGUIGAN, James J., of Tampa, made his transition Sunday, February 3, 2008. He
is survived by his wife, Karren; five children, Michael, Patricia, Kathy, Jayne
and John; and five grandchildren, Melissa, Matthew, Michelle, Keith and Kristen.
James is the executive director and founder of the Gift of Life Foundation. He
established the foundation after experiencing the medical miracle of a
life-saving kidney transplant. He retired as vice president of Burlington Air
Express, having had a successful career in transportation. James honorably
served in the Army during the Korean conflict. The family will receive friends
6-8 p.m. Wednesday, February 6, at Blount & Curry Funeral Home, 605 S. MacDill
Ave. A funeral Mass will take place at 10 a.m. Thursday, February 7, at Christ
the King Catholic Church, 821 S. Dale Mabry Highway. In lieu of flowers, James
had requested that contributions be made to the Gift of Life Foundation, 4511 N.
Himes Ave., Suite 262, Tampa, FL 33614, (813) 855-7600. Please sign the online
guestbook at www.blountcurry.com

MELENDEZ, Virginia "Vicky," passed away January 30, 2008. She is loved very much
and will be greatly missed. She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Ramon
"Ray" Melendez; two daughters; four grand-children; three brothers; and six
sisters. Expressions of sympathy should be made to hospice and JSA.

MOELLER, Carole, 80, passed away February 1, 2008, and has entered the kingdom
of heaven. A native of Atlanta, Ga., Mrs. Moeller lived in Tampa and Temple
Terrace, Fla., for more than 50 years. She is survived by her three daughters,
Debbie Kahn and husband, Neal, Lisa Cornelius and husband, Jeff, and Patricia
Moeller, whose spouse predeceased her; grandchildren, Alex Kahn, Ansley Kahn,
Jonathan Cornelius, Jordan Cornelius and Jackson Cornelius; her sister, Melrose
Carter of Atlanta; and numerous nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. She has
been reunited with her parents, Pearl and Aubrey Sheats. Carole was an
incredible mother who devoted her life to raising her family and to her
community. She was active in the Temple Terrace Chamber of Commerce and a
supporter of Florida College, and she gave her time generously to many community
affairs. Special thanks are given to University Community Hospital and the H.
Lee Moffit Cancer Center and its doctors, nurses, staff and intensive care unit,
who helped her battle a long illness. The family will receive friends 6-8 p.m.
Wednesday at Stowers Funeral Home, Brandon Chapel. Services will take place at 2
p.m. Thursday at St. Andrews United Methodist Church in Brandon. Interment will
follow. She will be dearly missed. An online guestbook is available at
www.mem.com Stowers Funeral Home

PEREZ, Mary G., 83, of Tampa, died peacefully on February 3, 2008, at LifePath
Melech Hospice House after a very long battle with cancer. She was preceded in
death by her husband of more than 50 years, Gustavo "Gus" Perez. She is survived
by her daughter, Arleen Stenglein, and her husband, Thomas Stenglein; two
granddaughters, Tammy Clarke and her husband, Walter, and Shelly Stenglein and
her fiance, John Hill; two great-grandchildren, Riley and Jackson Clarke;
brother, Parsons "Pablo" Valdez; two sisters-in-law, Margaret Lozano and
Clementina Valdez; two nieces, Rosary Lopez and Linda Rodriguez; one nephew,
Paul Charles Valdez; and four great- nieces and great-nephews. Mary' s first
priority and passion was always for her family, and she spent most of her
lifetime being totally devoted to each and every one of them, offering her love,
care and support. When family members became sick, she became their caretaker
and she, unselfishly, cared for them with complete love and devotion no matter
how tough the situation got. Her family, especially her daughter, could never do
any wrong in Mary' s eyes. Her home of more than 48 years was her second
passion, and she always kept it looking like a doll house, inside and out, and
the doors were always open to the many unexpected visitors of family members and
friends. Most people go a lifetime and never meet someone with all of Mary' s
fine qualities, but we were truly blessed to have her in our family. She has
been an inspiration to us all, and we will never forget her, will never stop
loving her and we will miss her very much. Special thanks are given to the
LifePath Hospice Pink Team and to LifePath Melech Hospice House for their
excellent care, support and compassion during this long battle. The family will
receive friends 2-3 p.m. Thursday, February 7, 2008, at Garden of Memories
Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa. Funeral services will be at 3 p.m. at
the funeral home, with interment to follow at Garden of Memories Cemetery.

SCOTT, Marina Francisca R., 87, a resident of Tampa since 1953, born in San
Salvador, EI Salvador, was called to her heavenly home on January 28, 2008. She
was predeceased by her beloved husband, Hugh A. Scott. She was a kind and
generous person with a warm heart who loved to entertain, garden, travel, and
listen to music. She is survived by two loving and caring daughters, Bonnie
Hess, and Eleanor Scott (her longtime caregiver); two sons, Henry of Tampa, and
Dr. Andrew (Cindy) Scott of Niceville, Fla.; five grand- children, Kelly,
Racquel, Sabrina, Brad, and Greg; eight great grandchildren; sisters, Marie
Brown of Texas, and Elena Rodriguez of El Salvador. A funeral Mass will be said
at 2 p.m., Thursday, February 7, in the Chapel at Christ the King. In lieu of
flowers contributions may be made to LifePath Hospice. Blount & Curry, MacDill
Avenue Chapel

SIMMONS, Maxine Castillo, 69, crossed over Friday, February 1, 2008. She is the
daughter of the late George Castillo and Vivian Castillo Selner. She is survived
by her mother; three daughters, Cheryl Redford (Jeff), Michelle Henry (Pete) and
Kelle Frustaci (David); five grandchildren, Courtney Cubero, Derin and Nicole
Henry, and Michael and Danielle Frustaci; three sisters, B.J. Castillo, Donna
Budd and Harriett Selner; two brothers Ron Selner (Glenda) and Rodney Selner
(Brenda); and many nieces, nephews and friends. Maxine was born in Ruskin and
was very proud to tell people she was a native Floridian, and a river rat who
was born on Gulf City Road. She had a true love for fishing. Most of all she
loved and was proud of her children and grandchildren. In her younger years,
Maxine was very active in the Ruskin community. She was the first female
honorary mayor of Ruskin, president of Ruskin Elementary PTA and president of
the Junior Womens Club of Ruskin, all in the same year. She was honored as an
Outstanding Young Women of America in 1970. The family will receive visitors 6-8
p.m. Wednesday, February 6, 2008, at Lewers Funeral Home in Ruskin. A
celebration of Maxine' s life will take place at 1 p.m. Thursday, February 7,
2008, at Calvary Lutheran Church in Apollo Beach, 5309 U.S. Highway 41 N., (813)
645-7305. Donations can be made in Maxine' s honor to Calvary Lutheran Church in
Apollo Beach or an organization of your choice. To view Maxine' s everlasting
memorial and share condolences, memories and stories, please visit www.mem.com

SMITH, Emily I., 84, of Temple Terrace, passed away February 3, 2008. Survivors
include her niece, Sandra Judkins (Ray); nephew, James Smith; and several
great-nieces and great-nephews. At her request, there will be no services. You
may view and sign the guest book at www.floridamortuary.net

STRAKA, Donald A., 72, of Tampa, passed away Sunday, February 3, 2008 at Melech
Hospice House, Temple Terrace. Loving father of Steven, Nancy and Susan, he is
also survived by his mother, Marie; sister, Phyllis and five grandchildren. The
family suggests memorial contributions in his name to LifePath Hospice. Affinity
Cremation, (813) 684-7500

STANFORD, Margaret R. "Peggy," 82, of Tarpon Springs died Sunday, February 3,
2008, at her home. Born in Milwaukee, Wis., she moved here from Nutley, N.J., in
1978. Peggy retired as a telephone switchboard operator for Clara Maas Memorial
Hospital, Belleville, N.J., after 25 plus years service. She was a member of St.
Ignatius of Antioch Catholic Church and Tarpon Shores Homeowner' s Association,
Tarpon Springs. Survivors include her husband of 61 years, Rolland J. Stanford;
sons, Edward J. (Cathy) Stanford, Tobyhanna, Pa., Thomas A. Stanford, Totowa,
N.J., and James R. Stanford (fiancee, Sharon), Palm Harbor; daughter, Pamela S.
(Bill) Worth, Tarpon Springs; grandchildren, Edward (Cathy) Stanford Jr.,
Wilkesboro, N.C., Jennifer Stanford, Tobyhanna, Pa., William Stanford,
Tobyhanna, Pa., Suzanne (Chris) O' Connell, Branchburg, N.J., James R. Stanford
Jr., Bloomfield, N.J., and Michael (Jennifer) Vitello, Toms River, N.J.;
great-grandchildren, Joseph Stanford, Tobyhanna, Pa., Grace Stanford, Wilkesboro
N.C., and Jace and Gianna Vitello, Toms River, N.J. She was preceded in death by
six siblings, Virginia, William, Robert, Edward, Justin and Elwood, and her
beloved granddaughter, Jamie Vitello. A special thanks goes to The Hospice of
the Florida Suncoast Green Team. Memorial donations may be made to The Hospice
of the Florida Suncoast. Visitation will be 5-8 p.m. Wednesday, February 6, at
Dobies Funeral Home, 701 E. Tarpon Ave. Services will be 10 a.m. Thursday St.
Ignatius of Antioch Catholic Church. Burial will follow at Florida National
Cemetery, Bushnell. Dobies Funeral Home Tarpon Springs

WALKER, Curtis Irvin, 90, of Lakeland, died February 2, 2008. He is survived by
his daughter, two grandsons, one granddaughter and great grand- children. Heath
Funeral Chapel

WOOD, Sylvia Elaine, 61, of Tampa, passed away February 4, 2008. She was born in
Youngstown, Ohio, in 1946. She was a longtime resident of Tampa. Sylvia lived a
full life and enjoyed her work as an office manager in the history department at
the University of South Florida, where she had worked since 1980. She was a
member since 1989 of First Christian Church of Tampa, where she had served as a
chairman of elders, a member of the choir and a Sunday School teacher. She is
survived by her loving family, sons, James (Elizabeth) Wood Jr. of Riverview,
Fla., and Ken Wood of Temple Terrace, Fla.; brothers, Fred Froggett of Hubbard,
Ohio, and Frank Froggett of Temple Terrace, Fla.; Renee (Larry) Moye of Lutz,
Fla., and Carol (Richard) Barth of Hubbard, Ohio; and she had a special devotion
to her granddaughter, Kayla Wood. She is survived by her former husband, James
Wood Sr. There will be a celebration of Sylvia' s life at 11 a.m. Thursday,
February 7, 2008, at First Christian Church of Tampa, 350 Hyde Park Ave., Tampa.
In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be given to Metropolitan Ministries,
2101 N. Florida Ave., Tampa. Words of comfort may be expressed at
serenitymeadows.com

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              68 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Not Too Hot, Not Too Cold, Plant City Is Just Right

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words


Strawberry Festival celebrates the blend of geography and climate that makes
this area special.

By JAN HOLLINGSWORTH

The Tampa Tribune

PLANT CITY - The queen is crowned, the parade floats decorated, the strawberries
stemmed and the atmosphere charged with anticipation as this town prepares to
pay annual homage to the crop that put it on the map.

At a time when modern culture is defined by the wireless BlackBerry, Plant
City's obsession with a simple fruit might seem quaint but antiquated.

Yet tens of thousands journey to this rural enclave each year to participate in
the Florida Strawberry Festival, which begins today and runs through March 9.

Nothing short of world war has stood between Plant City and its celebration of
the perfect storm of latitude, climate, circumstance and providence that created
the world's winter strawberry capital in the eastern corner of Hillsborough
County.

"I live on a piece of property that's been in the family since the late 1880s
and it's had berries on it ever since," said Michelle Williamson, whose family
produces about 10 percent of the berries in Hillsborough County.

The Williamsons, one of the oldest farming clans in the county, came to Dover
from Jacksonville. They were among the first to discover they had landed in
perhaps the best place in the world to cultivate winter strawberries.

"Further north, there were more problems with winter freezes, further south, it
was too warm in the winter for consistent production," said Craig Chandler, a
professor of horticulture and strawberry breeder at the University of Florida's
Gulf Coast Research and Education Center in Wimauma.

Even the length of the days in this global "sweet spot" is conducive to prolific
winter berry production, said Allen Williford, president of the Florida
Strawberry Growers Association.

The area's extraordinarily fertile southern soil sealed the deal as far as
growing berries. However, it was a Connecticut Yankee who made it possible to
get the fragile fruit to market.

Both Plant City and its berry industry were born of the railroad that Henry
Plant built.

The first record for berries shipped out of this budding railroad town dates
back to 1892, according to "Plant City: Its Origin and History," by the late
Quintilla Geer Bruton and David E. Bailey Jr.

The industry grew from there.

In the early 1900s, agriculture records show only 169 of the state's 1,300 acres
of berry production were in Plant City. Bradford County was, at the time, the
center of Florida berry production. The shift to Hillsborough was swift and
profound.

Berry growing was a family affair - labor intensive and requiring the
participation of men, women and children.

Public schools in the area - known as "strawberry schools" - followed the
schedule of the harvest until 1957. Students in eastern Hillsborough County
attended strawberry schools in the summer and took off during the winter to help
with the family's berry operation.

The youngsters not only picked berries, earning 2 cents to 3 cents per quart,
they pitched in to cover the plants with straw - and later brown paper - to
protect the crops from the threat of freeze.

"Later they used water to frost-protect," Williamson said. "That's all I
remember as a kid growing up in the '60s and '70s."

Irrigating the fields when the mercury dips below freezing is the method used to
this day.

Demand Back On The Rise

By the 1920s, small family berry patches were largely replaced by vast fields.
Berry acreage expanded from 300 acres per season to 6,000 and Plant City had
officially earned the title of World's Winter Strawberry Capital.

Fresh winter berries were a glamour product served in the hotels of large
eastern cities and on steamships sailing from New York. The fragile, highly
perishable fruit required special handling - hand-packed in quart cups, nestled
in chipped ice and shipped by passenger train from Plant City, the largest
inland shipping point in Florida. Freight trains were too slow.

A landmark transportation ruling in the 1930s, which required express companies
to provide full refrigerated car service, contributed to the expansion of the
industry.

Strawberries, the king of the crops, had earned a queen.

In 1930, Plant City crowned its royal court and launched the first strawberry
festival. The ritual has been repeated every year except during and shortly
after World War II.

By the 1980s, berry acreage shrank from a high of 6,000 acres to no more than
600. Quick-freeze technology allowed summer berries produced in California and
elsewhere to be preserved and consumer demand for winter berries waned.

When Williamson married into the century-old Dover berry empire 25 years ago,
the industry was on the upswing again.

"We had 50 acres back then. Now my husband's family has right at 800," she said.

Much of it is former citrus land.

"We purchased groves to convert into berry production," she said.

Berry production in Hillsborough County has grown to encompass some 8,000 acres.

Technology, Breeding Help Industry

Much has changed over the past century in how the berries are grown. Scientists
have developed Florida varieties better adapted to the state's climate than the
California cultivars once used.

Machines have replaced mules in the fields, though berries remain a uniquely
labor-intensive crop requiring many hands to gather the ripened fruit.

And plastic has replaced the straw that once covered berry beds, providing more
effective weed and pest control.

The farmers' age-old battle with the elements remains the same.

Wednesday morning, as a late-season cold front threatened the berry crop for the
second time this year, festival organizers prepared to kick off the 73rd annual
ode to the strawberry.

Business should be as brisk as the weather, festival president Gary Boothe said.

"I think that tomorrow will be a perfect spring day for all the people from up
North who will be coming for Senior Citizens' Day," he said.

As long as there are berries, people will come. For now, there are more berries
than ever. Still, the threat of urbanization looms large in a county where
rooftops are becoming the most visible crop.

Chandler, who travels the world visiting places that produce winter fruit, said
Plant City is second to none when it comes to strawberries.

"I just hope we can preserve that with continued urbanization in the area. I
think this industry is quite valuable," he said.

(CHART) IF YOU GO

Here's the daily schedule for the Florida Strawberry Festival:

Today is Senior Citizens' Day; patrons 60 and older get $2 off the gate
admission of $10. Also, Ride-A-Thon is from 3 to 11 p.m. A wristband purchased
at the midway for $17 entitles the wearer to ride most mechanical rides.

10 a.m.: Gates open

All day: Poultry and rabbit shows, poultry and rabbit tent

10:30-11:30 a.m.: Jimmy Sturr and Orchestra, Southern Chevy Dealers Soundstage

11:30 a.m.-noon: Senior citizens' drawing, Southern Chevy Dealers Soundstage

Noon: Midway opens

3:30 p.m.: Bobby Vinton, Southern Chevy Dealers Soundstage

7 p.m.: Youth swine show, TECO Livestock Arena

7:30 p.m.: Josh Turner, Southern Chevy Dealers Soundstage

Festival grounds are at 2202 W. Reynolds St., Plant City. Festival admission
tickets purchased at area Sweetbay Supermarkets are $8 for ages 13 and older and
$4 for ages 6 to 12. Prices at the gate are $10 for adults and $5 for youths.
Children 5 and younger are admitted free when accompanied by a paying adult.

Headline concert tickets are $10 to $40 for reserved seats, depending on the
artist and seat location. A limited number of seats are available for free at
each concert. Concert tickets are not good for admission to the festival
grounds.

The festival's Web address is flstrawberryfestival.com. For information, call
the ticket office at (813) 754-1996.

Reporter Jan Hollingsworth can be reached at (813) 865-4436 or
jhollingsworth@tampatrib.com

STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL PARKING

(1) Seminole Lake R.V. lot

(2) Gray parking lot

(3) Red parking lot

(4) Handicapped parking lot

(5) Blue parking lot

(6) Parking lot

(7) Tomlin school parking lot

(8) Woodrow Wilson R.V. lot

(9) Bryan school parking lot

(10) Granfield-Plum parking lot

(11) Exhibitor parking lot

(12) Connor parking lot

(13) Stock parking lot

(14) Tour bus parking lot #1

(15) Tour bus parking lot #2

MIDWAY

MAIN STAGE

Tribune map; Source: Florida Strawberry Festival

Photo credit: Henry B. Plant Museum; Hillsborough County Public Library
System;Tribune photos by JIM REED

Photo: Strawberry farming has been a labor of love in Plant City since Henry B.
Plant, upper right, ran a rail line in to Hillsborough County in the late 1800s.
Over the years the operations have shifted from hand-picking and packing in
1935, left, to a more mechanized system, above, in 1960. But even in the
BlackBerry era, top center, the strawberry business requires a strong back.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by ROBERT BURKE (2002)

Photo: Craig Chandler of the University of Florida says Plant City is not too
hot, not too cold, but just right for strawberries.

Photo: Michelle Williamson's family produces about 10 percent of the
strawberries grown in Hillsborough County.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 8 CHART MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              71 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time Ripe For Berries

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PLANT CITY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1519 words


PLANT CITY - Summer is a time of rest in the world's winter strawberry capital.

Most of the fields have been fallow since late spring, when the sheets of black
plastic were pulled up and burned, the neat rows flattened, the commercial berry
gardens gone to weed.

Some of the land, however, has continued to feed a powerful appetite for locally
grown fruits and vegetables. Squash, zucchini, peppers, onions, cantaloupe and
tomatoes sprouted for a time among the rows of fading berries. Then came sorghum
and other cover crops - planted, then plowed under to replenish the earth.

A few fanciful farmers each year fill their fields with grand sunflowers that
nod in the breeze at transfixed passers-by. The berry respite doesn't last long,
though. Neither do the fields of sunny blossoms that must make way for Plant
City's top crop. These, too, eventually find their way back into the ground.

Come Labor Day, the cycle begins again, witnessed by those who frequent the
byways of eastern Hillsborough County.

For months the fields have baked in the sun, flat and gray with no hint of what
they are about to become - thousands of acres of vibrant green bushes bursting
with ruby red berries.

Some acres have been planted with a variety of early berries - not as sweet or
succulent as the Treasures and Festivals that will follow in the coming months,
yet firm and more conducive to shipping to faraway markets.

In the fields that will grow the later varieties that find their way to local
grocery stores and produce markets, the tractors are busy turning the earth that
soon will be fumigated and covered in new layers of visqueen, the polyethylene
sheeting that has revolutionized Florida strawberry production in recent
decades.

The plastic is a constant in all the berry fields, sealing soil freshly
sterilized of noxious spores and seeds. For the next eight months, the growers
will do battle with the fungus and weeds that threaten their livelihood.

Most, like Carl Grooms, will be trying once again to find a suitable substitute
for methyl bromide, the magic bullet that has allowed berries to thrive in
Florida's warm, moist and sometimes inhospitable climate.

Methyl bromide, the growers' weapon of choice, is being phased out by an
international treaty. It is said to be a threat to the ozone layer that shields
the ground from harmful radiation.

Grooms is testing several alternatives on his 200 acres of berries this year.

In some of his fields, he will use a double layer of plastic and fumigate the
soil beneath it with a chemical called Vapam.

"It's an old product. It's been around for 50 or 60 years," he said.

Grooms also plans to test Paladin, another promising fumigant that is in the
experimental stage.

Some growers have had success with a chemical called Telon that is injected
through the plastic to stave off the troublesome weeds, fungus and nematodes.

"I haven't seen any equal to methyl bromide yet," Grooms said. "We might have to
compromise and just take what we can get."

Allen Williford, president of the Florida Strawberry Growers Association, is one
of the few local berry producers who doesn't have to concern himself with
finding a chemical alternative to methyl bromide.

Williford raises organic berries.

"Obviously, I can't use any of them," he said. "What I've chosen to do is not
grow in the soil. I grow in organic soil-less media."

Williford's 15 acres of organic berries are a specialty product that costs twice
as much per acre to produce as berries grown at conventional farms.

"At present, it hasn't been profitable for us, but we're blazing a new trail and
trying to make this happen and bring costs down," he said.

With farm acreage shrinking and populations growing, conventional production
systems will remain the foundation of global food sources, Williford said.

"The world is going to have to be fed by conventional farming methods unless
everybody in suburbia starts growing their own food like our ancestors did."

That means berry farmers will have to find a substitute for methyl bromide - and
soon.

So far the most effective soil fumigant - and the most controversial - appears
to be methyl iodide, which was approved last year by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency despite the protests of dozens of scientists.

In a letter sent last fall to EPA administrator Stephen Johnson, 54 scientists -
including five Nobel laureates in chemistry - warned that the toxic fumigant
poses a threat to fetuses, children, the elderly and others who might come in
contact with it in local farm fields.

Methyl iodide, developed specifically to replace methyl bromide, is designed
mainly for use by berry growers in Florida and California.

The federal agency has required workers who apply it to the fields to wear extra
protective clothing. The new rules apply to methyl bromide, as well, in areas
where it is still being used.

Grooms frets about the public perception when people driving past berry fields
see farm workers in masks and moon suits.

"It is hard for growers to understand that somebody who's been involved with a
chemical for 40 years needs to be more cautious," he said.

Addressing public perception will be one of the challenges faced by Ted
Campbell, the newly hired executive director of the Florida Strawberry Growers
Association.

Campbell, who has operated a plant nursery and also worked for years procuring
produce for a grocery chain, was chosen unanimously by the association's board
last month after a nationwide search.

He's new to the berry business, but his experience in the production and retail
end of agriculture will be invaluable, said Grooms, who is on the association's
executive committee.

Educating the consumer and the grocery store buyers is a key goal of the berry
growers.

"We actually talked about that at the board meeting when we hired him," Grooms
said. "We've got to get the communication to the grocery chains as to what
farmers need to grow and harvest a good crop.

"And we need to educate the folks who buy our produce about what we do for them
in terms of food safety and the regulations we abide by."

That will go a long way toward instilling consumer confidence in American-grown
produce versus the cut-rate imports preferred by some grocery chains.

"There's a lot of things we do that the consumer doesn't know about," Grooms
said. "Things that make a difference - cooling them after they're picked,
getting them to market quickly. We use best management practices at the farm -
in our pesticides, watering, food safety."

American farmers are conscientious about what they do, Williford said.

"The conventional farms that we have now are the safest they have ever been, and
they get safer and safer," he said.

Getting the word out to retail produce procurers and grocery shoppers will be
one of the challenges Campbell faces in the coming year.

For now, he is learning the names, the faces and the issues of the Florida
strawberry world.

"I'm trying to give myself a clear understanding of what's happening and what
needs to be done," Campbell said.

Meantime, the growers have their work cut out for them.

The cost of producing an acre of berries will increase dramatically this year,
Williford said.

"Everything we touch and use in our industry in some form or another has
petroleum involved. And fertilizer has doubled and tripled in price," he said.

Grooms is undaunted as he prepares to tackle another long and uncertain season
of watching the skies and the mercury - of hot days on the tractor and freezing
nights in the fields, coaxing blooms and berries from the rich Plant City soil.

"Bring it on! Bring it on!" he crowed. "It's just another day."

Reporter Jan Hollingsworth can be reached at (813)865-4436 or
jhollingsworth@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: The plastic is a constant in all the berry fields, sealing soil freshly
sterilized of noxious spores and seeds.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by KATHY MOORE

Photo: The EPA requires workers who apply methyl bromide or methyl iodide to the
fields to wear protective clothing.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Strawberry flowers will drop their petals and ripen into red berries.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Grooms says he is planning to test Paladin, another promising fumigant
that is in the experimental stage.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Carl Grooms fumigates rows that will be planted with strawberry plants.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Acres have been planted with a variety of early tomatoes - not as sweet
or succulent as the Treasures and Festivals that follow in the coming months,
yet firm and more conducive to shipping.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by KATHY MOORE

Photo: A Treasure plant is among the varieties that will be planted later.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: The most effective soil fumigant - and the most controversial - is methyl
iodide, approved last year by the Environmental Protection Agency despite the
protests of dozens of scientists.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2008



CORRECTION: Two photographs that appeared in the Aug. 27 edition of the Plant
City Courier & Tribune showed fields planted in tomatoes. The photo captions
said they were planted in a different crop.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              73 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crist Will 'Fight For Florida'

BYLINE: CATHERINE DOLINSKI, cdolinski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1220 words


The governor reflects on marriage, scandals and challenges to come.

By CATHERINE DOLINSKI

cdolinski@tampatrib.com

Gov. Charlie Crist reflected last week in an interview with The Tampa Tribune on
current controversies, the highs and lows of 2008, and what lies ahead in 2009.

Q. You're taking heat right now for the $430,000 cost of your 12-day European
trade mission last summer. In hindsight, do you feel that you spent too much?

A. "No."


Q. Why?

A. "Because of the benefits to our state. I just think it's so important to
continue to fight for Florida, and encourage trade, provide new jobs, economic
stimulation, develop relationships - I just think it's too important to our
state. People have a right to criticize, and I'm fine with that."


Q. Could you have spent less and still accomplished what you wanted?

A. "I don't know."


Q. Rep. Ray Sansom funneled $25 million to Northwest Florida State College this
year, then landed an unadvertised, $110,000-a-year job at the school on the day
he became House Speaker. You've refrained from criticizing the speaker - but
does this pass the smell test?

A. "I have great confidence in the speaker and his integrity. I realize that
sometimes in public life, things can not appear as they actually are. Because I
have confidence in his integrity, I am not critical."


Q. You mean that the reports may not reflect the truth?

A. "It looks like people are reaching conclusions. And I don't know if that's
fair."


Q. What were the brightest and darkest spots for you in 2008?

A. "There hasn't been a dark spot, except for this challenging economy. I
wouldn't call it dark - I would call it cloudy. But the bright spot is the
opportunity to serve these almost 20 million people that call Florida home?"


Q. Can you be more specific?

A. "Well, I'll mention Carole of course, and getting married this week. But from
a policy point of view, the acquisition of the land to restore the Everglades -
knock on wood, we're not there yet, but I think we're very close. I'm excited
about that."


Q. Economically, times are only getting tougher for Florida. Do you still think
it's the right time for the $1.34 billion Everglades purchase?

A. "I do."


Q. What will your legislative priorities be in 2009?

A. "No. 1, the budget - obviously, because of the economy - and the continuing
challenge of being able to provide services to people, especially the most
vulnerable among us. I think the greatest challenge is being able to do that,
and being able to do so while living within our means and balance the budget, as
is constitutionally required

"But in addition to that, the other priorities continue - the environment, the
economy, public safety. I would characterize it as trying to continue to improve
the quality of life that Floridians enjoy."


Q. Are you going to be lobbying hard to pass the tougher emissions standard that
you proposed and the Florida Environmental Regulation Commission approved this
month, but still needs ratification by lawmakers?

A. "I am. I think that's very important to Floridians' future, to fighting
global warming and protecting the beauty that is Florida, our tourism industry,
jobs and all the rest. So yes, I will."


Q. In Florida, lawmakers will have to find more than $5 billion to plug
shortfalls in the state budget this fiscal year and next. A $1 hike on the
cigarette tax, which is believed to be worth $1 billion, has generated a lot of
discussion. Would you support it?

A. "I don't' favor it. I don't know if it's necessary yet. I'm not warm and
fuzzy about it ? which is my general feeling about taking more from people. You
know I've always felt that way - that government ought to live within its means,
just as Floridians have to."


Q. Are there any other sources of additional revenue that you would consider?

A. "From trust funds, and by possibly bonding instead of paying cash for some
items. I don't think that contemplates what you were suggesting - not at the
present point."


Q. Survivors of the late Gov. Lawton Chiles are threatening to sue if you tap
the $1.1 billion Lawton Chiles Endowment Fund - created to support services for
children and seniors - to help plug the budget shortfall. Your response?

A. "I appreciate the input, on any issue, and I feel the same way about this
one. Whether it would impact whether we use those funds - I don't think it
matters. ? I think it's a viable option."


Q. CSX's $649 million commuter rail plan for central Florida appears to be back
on the fast track - at least in the Senate, where the project's supporters are
now leading key committees. Will you get more aggressively involved this year to
see the project through?

A. "It looks like there's fairly favorable review of it at this stage, in terms
of transportation, less carbon emissions, things like that. I do support it; how
much I'm going to have to really push, we'll have to wait and see."


Q. What about the liability issue, which helped derail the project during last
spring's legislative session? CSX has demanded that the state take liability for
any accident involving a passenger train on the tracks.

A. "I think that can be worked out ? I'd like to see what the proposals are
before I weigh in. Cleary though, if there's some injury, there ought to be a
way to appropriately compensate the aggrieved party."


Q. Will being a married family man change your outlook on Florida's needs and
priorities?

A. "I think it will, probably in many ways. You know, I'm 52, so my views of
Florida aren't going to change dramatically. I love this state, I love the
people of Florida. I care deeply about her - and Carole. It just gives me
another perspective about Florida. I love her input on many things and respect
her intellect. That's very helpful to me, as a public servant."


Q. Have you ruled out running for the Senate seat that Mel Martinez will be
vacating in 2010?

A. "I'm thinking about two things over the next several weeks; that is not among
them. It's Carole and Florida."


Q. National leaders have been consumed this fall by corporate bailout plans -
most recently, for the auto industry. You're a fiscal conservative; how do you
feel about these pricey proposals?

A. "The idea of utilizing funds to accelerate infrastructure investment, I think
is good. We've done it here. The notion, though, of bailing out these
corporations is disturbing to me. How do you pick who the winners and losers are
in that equation? How do you decide who's worthy and who's not worthy? It's
people who are hurting. That's why I think the stimulus package ? gets resources
to those who deserve it more."


Q. It's true that a lot of people are hurting right now, and economic indicators
suggest that things are only going to get worse in 2009. What's your message to
Floridians?

A. "Remain hopeful. Many times, it can look pretty bleak right before it gets
brighter again. And realize that we have a lot to be grateful for. The economy's
in a difficult place, and some people are comparing what we're going through now
to the Great Depression. But I think unemployment is 7 percent, thereabouts - in
the Great Depression, it was 25 percent. So it's important to have perspective,
and be aware that it's challenging and tough, but we'll get through it. And, I
hope, sooner than later."

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              74 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Area Ready To Catch Lacrosse Fever

BYLINE: CHRIS ERRINGTON, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words


CHAMPIONSHIP TOURNEY TO BE HELD THIS WEEKEND

By CHRIS ERRINGTON

Tribune correspondent

WESLEY CHAPEL - Josh Gross, sales and public relations manager for NDP Lacrosse
in Denver and a spokesman for the Dick's Sporting Goods Tournament of Champions,
knew the event had a problem. Pasco County was eager to provide the solution.

With the boys high school national lacrosse championships beginning just days
after qualifying tournaments are completed, officials knew changes would need to
be made. That's just what they did.

Because of the starting date of the championships, "it made it difficult for
many teams to finalize plans to reach the tournament," Gross said. "We were able
to give teams time to raise funds by moving it back to January, but because of
that we had to find a location with a warm climate.

"Thankfully we were lined up with Pasco County and Wesley Chapel."

Gross said 25 teams - 21 "Elite Division" and four "Rising Stars Division" teams
from the United States and Canada, including the local favorite Tampa Tribe and
defending national champion Edge Lacrosse Senior Elite (Ontario, Canada) - will
compete this weekend at Wesley Chapel District Park. And although recent
temperatures have made visiting teams feel as though they're back at Gettysburg
(Pa.) College, last year's championship site, Gross said tournament officials
hope to make Pasco County its permanent home.

More than 12 states will be represented in the field, along with three clubs
from Canada. Teams will compete in pool play Saturday and will then be seeded in
the single-elimination championship bracket based on pool-play results. Each
team is guaranteed at least five games.

The Tribe will sport teams in both divisions, and the Palm Beach Storm,
champions of the Derek Pieper Memorial Cup, and the Miami Makos will also
represent Florida. Still, it's the northern U.S. teams that should have the best
opportunity to dethrone the defending champions. Even with the Syracuse,
N.Y.-based CNY Roadhawks Select, the only team to defeat Edge Lacrosse on U.S.
soil, scheduled to play, the defending champs should be difficult to stop.

While Edge and its northern counterparts will claim most of the pretournament
attention, Gross said Florida teams, despite a severe disadvantage in terms of
the sport's longevity with state high school athletes, could be a surprise.

Seven pools of three teams each will begin competition Saturday at 8 a.m., with
winners advancing to the championship bracket and losing teams dropping to the
consolation bracket. Play will resume with games in both brackets at 2 p.m. and
will continue until a champion is crowned after the 12:30 p.m. title game
Sunday.

Although Edge is a favorite to repeat as national champions, Gross was quick to
acknowledge that back-to-back championships isn't a certainty.

"You can definitely see someone knocking the defending champs off," he said.
"All it takes is a key face-off here or there or a few shots going wide and
they're no longer the defending champs. Realistically, there are eight to 12
teams that can be national champs after this weekend."

Correspondent Chris Errington can be reached at cerrington @pop.tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by FRED BELLET

Photo: The Tampa Tribe will be one of several teams representing Florida at the
Dick's Sporting Goods Tournament of Champions at Wesley Chapel District Park.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              81 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Date Change Should Benefit Outback's April Tournament

BYLINE: MICK ELLIOTT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 275 words


By MICK ELLIOTT

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Champions Tour fans who have come to expect the senior golf season to
get warmed up with a consecutive four-week February swing through Florida,
including a stop at TPC of Tampa Bay, will need a slight adjustment.

Florida remains an early-season haven, only with a little different route.

After starting the season this week with consecutive events in Hawaii, the
Champions Tour will move to Florida for tournaments in Boca Raton (Feb. 8-10)
and Naples (Feb. 15-17). A stop in Palm Coast does not come until late March,
and Tampa's Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am has moved from its previous mid-February
date to April 18-20.

"I like the schedule this way," Champions Tour president Rick George said.
"Would I like one more event as part of that swing? Probably. But where we moved
the Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am is perfect.

"It gives us more flexibility, more daylight time. The course conditions will be
firmer and faster at that time of year. We think there are a lot of positives. I
like it; I think it's good for us."

Plagued by poor weather in past years, the Outback should find an improved
climate conditions and even greater appeal to celebrity competitors. However,
there is some question as to the buzz it will create coming later in the season
and the week immediately following the Masters.

George is not concerned.

"I think the timing of it is good," he said. "A lot of people watch the Masters
and get excited about golf again. I don't think there is any way it can hurt us.
It can only be enhanced."

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              82 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SHOP AND SAVE THE WORLD

BYLINE: RUSSELL RAY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1381 words


It makes sense for retailers to beef up eco-friendly and energy reduction
efforts. Besides helping the environment, it improves the bottom line.

By RUSSELL RAY

The Tampa Tribune

As retailers experiment with grand ideas to help the environment and conserve
energy, they have discovered a simpler and perhaps more practical solution: use
less power and cut down on waste.

The savings have been enormous for big retailers such as Publix Super Markets
and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which need large amounts of electricity and gasoline

to keep their checkout lines moving and delivery trucks rolling.

Many retail companies with long-established energy saving programs are beefing
up efforts in response to soaring fuel costs and increased pressure from the
public to do something about global warming.

"People are asking about it," Publix spokeswoman Shannon Patten said.

Retailers also are demanding from suppliers products that are better for the
environment and a reduction in the packaging they come in. Cutting the amount of
paper and plastic used in product packaging can lead to significant savings,
said Scot Case, vice president of environmental marketing firm TerraChoice.

Wal-Mart, for example, reduced transportation costs after requiring toy
suppliers to reduce packaging, Case said.

"By reducing the amount of packaging, they have saved $3.5 million in
transportation costs because they can fit more on a truck or ship," Case said.

Absorbing the increased cost of energy while maintaining competitive prices is
the challenge all retailers face.

Retail companies are experimenting with a variety of energy-saving techniques,
from using chicken fat to generate electricity to new lighting fixtures for
freezers. But looking environmentally friendly is just as important as being
environmentally friendly.

From a retailer's perspective, lower energy bills are just one of the benefits
of going green. Recognizing the profit potential, retailers are promoting their
green activities to lure environmentally conscious customers and investors.

Guilty Of 'Greenwashing'

Consumers, though, should think carefully before buying a product based on
environmental claims. Many of the products sold by big-box retailers don't live
up to the environmental claims of their makers, Case said.

Case's company examined more than 1,000 products from six big-box retailers and
found that nearly every product was guilty of "greenwashing": making
environmental claims that are false or misleading. Case wouldn't name the six,
but he did say they are well-known companies.

"If you are like 95 percent of the people in this country, you have shopped at
most of them," he said.

Case offered this advice for environmentally conscious customers: "If you do not
clearly understand why this product is considered green, it's probably just
greenwashing."

The Publix 'Routine'

Cutting energy consumption seems to be paying off for Publix, a Lakeland-based
supermarket chain with 926 locations in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina,
Alabama and Tennessee.

Since implementing its "Green Routine" program, an integrated approach to
conserving energy, in 2001, Publix has cut its electricity consumption by 643
million kilowatt hours, enough energy to power about 44,000 Florida homes for a
year.

"The program has helped us reduce companywide electricity usage by 7 percent in
existing stores," Patten said. "We've incorporated the latest fluorescent
technologies in our new store designs, with up to a 50 percent lighting energy
savings over stores with older designs."

The reduced usage was achieved in part by doing the simple things, Patten said,
such as turning off lights when leaving a room or shutting cooler doors.

"We have reminders all over the place about getting into a green routine," she
said. "The reason we designed this program was to encourage environmentally
responsible habits that our associates can use at work and at home."

In new Publix stores, milk is kept behind glass doors instead of an open cooler
as in the company's older stores. It's a simple but effective energy-saving step
that will be incorporated in every Publix, the company said.

Publix and other retailers have gone so far as to remove the light bulbs in
vending machines in the back of their stores and at their corporate
headquarters.

"We've been doing that for over 10 years," Patten said.

She said the company has cut greenhouse gas emissions, the primary cause of
climate change, by more than 300,000 tons. (To compare, Tampa Electric Co.'s Big
Bend power plant in 2006 emitted 11.7 million tons of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas.)

That includes a cutback of 2,500 tons from maximizing the fuel efficiency of
delivery trucks and reducing the miles traveled by each truck. As a result,
Publix drivers are traveling 28,000 fewer miles a week than they were two years
ago.

But Publix's green effort goes beyond energy conservation. The program also
focuses heavily on recycling and reduced packaging.

Last year, Publix recycled more than 209,000 tons of cardboard and more than
7,000 tons of plastic, Patten said.

Wal-Mart's High-Efficiency Stores

Retail giant Wal-Mart, one of the world's largest purchasers of energy, plans to
cut the energy consumption of its 4,000 supercenters by 30 percent in four
years.

"A typical store we build today is already more energy efficient than most any
other retail big box in the industry," Wal-Mart spokesman Michael Mills said.

For example, the company uses compact fluorescent light bulbs in the ceiling
fans and overhead light displays at all of its stores. A compact fluorescent
bulb converts 25 percent of the electricity it consumes into light; an ordinary
bulb converts just 5 percent.

"Just by doing that, we will save $7 million a year," Mills said.

Wal-Mart also is working to double the fuel efficiency of its fleet of trucks
over the next decade through improvements in tractor-trailer designs.

"If we cut our gas use in half, it's going to save us $300 million a year,"
Mills said.

Wal-Mart easily met its pledge to sell 100 million compact fluorescent bulbs in
2007.

"We did that in about eight months," Mills said. "Sure, it costs a little more,
but that light bulb is 75 percent more efficient than the typical light bulb."

Wal-Mart's plan to help the environment includes the use of more solar power and
even changing the flooring in stores. The white tile floors in most Wal-Marts
require a lot of chemicals and buffing to clean.

"It's time intensive, and it's bad for the environment," Mills said.

Through testing, the company found that a glazed concrete floor requires less
maintenance and is better for the environment.

"It looks good, and it just needs soap and water to clean," he said.

Wal-Mart has heavily touted its high-efficiency stores, equipped with waterless
urinals and state-of-the-art air-conditioning and refrigeration systems.

Last week in Romeoville, Ill., Wal-Mart opened what it calls a second-generation
high-efficiency store, an HE2, a step above the high-efficiency stores Wal-Mart
has already built.

The HE2 uses 25 percent less energy than a typical supercenter. The store is
equipped with environmentally friendly technologies that were tested at
experimental stores in Texas and Colorado.

"We see sustainability for us as the triple-bottom line," Mills said. "It's good
for our customers. It's good for our financial, and it's good for the
environment."

(CHART) BY THE NUMBERS

643 million

Kilowatt hours saved by Publix since launching its "Green Routine" program in
2001

209,000

Tons of cardboard recycled by Publix in 2007

28,000

Reduction of miles driven each week by Publix truck drivers the past two years

100 million

Compact fluorescent light bulbs sold by Wal-Mart in 2007

$300 million

What Wal-Mart would save each year if it accomplishes its plan to double the
fuel

efficiency of its trucks

Sources: Publix Super Markets; Wal-Mart Stores Inc.

Reporter Russell Ray can be reached at (813) 259-7870 or rray@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

Photo: To save energy, new Publix locations keep milk behind glass doors instead
of open coolers as in its older stores.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo; Tribune illustration by GREG WILLIAMS

Photo: (trees with a bar code)

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT'S GREEN? RETAIL AN OCCASIONAL SERIES ON THE INTERSECTION OF INDUSTRY
AND THE ENVIRONMENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              85 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 Districts Limit Athlete Transfers

BYLINE: MARILYN BROWN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


To stay "fair and equitable," Miami-Dade, Brevard schools take a year of
eligibility from students who change schools.

By MARILYN BROWN

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Officials in two Florida school districts said they have found a way to
limit the free agency of high school athletes who switch schools for more
playing time, better coaches or championship teams.

Miami-Dade and Brevard counties have rules that require students who switch
schools after entering ninth grade to lose athletic eligibility for a year.

"I'm not going to tell you it stopped them. I'm not going to tell you people
don't still lie," said Cheryl Golden, instructional supervisor for the Greater
Miami Athletic Conference. "But it sure has slowed them down."

Miami-Dade and Brevard are the only districts in Florida in line with the rest
of the nation, said Sonny Hester, senior associate executive director of the
Florida High School Athletic Association.

"Florida has the most liberal transfer policy anywhere in the country," Hester
said. "We're the only one with a program where you can be eligible at a
different school every year."

Last month that system was questioned when the son of Indianapolis Colts coach
Tony Dungy was awarded a special assignment to attend popular Plant High School
in South Tampa. It is over capacity.

District coaches told The Tampa Tribune that shopping for an athletic program is
common and increasing. But Hillsborough County officials said they do not know
how many athletes in the district are on special assignments to schools outside
their assigned boundaries or how many moved into a new boundary to play a sport.

The FHSAA objects to such switching because transfer students can take key
playing positions from deserving athletes and disrupt plans of coaches who
suddenly lose players they have "put time, blood and sweat" into, Hester said.

In addition, parents of non-athletes who are denied transfers often complain of
favoritism by the district toward athletes.

"Somebody has to advocate for the kid sitting on the bench," Hester said. "High
school athletics is supposed to be an extension of the classroom; it's not
supposed to be ESPN and big business."

Claims that students need transfers to get college scholarships are overrated,
he said. "There is way more money in academic scholarships than there ever will
be in athletic scholarships."

Balancing Rules For Everyone

Fairness issues also are cited by the two Florida districts that broke from the
ranks to impose restrictions.

"In our district, it was important to principals, parents and athletic directors
to balance the competition, make sure everyone feels the rules are fair and
equitable to everybody," said Doug Rodriguez, principal of Ronald Reagan/Doral
Senior High in Miami and a member of the district committee that hears appeals
from parents.

"What we're trying to do is balance the rules for everyone," said Rodriguez, who
has served on the Athletic Eligibility and Rules Committee for six years. The
district has 38 high schools that play sports.

Golden estimates the committee hears about 50 appeals a year and has approved no
more than 30 percent since the rule was adopted in 1999.

On the other hand, if a student has been in a school and the family moves to
another boundary, the family may apply for a transfer for their child to stay in
the original school and retain athletic eligibility.

"We reward parents and students for not falsifying information about their
address," she said.

"We also reward students," she said. "Your eligibility stays because you don't
lie."

The reason Miami-Dade's school board returned to requiring transferring athletes
to sit out a year from playing was the humiliation Miami High School suffered in
the late 1990s. The FHSAA stripped it of its state basketball championship,
Golden said.

"We had kids living with teachers, we had recruiting, we had it all," she said.
"When your state championship is taken back, you're told to fix it. ? It was a
community outcry."

There have been legal challenges to the committee's decisions, she said, but
"we've been to court, but we've been upheld."

Though there are only two Florida districts with the wait-to-play rule, she said
she has heard of others that want such a rule.

"They can't. If you have a school board member who wants to do a favor for
someone, they say, 'Go ahead and give them a transfer.'"

Policy Irritates Some Parents

Brevard is in its sixth year with its policy and parents still protest it.

"I get calls every other week about it," said Gary Shiffrin, principal of
Merritt Island High, who is commissioner of the Cape Coast Conference and author
of the transfer rule. "They say, 'Who came up with this policy; it's stupid.'"

A new superintendent who emphasized ethics helped sell the plan that Shiffrin
was working on to the school board, he said.

"I met with him and talked about an issue we had. We had some teams that had
literally become all-star teams. Merritt Island High had back-to-back state
baseball championships but maybe two or three players actually lived on Merritt
Island.

"It was a matter of the rich get rich and the poor get poorer," he said.

"We should allow students the opportunity to participate in wholesome athletic
competition against other schools."

Brevard also has a committee that can restore athletic eligibility for transfer
students, but it now hears just six or seven appeals a year from the 13 high
schools that have sports teams, he said. When the rule was first changed, there
were up to 50 appeals a year, he said.

Shiffrin was on the state assembly of FHSAA members who voted two years ago to
approve a similar statewide policy that would have required athletes to sit out
a year if they transferred, starting in 2006-07. The rule was put on hold by a
task force that had been created by state legislators.

Florida's political climate over the past decade, with its emphasis on parental
choice through school vouchers, charter schools, home schooling and district
choice plans, has encouraged the liberal policy, Hester and others said.

"It's a political bomb," Hester said. "Choice says people have to be able to
move their kids around for whatever reason they want. Every public school is in
competition with every other public school. That's the education mode we're in."

"I get calls every day: 'Somebody stole my kid,'" Hester said. "I tell them the
word is 'choice.' ? It's all about free enterprise, capitalism, survival of the
fittest."

In the end, he said, "It's up to adults to care."

Bob Henriquez, a former state legislator from Tampa and longtime football coach
for Tampa Catholic High School, was on the state task force that nixed the
sit-out rule as it stiffened recruiting penalties and required parents to sign
an affidavit.

"It created more problems than it fixed," Henriquez said of the rule that
included a list of exceptions. "I hate to punish the kids. The bottom line is
people are going to find ways around things."

Reporter Marilyn Brown can be reached at (813) 259-8069 or mbrown@tampatrib.com

(CHART) Details Of Miami-Dade, Brevard Transfer Policies

Only two school districts in Florida require high school students who transfer
to schools outside of their home boundaries to sit out a year from athletics
unless they can convince a committee they did not move for athletic reasons:

Miami-Dade Transfer Policy

Ninth-grade school determines athletic eligibility.

If parents move to a new boundary, the student does not have to sit out a year
from athletics. School social workers at receiving schools verify new addresses.

Those granted hardship transfers by the district to schools outside their
boundaries must appeal to the district's Athletic Eligibility and Rules
Committee to waive the wait to play athletics. Most appeals are denied.

Students who have been home schooled or attended private school do not have to
sit out a year if they attend a school in their boundaries, even if they enter
after ninth grade.

Brevard Transfer Policy

Students transferring to another school after entering ninth grade must sit out
365 days before becoming eligible for an athletic team.

If the student moves and lives with the same parent, he or she does not have to
sit out a year from athletics.

Principals at receiving schools are responsible for verifying residences.

Principals determine whether an appeal of the wait to play rule may be made
after a student has moved to his or her school.

Appeals are made to a district appeals committee that meets three times a year.

Students may take a vocational or other special class at a school outside their
boundaries, but their athletic eligibility remains with the school in their
boundaries.

Students who have been home schooled or attended private schools do not have to
sit out a year if they first enroll in their boundaries.

Marilyn Brown

Source: Miami-Dade and Brevard county schools

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              86 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 8, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 436 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Glass Company In Chapter 11

A longtime Tampa glass distributor has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection and notified the state that it may have to lay off its 113 employees.
Todd Elozory, general manager of Westshore Glass Corp., said the company hopes
to reorganize under bankruptcy protection. If its plan is approved, Westshore
would lay off its employees, but the surviving company or companies would rehire
them. Elozory said the company has been hurt by the downturn in the residential
housing market.

NET

Paper Goes Online Only

The Capital Times, an afternoon newspaper in Madison, Wis., will move to an
all-Internet edition on April 30, the company announced Thursday. The
17,000-circulation paper is the first newspaper of any prominence to move its
daily operations to all-Internet, said Joe Strupp, senior editor at Editor &
Publisher. The paper will produce a twice-weekly free print edition. Job cuts
and a buy-out program are planned. Dave Zweifel, the paper's editor since 1983,
said the changes are necessary to keep the operation viable in the face of
declining circulation.

NATION

Consumer Borrowing Slows

Consumers increased their borrowing in December at the slowest pace in eight
months, additional evidence that economic activity was slowing significantly at
the end of last year. For all of 2007, consumer credit rose at the fastest clip
in three years.

Make Deposits From Home

Atlanta-based online banking service provider CheckFree Corp. is rolling out
technology that could mean consumers will no longer have to go to a bank branch
to deposit checks. Called Remote Deposit Capture, the technology lets people
scan checks through their home computers and deposit them electronically. It has
been around for several years, but it has been used mainly for businesses.

Heart Valve Wins Approval

CryoLife of Kennesaw, Ga., won clearance to sell the first replacement heart
valve made of human tissue stripped of certain cells to prevent rejection by the
body. The CryoValve SynerGraft Pulmonary Valve is a "promising advance" for
patients, especially children, whose valves don't work because of disease or
deformity, the Food and Drug Administration said Thursday. Replacement human
heart valves are preferred for children because they are less likely to calcify
than pig and cow parts and don't need long-term blood-thinner use, the agency
said.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. Tuesday to Friday and 9
a.m. Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              91 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Physicians Group Gains Support

BYLINE: MARINELLA MOZZICATO, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 344 words


Tampa doctors have formed the first chapter in Florida.

By MARINELLA MOZZICATO

Tribune correspondent

USF CAMPUS - It was nearly 50 years ago that Physicians for Social
Responsibility first helped find traces of radioactive waste in children's teeth
as a result of atmospheric nuclear testing.

The result was the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963, which recognized the impact
of nuclear weapons testing on public health.

"That's what really got the organization energized and brought it together,"
said Lynnette Ringenberg, a pediatrician in Tampa.

Now, Ringenberg and Donald Mellman, a neurosurgeon in Tampa, have formed PSR
Tampa Bay, the first chapter in Florida, after discovering more than 1,500
registered PSR members in the state.

"We had all these people with similar values but no chapter close by," said
Mellman, co-director of PSR Tampa Bay.

The chapter will hold its first event at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the University of
South Florida's College of Public Health, where Stephen Kinzer, author of "All
the Shah's Men," will be speaking about diplomacy with Iran.

Ringenberg, a member of PSR for six years and a professor in USF's department of
pediatrics for 16 years, said the chapter's main goal is to educate people about
the dangers of nuclear war and climate change. The group is based out of an
office in downtown Tampa.

Although PSR was founded by doctors, Ringenberg said only a third of the 32,400
members in the nation are physicians.

"The remainders are health professionals and citizens concerned about the same
issues," Ringenberg said. "You don't have to be a doctor to join."

Ringenberg said it won't be long before a student PSR is established, as well.

Once a student chapter is established, Ringenberg said, medical students will be
able to focus on ways to improve the environment on campus, such as installing
energy-saving light bulbs in new and existing buildings.

For information about Physicians for Social Responsibility, visit www.psr.org.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              93 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 1, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Happiness Is A Personal Choice

BYLINE: LYN ROCHE, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 590 words


By LYN ROCHE

Tribune correspondent

Dear Lyn: I moved my mom here (to Virginia) in July from her beloved Southern
California, where she lived since 1957. Needless to say, it was a climate shock.
She's 88 and otherwise in great health. We fixed a place downstairs, which she
calls the basement. I live on a lake and the whole front of her apartment has
huge windows. I got a dehumidifier. I have humidity indicators in her bedroom
and living room. The humidity runs normal to low.

I find her upstairs on the couch many mornings. She says it's damp down there. I
swear it's not damp. She says she can't sleep, etc. I only have one bedroom
upstairs. Her apartment is carpeted and very cozy! The floors upstairs are
hardwood and I keep it cool there. So she complains of being cold when she's
upstairs.

I try to ignore it, but I want her happy! I know she would love to go back to
California, but she can't. What do you suggest I say or do? HELP! - Nancy

Dear Nancy: Happiness is a personal choice. If we could make our elderly family
members young and healthy again, we would. However, that's not in our control.
We can only control our own attitudes.

You are certainly doing everything you can for your mother. She's going through
an adjustment period since making the move. She is most likely homesick and
frustrated about the losses and changes she can't control. However, she's
probably secretly grateful for all you're doing for her.

Complaining is something she may get over, or perhaps that's always been a part
of her personality. You know her best. She could also be suffering from
depression, which can be treated. Ask her physician if he or she thinks your
mother is showing signs of depression.

I've known many cases where simply giving someone a pet proves to be a marvelous
attitude adjuster. Caring for another living being often helps an elderly person
feel needed again and life becomes more purposeful. A dog, a cat, or even a
parakeet or a canary, could possibly improve the way your mother views life and
her new surroundings. She may enjoy her apartment more if a pet occupies it with
her.

You said your mom is 88 and in good health. She can still make new friends among
her peers in your local area. Cheerfully encourage her to join a seniors group
or to become involved in some interesting community project as a volunteer.
Being social and actively involved with others should help get her mind off
herself.

Since she's only been a part of your household since July, you're all still
adjusting to the new arrangement. You've worked hard to make the downstairs a
home for her. Understandably, it hurts to hear her complain and call it a damp
basement. You see the beautiful view out her windows - she still sees her losses
and the fact she had to leave California.

Keep "lovin' on her," but also keep "lovin' on" yourself and the rest of your
family. Remain active in your own life and continue being involved in the things
you like to do.

In caring for our elderly loved ones, some days are certainly better than
others. Just remember we can't control their attitudes, just our own. And, if we
manage to keep smiling, just maybe our attitudes will be catching!

Caregiving expert and author Lyn Roche helped care for her father, mother-in-law
and grandmother. Write Lyn Roche at Journey Publications, Post Office Box 433,
Sebring, FL 33871 or lyn@thecaregiverscaregiver.com . Visit her Web site at
www.thecaregiverscaregiver.com

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE CAREGIVER'S CAREGIVER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              95 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA Softball On Farewell Tour

BYLINE: JOE HENDERSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words


CLEARWATER TOURNEY BEGINS TODAY

By JOE HENDERSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - They should be celebrated as athletes and ambassadors, saluted for the
excellence they show both on and off the field.

Instead, the United States women's national softball team is being eliminated.

That's the stance of the International Olympic Committee, at least, which almost
certainly will drop softball from its list of competitions following the
Olympics this summer in Beijing. Many suggest that stance may be riding a wave
of anti-American sentiment in Europe, a reaction to the Iraq war.

No matter what the reason though, it has turned softball into a soapbox as
members of that dominating U.S. team rise to defend their sport. They have won
the gold medal in the only three Olympics where softball was a competition. They
likely will make that four in a row in Beijing.

"One reason you have to acknowledge is that the USA has won every gold medal,"
catcher Stacey Nuveman said. "Is that the primary reason we're being dropped? I
don't think so. There are a lot of political reasons. We're not going to use
that as any reason to take the foot off the gas pedal. We still want to win."

The team will be in Clearwater starting today for the Under Armour Invitational,
a 24-team showcase that includes the University of South Florida. Although the
national team will continue on after Beijing - international competitions such
as the Pan Am Games and the world championships will continue - the decision by
the IOC stings.

The decision came in 2005 to eliminate baseball and softball starting in 2012.
Detractors said the reasons included limited popularity of softball in Europe
and the refusal by Major League Baseball to suspend its season and send top
players to compete in the Games, which generally take place just as the pennant
races are getting serious.

That makes this time around even more poignant for the softball team. The women
were dominant in the 2004 Athens Games, outscoring the tournament 51-1 en route
to the gold medal. Even then though, there were rumors that softball might be on
the way out.

"Most athletes, and I know myself, are enjoying every day now a little more than
before because we knew before there were other days down the road," Team USA
coach Mike Candrea said. "[The decision] is a vast disappointment because
softball has really grown by leaps and bounds. It is probably as popular in the
United States as it has ever been, but some people don't feel it is global
enough.

"And I also think that this all had something to do with the fact we aren't very
popular any more. It's unfortunate, but I do think some of it is on the
political side. Sometimes we just feel helpless."

Helpless, perhaps, everywhere except the field. This team has a chance to be
just as strong as the team that romped through the field in Athens.

"We don't see it as pressure," outfielder Laura Berg said. "We see it as doing
what we're supposed to do. We can't let down. We can't have a bad game. We can't
have a bad practice. Our expectation is to dominate."

And after that, it all depends on the political climate. It's possible softball
will come up for another vote - although most believe it is an extreme longshot,
at best, for at least the Games of 2012.

"I almost felt like a punch in the stomach," Nuveman said. "What made it so hard
as if we knew it would go down like this, we might have done something
differently. Should we have done more international touring? Should I have done
more clinics?

"You can't go back and change things. You can only move forward. That's what
we're going to do."

(CHART) AT A GLANCE

WHAT: USF Under Armour Invitational

WHO: There are 24 teams participating, including host South Florida and some of
the top Division I softball teams in the country. The tournament also includes
the participation of Team USA as part of its Bound 4 Beijing tour.

WHEN/WHERE: Today through Sunday; Eddie C. Moore Complex in Clearwater

TICKETS: Can be purchased online by logging on to usfseries.com or at
ticketmaster.com. Admission for all Under Armour Invitational games is $10
general admission for adults and $7 for children and seniors. Weekend passes
including the Team USA games are $45 for adults and $30 for children and
seniors. Weekend passes for all other games are $30 for adults and $20 for
children and seniors.

TEAM USA SCHEDULE: Tonight at 6:30 (vs. Baylor) and 8:30 (vs. Coastal Carolina).
Friday at 6:30 p.m. (vs. Missouri) and 8:30 (vs. Hofstra). Saturday at 6:30 p.m.
(vs. USF) and 8:30 (vs. N.C. State). For the full schedule, see usfseries.com.

DIRECTIONS: From Tampa, take I-275 south to the airport exit, then stay in left
lane. Take the SR 60 W exit to the left toward Clearwater. After crossing
Courtney Campbell Causeway, turn right onto McMullen Booth Road ramp. Make a
left at the first light (Drew Street). Complex will be on your right.

Photo credit: Getty Images

Photo: Team USA pitcher Jennie Finch will stand tall with her teammates at the
tournament in Clearwater.

Photo credit: Getty Images

Photo: The United States gold-medal team celebrates its victory against
Australia during the Athens 2004 Summer Olympic Games.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              98 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 10, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTER

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1097 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Raising Fees To Save Jobs

Regarding "City Poised To Increase Garbage, Water Rates" (Metro, March 6):

Was the point of property tax reform to lower taxes? Since tax revenue is down,
Mayor Iorio wants to raise fees so government workers do not get laid off,
correct?

Obviously, she feels that the voters didn't realize that they were voting for
fewer government jobs when they passed Amendment One. Did she think voters
thought that government could maintain all the services with the same number of
positions?

Single-handedly, the reigning sovereign of City Hall will right this injustice
and correct the thinking of all these silly little people. It will just take a
bit of semantic sleight of hand - taxes, fees, taxes, fees.

I must be the dumbest guy in this town. I just didn't understand any of these
things until Iorio's courageous campaign to maintain the city payroll at all
costs set me straight.

ERIC SCHILLER

Tampa

Airplane Is Inefficient

Regarding "Northrop Grumman Gets Tanker Contract" (Business, March 1):

With all the rhetoric about what business and industry should do to improve
energy efficiency and fight global warming, you would think the government would
at least practice what it preached.

The Air Force just picked the French Airbus/Northrop Grumman consortium for its
$35 billion aerial refueling tanker program despite the fact that it is an
energy hog and technologically obsolete compared to its primary competitor,
Boeing.

Obviously, military tankers require huge amounts of fuel, but the Airbus A330
was never intended to be a refueling tanker and it is bigger than anything the
Air Force ever envisioned to efficiently do the job. Consider that Airbus' KC-30
consumes 24 percent more fuel than the Boeing KC-767, which translates to using
an additional 2,500 gallons of fuel on a typical mission at a cost of nearly $10
billion over the tanker's life cycle.

The coal companies that face the virtually certainty of restrictions on carbon
emissions in pending climate change legislation might be interested to know that
the Air Force just rejected a technologically superior tanker that produces 30
percent lower emissions than Airbus.

PAIGE SILVA

Tampa


More MacDill Noise

MacDill Air Force Base doesn't qualify to receive any of the new $35 billion
refueling military aircraft award. MacDill's last noise map data, produced from
1993 to 1996, reflects massive incompatibility of noise over residential
housing. MacDill's 6th Air Refueling Wing was placed here in 1996 and 1997 - on
top of the previous incompatible mission - and has never been mapped for noise
compatibility at all. MacDill's decade of massive noise violations, plus their
failure to update semi-annual noise map studies as required by Department of
Defense policy, proves MacDill doesn't deserve any new refueling aircraft
whatsoever.

MICHAEL WAITE

Tampa


Unneeded Improvements

Regarding "Gandy Work Got You Down? It's Time To Vent" (Metro, March 3):

Those of us living just north of Gandy don't have to attend a meeting to hear
them extol the virtues of placing islands in the center, trees, new sidewalks,
synchronized traffic lights - all for the beautification of our dear old
boulevard.

We have four lanes already, so this is no improvement. This is just the preface
to planting lovely gigantic white concrete "Y's" in each island and
double-decking the whole shebang. We shall be showered 24/7 with more pollution
filtering down upon us, more noise, more traffic, and what will all those
hurricane escapees from St. Pete find when they get here? Well, south Tampa
floods, folks, so where they'll go will be a real puzzle.

Save your meetings. We've been to them, argued our points and you're going to do
whatever you wish no matter what we say. After 45 years of trying to keep our
neighborhood a neighborhood rather than an off-ramp, I'm calling it quits.

WYNELLE GILBERT

Tampa


Take Time Between Fills

Every car in this country is harboring an inventory of gas in their tanks that
enables the oil companies to amass the billions of dollars of profit that they
make. Very few companies have customers who do this service for them.

Most car owners will visit a gas station when their gas tanks are between
one-third to half full of fuel. Usually, we do this about once a week on average
and know just about how much we need to fill our tanks. Now if the large car
owners would stop three gallons short of a full tank of gas and the small car
owners two gallons short of a full tank of gas, something spectacular would
happen very fast.

A large factor that determines the price of oil is the "on-hand inventory of
fuel" that the government lists. Our voluntary rationing of gas purchases would
increase this inventory by untold millions of gallons and thereby bring down the
cost of fuel without much sacrifice on our part.

STEPHEN KAYE

Lutz


Time To Drill Here

Congress fiddles while the American consumer burns. It is estimated that the USA
has enough oil reserve off the coast of Florida and ANWR to last us through this
century. When will Congress take a serious look at more drilling here?

There is technology to ensure little or no damage to the environment. How about
building more refineries? This would create thousands of jobs and help reduce
our dependency on foreign oil.

I know the "greens" don't like to hear this, but we are bleeding at the pumps.
It is time something is done other than "talk." Why is it I have not heard any
talk from the presidential candidates on this subject?

CHARLES HARRIS

Tampa


Recognizing Good Work

Regarding "Ferlita Receives Award From National Group" (Metro, March 1):

I was very pleased to learn that Rose Ferlita won the Elizabeth Prebich Elected
Official Leadership Award.

I did not know that this fine lady has worked so hard with a children's
psychiatric hospital as well as a treatment center. It is really good to have a
real angel of mercy in our community making a difference.

Thanks to Ferlita for helping our children have a better life.

TOM CHASTAIN

Tampa


Happy To Be Here

I lived in New York City for 55 years, and the state has everything you want.
But four years ago I retired to Tampa and am so happy that I wouldn't think of
moving.

Tampa has it all, maybe on a smaller table, but the people here are friendly,
courteous, helpful and caring - something you don't see in New York, where most
people forgot how to smile.

So to the great state of Florida and the greater city of Tampa, you are stuck
with me forever.

FRANK PEPPACENO

Sun City Center

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              99 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Propagating Produce

BYLINE: LIZ BLEAU, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 705 words


A busy organic and hydroponic farmer is ready to help others get started.

By LIZ BLEAU

The Tampa Tribune

WIMAUMA - South Hillsborough County has long been known as a supplier of the
nation's fruits and vegetables.

Now, a Wimauma farmer is hoping to make his mark in the world of agriculture
with his growing supply of organic, hydroponic vegetables.

Steve Shrump, 51, has begun Heirloom Organic Farms, where he grows vegetables in
hydroponic greenhouses. The produce is certified by the Department of
Agriculture as organic, meaning Shrump has gone to a great deal of trouble to
make sure the produce meets government standards for organic labeling.

Shrump also is selling hydroponic growing systems for farmers. The systems are
an adaptation of Vertigrow systems. Along with the growing system, Shrump will
help farmers select produce that he has tested for the Florida climate in his
greenhouses and help them find the optimum fertilizer formula.

On 5 acres along State Road 674, Shrump has seven greenhouses that he designed,
using his experience in the construction industry. He plans to have 27
greenhouses.

"I've got the system down to where I can now grow crops 12 months out of the
year," he said.

He said his prolonged growing season puts him at an advantage in the wholesale
organic produce market.

Shrump is continually trying new types of produce and has had success with
European seeds.

"That's because they are way ahead of us in developing organic foods," he said.

He is using seeds from the Netherlands, France, Spain, Germany and Israel.

He has had success to date with a variety of tomatoes, including European
beefsteak, yellow pear heirloom and several varieties of black tomatoes, and
also zucchini, lettuces, blueberries and strawberries, papaya and mangoes. The
black tomatoes, although unusual in color, are flavorful and used by chefs in
upscale restaurants, he said.

In all, he has grown more than 1,800 kinds of vegetables in his quest to find
the ones that work best in Florida.

He sells his produce to several national organic brokers; some of the produce
ends up in what he describes as "white-cloth restaurant groups" and high-end
natural food stores.

Much of the produce he grows is done by request from brokers. To meet a recent
deadline, Shrump turned a portion of his home into a greenhouse, where under
several lights he is sprouting zucchini and tomato seedlings.

"Because of the big swings in temperature lately and the high winds, I needed to
get these plants started, so I brought them in here," he said, pointing to an
area off the living room that has been converted to growing room.

Shrump has developed a formula for fertilizer that he changes to meet the
plant's needs. The formulas have been approved by the USDA, but he isn't willing
to talk about the mixtures except to say he has different mixtures for different
plants; the basic formula is three ingredients with a catalyst.

In addition to organic fertilizers, Shrump uses filtered water. He has not used
pesticides, but has approval to use organic pesticides.

He plans to grow vegetables and herbs that he will sell at the farm. However,
the only items he has for retail sale are the growing systems.

For information, call (813) 508-0926 or visit www .heirloomorganicfarms.com.

Reporter Liz Bleau can be reached at (813) 865-1557 or lbleau@tampatrib.com

Photo: To meet a deadline, Shrump turned part of his home into a greenhouse to
shelter seedlings from cold weather.

Photo: Shrump checks one of three 1,000-gallon tanks holding liquid nutrients
used for growing hydroponic organic produce.

Photo: Elchin checks tomatoes. The farm produces several varieties, along with
zucchini, lettuces, blueberries and strawberries, papaya and mangoes.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by ROBERT BURKE

Photo: Todd Elchin works on a row of tomatoes in one of seven greenhouses at
Heirloom Organic Farms, a hydroponic farm in Wimauma that grows produce
year-round.

Photo: Farm owner Steve Shrump holds a conventional red tomato and a black
tomato. The black tomatoes, although unusual in color, are flavorful and are
used by chefs in upscale restaurants, he says.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              100 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crist Should Kill Secretive CSX Deal To Send Signal About Transparency

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 804 words


The reason Gov. Charlie Crist should kill the state's sweetheart deal with CSX
Transportation is not because the Tampa Bay region wants Orlando to forget about
building a commuter rail system, as some would suggest.

The reason Crist should end this deal is because he believes in good government
and considers himself the governor of all Floridians.

Besides, there's no reason the deal can't be renegotiated. Orlando needs
commuter rail, no question. But it's a red herring to suggest it will get but
one shot at federal transit funds, given the growing clout of Florida's
delegation.

The CSX deal should be rejected because it's an example of government at its
worst.

The contract was struck behind closed doors and influenced by people with close
ties to the railroad. For that reason alone, the governor should back away from
his qualified support.

Then, remarkably, state transportation planners signed a confidentiality
agreement that hid the deal from affected communities. Before waiting another
day, the governor should implement a policy that prohibits state agencies from
signing confidentiality agreements unless he, personally, approves them.

Even key lawmakers like Sen. Mike Fasano, who chairs the Committee on
Transportation and Economic Development Appropriations, didn't know about the
deal that was buried deep in the Department of Transportation's plans.

The contract calls for CSX to surrender 61 miles of track for an Orlando
commuter rail system, in exchange for $491 million in taxpayer funds to expand
freight operations in Polk County and elsewhere in the state.

Problem is, in negotiating the deal, the state ignored the communities that will
pay the price. No one talked to the people in Polk or Hillsborough counties,
which one report says could see as many as 56 daily trains - some more than a
mile long - through Lakeland, Auburndale, Bartow, Mulberry, Ocala, Plant City
and Wildwood.

It's time for Crist to get off the fence and make clear the ends don't justify
the means, and that hush-hush meetings and confidentiality agreements are not
how Florida will plan transportation projects during his tenure.

DOT officials are defensive about their part in the process. They point to a
2005 paper that spelled out the state's plans for future commuter and freight
rail. But at no point did that report mention that the state would give a
private company hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade private rail lines
through the boondocks.

The deal also was approved by a DOT consultant, but the firm, Jeffrey A. Parker
& Associates, is no independent arbiter. It worked side-by-side with DOT to
secure the secret deal. How can any legislator trust the firm's positive
analysis? Its conflict of interest offends the sensibilities of citizens in West
Central Florida.

Fasano says money for the deal is likely to be approved because it is the top
priority of Orlando's Metropolitan Planning Organization and the Legislature
traditionally funds the MPO's top wishes. Still, lawmakers could create an
exception for projects that affect the quality of life in another part of the
state.

Lawmakers uneasy with the secret deal fret that if the contract goes south, the
Orlando region will lose any chance for federal matching dollars. But Florida's
influence in Congress is growing and CSX's ability to call the shots in
Washington is diminishing. Besides, Rep. Corrine Brown of Jacksonville - the
hometown of CSX - chairs the House Transportation Committee's subcommittee on
rail. Orlando can count on her influence to secure funding for a more palatable
project.

Look, Central Florida needs commuter rail for a host of reasons, from traffic
congestion to climate change.

But the process has been suspect from the start.

Fortunately, the deal is not complete.

Last month, the Federal Transit Administration excluded Florida from its list of
recommended projects. Instead, it wants DOT to study the effects of running more
trains into Polk County. And in Tallahassee, lawmakers are balking at the
railroad's demand that taxpayers assume liability for any accident on the
tracks.

Sen. Paula Dockery of Lakeland wants the state to look at other ways to bring
commuter rail into her district and the Tampa Bay area. She wonders why the new
hub couldn't be located west of Lakeland on vast stretches of unreclaimed
phosphate lands. She points out that the property already has tracks and is
zoned for industrial use.

But DOT doesn't want to redo the deal and CSX flatly says no.

Crist didn't start this deal, but the details emerged on his watch. It's up to
him to make things right.

The governor should stand up for good government and the voice of all
Floridians. It's time Crist came forward and demanded a do-over.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              102 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trees, Shrubs Could Fall To Budget Ax

BYLINE: RICH SHOPES, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words


COUNTY IS GIVING UP MEDIAN LANDSCAPING

By RICH SHOPES

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Next up on the list of potential casualties from Amendment 1: trees and
shrubs.

Hillsborough County says it's so strapped for cash it's willing to yank out the
crepe myrtles, shrubs and ornamental grasses from medians on state roads to save
the cost of tending them.

The county's first option is to have groups such as civic associations or
chambers of commerce take over the maintenance, but if that doesn't work, the
county will give control of the medians back to the state.

That will mean at least a dozen miles of landscaping will fall victim to the
backhoe.

Officials concede the move is unusual, but say they have no choice given the
passage of the Amendment 1 tax cut in January. The county hopes to save at least
$80,000 a year in landscaping bills.

"That's a couple of salaries," said Julie Johanboeke, general manager for
Hillsborough's Public Works Department.

Hillsborough has already signed an agreement with the Riverview Chamber of
Commerce, which is turning to chamber members to pay for upkeep of two miles of
medians on U.S. 301 between Bloomingdale Avenue and Gibsonton Drive.

It's also trying to finalize an arrangement with the Ruskin Community
Development Foundation to maintain 1.7 miles of U.S. 41 in Ruskin.

Eventually, the county wants to hand over landscaping duties for three more
highways: State Road 60 between Interstate 75 and Valrico Road; Hillsborough
Avenue between Beaumont Center Boulevard and Memorial Highway (County Road 576);
and U.S. 41 from the Pasco County line to the intersection of Florida and
Nebraska avenues.

"These agreements with the state go back many years, but now with the budget
cuts, we're looking to do what we can to save money," said John Newton, the
county's director of transportation maintenance.

County's Action Unusual

It's difficult to gauge whether the county's action is unprecedented in Florida.
County and municipal governments each enter into separate maintenance agreements
with the state.

Jeff Caster, the state's transportation landscape architect, said he's never
heard of a county or city terminating its landscaping contract, but given the
economic climate he he's not surprised. More often, officials reject landscaping
plans that call for constant upkeep.

"I have heard where local governments have been anticipating the installation of
landscaping and they have said, 'Don't put it in because we're not going to be
able to maintain it,'" he said.

Tampa, Temple Terrace and Plant City have no plans to hand over maintenance in
their cities, although none has ruled out the possibility as officials mull
their budgets.

Tampa recently took the rare step of telling the Department of Transportation to
scale back any landscaping plans it was considering as it reconstructs
Interstate 275. The decadelong project includes a six-mile median between the
Howard Frankland Bridge and I-4 junction.

"The agreement is if they put in shrubs we maintain it, but if it's sod, they
maintain it. It's just too much for us right now," said Santiago Corrada, the
city's neighborhood services administrator. "For now we will honor the
commitments we have in place."

Local governments are adopting a wait-and-see position because they say the cost
of breaking existing landscaping agreements is steep. Unless a third-party payer
can honor the agreements, such as a chamber of commerce, the cities will be
forced to yank the trees, shrubs and other flowers before turning over the
median to the state.

The state is willing to plant and maintain sod, but it doesn't want to pay for
the upkeep associated with shrubs and trees.

"We'll do what we can to help, but we're not in the park business or the
beautification business," said John Simpson, the DOT's landscape architect in
the Tampa Bay area. "There would have to be a radical change in our business
model before we could do something like that."

Plant City, like Tampa and Temple Terrace, hasn't ruled out following the
county's lead, but it's reluctant to cut down trees and shrubs on its gateway
roads off Interstate 4, such as Thonotosassa Road, Wheeler Street, Park Road and
Alexander Street. The highways contain varieties of palm, knockout rose,
plumbago, hawthorn and crepe myrtle.

"It does give a very positive impact as you enter the city and we're very
pleased to do that, to keep that level of service up," said Jack Holland,
director of parks and recreation for the city. "It creates ambience as you enter
the city."

The alternative, unless a third party can be found, is to pull out the trees and
shrubs.

"I don't think our citizens would like that," he said.

Resident Offers Her Help

Landscaper Trish Brandon, the owner of Total Tree and Lawn Care in Riverview,
said she was horrified when the Riverview Chamber of Commerce reported to
members last year that the county proposed yanking the landscaping off U.S. 301
unless chamber members stepped up. Among those on the chopping block were 22
flowering pink crepe myrtle trees.

Brandon couldn't bear the thought and started calculating whether she could
afford the maintenance duties. The county was paying $14,000 a year to tend two
miles of medians on the highway. Brandon, figuring a four-person crew could
handle the job, said she'd do it for $9,000, which just covers her costs.

She also agreed to chip in to maintain at her own expense two of the highway's
seven medians. The others were sponsored by Four Paws Veterinary Hospital and
Serenity Meadows Memorial Park, Funeral Home and Crematory, both also of
Riverview.

Brandon said the decision was easy to make.

"I thought, 'what are you talking about, cutting the trees to the ground?'" she
said. "We should be trying to beautify our community."

Reporter Rich Shopes can be reached at (813) 259-7633 or at
rshopes@tampatrib.com

Tribune map

MEDIAN MAINTENANCE

Hillsborough County wants to hand over maintenance responsibilities for five
landscaped medians to business groups or the state. So far, it has handed over
one median to businesses.

(1) U.S. 301 in Riverview between Bloomingdale Avenue and Gibsonton Drive. This
median is already being maintained by three Riverview businesses.

(2) U.S. 41 in Ruskin, between 19th Avenue Northeast and College Avenue.

(3) State Road 60 in Brandon, between Interstate 75 to Valrico Road.

(4) Hillsborough Avenue in Town ''92N Country, between Beaumont Center Boulevard
and Memorial Highway (County Road 576).

(5) U.S. 41 in the Lutz area, between the Pasco County line and the intersection
of Florida and Nebraska avenues.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Hillsborough County hopes groups such as civic associations will take
over the maintenance of medians.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              107 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa Creating Affordable Housing Board

BYLINE: Ellen Gedalius

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 218 words


TAMPA - The city is creating an affordable housing advisory council to come up
with ways to encourage more low-cost housing in Tampa.

A state law passed last year requires cities and counties that get State Housing
Initiative Partnership funds to create an affordable housing advisory council.
The council's job is to recommend incentives for affordable housing.

Incentives can include waiving impact fees, expediting permitting and awarding
density bonuses, among other measures. Density bonuses allow developers to build
more units than normally allowed if the homes are considered affordable.

Councilman Tom Scott, a strong advocate for affordable housing, said he looks
forward to the group's work and recommendations. He cautioned, however, that
offering many incentives to developers might be tough given the economic climate
and the city's tight budget.

The bigger problem now, Scott said, is keeping people in their homes.
Foreclosures are sweeping the area.

The mayor will appoint six members to the board. The city council will appoint
five members. The board will meet monthly during its first year.

Interested applicants can call the city's housing department at (813) 274-7954.

Ellen Gedalius

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              110 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COMPASS

BYLINE: Carol Parker and Karen Haymon Long

SECTION: GETAWAY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


Sizzling Singles

Summer is sizzling for travelers going solo. From a San Diego Fourth of July to
an exotic transatlantic dance cruise on the Queen Mary 2, Singles Travel
International is offering a plethora of destinations to die for - and the chance
to meet a buddy or two.

Some trips worth exploring include:

*San Diego Fourth of July Weekend, July 3 to 6, starting at $759.

*Transatlantic Dance Cruise on QM2, July 8 to 15, includes a private dance
instructor, starting at $1,769.

*Beginner Italy, Great Cities Tour, July 23 to 30, starting at $1,879.

*Best of Southern Italy, including Sicily, Aug. 1 to 10, starting at $2,219.

*Glacier National Park and Canadian Rockies, Aug. 16 to 24, starting at $2,240.

For details and to book trips, go to www.singlestravelintl.com.

Cool Wrap

The Shoul - a lightweight shawl that's easy to pack - is perfect for staying
warm in airplanes, chilly restaurants and hotel lobbies. Made of soft acrylic,
it's U-shaped and comes in one size. With a dress, it looks elegant; with jeans,
it's stylishly hip.

Best of all: it's washable and easily fits into a carry-all.

It sells for $39 and is available at 1-800-407-4917 and online at
www.theshoul.com.

Turtle Tips

If you plan to look for sea turtles this summer, the Ocean Conservancy has these
tips for keeping the animals safe while providing you and your family an
educational experience of a lifetime:

* Clear beaches and water of all litter. Turtles can confuse trash for food.

* Give nesting turtles their peace and quiet with as little light a possible. So
avoid flash pictures, strong flashlights, fires, loud noises, vehicles and even
light-colored clothing.

* Hire local guides. They'll know where and how to spot the turtles and prevent
stress to the creatures once they're found.

* Do not feed the turtles!

* When boating, slow down and avoid anchoring in sensitive coral reefs and
seagrass beds.

* Maintain a respectful distance from turtles in the water and on land.

* Reduce your carbon footprint year-round. Climate change can affect sea turtles
by altering their habitat and affecting their food sources.

Spread the word. Visit a SEE Turtles partner destination and tell your family
and friends. For more information, go to www.seeturtles.org.

Carol Parker and Karen Haymon Long

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              118 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Riders Race To Escape Sitting In Safety Class

BYLINE: KEITH MORELLI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words


A state law that kicks in today requires motorcyclists to learn more for a
license.

By KEITH MORELLI

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Starting today, you need to take a class to get a motorcycle license in
Florida.

That means that for the past few days, people have been pouring into state motor
vehicle offices hoping to beat the new law.

It hasn't been pretty.

At the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles office on Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Lois Avenue, road tests usually number 10
or 15 a day. They have risen four-fold or more recently.

"Friday we did 75," Ana Nieves, who manages the office, said Monday. "Saturday
between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m., we did 62. Today [Monday] we expect 60 to 70."

Friday, most candidates for a license called an endorsement were inexperienced.
Many weren't ready. More than one dumped the bike during the short skills test
on the asphalt lot behind the office.

Preston Quiles, 27, of Tampa waited in line on his new Suzuki GSX 600, watching
others motor through the course. He had passed the written part of the test and
has been riding on an extended permit, he said.

"I'm trying to get my endorsement," Quiles said. "I just found out that starting
tomorrow, I'll have to take a $200 course."

During the test, he put his foot down during a swerving exercise and didn't
pass. He was later allowed a retake.

Normally, those who flunk are told to go out, practice and come back in a week
or two. But Monday they were allowed to take the test twice.

As Nieves watched, a young rider dumped a scooter. He had borrowed the vehicle
from another rider.

Professional instruction in the art of motorcycle riding can benefit novice
riders, Nieves said.

Classes cover how to swerve to avoid a pothole, when to steer clear of the
center of a lane, and where fluids from car engines tend to drip and make the
pavement slick.

All that may be unknown to those who hopped on a motorcycle to take the state
test Monday, she said.

A Step Toward Safer Roads

That's the theory behind the new state law, designed to reduce the number of
motorcycle accidents. In Florida, where the climate is conducive to year-round
riding, the number of accidents approached 9,000 in 2006.

Passing the class means riders don't have to take the state test. Just present
the class certificate to the driver's license bureau and an endorsement will be
added to a driver's license.

The state has lists of schools that offer certified classes for each county, and
in Hillsborough County there are six. Most schools supply the motorcycles.

In 2006, the most recent year for which statistics are available, 521
motorcyclists were killed in 8,990 wrecks on Florida highways. Nearly 8,000
motorcyclists were injured, statistics show.

Florida Highway Patrol Capt. Mark Welch said his agency supports the new law.

"There's a difference in the riders who take the course and those who just hop
on and pass the state test," he said.

School Owner Riding High

Dan Derringer, owner of the Motorcycle Rider Association, which has offered
motorcycle safety classes for six years in the Bay area, said demand for the
classes has grown in recent years, mainly because of rising gasoline prices.

"We have historically taught between 40 and 50 people a week and most of the
time we're full," he said.

"We have added two to three sessions each week, and so now, we're teaching about
60 a week."

The change in the law will mean even more demand, he said.

"I could teach more classes if I had more ranges and more instructors," he said,
which he is considering. People are on a monthlong waiting list now.

"We're busier now than we've ever been," he said.

"I think the Legislature did a good thing when it passed this law," Derringer
said. "It probably will save lives in the long run.

"It's like the helmet law. It's difficult for some people to conform to right
away. But it saves lives."

(CHART)LEARNING TO RIDE

To find a course in your area, go to motorcycles.hsmv.state.fl.us or call (850)
488-3286.

Reporter Keith Morelli can be reached at (813) 259-7760 or
kmorelli@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by Tribune photo by JAY CONNER

Photo: Ana Nieves looks over riders' equipment before a test at a Department of
Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles office in Tampa.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by Tribune photo by JAY CONNER

Photo: Preston Quiles, 27, takes a skills test on his new Suzuki GSX 600 Monday
in Tampa to get a motorcycle endorsement for his license.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by Tribune photo by JAY CONNER

Photo: Quiles failed, but was offered a retake to avoid a new requirement - a
$200 class. "I just found out" about the rule, he said.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              122 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Carrying A Torch For Environment

BYLINE: GEOFF FOX, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words


Sculptor Bradley Arthur coaxes beauty out of found objects to express his
concern about endangered nature.

By GEOFF FOX

The Tampa Tribune

LAND O' LAKES - Bradley Arthur was sweaty enough to enter a wet T-shirt contest.
That happens when you spend hours under the sun forging metal with power tools.

The Land O' Lakes sculptor, known for making works out of "found objects" - some
might say "junk" - was removing rust from a large, abstract piece outside his
Land O' Lakes studio.

Wielding a 25-year-old angle grinder, he eliminated streaks of rust from an
otherwise polished portion of "Family Ladder," a towering work that gleamed in
the Florida heat.

The streaks, he said, represent tears shed over environmental issues.

"I've always been concerned about the environment," said Arthur, 54. "The
climate change is evidence that it's significant to not just talk about using
our materials, but reusing and transforming some forms of waste into art. I've
been doing that 35 years, and it's satisfying to see it entering the
mainstream."

In 2001, he was chosen by the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office to build a
pair of 6-ton, roughly 10-foot-high star sculptures, placed at the sheriff's
offices in Ybor City and Citrus Park. The works were made from melted guns
collected in Hillsborough's Cease Fire program.

"Every little thing or individual or aspect of the environment, when looked at
alone, may not appear to have any significant meaning in relationship to the
whole," Arthur said in a 2003 interview. "But when it's combined - like
community, people working together, like relationships - it really makes
something special.

"There's a star and a circle; those are like primal forms that relate to the
beginning of time."

Across the Tampa Bay area, his work - including his WORDZWORKX sculpture series
- has been shown at the Brad Cooper Gallery and John F. Germany Public Library
in Tampa and St. Petersburg's Salt Creek Galleries, as well as at Democratic
Party fundraisers. He also has spoken about artists' rights on WMNF, 88.5 FM.

His "ChairMuse" sculpture has been in front of New City Hall Plaza in downtown
Tampa since 1982; another, "Generations," was bought by the Miami Jewish Home &
Hospital for the Aged. Both are listed in the Smithsonian Institution's
Inventory of American Painting and Sculpture.

A Tampa native, Arthur was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of
South Florida in 1975. He later studied under master stone carvers, marble
workers and welders at universities and studios in France, Italy and New York.
For 17 years, he owned a studio in New York City.

Resting in the shade of a crape myrtle, he said he is in negotiations with a
children's hospital in New York that's interested in "Family Ladder" or a piece
like it for its courtyard.

He lives in Land O' Lakes with Jane, his wife, and college-age offspring, Ethan
and Emily, because he loves it there.

Emblazoned across the front of a fresh shirt was: "CO{-2}OS," a call to humans
to save the planet.

"The young people need to step up to the plate now," he said. "The ball's in
their court to develop the courage and awareness to treat human beings and the
environment as precious."

In Bradley Arthur's world, inspiration is no farther away than a hubcap on the
side of the road; dialogue is as important as air, and the glass isn't half-full
- it's overflowing.

A dented muffler and blowtorch to him is like a guitar and harmonica to Bob
Dylan.

Sometimes, though, you wonder whether he has ever driven during rush hour.

"There's a lot of beauty, harmony and unity in the world," he says. "Most people
are considerate and fair."

Information about his work can be found at www.co2sos.com, www.st2p.com and
www.bradarthur.com.


Reporter Geoff Fox can be reached at (813) 779-4613 or gfox@tampatrib.com

Keyword: Everyday People, to watch an interview with Bradley Arthur and him
working on a new piece

Photo credit: Tribune photos by FRED BELLET

Photo: Arthur works in his backyard on a nonrusting component of a sculpture. He
will spend hours in the summer sun, forging metal with power tools.

Photo: "I've always been concerned about the environment," said Arthur, 54.

Photo: Bradley Arthur says that reusing materials for his sculptures and
transforming waste into art is emblematic of environmental preservation.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by FRED BELLET

Photo: Sculptor Bradley Arthur trained under master artists in studios in
France, Italy and New York.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              124 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Preparedness A Dish Best Served Always

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words


By TOM JACKSON

The Tampa Tribune

Well. That sure was a whole lot of nothing. As looming emergencies go, Pasco has
more to worry about come Tuesday's primary election day than it ever did from
Tropical Storm Fay.

The weather event projected to put official and private preparedness to the test
wound up straying on a course that meant, again, all that battening down and
shoring up was energy ill-spent.

But for all whose preparations amounted to toasting The Weather Channel with
another bottle of Miller Genuine Draft, belay those self-congratulations. Our
public service obligation requires this disclaimer: Tedious as hauling in the
lawn ornaments, securing the windows and stockpiling the family larder can be,
wisdom remains on the side of choosing safety.

For all their expertise, scientific instruments and software, modern trackers
have only a general idea where the storms are headed. Tropical storms -
hurricanes included - are the meteorological version of knuckleballs. When a
knuckleball pitcher is on the mound, catchers wear oversized mitts; similarly,
when a big storm is on the radar, proper equipment is never a bad idea.

Still, the imprecise science of forecast tracks makes us doubt anew the efficacy
of models behind human-induced climate change. If meteorologists can't fix,
within 100 miles, the strength or whereabouts of a storm 24 hours from now, how
can folks practicing in the sister science of climatology reliably project the
global mean temperature within a half-degree in 2058?

But that's another column.

Hard Lessons And Irony

All Fay did locally was ruffle trees, spritz a little water, give government
workers the day off and mess with the school calendar. In the annals of Pasco's
natural disasters, Fay will be a footnote. We've seen bigger blowouts when Land
O' Lakes hosts River Ridge in high school football.

At the risk of going hyper-hyper-local, Tuesday became the day when the heir
apparent could not believe the goodness of life: No school! No storm! Woo hoo!
It also was the day he learned the heartbreak of kite-eating trees. One moment
it was soaring; the next it dived into the greedy clutches of an unforgiving
Southern longleaf pine, evoking heartbreak.

And so it goes.

At mid-afternoon, about the time meteorologists had predicted Fay's effects
would be most intensely felt, Pasco was dry and breezy and astonishingly
hunkered down. An eyewitness survey of assorted east county golf courses,
including but not limited to Silverado, Lake Jovita and The Abbey, revealed an
astonishing absence of players willing to seek glory against the elements.

Not that golfers bear all the blame. Here came Tuesday, full of Scottish links
bluster, and there was the pro shop at Scotland Yard, of all places, locked up
tighter than an Edinburgh bank.

It's Mostly Guesswork

They say Fay isn't finished with us, that steering currents may drive the storm
back across the state after it crosses to the Atlantic. In some models,
forecasters' cone-of-wild-rump-guesses puts its southernmost track right back
here between Saturday night and, oh, Labor Day. You never know.

In this, we must be like Chicago Cubs fans: ever alert, ever vigilant, ever open
to the possibility that this year, or this storm, will be the one we've been
preparing for.

Meanwhile, it looks like the drought watch is back on.

Tom Jackson can be reached at (813) 948-4219.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              127 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 14, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hoping For A Revival

BYLINE: BAIRD HELGESON and MICHELLE BEARDEN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2983 words


After more than a year of scandal swirling around Without Walls, Paula White
returns to the dwindling congregation - with the ghosts of her past in tow.

By BAIRD HELGESON and MICHELLE BEARDEN

The Tampa Tribune

Randy and Paula White built Without Walls International Church into one of the
brightest beacons of faith in the community. Its innovative ministries attracted
such a large following that the church gained a national reputation.

Starting in May 2007, news of scandal, a U.S. Senate financial probe and divorce
eroded the foundation of their spiritual sanctuary.

Paula White moved away from Tampa a year ago to focus on her television show,
books and preaching. Randy, left to tend the local flock alone, cut back his
preaching.

Now, with Paula's national audience dwindling and church attendance in decline,
the couple have once again joined forces. Paula has returned to the Without
Walls pulpit to reinvigorate the ministry and is scheduled to preach today.

But a big question remains: Will Paula be enough to rebuild the empire?

"The timing feels right for coming back to Tampa regularly, whether it's once a
month or more often," Paula said in an e-mail. "Randy and I both needed some
time to heal and I think the congregation did, too."

The Whites turned Tampa into the heart of one of the largest megachurches in the
nation, at one time reaching 22,000. They leveraged their status to mix with
celebrities and world leaders, including President Bush, retired Gen. Colin
Powell and business mogul Donald Trump.

Rebuilding the church could prove harder than building it, however.

The Whites remain scarred by missteps from their past and dogged by a growing
number of detractors. The glare of scrutiny has revealed discrepancies in the
stories they've told for more than a decade, the lore that helped build the
foundation of their church.

Paula, in particular, is accused of massaging the rough spots of her life for a
more dramatic born-again tale.

A Year Of Decline

The Whites and their congregation have dealt with a lot of upheaval in the past
year.

On Aug. 23, 2007, the couple announced they were getting a divorce, the second
for both.

Then on Nov. 5, U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa launched an inquiry into the
finances of the Whites' ministries and five others. Paula and Randy have largely
defied Grassley's request for information, a response that could lead to a
subpoena, the senator's staff has said.

Personal heartbreak came in April when Randy's 30-year-old daughter, Kristen
Hernandez, died from complications of a brain tumor.

Paula, 42, left Tampa and partnered with pastor Rick Hawkins' 2,000-member
church in San Antonio, Texas. She bought a $681,000 home in the area.

Randy, 50, was left tending a diminished flock in Tampa. He removed hundreds of
seats in the auditorium and eliminated two of three Sunday services.

The number of visitors on the church's once-popular Web site dropped from a
three-year high of 55,500 in October to about 7,200 in July, according to Web
monitoring company Quantcast.

Randy declined to comment for this story.

In recent months, Paula's depleted finances forced her to pull back the number
of networks on which she broadcasts "Paula Today," her television show targeted
to women seeking biblical guidance for their everyday lives.

Last month, she sent a letter to her supporters, called prayer partners, asking
for money to broaden the ministry. "But while giving has dropped over the summer
months, the need to share the hope and life-changing message of Jesus Christ is
growing!" she wrote.

Traffic dropped on her Web site, too.

In July, 21,000 people came to paulawhite.org, down from 61,000 in October,
according to Quantcast.

The Untold Story

Some who knew the Whites before they moved to Tampa say the couple's tumble
comes as no surprise, given the circumstances that brought them together.

When Paula tells her life story, she talks about her childhood and a brief
marriage before her marriage to Randy. The story she and Randy have not widely
shared involves their time before that at a small church in Damascus, Md., when
they were married to other people.

Friends and their relatives who used to attend the church say they have
privately boiled as Paula wrote in books and preached on the air about marrying
a rock singer she barely knew and living on "government cheese." They insist
Paula and her first husband, Dean Knight, were not poor and that the marriage
was a loving one on Dean's behalf. They said she left him in part because she
believed Randy had the charisma and talent to take her far in life.

"What we are bothered by is the hypocrisy and the lies," said Gretchen Wall,
part of a group of teenage friends, including Dean, who grew up together and
later embraced Paula.

Paula responded to questions from the Tribune in recent weeks. On Friday, she
issued a final statement regarding the Maryland residents' account and other
issues raised in the story. She said there were "numerous inaccuracies" in
information the Tribune had obtained.

"Randy and I have told our story over the years to the Christian community and
we stand by it. We cannot control the way our story is or has been reported, nor
can we control gossip, innuendo or other people's memories of events 20 years
ago. I have no further comment."

Here's how Wall, her husband, his parents and another friend remember the early
years:

Paula Michelle Furr was barely out of high school when she started helping at
Damascus Church of God in the mid-1980s. Her family had moved from California to
the Germantown, Md., area before her senior year of high school.

Knight was a heartthrob who played in a rock band.

She was enthralled the moment she saw him in concert.

"Paula always gravitated to men who she thought could take her somewhere," said
Mary Wall, who attended the Damascus church and is Gretchen's mother-in-law.

At 18, Paula got pregnant with Knight's child. They married a short time after
the birth of their son.

Randy, eight years older, was a gregarious associate pastor of the 60-member
church, which was run by his father, the Rev. Frank White.

Randy was married to his first wife, Debra, and they had three children. But the
Walls and others said Randy flirted with women at the church and was widely
known to keep a list of women he found attractive as a bookmark in his Bible.

Randy asked Paula to help with some mailings for Destiny Ministries, which they
later brought to Tampa. Sometime in 1987, the two became romantically involved.

The romance angered several members of the congregation.

The Walls said Debra White and Knight came to them seeking spiritual guidance
while their spouses had a relationship.

At one point, Mary Wall stood up during a church service and said Randy and
Paula needed to repent for sinning and tearing apart the congregation.

Randy and Paula left for Fort Washington, a Maryland suburb of Washington. In
1989, the couple divorced their spouses, and in 1990, the two married.

Knight declined to be interviewed for this story. Several of his friends and
relatives did not want their names used for the story but confirmed details.

The Walls admit they probably agitated Randy and Paula when the romance started,
particularly when they tried to tell Frank White about his son's relationship
with Paula.

They wonder whether their influence had anything to do with the Tampa church's
name, Without Walls.

Randy declined to answer questions about this period in their lives. However, in
an April 2007 interview with the Tribune, they both said they were "out of their
marriages" when they got together.

A Stormy Start In Tampa

Paula's metamorphosis into one of the nation's most compelling preachers began
after the couple moved to Tampa in 1990 to work for Bayshore United Methodist
Church.

Randy answered an ad in Charisma magazine for a youth minister. The Rev. Frank
Seghers was impressed by the energetic evangelist, though he admits he had
doubts - a "check in his spirit" - about hiring him.

The church search committee offered him the job - and gave Paula a teaching
position in the church's school, though she had no degree.

Within a few months, Seghers was ready to concede he may have been mistaken
about his initial gut feeling.

"They really built the youth group," he said. "They were creative; they were
charismatic."

The Whites were there less than a year when someone saw a sign in a storefront
on South Manhattan Avenue: South Tampa Christian Center, The Rev. Randy White.

Seghers was taken aback. Randy had orally pledged not to start another church in
the Bay area in the foreseeable future, a common practice in religious circles.

When Seghers confronted Randy about the storefront sign, "He said the sign
painter wasn't supposed to do that so soon, that he wasn't ready to announce
anything," Seghers said.

He fired Randy that day and terminated Paula's job.

Documents obtained by the Tribune show that the Whites were more careful about
departing employees when they established Without Walls. Staff members were
required to sign an employment agreement saying that if they were dismissed or
quit, they would not start a church, organizational fellowship or work at
another church within a 40-mile radius for at least two years.

Seghers, now pastor of a United Methodist church outside Jacksonville, said the
Whites took about 150 Bayshore members with them.

Jan Hoover and her husband, Bud, were among those who left. The Whites made an
irresistible offer, Jan said. If she joined their new ministry, she could become
music minister.

She also worked in the office to help build the congregation. One of her first
jobs was to send out more than 350 announcements to potential members - all
pulled from a Bayshore mailing list. "Looking back, I thought I was contributing
to a great cause by letting people know about this new and exciting church," she
said. "Now I realize it was just plain wrong."

Jan no longer attends a church and believes the Whites' ministries are
spiritually bankrupt.

"It was the death of a vision, the death of a dream," she said. "I bought into
something that turned out not to be real."

Her husband said the Whites' marriage seemed indicative of the ministry.

"The marriage never seemed like a real thing to me," he said. "It always seemed
more like a business."

Paula Soars, Stumbles

Fran Badger, another Bayshore member who followed the Whites, watched as the
church grew from storefront to warehouse to giant tent to an oversized dome to
the 4,000-seat sanctuary it now occupies on Grady Street.

She preferred the smaller church, when the congregation was like a big family
and the Whites were accessible. But "it all got too big, too fast," she said.

Paula, meanwhile, began to blossom as a preacher. She traveled the country,
making appearances at churches and conferences. Once quiet and deferential to
her husband, she became a national figure in her own right within Christian
evangelical circles.

"Randy used to say, 'I taught her everything she knows.' And I think he did,"
Badger said.

Jan Hoover remembers Paula as "an impressionable young woman with a little-girl
quality, star-struck and enamored of Randy. And he was the director of her life,
telling her how to behave. It was a Svengali-like relationship," she said,
comparing Randy to the hypnotist in George du Maurier's 1894 novel, "Trilby."

"She just grew out of him."

Her stories have grown, as well.

In a 2003 video broadcast, Paula preaches before a crowd of thousands about the
struggles of raising the four children that "came out of my birth canal."

Paula has one child; Randy has three.

She also appears to have repackaged the truth in a glowing profile called
"Paula's Purpose: Helping others unlock their potential" in the May/June issue
of Celeb Staff, a magazine that targets the "gatekeepers of the rich and
famous."

Written by chief operating officer Beth Torre, the profile recounts several
examples of Paula helping orchestrate "amazing transformations" in people from
all walks of life.

She cites the case of Tareon Alvarez. In 1996, the then-14-year-old and a friend
threw acid on a fellow student's face at a bus stop and cut the girl with a
razor blade. The attackers were charged as adults with aggravated battery and
pleaded guilty. They got seven years in prison, but the judge suspended the
sentence, giving them one year of house arrest and nine years' probation.

Alvarez ended up attending Destiny Academy, a former private school run by
Without Walls. She also joined the church's dance team and youth group and spoke
publicly about rebuilding her broken life and dreams of becoming a hairdresser.

But Paula's involvement was so overstated in the article, Alvarez repeatedly
asked for published corrections. When she didn't get a response, she got a
lawyer to write a letter to the magazine's law firm.

Paula never put her through private school or cosmetology school, and she was
never Paula 's hairdresser, the letter stated, contradicting the article.

She had contact only with Randy and his staff, the lawyer's letter stated, and
only after she had already been sentenced.

When contacted by the Tribune, Alvarez said she stands by her contention in the
letter that she was never a beneficiary of "Ms. White's philanthropy." However,
she decided to drop the matter and "move on with my life."

Torre said the magazine would have "no comment regarding the story."

Paula told the Tribune: "I respect Tareon's decision to move on."

A Secular Shift

Paula's appearance in Celeb Staff hints at her transformation into something
other than a preacher.

She now describes herself as a life coach, motivational speaker and author. She
was featured at real estate and wealth expos alongside Donald Trump.

Those who study evangelicals say it's common for prosperity preachers such as
Paula to embrace a gospel of materialism.

"It has been easy for those so inclined to further de-emphasize the spiritual
aspects of Christianity in favor of legitimizing full-bore materialism," said
Bill Martin, a Rice University professor. "In such a climate, a growing number
of preachers see - and experience - no problem with acknowledging that many
people regard them as motivational speakers or life coaches first, and preachers
second."

The Resurrection Question

As Paula attempts to repair the Tampa church, questions about the Whites'
ministries ripple beyond Tampa.

Broadly, the purpose of Grassley's inquiry could result in tougher rules
governing the finances of large media ministries, the senator has said.
Televangelism has evolved, the senator points out, but IRS rules have not.

Paula's shift from church leader to national television personality was the
turning point in her transformation, said former Without Walls board member
Alick Clark.

In March, he resigned his board position after 17 years. A longtime friend of
the couple, he said he got "fed up" with the Whites' lack of accountability and
the board's not being told of ministry developments.

"Twenty years ago, she was just a girl, full of hope and her eyes on Jesus,"
Clark said. "Then she gets in TV and the focus changes. You have to feed that
monster [television], and it's pretty darn expensive."

At the community level, followers must decide whether they can forgive the
disappointment of the past and rebuild the church's weakened foundation. Time
will tell whether Randy and Paula can return to their earlier prominence.

Marguerite Boudreaux is hopeful.

She still attends Without Walls and hasn't forgotten how the Whites supported A
Life Not Wasted, the ministry she began years ago to show love and appreciation
for homosexuals.

"They were there when other religious leaders wouldn't do such a thing," she
said. "I know they're only human, and they will make mistakes and commit sins
like anyone else. But no matter what is said about them, I know they are good
people."

At the same time, Paula is taking her own advice as a life coach.

She has a new book coming out this fall called, "Move On, Move Up." The book
reflects the message she preaches to her followers: "To not give up in tough
times and to trust in God even when we don't understand what is going on around
us."

To the world, an optimistic Paula presents a sunny outlook, refusing to let a
year of turmoil and an uncertain future dampen her faith. Where life goes next
is out of her hands, she said.

"I'm continuing to do what I have always done, which is minister to people with
the ultimate goal of fulfilling God's plans for my life and ministry," she said.
"As always, I am receptive to whatever doors God may open."

Reporter Baird Helgeson can be reached at (813) 259-7668 or
bhelgeson@tampatrib.com Reporter Michelle Bearden can be reached at (813)
259-7613 or mbearden@tampatrib.com

Photo: Paula was featured in Celeb Staff, a magazine for staff of the rich and
famous.

Photo: Paula and Dean Knight, the second couple from the right, hang out with
friends from their church in Maryland in the 1980s.

Photo: "I know they're only human, and they will make mistakes and commit sins
like anyone else," one supporter says of the Whites. "But no matter what is said
about them, I know they are good people."

Photo credit: Paula White Ministries

Photo: Since the news of her divorce and a Senate inquiry, Paula White's
ministry has taken a turn. In July, paulawhite.org had 21,000 visitors, down
from 61,000 in October. Last month, she sent a letter to her supporters, saying
"giving has dropped over the summer months."

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by JASON BEHNKEN

Photo: Last year, Paula White and her husband, Randy, announced they were
getting a divorce, the second for both. Paula moved away to focus on her
television ministry and books, while Randy remained in Tampa at Without Walls
International Church.

TBO.com Keyword: Without Walls, for past coverage and video reports on the
Whites and to comment on this story.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              128 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

State Investigates Rise In Gas Prices

BYLINE: MICHAEL SASSO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words


With No Shortage In Florida, Oil Companies Are Under Scrutiny

By MICHAEL SASSO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - State regulators investigating gasoline price gouging complaints are
turning their attention from retailers to oil companies, wondering whether they
inflated the prices they charged gas station owners in recent days.

A big question on the state's mind: why gas prices rose so much in the wake of
Hurricane Ike when there is no real shortage of gas in Florida. According to the
Florida Energy and Climate Commission, the state has about 177 million gallons
of gas in storage in gasoline terminals across Florida, a figure that is "fairly
average," said Sarah Williams, a spokeswoman for the commission. An additional
160 million gallons is expected in Florida within nine days, she said.

In the wake of thousands of complaints of price gouging, Florida Agriculture and
Consumer Services Commissioner Charles Bronson said Monday he is issuing
subpoenas for the financial records of 16 major oil terminals in Florida. The
terminals primarily are operated by the oil companies.

"It's our opinion that price gouging doesn't only occur at the retail level,"
said Terence McElroy, a spokesman for the agriculture commissioner.

David Mica, director of the Florida Petroleum Council, an organization of the
American Petroleum Institute, said it's difficult to speak about specific gas
prices in certain regions. However, he said a huge percentage of the nation's
domestic oil and refining capacity is not operating right now, and it will take
some time to see the full effects of Hurricane Ike.

In recent days, the Florida Attorney General's office and the agriculture
commissioner's office have been deluged with complaints of price gouging. On
Monday, Bronson's office said it had received more than 2,300 complaints over
the past three days, and the attorney general had received more than 4,000
complaints as of late Monday afternoon.

There have been scattered reports of gas stations across Florida that increased
their prices by 50 cents or more on Thursday and Friday. That prompted the
attorney general to subpoena the records of four companies on Sunday: Flying J,
Dodge's Gas Stores, Valero and Pilot Travel Centers.

Lesser price increases were felt widely across Florida and the Tampa Bay area.
For example, in its daily survey of gas prices AAA found that the average price
of regular unleaded in the Tampa area was $3.784. That is up more than 5 cents a
gallon from Sunday, when the average price was $3.731. A month ago, the average
price was $3.709, according to AAA.

On Monday, Bay area drivers sometimes drove up to gas stations searching for
cheap gas, only to find that regular unleaded was sold out. That was the case at
a Mobil station on Dale Mabry Highway in south Tampa.

"Now that the hurricane's hit, that's their [oil companies] new excuse for
raising prices," said Greg Evans, an Orlando delivery truck driver filling up
his personal car at the Mobil station.

Gas retailers and retailer trade groups insist that gas station owners are not
behind the price spikes. When Hurricane Ike hit, everyone was concerned about
how badly the Gulf of Mexico's oil platforms and other infrastructure would be
damaged, said Jim Smith, president of the Florida Petroleum Marketers and
Convenience Store Association. As it turned out, the infrastructure wasn't that
badly damaged, and prices already have begun to fall, Smith said.

Nonetheless, the threat caused wild speculation last week on the "spot market,"
where many independent gas companies buy gasoline, Smith said, which caused
prices to rise. Bill McKnight, president of Automated Petroleum and Energy Co.
of Brandon, which owns or leases more than 200 gas stations in Florida, said the
spot market went "crazy" last week, with gas selling for as much as $4.50 a
gallon.

A big question that the state wants the answer to is why oil companies raised
the wholesale price of gas they charged retailers, when there were millions of
gallons of gas in storage in Florida already. The "$64,000 question," Smith
said, is whether oil companies were just passing along increased costs to their
customers or were trying sell the gas they already had stored in Florida at a
higher price.

The attorney general's office has set up a toll-free hot line for people with
complaints of gas gouging: 1-866-966-7226.

Reporter Michael Sasso can be reached at (813) 259-7865 or msasso@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CLIFF MCBRIDE

Photo: "Now that the hurricane's hit, that's their [oil companies] new excuse
for raising prices," says Orlando resident Greg Evans, who works as a truck
driver. Thousands of complaints have been made about the recent rise in prices.

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: Oil prices plunged to a seven-month low Monday as the Gulf Coast energy
infrastructure appeared relatively unharmed after Hurricane Ike.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              129 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 22, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fall Has Arrived, Have A Hot Day

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words


SUMMER HEAT DRAGS ON AS FIRE SEASON NEARS

By NEIL JOHNSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Fall arrives today, or so the calendar says.

It may mean something to the rest of the country, but in Florida, where the peak
of the sultry hurricane season passed less than two weeks ago, summer drags on.

A more meaningful benchmark in the weather cycle comes in a week and half, on
Oct. 1. Call it wildfire season.

It brings seven months of drier weather and plumes of smoke on the horizon.

In fact, meteorologists say, Florida essentially has just two seasons -
"wildfire," from October through April, and "lightning," from May through
September.

The four seasons revolve around the sun, changing with the winter and summer
solstices, when Earth is tilted on its axis either farthest from or closest to
the sun, and spring and fall equinox, when daylight and night are each 12 hours
long.

Those celestial movements certainly apply in Florida but they don't signal the
shift in weather cycles the way they do, say, up North.

That's a shame for people who cherish the change, such as Nicole McCullen, who
came here from Rockford, Mich.

Even after 10 years in Florida, she misses crisp afternoons on the gridiron back
home. A Bucs game at 90 degrees just isn't the same.

"I certainly miss fall football and Indian summer," McCullen said. "September is
the time of year you expect it to cool down."

Wildfire season starts when the afternoon rains shut down.

This year in Florida, there have been nearly 2,500 wildfires, which burned more
than 155,000 acres.

That's less than half the sweep of last year's season, though, when 4,900 fires
charred 578,000 acres.

The ferocious 2007 season, in fact, eclipsed the 1998 fire season when the same
number of fires consumed more than 509,000 acres.

The season peaks in March through April, as temperatures rise during some of
Florida's driest months and vegetation turns to tinder.

Lightning Season

Lightning season gets under way in May, thunders into its peak in July and
tapers off in September.

The entire Florida peninsula erupts with thunderstorms, mostly in the afternoon,
with each square mile in the state averaging 26 lightning bolts a year for a
total of about 1.5 million strikes.

A band from the Tampa Bay area to Cape Canaveral is the lightning capital,
receiving up to 40 lightning strikes per square mile.

Florida also leads the nation in lightning deaths with 74 between 1998 and 2007.

Fall Facts

Florida's climate office considers fall to be the time when morning temperatures
drop below 60 degrees two days in a row.

That usually happens the first week in November.

The average high temperature in the state as fall begins is 88 degrees, 3
degrees lower than the average high in mid-summer.

Officially this year, fall starts today at 11:44 a.m., which is the moment when
the center of the sun is directly overhead if you're standing on the equator.

The equator is also where daylight and darkness match up exactly that day.

In Tampa, daylight and darkness will each last 12 hours next Friday.

RELATED STORY, Page 3

Norterners miss cool, crisp days.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (813) 259-7731 or njohnson@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by FRED BELLET (1997)

Photo: Florida's skies light up during lightning season, which runs from May
through September.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo (2001)

Photo: Florida's wildfire season starts in October and stretches through spring.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              132 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Credit Crunch Threatens Projects

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 677 words


It's now more expensive for Tampa to borrow money to finance work.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - When city officials needed money for the Central Park Village
redevelopment project, they turned to the bond markets.

In partnership with the Tampa Housing Authority and Bank of America, they
planned to borrow more than $25 million for needed roads, sewer and stormwater
work, pledging future tax dollars from Central Park's designation as a community
redevelopment area.

That is, until the global credit crunch put the brakes on municipal lending.

"The project is still on hold," said Leroy Moore, vice president of the Housing
Authority. "We just can't make the numbers work in the current climate. It's way
too volatile."

For years, cities like Tampa have had access to easy money by issuing municipal
bonds that pay historically low interest rates. But the fear of lending that has
engrossed Wall Street is making it more expensive for local governments to
borrow money needed for road work, water and sewer improvements and other
crucial infrastructure projects.

That means city officials face the difficult decision of putting off projects,
or paying higher interest rates on their bonds, a cost that ultimately would
fall on the backs of taxpayers.

In the Tampa Bay area, the bond market crash is delaying or endangering several
big-ticket projects like Central Park, Tampa Heights, the Avenue of Arts and a
$55 million pipeline project to resolve long-standing water pressure problems in
South Tampa.

"I've never seen it as bad as this," Tampa's finance director Bonnie Wise said.

Municipal bonds have long been considered among the safest investments because
cities and counties can be counted on to levy taxes and repay their debt. The
money is borrowed from investors on the open market, but these days backers are
hard to find.

"It's increasingly difficult to get deals done," Wise said. "The investors
aren't there."

The credit crunch is also threatening Mayor Pam Iorio's aggressive capital
improvement program, which calls for spending more than $170 million on
stormwater improvements, water and sewer maintenance and other infrastructure
projects in the next several years.

Most of the funding for the projects was to come from an approved $93 million
line of credit, known as commercial paper, from the Florida Association of
Counties.

But city officials are reluctant to tap into the tax-exempt pool of money
because the lending rates for commercial paper have nearly doubled in the past
two months.

To date, the city has only used about $6 million of those funds.

"We will continue to evaluate the financial situation and would only borrow if
it made financial sense for the city," Iorio said this week.

Several redevelopment projects were delayed last year after the Florida Supreme
Court ruled that voters must approve the use of property tax proceeds to pay off
bond debts.

When that ruling was reversed last month, city officials hoped to begin issuing
bonds to get several of the projects underway. But the credit crunch put the
kibosh on that.

Central Park, already more than a year behind schedule, was billed as the
catalyst for widespread change across the 143-acre redevelopment area, between
downtown and Ybor City. City officials say they don't know when the funding will
become available.

"It's going to depend on the bond market," Moore said.

If the credit crunch lumbers on, Wise said, it could have far-reaching
implications for the local economy, which is already reeling from the impact of
the housing market slump.

If cities and counties can't get money to renovate buildings, build parks or
repair streets, that translates into less jobs at a time when unemployment
concerns are growing.

"It's trickling down into everything we do," Wise said. "These are unprecedented
times."

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679.

Photo: Bonnie Wise

"I've never seen it as bad as this," says Tampa's finance director.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


                              135 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Step Up To Plates

BYLINE: JEFF HOUCK, jhouck@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE MAGAZINE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words


By JEFF HOUCK

jhouck@tampatrib.com

VOTE WITH YOUR MOUTH

So, Election Day is Tuesday. Or it was last month, if you voted already.

Amid all the political blah-blah, I have to wonder: Why wasn't food more of an
issue during this presidential campaign? After years of stump speeches and
debates and television ads, I have almost no idea where John McCain and Barack
Obama stand on issues related to what and how we eat.

Sure, I get to see them hobnobbing with people and angling for votes while
gnawing on local fare at campaign stops. The counter at the local diner is where
the networks and newspapers go every four years when they want to talk to Joe
Meatloaf. In that way, restaurants have replaced the corner barbershop as visual
cues that the political elite are going out to hear what regular folks have to
say.

When the candidates do venture into Foodland, the terrain gets tricky. While
stumping in Iowa last year against Hillary Clinton, Obama was reported to have
remarked about the price of arugula at Whole Foods. For this observation, some
tried to paint him as an elitist catering to "the wine track," only to give way
to the discovery that while there are no Whole Foods stores in Iowa, yes,
arugula is grown and sold in stores there.

But beyond the well-orchestrated chewing of the fat and grocery class-warfare,
I'm left feeling empty about where the next president wants to take the food I
eat. I went online to check out the issues sections of their Web sites. The
topic headers were:

Obama: Civil Rights, Defense, Disabilities, Economy, Education, Energy &
Environment, Ethics, Faith, Family, Fiscal, Foreign Policy, Health Care,
Homeland Security, Immigration, Iraq, Poverty, Rural, Service, Seniors & Social
Security, Technology, Taxes, Urban Policy, Veterans, Women.

McCain: Economy, Energy, National Security, Health Care, Iraq, Homeownership,
Veterans, Immigration, Education, 2nd Amendment, Judicial Philosophy, Homeland
Security, Fighting Crime, Natural Heritage, Agricultural Policies, The Sanctity
of Life, Climate Change, Ethics Reform, Space Program, National Service,
Technology.

Food? Beyond a few agricultural talking points, it's missing in action.

It's remarkable, really, when you consider how food quality, safety and the lack
thereof have become such huge cultural and public safety issues in recent years.

The next time we do this, in 2012 - is that a science-fiction number or what? -
I'd like to see the Food Network sponsor a presidential debate on food topics.
I'd pick food writer Michael Ruhlman to moderate.

Had that debate happened this year, here are a few questions I would have the
candidates answer:

*The Centers for Disease Control said in 2007 that 76 million of the roughly 300
million people who live in the United States get food-borne illnesses each year.
What will you do to improve safety standards and federal inspections, and how
will you pay for those improvements?

*How would you penalize countries such as China for exporting foods and
consumable products that contain harmful chemicals, additives or viruses?

*How many and what types fruits and vegetables do you generally consume in a
24-hour period?

*The diversion of corn supplies for production of ethanol fuel caused upheaval
in food prices worldwide within the past two years. What would you do to
stabilize food prices and insulate them from energy market demands?

*What is your plan to guarantee the safety of the nation's food supplies from
terrorism?

*Would you seek a penalty tax for companies that produce fast food? Do you think
those companies should be allowed to be sued by consumers of their products
based solely on the nutritional content?

*When was the last time you ate a cheeseburger?

*Do you support modification of food through genetic engineering?

*Do you support mandatory nutrition labeling for restaurant menus? If so, what
would be achieved by doing so, and how would you measure those results?

*What three things would you do to reduce wasteful and ineffective overlapping
regulation by the U.S. Department of Health, Department of Agriculture and the
Food and Drug Administration?

*What have you personally done to assist hunger-relief programs?

*How much does a gallon of milk cost?

*Please explain the basics of the federal government's "food pyramid."

*Sen. Obama, your home city of Chicago banned the sale of fois gras from 2006 to
2008. Sen. McCain, Arizona banned junk food from schools in 2005. For both
candidates: Do you support the banning of foods and ingredients? What is your
answer to those who say the government telling its citizens what foods people
can and cannot eat is an invasion of privacy?

*Paper or plastic?

Photo credit: McClatchy-Tribune

Photo: Republican candidate Sen. John McCain eats lunch with Gov. Charlie Crist,
left, and Ramon Ojeda at a Hispanic restaurant in Orlando while stumping in
Central Florida.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo

Photo: Democratic candidate Sen. Barack Obama eats a cheese steak sandwich while
campaigning in Philadelphia

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE STEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company
