
                               1 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rubio questions climate change

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 562 words


He rejects scientist's findings and criticizes Gov. Crist's stance on
cap-and-trade plans.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Senate candidate Marco Rubio said Friday that he doesn't accept the
scientific evidence for global warming - a stance Rubio has hinted at before,
but which the campaign of Gov. Charlie Crist said is a switch for Rubio.

Rubio denied it's a change in his position on the issue.

Climate change in general, and specifically of a "cap-and-trade" plan to limit
carbon emissions, has been an issue in the campaign between Crist and Rubio for
the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate.

In an interview with the Tribune on that subject Friday, Rubio called Crist "a
believer in man-made global warming."

"I don't think there's the scientific evidence to justify it," Rubio said.

Asked whether he accepts the scientific evidence that the global climate is
undergoing change, he responded, "The climate is always changing. The climate is
never static. The question is whether it's caused by man-made activity and
whether it justifies economically destructive government regulation."

Rubio hasn't previously denied global warming outright in published statements
on the issue.

In December, he told The Miami Herald, "I'm not a scientist. I'm not qualified
to make that decision. There's a significant scientific dispute about that."

In an interview with the American Spectator, which used only paraphrase and not
direct quotes, Rubio said he was not prepared to challenge the scientific
evidence of global warming, but that the evidence didn't justify a cap-and-trade
plan.

The Crist camp accuses Rubio of flip-flopping on the issue because while Rubio
criticizes Crist for backing a cap-and-trade plan, Rubio also led the state
House in 2008 to pass legislation mandating a state cap-and-trade plan.

"If the climate's changing, so are his positions on issues," said Eric
Eikenberg, Crist campaign manager. "This is the flavor of the month," an attempt
by Rubio to appeal to the right wing, he said.

In a 2007 speech on the issue to the House, Rubio said, "Florida has the
opportunity to pursue bold energy policies, not just because they are good for
our environment, but because people can actually make money at doing it. This
nation, and ultimately the world, is headed towards emission caps and energy
diversification."

But Rubio says his position has not changed on the issue.

The 2008 legislation, he said, was a response to Crist's attempt to enact a
cap-and-trade plan by executive order - a plan Rubio bashes as
"California-style" or "European-style."

Rubio, then state House speaker with control over House legislation, said rather
than allow Crist's plan to take effect, he backed legislation to require the
state Department of Environmental Protection to develop a "market-based" plan to
comply with a potential federal plan.

Jennifer Collins, a meteorologist at the University of South Florida, said it's
true the global climate isn't static, as Rubio said, but added, "The evidence is
that there is a slow, long-term warming, and that some of that is attributable
to humans."

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo: Marco Rubio. "The climate is always changing," he said. "The climate is
always changing," he said.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               2 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Teaching the whole child

The state wants to hold teachers accountable for student achievement. At first,
it sounds logical. Teachers are responsible for student learning. The problem
lies in the state's definition of achievement.

To our legislators, achievement equals higher test scores. Ask any educator in
the current system, and he or she will tell you that student achievement is much
more than one test result.

We teach the whole child. We teach them how to listen, learn and be respectful.
We teach children manners, how to play well with others and how to cooperate. We
teach them to be on time to class, how to dress appropriately and use proper
grammar. Where do these necessities fall into the state's definition of
achievement?

Everyone will agree that one of the most important reasons for education is to
sustain and promote our democracy. Teachers are working hard every day to teach
citizenship to our students by teaching them responsibility and tolerance. We
teach them about the effects of the choices they make, good and bad. Where are
these principles found in a state test?

Students are individuals. Every student has different needs, and achievement or
learning gains look different for every student. Most educators agree that we
should be held accountable for the learning that takes place in our classrooms.
However, the state needs to recognize that real, life-long learning is not
exemplified in one test.

AMY MILLER

Tampa

Gender bias?

It is a man's world. To renew a Florida driver's license ("Driven to
frustration," front page, March 10), women now have to prove the world is still
round; however, men can apparently just show up with a birth certificate and
proof of their address and Social Security number, and they are done.

A man may have been married anywhere from one time to 20 times, but he does not
have to prove any of that. Women? We have to dig out the original marriage
license (even if that was 70 years ago) and any divorce and/or later marriage
certificates. This is a reason for women to retain their birth names during
their lifetime and refuse to take their husbands' surnames. Why didn't we know
that 30, 40, 50 or 60 years ago, when we seniors started our married lives, so
we could easily renew our driver's licenses now?

JUNE AMBROSE

Plant City

Climate change

In response to Charles Taylor's letter suggesting that global warming is false
because of our recent frigid temperatures ("Global warming," March 11), please
know the science behind "climate change" (a better term than "global warming")
demonstrates more extreme and possibly bizarre weather patterns are to be
expected.

Seeing snow in Florida while it rains in Canada does not mean global warming is
nonexistent.

LESLIE FARRELL

Tampa

Internet sales tax

The Tribune is right that fair enforcement of existing sales-tax law would be
good not only for our financially hard-pressed state, but also for Florida
businesses, especially smaller businesses ("A proposal to aid state and
merchants," Our Opinion, March 8).

Because Florida isn't collecting sales tax on Internet, catalog and telephone
hotline purchases, our businesses here in Florida start out with a 6 percent or
greater competitive disadvantage. It makes no sense to put at a disadvantage the
very small businesses that are creating jobs and contributing to our
communities.

That's why Florida lawmakers should hasten to join a voluntary national project
that makes it easy for out-of-state online merchants to collect and send in
Florida state sales tax. AARP has been asking lawmakers to join the Streamlined
Sales and Use Tax Agreement for two years. It's time to act.

LORI PARHEM

Tallahassee

The writer is AARP Florida state director

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               4 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. positioned for planet-saving leadership role

BYLINE: PAUL F. STEINBERG, Special Correspondents

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 691 words


BY PAUL F. STEINBERG

Special Correspondents

The United Nations named 2010 the "International Year of Biodiversity," but the
past year has proved to be a tough one for planet Earth.

Last winter, negotiators returned from Copenhagen having failed to reach a
meaningful global agreement to reduce greenhouse gases. In the spring and
summer, the Gulf of Mexico was hit with the largest oil spill in history, due in
part to lax oversight by regulatory agencies.

This fall, diplomats met in Nagoya, Japan, to discuss the future of the U.N.
Convention on Biological Diversity -- but produced few concrete proposals to
stem the rapid disappearance of species and ecosystems worldwide.

These events carry an important lesson: When it comes to protecting the planet,
nations and their governments still call the shots. The race to save the Earth
will be won or lost one country at a time, as a result of political decisions
made in almost 200 sovereign nations and their capacity to implement reforms.

Nowhere is the importance of national action clearer than in the United States.

The U.S. was once the trendsetter in areas like air and water quality standards.
In the mid-1980s, the U.S. led global efforts to address ozone depletion over
the bitter objections of our European allies. But over the past two decades, we
have ceded leadership to the European Union while falling behind in many areas,
from consumer product safety to climate change and the reduction of toxic waste.

What might a renaissance in U.S. environmental leadership look like?

First, we must consolidate past gains, ensuring that accomplishments like our
national park system, the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Water Act, all
created with strong bipartisan backing, receive continued support. Next, we must
watch what other nations are doing and improve on their ideas.

England and Germany have shown that we can grow our economy while reducing
carbon emissions. From Holland we can learn strategies for dramatically reducing
the amount of pesticides used in agriculture. From Costa Rica, we can learn how
to design a system of public lands that not only provides recreation
opportunities, but places a priority on species conservation.

The U.S. also has much to offer others, drawing on our unique characteristics as
a nation. Ironically, the U.S. government has funded more climate-change
research than any other nation -- only to have the findings ignored by our
leaders. We developed the first "cap-and-trade" programs to reduce pollution at
a lower economic cost. Now others deploy these ideas to reduce carbon emissions
while Washington dithers.

The United States is also a highly decentralized political system. Our cities
and states are laboratories for innovative policies and practices. This is
significant because several dozen countries are now experimenting with
decentralization, shifting decision-making power from national to local levels,
and the U.S. can be a leader in collaborations with subnational governments from
Beijing to Bordeaux.

Finally, American citizens have a degree of access to official information and
decision-making processes that is unheard of in Europe and the rest of the
world. Newly democratizing societies are eager to put in place tools that
empower ordinary citizens, and the United States has pioneered the use of tools
like the Freedom of Information Act and the right of citizens to sue agencies
that fail to implement the law.

International law has an important role to play in protecting the environment,
but we must not wait for countries to overcome their differences before taking
action at home. Successful treaties draw on successful domestic policies. It
takes a nation to save a planet, and the time for U.S. leadership at home and
abroad is long overdue.

Paul F. Steinberg is an associate professor of political science and
environmental policy at Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif. Stacy D.
VanDeveer is an associate professor and scholar of environmental policymaking at
the University of New Hampshire.

Photo: NASA

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Our Views

BYLINE: The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 644 words


Celebrating the nation's great outdoors

Given the harsh political climate, it is no surprise many Republicans view
President Obama's "America Great Outdoors" initiative with distrust, if not
animosity.

Some characterize the program, announced last spring, as a land grab or an
effort to block domestic drilling.

And certainly, given Obama's big-government propensities, scrutiny is needed as
the program unfolds. Public hearings about what the initiative should entail are
being conducted around the country.

But its stated Theodore Roosevelt-like goal of reviving the nation's connection
to the American landscape - to wilderness, farmlands, rivers and streams - is
one that conservatives and liberals alike should support.

Indeed, with the GOP poised to take control of the House and perhaps the Senate,
the party should propose its own strategies to achieve the initiative's worthy
goals.

After all, plenty can be accomplished without enormous expenses or cumbersome
regulations. Simply having federal agencies coordinate their efforts, as the
president's memorandum directs, should cut costs and improve results.

The initiative also would maximize green space by encouraging state and local
governments and private landowners to establish "corridors" that could be used
by the public.

The Outdoor Industry Association makes a good observation in its responses to
the initiative. The organization points out there is a "culture of fear" that
surrounds outdoor activities, especially among those lacking outdoor skills.
This, in turn, results in "an overbearing bureaucracy of liability, insurance
and regulation" that can deter private landowners from allowing access to their
lands.

The association recommends the federal government help develop a model
recreational-use statute that states could adopt to protect landowners from
frivolous lawsuits.

Washington, of course, should champion proven outdoor programs, such as the Boy
Scouts of America and Girls Scouts of USA, which encourage young people to enjoy
the outdoors.

The Sierra Club wants the initiative to include policies that guard against the
"impacts of climate change," a goal that surely will find little enthusiasm
among Republicans. But even global-warming skeptics should see the value of
strategic land conservation, which in addition to all its other benefits can
offset the effects of carbon emissions.

The Everglades, for instance, stores and filters water, and sustains Florida Bay
and its fisheries. Protecting the Everglades protects South Florida's water
supply and its economy. But the Glades also provides a vast area for carbon
sequestration - at no extra cost.

Similarly, forests, which filter air and water, prevent erosion, shelter
wildlife and allow for a multitude of recreational activities, store carbon.

No doubt, there will be conflicts about what lands should be preserved and what
actions are needed as the initiative progresses. But the idea that Americans
should protect and utilize their remarkable outdoor treasures merits widespread

support.

President Theodore Roosevelt said it best in 1903:

"Every man who appreciates the majesty and beauty of the wilderness and of wild
life should strike hands with the far-sighted men who wish to preserve our
material resources, in the effort to keep our forests and our game-beasts,
gamebirds,

and game-fish - indeed, all living creatures of prairie and woodland and
seashore - from wanton destruction. Above all, we should recognize that the
effort toward this end is essentially a democratic movement. It is entirely
within our power as a nation to preserve large tracts of wilderness ... for rich
and poor alike. ... But this end can only be achieved by wise laws

and by resolute enforcement of the laws."

Photo: NAPLES/MARCO ISLAND

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               7 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Snook could be in for another brutal year

BYLINE: Fred Everson

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 569 words


By Fred Everson

Here we go again.

Water temperature lurking in the mid-50s at the beginning of winter is not a
good thing, if you're a snook. The few fish that survived the big freeze last
year are in danger of getting hit again.

Fifty-five degrees is generally thought to be the bottom of living tolerance for
snook, and we are about there already. Without a prolonged warming trend of more
seasonable weather, Tampa Bay snook fishing could become little more than a
memory. Because of fishing pressure, waterfront development and industrial
pollution, it was a fishery in decline anyway.

The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission tried to address this with
a tighter slot limit and reduced bag limit. But no one controls the weather.
What a shame it will be if we lose this greatest of inshore game fish to climate
change.

The best bite in recent weeks has been on sheepshead. There are plenty of them
in Little Cockroach Bay, Cockroach Bay and in the Little Manatee River. I fished
off the dock one afternoon last weekend and hooked a couple of fat ones, which
are among my favorite fish to eat. They're a pain to clean, but the white meat
filets are as good as grouper or snook.

You can also find sheepshead in the deep holes on the flats on extreme low
tides. The problem is getting there. If you don't have a kayak or a canoe you
will have to wade into most holes, since winter tides get so low.

There are good numbers of redfish on the flats this year, with lots of small
fish. That's somewhat unusual for the flats south of Apollo Beach. In years
past, most of the fish I've caught there were near the top of the 18- to 27-inch
slot or even over it. This year there are lots of short fish.

Trout reports have been good during the past few weeks. The 6-foot line between
Mag's Hole and Big Pass has been productive, as has the mouth of the Little
Manatee River. Trout season on Tampa Bay will reopen on New Year's Day with a
limit of four fish between 15 and 20 inches, with one fish over 20 allowed in
the bag.

Grouper season on Tampa Bay and all Florida waters - state and federal - will
close effective New Year's Day and stay closed until April 1. This is a federal
closure mandated by the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration because of
declining grouper stocks.

Many anglers say that simply isn't so in Tampa Bay. This past year was one of
the best I can ever recall for grouper reports, with many fish in the 10-pound
class.

The FWC is also contemplating changes to the redfish rules.

Many anglers also disagree this is needed. If they aren't broke, why fix them?
The FWC says that redfish stocks have greatly improved since the implementation
of the current slot and bag limit in 1989. The only major change in redfish
regulation since then was removal of the closed season.

Most of the fishermen I've spoken with would rather see trout regulations
tweaked instead. They say trout season doesn't need to be closed here during
November and December.

Fred Everson is an outdoor writer and Ruskin-based fishing guide who can be
reached at ihuntsnook@aol.com All South Shore anglers are welcome to submit
reports or photos for this column.


Photo: Fred Everson

Photo credit: FRED EVERSON

Photo: An angler fishes from a kayak at the mouth of the Little Manatee River
during a rare December fog.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               8 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Follow history's example

BYLINE: BILL NELSON, Special to the Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words


NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO CURTAIL SPACE EXPLORATION BY CUTTING PROGRAMS AND RELYING
ON PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.

By BILL NELSON

Special to the Tribune

In his 1986 Challenger address to a mourning nation, President Ronald Reagan
noted that we as Americans are accustomed to wonders.

In his words, "It's hard to dazzle us."

That certainly was true then, and it's true now. Even still, one thing always
seems to amaze us - and has done for five decades now, even in times of tragedy.

It's our nation's space program.

JFK. The Mercury Seven astronauts. "Godspeed, John Glenn." Gemini. Apollo 13.
Man on the moon. Space shuttle. Challenger. Hubble. Columbia. Mars rovers.

America's exploration of space has greatly advanced the cause of science and has
done much to improve life on Earth.

It's the reason we have Global Positioning Systems, special firefighter
equipment, satellites that track climate change and hurricanes, airbags, and
health care devices such as kidney machines and heart ultrasound equipment, and
Lasik surgery.

The space program has created scores of companies and hundreds of thousands of
jobs - jobs we need, especially in Florida.

NASA also has enabled America to have the most advanced satellite technology for
national security purposes.

Countless young Americans have been inspired to pursue careers in science,
technology and engineering, helping the United States remain a global leader in
these fields.

Simply put, we all have reaped a harvest of gains from space exploration.

Last week, President Barack Obama released his plan for the space program - a
blueprint that some say sharply revises NASA's mission. A colleague in the U.S.
Senate called it the beginning of a "death march for U.S. human space flight."

I wouldn't say that. But I did tell the White House something in the plan has to
change. I intend to hold a hearing this month to see whether Congress can rescue
parts of the Ares rocket program.

The NASA budget emphasizes low-Earth orbit and accelerates commercial space
exploration. But the plan doesn't provide a backup if commercial rockets fail.

If the administration doesn't push for NASA to develop a big rocket to take us
out of low-Earth orbit to explore the heavens, then we're going to fall behind
China and Russia. That's something I don't think will sit well with Americans.

I also told the White House we can't do this on the cheap.

As President John F. Kennedy said, opening the vistas of space brings high cost
and grave danger. But, he said, "This country was not built by those who waited
and rested and wished to look behind them."

Now is not the time to rest on our laurels. Nor is it the time to debate again
whether humans should explore new frontiers.

We would do well, instead, to recall our own early history.

Two hundred and seven years ago, President Thomas Jefferson sent a secret
message to Congress asking for $2,500 to fund the Lewis and Clark expedition. He
knew the request would be controversial and left it out of his State of the
Union. But he requested the money nonetheless and sent Meriwether Lewis and
William Clark to explore the uncharted West.

It may seem trivial now, but the expedition that ended up costing a
then-whopping $38,722 was an investment that changed the face and future of
America.

Today, it's our turn to follow history's example and to provide the resources
that will carry us into a new era of discovery.

Bill Nelson is Florida's senior U.S. senator. He also flew aboard the space
shuttle Columbia in 1986.

(CHART) FROM 2011 BUDGET PROPOSAL

In place of Constellation, the President's Budget funds a redesigned and
reinvigorated program that focuses on leveraging advanced technology,
international partnerships, and commercial capabilities to set the stage for a
revitalized human space flight program for the 21st Century. The President's
Budget will also increase NASA's funding, accelerating work - constrained for
years due to the budget demands of Constellation - on climate science, green
aviation, science education, and other priorities.

Source: www.budget.gov

Photo Credit: The Associated Press photo by CHRIS O'MEARA

Photo: The administration wants to end the Constellation program, which includes
building the Ares I rockets.

Photo: President John F. Kennday

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 747 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Act like adults

Enough already, people; it's time for a little common sense here. Here are
observations from a wise old gray-hair:

Violence is never, ever the solution. The Democrats are attempting to distract
from the ill will the American people feel about the passage of the health care
bill. Also, there has always been climate change, and there will always be
climate change.

Being from Atlanta, I remember Congressman John Lewis saying in the 1960s that
he was spit on and called the n-word.

Let's just get along, and settle this at the ballot box in November. We are all
Americans, and we don't need in-fighting. We need to acknowledge our differences
with good will and be adults here.

VONNIE DE RICO

Tampa

City of peace

As Easter and Passover are celebrated, we should recognize that this only occurs
because of our country's democratic freedoms. But in Israel, where these
freedoms are also enjoyed, Jerusalem should not be divided. This is because all
people - Christians, Palestinians and Israeli Arabs - have the same right to
live in Jerusalem, as do the Jewish people.

And while Israel protects all religions and recognizes that Palestinians should
rightfully have a homeland, Hamas leadership has always opposed with violence
the Jewish people's historical right to their homeland. Jerusalem is Israel's
capital, and it takes two sides to make peace. Jerusalem should be shared under
Israel's control, because it has proven it can best safeguard all holy sites.

GASTON and ALBA

LARRANAGA

Sarasota

The capital of Israel

Please stand up for our closest ally, Israel. She deserves a capital city just
like any other country, and Jerusalem has always been it. What if Britain,
France or Spain now claimed part of America because they used to own it? After
all the terrorism against Israel all these years, they deserve some peace.

GAIL CLEMONS

Plant City

Two-thirds there

Regarding the letter by Charles Salzmann, who believes people shouldn't be
forced to purchase health insurance because it infringes on their rights
("McCollum is right," March 30): There is no person living in the USA who will
never need medical attention. Caring for the uninsured results in higher premium
costs for those with insurance and more tax money going to nonprofit hospitals.

Let's stop these ridiculous lawsuits concerning the health care bill. There are
three requirements for a country to have a great health care system: universal
coverage, affordability and quality. We already have quality (if you have great
insurance); now we are moving toward universal coverage. Let's put our efforts
into cost cutting.

MELANIE YOSHIDA

Tampa

Storms applauded

Regarding "Watch sneaky lawmakers" (Our Opinion, March 30): I applaud state Sen.
Ronda Storms. This was another effort to slip something over on the public
again. Developers have already done enough harm. They will continue to do so if
not watched diligently, and this is what Storms did.

We are overbuilt, and many empty houses are going to ruin. Developers want badly
to start up again, as if we are not in the worst housing dilemma ever.

I'd also like to thank the Tribune for the information.

MAXINE HAMMOND

Land O' Lakes

Easy to rescind

Rep. Bart Stupak's column, "Obama's executive order protects the unborn" (Other
Views, March 30), insinuates a presidential order is as good as law. Then he
refers to President Bush's Executive Order 13435, regarding stem-cell research,
signed June 20, 2007, as an example.

He neglected to mention that Executive Order 13435 was rescinded by President
Obama on March 9.

I feel much more comfortable now knowing the unborn are protected.

AL WALCZAK

Valrico

Passing along costs

So, was anyone surprised when the combined amounts of money that several major
companies announced that they would have to set aside to comply with the new
health law would exceed $1 billion?

That is the amount that AT&T alone is setting aside.

This is the tip of the iceberg when it comes to what the costs will be to
American businesses and the economy.

These costs won't be borne by the companies, but by their customers, on whom
those costs will be passed.

PAUL SARSFIELD

Seffner

Transparency

Regarding "Putting the pain before the train" (Our Opinion, March 31):

The reason it is better for the train proposal to read surtax first and rail
later is transparency - something the Trib usually favors.

VINCENT SCHUEREN

Sun City Center

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               10 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

City eyes carbon footprint

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 496 words


It is looking for ways to conserve energy.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - The city plans to measure its carbon footprint to look for ways to
reduce its energy bills and protect the environment.

Energy usage - natural gas, electricity, and petroleum - for the city-owned
facilities and utility accounts will be measured to determine Tampa's greenhouse
gas emissions.

Money for the $70,000 study comes from a federal energy conservation grant. Bids
went out Thursday and the study is expected to take four to six months.

Thomas Snelling, the city's deputy director of growth management and development
services and head of the city's Green Team, said the city will use the
information from the study for energy conservation and carbon emission reduction
policies.

Determining the city's carbon footprint was one of Mayor Pam Iorio's pledges
when she signed the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement more than three
years ago.

That agreement requires the city to meet a series of environmental benchmarks.

The carbon study also was one of the recommendations of a task force that has
for the past year been discussing ways the city and Tampa Electric, the city's
main power company, can work together on energy conservation and climate-change
initiatives.

Iorio has trumpeted a series of environmentally friendly policies. They include
expanding the city's recycling program, and offering incentives to developers to
build environmentally friendly buildings and requiring city buildings to be
constructed using those standards.

Despite those and other efforts, critics say Tampa still has a way to go when it
comes to energy conservation and environmentally sustainable practices.

The city, for example, dumps more reclaimed water into Tampa Bay than it uses on
lawns and its curbside recycling programs suffer from dismal participation
rates.

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679.

(CHART) CARBON FOOTPRINTS

Per capita carbon emissions from transportation and residential energy use in
2005 in metric tons:

Smallest

1. Honolulu, Hawaii , 1.356

2. Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, Calif., 1.413

3. Portland-Vancouver-Beaverton, Ore.-Wash., 1.446

4. New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, N.Y.-N.J.-Pa., 1.495

5. Boise City-Nampa, Idaho, 1.507

6. Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, Wash., 1.556

7. San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, Calif., 1.573

8. San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, Calif., 1.585

9. El Paso, Texas, 1.613

10. San Diego-Carlsbad-San Marcos, Calif., 1.630

Largest

90. Tulsa, Okla., 3.124

91. Knoxville, Tenn., 3.134

92. Harrisburg-Carlisle, Pa., 3.190

93. Oklahoma City, Okla., 3.204

94. St. Louis, Mo.-Ill., 3.217

95. Nashville-Davidson-Murfreesboro, Tenn., 3.222

96. Louisville, Ky.-Ind., 3.233

97. Toledo, Ohio, 3.240

98. Cincinnati-Middletown, Ohio-Ky.-Ind., 3.281

99. Indianapolis, Ind., 3.364

100. Lexington-Fayette, Ky., 3.455

Source: Brookings Institution

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               12 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Panel studies goals to conserve energy

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 581 words


Aim is to have city, Tampa Electric work together on initiatives.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Explore solar energy and photovoltaic programs. Offer low-interest loans
and rebates to those who weatherize their homes and businesses.

Require the city to adopt energy-conserving practices for its projects.

Those are some of the recommendations being weighed by a task force that has for
the past year been discussing ways the city and Tampa Electric, the city's main
power company, can work together on energy conservation and climate-change
initiatives.

Among the recommendations:

*Expand Tampa Electric's weatherization program to cover the cost of insulation,
ductwork repair and other upgrades for low-income customers.

*Conduct an energy audit of city-owned facilities to determine Tampa's carbon
footprint, or level of ozone-depleting greenhouse gases the city is emitting.

*Expand educational outreach to neighborhoods to let consumers know about energy
conservation programs offered by the city and TECO.

*Develop financing programs with local lenders to provide loans and/or grants to
property owners to cover upfront costs of energy-efficient upgrades.

The group will decide what recommendations to pursue at a meeting later this
month.

Mayor Pam Iorio created the group in response to criticism from city council
members and environmental groups over her renewal of a franchise agreement with
TECO.

Several council members wanted the city to push for more green policies and
renewable energy programs and to force the regional utility to reduce its
reliance on coal.

Iorio administration officials argued that the state should negotiate those
issues, not the city. In the end, opponents of the agreement didn't have enough
votes to stop it.

Since then, the task force - which includes city, TECO officials, business
owners, building contractors and community activists - has met monthly to hash
out proposals.

"It took a while to get going, but we're making progress," said C.J. Reynolds, a
member of the Seminole Heights Neighborhood Association. "You have to walk
before you run."

Members of the group have largely steered clear of controversial regulatory
issues such as efforts by environmental groups to get TECO to further reduce its
reliance on coal.

"The city has no enforcement authority over TECO; that's the responsibility of
the Florida Public Service Commission," said Ed Turanchik, president and CEO of
Intown Homes and task force member. "So in the end, whatever we do has to be a
cooperative effort."

Turanchik and other task force members said one of the primary goals of the
group is to explore ways to help homeowners finance energy-conserving home
improvements.

Ultimately, that would mean getting local banks and lenders on board with the
initiatives.

"In this economy, most people can't afford the upfront costs of weatherization,"
he said.

Marc Eichenholtz, an environmental consultant and member of the task force, said
the difficulty will be educating homeowners and business owners about the
benefits of energy conservation.

"We can come up with plenty of ideas," he said. "The hard part is selling it to
the public."

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679

Photo Credit: Staff file photo by SCOTT ISKOWITZ (2008)

Photo: Task force member Ed Turanchik said a main goal is to help homeowners
finance energy-conserving improvements.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               13 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crist takes aim at Rubio's bona fides as conservative

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words


His Senate primary rival's record doesn't always match the rhetoric.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Facing Marco Rubio's avalanche of momentum in the Republican Senate
primary, Gov. Charlie Crist's best shot at winning - and salvaging his political
career - is to redefine Rubio's image.

Rubio, Crist will contend, isn't the conservative purist that the Miami
Republican and adoring conservative pundits have claimed.

Crist has the money for ads to repaint Rubio, but will he have the ammunition?

Few politicians could spend a career like Rubio's - 2000-08 in the Florida
House, the past two years as speaker with the power to control all House
legislation - without compromising occasionally.

"Compromising ideas is acceptable. Compromising principles is not," Rubio said.
"I've never compromised on my principles."

Rubio's record is conservative. Many supporters of former Gov. Jeb Bush, and
even Bush, consider Rubio the inheritor of Bush's anti-government social
conservative mantle.

There are areas, however, where the record doesn't match the rhetoric.

In a harbinger of the ad war to come, Crist's campaign is attacking Rubio on
those issues. In some cases, Rubio doesn't deny the specifics. Instead, he
contends Crist was more liberal on the same issues.

For example, Rubio acknowledges backing a cap-and-trade plan to cut carbon
emissions but says that was to forestall a worse Crist plan.

To Crist's charge that Rubio backed a $60 million tax break for the Florida
Marlins stadium, Rubio replies that Crist backed that and other stadium
subsidies.

Crist campaign manager Eric Eikenberg responded that Rubio "needs to stand up to
his own rhetoric."

Rubio said, "The fact that the governor is falsely attacking me for things he
himself supports speaks volumes about his record and his candidacy."

Here are issues on which Crist contends Rubio's record and rhetoric don't match:

Stimulus spending

Blasting Crist for supporting President Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan is
the bedrock of Rubio's campaign.

A photo of Crist embracing Obama at a February 2009 rally in Fort Myers to
promote the stimulus has become Rubio's iconic campaign image. Last week, Rubio
went to Fort Myers to mark the anniversary of the event.

He also opposes the Obama plan for $13 billion in stimulus spending to begin a
national high-speed rail system, including a $1.25 billion grant for a
Tampa-Orlando leg.

Rubio acknowledges that as governor, he would have accepted some of the money.

"The central issue is, if Charlie Crist had been in the Senate he would have
been one of only three Republicans to vote in favor of the stimulus plan, and if
I had been in the Senate, I would have voted against it," he said.

Once the program was passed, accepting the money is a different question, he
said. "That's a red herring."

"Ultimately, I would have accepted those portions of the money that would not
have put Florida in a worse position off in the future than it is right now."

Taxes

"I have never voted for a tax increase," Rubio says on his Web site.

However, he has voted for actions that some neutral observers call increases in
a tax he says he abhors: property taxes.

As a West Miami city commissioner in 1998-99, he cast votes on budgets that
included property tax increases, according to news reports.

While he was in the House, and property values were soaring statewide, the
Legislature shifted the burden of education funding from general revenue to
property taxes it requires school districts to levy, said Kurt Wenner, of
Florida TaxWatch, a nonpartisan tax watchdog group.

State-required property taxes more than doubled to $8.2 billion in 2008, Wenner
said.

At the same time, the Legislature cut taxes it imposes directly - inheritance
taxes, corporate taxes and intangibles taxes - that would have helped pay for
schools.

Rubio responds that he never voted to increase tax rates in Miami or statewide.

"I have never supported an increase in the tax rate," he said. The increased
revenue was "a function of property values. The tax rate is what the government
controls."

Rubio also notes that he sought to do away with all property taxes on homestead
property, including the school taxes, replacing them with an increase in the
state sales tax. That "tax-swap" idea, which would have required a
constitutional amendment, didn't make it through the Legislature.

Rubio has been endorsed by Grover Norquist, a Republican activist and founder of
the anti-tax Americans for Tax Reform, who says Rubio has adhered to his "no tax
increase" pledge.

Cap-and-trade

Rubio repeatedly has blasted Crist for supporting action against climate change,
in particular, for backing a cap-and-trade plan to cut carbon emissions, but in
2008 Rubio backed creation of a state cap-and-trade plan.

Such plans let polluters buy credits for emitting pollutants. Companies that cut
emissions get credits they can sell.

In 2008, the Florida Legislature, with Rubio's backing as speaker, passed a bill
directing the state Department of Environmental Protection to create such a
plan; the House voted unanimously in favor.

Rubio said his goal was to prevent Crist's cap-and-trade plan, which he calls
"European-style" and "California-style," from taking effect by executive order.

His bill, he said, would establish a "market-based" plan and give the
Legislature, not the governor, the final decision on implementing it.

Rubio said last week that he doesn't accept the scientific evidence for
human-caused climate change.

Immigration

In his campaign, Rubio has taken a hard line on illegal immigration - not a
popular stance in his heavily Hispanic home of Miami.

In 2008, Rubio's last year as speaker, he declined to make a priority of
proposed bills that would have cracked down on illegal immigration, including
requiring law enforcement, social service agencies and government contractors to
use federal citizenship verification.

The bills, opposed by Rubio's Hispanic colleagues from South Florida in the
Legislature, died in committee.

Rubio responds that the same bills failed to pass before and after he was
speaker and that under his leadership the legislation got its only committee
hearing.

He also contends Crist is weak on the issue. Crist backed Sen. John McCain's
immigration reform plan, reviled by conservatives as amnesty.

Rubio says immigration policy "should consist of border enforcement, fixing the
visa process and ensuring that no law extends amnesty to illegal immigrants."

English as official language

In June, Rubio got a major break, an endorsement by South Carolina Sen. Jim
DeMint, one of the Senate's hardest-line conservatives, a Tea Party hero and the
first senator to break ranks with party brass and back Rubio.

Rubio said then that he agrees with DeMint's positions on issues, including
making English the official language. He was quoted as saying only "nuances"
separate the two on immigration issues.

One of those nuances is crucial. DeMint says government services and documents
should be provided in English only - heresy in much of Florida, particularly in
Miami.

"I do believe English is the official language of the U.S. government. I do
believe it's a unifying language," he told the Tribune, but, he added, "I have
no problem with documents being translated into, for example, Spanish or Creole.

"I'm not talking about outlawing the ability of government to communicate with
people in the language they're familiar with."

Pork

Rubio campaigns as the candidate of limited government; that doesn't mean he has
been immune from earmarks, called "turkeys" or "member projects" in Tallahassee.

In 2007, the Legislature, with Rubio as speaker, passed a budget that Florida
TaxWatch said had "a near record" 505 turkeys that were worth $256 million.
About one-fifth of them, worth $47 million, were for Miami-Dade County.

Crist eventually vetoed turkeys worth $459 million.

Rubio responds that he didn't request any member projects from 2004-08 and that
the 2007 budget the House passed was lower than the budget Crist proposed and
lower than the previous year's state budget.

Rubio's campaign also offered research comparing his career with that of the
previous speaker, Allan Bense.

Rubio requested fewer member projects during his career than Bense, and as
speaker he presided over production of final budgets with less turkey spending
than Bense's two years, that research states.

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo: Gov. Charlie Crist is trying to turn the tide of momentum his GOP Senate
primary foe is riding.

Photo Credit: Staff file photo

Photo: Gov. Charlie Crist, left, and then-Florida House Speaker Marco Rubio hug
in May 2008 at a ceremony honoring Rubio for his service.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               14 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

President Obama wades offshore

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 541 words


Environmental activists consider President Obama's proposal to end a drilling
moratorium along much of the nation's coast a surrender to the "drill, baby,
drill" crowd.

Sure, it is a concession, but the president deserves credit for recognizing the
need to increase domestic oil and gas production even while the country
aggressively pursues alternative fuels. Such a balanced approach is the best way
to work toward energy independence.

And the president's plan furnishes sensible environmental protections,
especially for Florida's coast.

Big Oil's champions are upset the president didn't open up even more areas. But
these critics won't be satisfied until the industry can drill anywhere,
regardless of the impact on the environment or other enterprises.

The president would open areas along most of the Atlantic coastline, the eastern
Gulf of Mexico and the north coast of Alaska that had been off limits for more
than 20 years. It will take decades to tap all the deposits now available.

Moreover, drilling alone cannot satisfy the nation's energy needs. With only 2
percent of the world's oil reserves, the country can't drill its way to
self-sufficiency, at least not while using 20 percent of the world's oil
production.

It is reassuring the president has provided safeguards for vulnerable areas,
particularly Florida's Gulf Coast, where drilling would be permitted no closer
than 125 miles.

A law adopted a few years ago established a 235-mile buffer, but it has
traditionally been 100 miles or so, and better drilling technology has improved
the oil industry's safety record.

Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, who has vigorously fought to protect Florida's
beaches, was satisfied with the precautions.

The exploration plan, developed by Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, does
dramatically increase the regions in the Gulf that can be excavated, but they
are adjacent to areas where drilling is already permitted.

Providing additional access to oil and gas should destroy any argument for
drilling just off Florida beaches - the irresponsible goal of state Rep. Dean
Cannon, who will be speaker of the House next year. Studies show state waters
offer little energy supply. And drilling so close to the shore would ensure
disaster when the inevitable accident occurred.

The president's plan protects other regions, including Alaska's Bristol Bay,
site of the world's largest sockeye salmon run.

This hardly represents a "drill, baby, drill" response. Instead, the president
is seeking to fashion a comprehensive energy strategy that would utilize nuclear
power, clean coal and oil, while promoting conservation and encouraging the
development of wind, solar, wave, biofuel and other clean-energy sources.

This approach will generate new jobs and maintain a clean environment. It makes
sense, regardless of what one believes about climate change.

The same may not be true of the proposed cap-and-trade system for carbon
emissions that Obama supports. Its potential impact on our weakened economy
requires the utmost scrutiny.

Still, Obama's judicious decision on drilling is encouraging. This is a stand
where the president deserves bipartisan support.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               15 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arctic National Wildlife Refuge deserves higher status

BYLINE: JOEL D. FEDDER, Special correspondent

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


BY JOEL D. FEDDER

Special correspondent

Monday marks 50 years since President Dwight D. Eisenhower established the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge on a beautiful and vast stretch of land on
Alaska's northern coast.

Since then, local communities, environmentalists and political champions of all
backgrounds have stood by President Eisenhower's defense of the refuge's "unique
wildlife, wilderness and recreational values" by uniting to stave off repeated
attempts to open the area to oil and gas development.

As we mark the 50th anniversary of the area's establishment as a wildlife
refuge, we must do everything we can to be sure that the area - one of America's
last truly wild places - survives for generations to come. President Obama can
protect the refuge for his grandchildren and ours by designating it as a
"national monument."

While the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge may seem millions of miles away from
most Americans, the reality is that the Arctic is all around us. More than 180
species of birds visit the refuge every year, and every year, birds that are
born on the Coastal Plain of the refuge journey to all 50 states and across six
continents, before heading back to the Arctic, where the cycle of life begins
again.

The coastal plain is considered by scientists to be the biological heart of the
refuge. It provides a home for numerous mammals, including the Porcupine Caribou
herd, polar bears, grizzly bears, musk oxen, Dall sheep, wolves and wolverines.

These and many other animals rely on its tundra to bear their young - in fact,
the refuge is the most important land denning site for our country's threatened
population of polar bears.

The Arctic Refuge is also a sacred place. Long before it was set aside as a
protected place, these values were recognized by the people of the Gwich'in
Nation.

For thousands of years, the Gwich'in people have regarded the coastal plain of
the Arctic Refuge as "The Sacred Place Where Life Begins" because it has been
the most frequently used birthing and nursery grounds for the migratory
Porcupine Caribou herd. This caribou herd is the foundation for the social,
economic and spiritual fabric of the lives of the Gwich'in people.

Yet despite the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge's sacred and critical
importance, the oil industry has been trying to get access to the area for
years. Oil drilling would destroy this last wild place forever.

The land, waters and wildlife of the Arctic Refuge are already under stress from
the impacts of climate change, which are being felt more than anywhere else on
the planet. Oil and gas development in the Arctic Refuge - the only area on
Alaska's North Slope where exploration and development are specifically
prohibited by Congress - would add further stress to these unique ecosystems.

The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge represents our nation's finest example of
intact, naturally functioning Arctic and subarctic ecosystems. Such a broad
spectrum of diverse habitats occurring within a single protected unit is
unparalleled in North America, and likely the entire circumpolar north.

If we don't protect the Arctic now, we will lose a place that represents a
connection to the natural world that has been lost across the rest of our
nation. Nowhere else will future generations experience the wildness of a whole
ecosystem untrammeled by human-kind.

For over 100 years Americans of all political stripes have come together to help
keep America's natural treasures accessible and pristine for all of us to enjoy.

President Eisenhower realized the importance and beauty of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge 50 years ago, and we should honor his vision by preserving the
region's unique values for future generations.

President Obama should designate the coastal plain of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge as a national monument.

Joel Fedder is a Longboat Key development and management executive who, as a
Sierra Club member, lectures on issues relating to the ongoing threats against
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

Photo Credit: The Associated Press

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               16 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MANEUVERING THE RENTAL CAR MAZE

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, tjackovics@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words


Car renters are now faced with taxes, drop-off charges and loads of fine print
in agreements.

By TED JACKOVICS

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Renting a car for pleasure used to be straightforward: pick out the
model, determine whether to add insurance and fill the tank with gas on the way
back.

Today, a multitude of charges, fees, taxes and fine print on rental agreements
confront travelers. Neglecting them can make for a nasty surprise at the end of
the rental period.

Although business travelers rely on corporate travel departments to master the
maze of restrictions and fees, leisure travelers must be sharp to contend with
an industry in flux.

"The current economic climate is having negative effects on all aspects of the
travel industry - from airlines to hotels to rental car companies - as staffing
and operational cutbacks have resulted in diminishing levels of customer
satisfaction," said Jim Gaz of J.D Power and Associates, which conducts an
annual survey of leisure and business rental car customers.

Here are some points to keep in mind about rental car trends, gathered from a
variety of sources:

Watch out for no-show fees

Until recently, a rental car booking was one of the simplest items to arrange on
a trip. All that was required was a telephone or online reservation.

But the same practices and penalties that airlines have adopted for changing
reservations are creeping into the rental car arena.

Rental car companies are not expected to enact widespread reservation policy
changes before 2011, but be sure to check reservation guidelines when booking a
car.

To minimize customer no-shows, for example, Avis requires a valid credit card to
make a reservation for "select specialty car reservations during peak periods."
Avis imposes a non-cancellation fee if a reservation is not canceled 24 hours
before the reserved pickup time, or is not picked up at the pre-reserved
schedule.

The company won't charge a non-reservation fee, however, if travelers provide
the flight number and airline information in the reservation for a specialty
car.

And try not to turn in the car late. For all rentals, if you change the time you
will pick up a car - for example at 11 a.m. rather than 8 a.m. - be sure to
discuss the change with a reservations clerk. Some will not extend the drop-off
time. That means if you drop off the car at 11 a.m. rather than 8 a.m. the
following day, you could be charged with an extra day rental fee.

Rent off-airport, generally

Although rental car costs vary by location, airports are frequently the most
costly location of all. Travelocity reported in a 2007 survey that U.S. airports
added, on average, 28 percent in fees and taxes to rental car charges.

For example, additional fees and taxes to rent an economy car at San Diego's
airport recently were $18.76 a day, compared with $2.65 for an off-site hotel
location four miles away. That makes a courtesy van ride from the airport to the
off-site location for a rental there a bargain.

But using a non-airport location doesn't always save money.

For example, an economy car rented from Budget at Philadelphia's airport showed
airport taxes and fees at $9.06, compared with $7.80 for renting a car at a
downtown hotel. Yet the base rate at the airport was $25.99 for a total of
$35.05 compared with $36.99 at the downtown location for a bottom-line price of
$44.79.

Do your price shopping ahead of time. Carefully check out airport vs.
non-airport locations since both fees and base rates can be quite different.

Beware of one-way charges

Leisure travelers frequently fly into one city and arrange a road trip with a
rental car to another city, from which they'll fly home.

It pays off to check out one-way car rental costs before making a final
itinerary and booking flights. Even picking up a car at a downtown location and
dropping it off at the same city's airport can result in heavy drop-off charges.

These days, rental car companies tack on $100 to $400 or more for the privilege
of dropping off a car at a different location from where the car was picked up.

For example, an Internet travel agency search for a one-way, one-day, weekday
economy car rental in mid-September from Ronald Reagan Washington National
Airport to downtown New York showed daily rates of $46 for Thrifty and $169 for
Hertz. However, Thrifty imposed a $300 drop-off fee. With all fees included, the
Hertz total was $210.90 compared with $426.04 for Thrifty.

Hint: Here is where checking car rates on Internet travel sites like
Travelocity, Orbitz or Expedia can pay off as they quickly show comparative
rates. Regardless of what site you might use, be it Priceline, Expedia or
others, be sure you are certain that drop-off fees are accounted for before
agreeing to a contract.

Avoid other traps

You might think returning a car earlier than planned would be a good thing for
the customer, but not necessarily. Not only can returning a car early invalidate
a less expensive weeklong rate, for example, some rental car companies charge an
additional fee - usually about $15 - for an early return.

Drivers with recent accidents on their records can be denied rentals. If you
fall into this category, be sure to find out what the rental car company policy
is on drivers' records.

Don't assume you know the operating hours of a rental car office - even those at
major airports. Check all office hours before a trip with a phone call, if
possible. Information posted online, especially for off-airport sites, may be
out of date.

Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813) 259-7817.

Photo Credit: Thinkstock

Photo Credit: Staff photos by CLIFF McBRIDE

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               17 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Unused to failing, Tampa school aims for better

BYLINE: COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR, cpastor@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words


After years on the "C" list, Miles Elementary earned its first F last year and
is trying to bounce back.

By COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR

cpastor@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Principal Christopher Fonteyne met with his teachers before classes
started this year and wrote a giant "F" on a chart for all of them to see.

Everyone had heard the bad news during the summer: Miles Elementary was one of
four Hillsborough County schools to get F's from the state. Fonteyne didn't want
his staff to gloss over the grade.

He didn't want to damage morale either, but instead hoped to use the failing
grade to spark a discussion about how to fix the problems.

"Now that we're an F school, it's a true wake-up call," said Fonteyne, who took
over for retiring principal Deborah Coyle in February.

Fonteyne arrived shortly before students took the reading and math portions of
the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test, the basis for the school grades. He
immediately spotted changes he wanted to make and talked to his staff about
things they could control - teaching methods and the school environment - and
the things they couldn't, such as poverty or problems at students' homes.

A month into the new school year, people are optimistic about the changes.

"Sometimes, it takes fresh eyes to look at it," said Barbara Hancock, the school
district's general director of elementary education.

Fonteyne introduced a new discipline program that trained everyone to handle
disruptions the same way. He reviewed school safety and changed procedures for
parents dropping off and picking up children. And he got help from the school
district to fill vacancies and bring in resource teachers to work with students
and faculty.

The district bought new books for the media center to replace older or outdated
texts and is setting up computer labs that Miles didn't have before. Fonteyne
even got the building pressure washed before students returned, hoping they
would take more pride in their school.

Miles has 711 students, more than 90 percent of whom live in poverty, and is in
a lower-income neighborhood next to Interstate 275 in north Tampa. The school
has a high mobility rate, which often correlates with lower performance. Fifteen
to 20 percent of students enroll or leave during the school year.

Miles never before had received a failing grade and had been a C school since
2004. In 2007, when it narrowly missed a B grade, the state singled it out as
one of a dozen high-poverty schools that had improved student achievement and
was closing the racial gap in test scores.

But all those C's may have made the school complacent, Fonteyne said.

The percentage of children meeting high standards fell in every subject on FCAT
scores released this summer. Fourth grade was especially rocky, with only 32
percent of students reading at grade level and 34 percent testing at their grade
level in math.

No one problem sunk Miles Elementary's grade, Hancock said. But a school's staff
and administrators always must be questioning whether students are performing
adequately.

"You take your eye off it, and it doesn't get the attention it needs," Hancock
said. "They have a very capable staff, and I'm quite confident that they will do
very well. The leadership is strong and certainly very focused."

One of the biggest changes Miles made this year is adopting the "CHAMPS"
program, which other schools had used to improve their school climate. Fonteyne
said children behave better when teachers have clear expectations.

"Before you can get to academics, you have to have order," Fonteyne said.

Teachers were trained for two days before starting the program, intended to
enable them to respond quickly when a student acts up. That leaves more class
time for teaching.

CHAMPS spells out how students should ask for help, when they can move in class
and how to behave in various situations.

Instead of telling students to use "inside" or "outside" voices, for example,
teachers define conversation on a scale of zero, or silence, to 5, as loud as
cheering at a football game. When a teacher tells students to talk at a level 1,
or a whisper, expectations are clear, Fonteyne said.

School district officials meet regularly with administrators at Miles Elementary
and other schools that need help.

Principals, assistant principals and select teachers meet every other week to
talk about problems or new programs, and Hancock and others from the district
make periodic visits. Once Miles raises its grade, the district will scale back
its oversight, but the school will still get some extra support.

The school's F grade surprised area director George Gaffney, who supervises
schools in Miles Elementary's region. He attended third grade there with his
future wife the year it opened. She wound up teaching at the school, and their
children went there.

Everyone knows the school can do better, he said.

"I really want to see this school do well," Gaffney said. "I'm confident we're
going to get it back."

Reporter Courtney Cairns Pastor can be reached at (727) 451-2343.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               18 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pension plan costs wallop city's budget

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words


Officials suggest a 401(k)-type of investment plan

BY CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA Tampa's pension costs are rising at an alarming rate, officials say, even
as the city has shed hundreds of jobs and cut spending to meet its payroll
obligations.

Four years ago, city taxpayers contributed about $1.5 million to Tampa's police
and fire pension fund. Next year, city officials project that figure to surpass
$19.5 million.

Overall, the city's contributions to its public safety and general employee
pensions have doubled in the past two years, from $20 million to a projected
$40.6 million next year.

The reason has more to do with economics than politics: Both funds are required
by state law to be kept at a certain level, so when the market meltdown whittled
away its worth, the city and its employees were required to contribute larger
amounts.

Observers say the city will surely be forced to keep cutting personnel and
services, and dig deep into its strained reserve funds to cover rising pension
obligations.

And it will do so with less property tax revenue.

Mayor Pam Iorio raised that concern last month during her presentation of the
fiscal year 2011 budget -- her final as mayor.

"We have to look at reforming the pension system," she said. "Now I'm not
talking about taking away benefits for anyone who currently relies upon the
system. But I think it would be wise to look at changing the system ... so the
cost to government isn't so severe."

Mark Anderson, who is chairman of the city council's budget advisory committee,
said the huge rise in pension contributions will force the city to make some
tough decisions, including cuts to the police and fire department budgets that
are typically seen as sacred cows.

Unless the stock market rebounds dramatically, he predicts costs will continue
to rise.

"Our projection is that by 2013, the city's contribution will be $60 million,"
Anderson said.

By comparison, that's more than a quarter of the city's payroll costs for the
current fiscal year and a number that dwarfs the operating budgets of most city
departments.

Anderson and others say the city should consider replacing its existing pension
plans -- which guarantee employees lifetime income based on their salaries and
years of service -- with 401(k)-type investment plans for new employees that
define and limit the city's contribution level.

That might do little to reduce short-term costs, but Anderson said it would help
prevent wild fluctuations in the city's required contributions when the stock
market goes down.

Under the city's pension system, contributions are adjusted every year to ensure
there is enough money to cover payouts, regardless of how the plan's investments
are performing. Defined contribution plans, on the other hand, are based on a
percentage of employee wages.

This isn't the first time Tampa's pension costs have skyrocketed. They
stabilized a few years later when the market rebounded and boosted plan
investments.

In 2004 and 2005, the city's contributions to the police and fire fund shot up
to more than $13 million. Then the market rebounded, and the city contributions
dropped to $1.5 million in 2006.

"The fund is designed so that the city and employees share the gain and the
pain," says Jennifer Campbell, who administers the city's $1.2 billion police
and fire pension fund.

When the city's required contributions go up, she said, so does the employees'
share.

Campbell said switching to other pension plans -- such as the Florida Retirement
System that guarantees a specific level of benefits -- might cost taxpayers
more.

That's because under such a defined benefits plan, the city -- not employees,
who would pay into the plan on a fixed rate -- would have to cover the bulk of
investment losses.

"That would put the city on the hook for significantly higher contributions,"
she said.

Tampa isn'tthe only Florida city grappling with rising pension costs.

John Thomas, director of policy and political affairs for the Florida League of
Cities, said he has heard from a number of municipalities that are trying to
reduce costs.

"They see that train coming down the track," he said. "And they're trying to
slow it down."

The city of Orlando changed its pension system more than a decade ago.

Faced with rising contribution levels, the city in 1998 stopped offering
pensions for general employees and switched to plans for new employees that pay
7 percent of salaries and match annual employee contributions up to an
additional 3 percent. Since then, the city's annual contributions have remained
relatively stable, at about $8 million.

The changes affected only general employees because the city would have
forfeited millions of dollars in state funding if it had scrapped the police and
fire pension plan.

Nationwide, the cost of many government-run pension plans has become
unsustainable, says Eli Lehrer, a senior fellow at The Heartland Institute, a
Chicago-based think tank.

"Unless there's a particularly strong economic recovery, more local governments
will run into serious problems," he said. "Without widespread reform, it's quite
likely that we'll see a fair number of cities and counties file for bankruptcy
protection over the next decade."

But changing a local government pension system is easier said than done, Lehrer
said, and municipal leaders are unwilling to challenge powerful labor unions
that have fought hard to increase wages and retirement benefits for employees
they represent.

For example, none of the five declared mayoral candidates vying to replace Iorio
was willing to comment on the issue that the winner of March's city elections
will face.

Changes to Tampa's pension plan would need the approval of the city, retirees
and labor unions, as well as adoption of a special act by the Legislature.

"We can't go to the city council on Thursday and say we want to change it," said
Campbell,

the administrator of the police and fire pension fund.

Still, the rise in contributions to Tampa's pension plans is due, in part, to
Iorio's efforts to increase city worker wages and benefit packages as a
recruiting tool.

Shortly after taking office in 2003, Iorio bumped up the multiplier used to
calculate pension payments, allowing a police officer or firefighter who earned
$50,000 to retire after 20 years with 63 percent of his ending salary.

She also decreased the vesting period to qualify for pensions and gave city
employees cost of living adjustments, all of which have increased the city's
financial burden.

Iorio defends those actions, saying wages and benefit packages for city workers,
police and firefighters were woefully low when she took the helm.

Lehrer said in the economic climate, cities such as Tampa should be taking steps
to cut wages, freeze pay raises and reduce benefits that add to mounting pension
costs.

"Local governments have to take a look at the issue of employee compensation and
cut them back," he said.

cwade@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7679

Photo: "We have to look at reforming the pension system," Mayor Pam Iorio said
at a recent budget meeting.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               19 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High school club's website is of, by and for the young people

BYLINE: MEGAN HUSSEY, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words


BY MEGAN HUSSEY

Tribune correspondent

ZEPHYRHILLS -- At www.knowyourpeace.org, young people see vivid colors,
compelling graphics -- and the pictures, video and words of kids just like them.
They also learn messages about PARK -- which stands for peace, acceptance,
respect and knowledge.

The website is a project of the Pasco Youth Community Action Team, a club based
at Zephyrhills High School and coordinated through Sunrise of Pasco Inc.
domestic violence and sexual assault center that aims to "foster a climate of
respect among students in school, increase awareness of healthy relationships
among all students and engage each team member to become active leaders in their
community."

"This website was created as part of the Sunrise Primary Prevention Education
and Awareness Initiative and is one piece of the Know Your Peace Public
Awareness and Education Campaign to create social change by promoting healthy
relationships and gender equality," reads a news release. "The development of
this website and the PARK public awareness campaign was supported by funding
from the Rape Prevention Education grant provided by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention through the Florida Department of Health."

The $10,000 grant will allow YCAT to spread messages about topics such as unity,
equality, healthy relationships, compassion and understanding without judging,
caring and self-respect through modern, youth-oriented social media such as the
Know Your Peace website, sites like Facebook, posters and brochures, as well as
through promotional items such as pencils, pens and bookmarks.

YCAT member Noel Hamm, a 17-year-old Zephyrhills High senior a, is excited about
the prospect of spreading the club's messages to a wider audience.

"I've always been into peace; I'm all about making the world a better place,"
she said. "Through the website we can make our ideas really happen, to spread
these beliefs -- not just to small groups of people -- but to many more. I want
to make my own videos and pictures to add to the site."

And that's the whole idea, according to website coordinator Jacqueline
Macholeth, primary prevention educator at the Sunrise center.

"Kids are so busy these days, and some don't want to be in a club," she said.
"That's why we need to go online, to give more kids a voice and let them take
part in things."

Through blogs and quotes, pictures and video, the Know Your Peace website --
created with the help of the Next Up Collective, a nonprofit web design team
that promotes social change -- aims to "create a place for all" and "help take
down some walls." The site will share information, statistics and opinions
regarding topics such as leadership (being an "active bystander" when people
need help), gender issues, bullying and harassment, dating violence, prejudice
against various groups and healthy relationships.

Young people who aren't YCAT members can send in videos and commentaries about
these issues for posting on a website Graffiti Wall. A news and events page will
offer up-to-date developments on these issues; a question-and-answer page will
enable visitors to talk to people their own age about problems they may be
facing in these areas. A resources page will offer links to other sites with
important information about these issues.

"I'd like to contribute anything into the website I can," said YCAT member and
10th grader Kari Belage, 16. "I love the idea of the site. A lot of people will
look at the site and understand what it really means."

Belage, who joined the group after seeing a relative suffer through a bad
relationship, said it's vital to spread positive messages among young people --
promoting tolerance and understanding.

"We need to help people in bad relationships," she said. "The biggest thing is
that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover. Another big problem is
discriminating against people because of the color of their skin."

Macholeth said the website will give students a voice, enabling them to make a
difference.

"This way they can take action and learn to speak out, to challenge things and
think for themselves," she said. "They can get the knowledge they need to take
action and get involved, whether that means helping someone out or writing a
letter to express their views."

YCAT member Caitlyn Ferguson, 16, also a 10th grader, agrees.

"I agree with bringing peace and stopping violence," she said. "I believe in
giving new ideas and inspiring people. We can all work together to make the
world a better place, to make peace better and real."

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               20 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 587 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: 'Snail mail' chicanery

The trial balloon that corporations are floating to require "snail mail"
customers to pony up an additional fee for not interacting online should be
popped as it's born.

For months these corporations have been whining for the populace to "save a
stamp" by paying their bills online, when their actual agenda is, "Save us the
aggravation and expense of our postage costs."

The reality is that the poorest of our citizenry, as usual, are penalized by
this form of shoddiness. If these sorts of chicanery are allowed to thrive, the
postal service will have received the torero's stiletto, and you and I will
ultimately witness their final, fatal injury, and we will all gather daily in
queue at our respective P.O. boxes, wondering how this all came to be.

WARNER WOOD

Tampa

Public prayers

With reference to an article by Christian Wade ("Group wants council prayers
eliminated," Dec. 31):

If we are free to exercise our religion, then there should not be any objection
to a prayer or words of communion being said at any public forum. A guest
invited to give an invocation, whether agnostic, atheist, Christian, Jewish,
Muslim or whatever, should be free to use the words that are dear to his belief.

Public officials, as well as the citizenry attending public meetings, are not
forced to pray or stand for prayer. Sit quietly and don't participate.

Those who publicly protest to the words said by an invited guest demonstrate
insecurity in their own beliefs and disrespect for freedom of speech.

Therefore, to eliminate this tradition of an invocation before public meetings
would remove the opportunity for all beliefs to be shared so that we can
understand and respect diversity and bridge the values that bring us together.

The Constitution states that we should have freedom of religion and not freedom
from religion.

Let our public forums exercise freedom of speech.

MARY HELEN CHILLURA

Tampa

Global cooling

Whenever an unexpected "warmth" passes through the north in the winter, it is
blamed on "global warming."

Since that is the consensus of the liberals, one can only assume that this
abnormally cold winter must be due to the climatic change known as a new "Ice
Age."

Why is it that no one has mentioned "global warming" during this unexpected bout
of freezing temperatures?

KERI BOWMAN OUSLEY

Trinity

Outback Bowl

On behalf of Auburn University and Auburn athletics, I want to commend the
entire Outback Bowl organization, Outback Steakhouse, the city of Tampa and the
many volunteers who made the 2010 Outback Bowl a fantastic experience for our
players, staff and fans.

The Outback Bowl is widely recognized as one of the finest bowl destinations in
the country, and our experience in the Tampa Bay area this year could not have
been better. From the first-class hospitality we enjoyed throughout the week to
the thrilling game-day experience at world-class Raymond James Stadium, it was
truly a wonderful week.

A special thanks goes to title sponsor Outback Steakhouse; Jim McVay, Outback
Bowl president and CEO; Gwen Mitchell, Outback Bowl chairman; the city of Tampa;
the city of Clearwater; and to others who made it possible.

It simply could not have been a better experience, and we are grateful for the
opportunity to compete in a first-class bowl against an outstanding institution
in Northwestern.

JAY JACOBS

Auburn, Ala.

The writer is director of athletics, Auburn University.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               22 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tame the terrors of potato salad

BYLINE: Greg + Michelle Baker

SECTION: GETAWAY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 468 words


By Greg + Michelle Baker

Culinary Sherpas

Two words can evoke sheer terror in some people: potato salad.

Let's face it, this mayonnaise-lacquered side dish can be pretty awful at times.
Potatoes so undercooked they can break teeth, the amazing lack of any seasoning
at all, egg shells and an extreme abuse of mustard are not uncommon with this
American classic.

The worst offense is that it is often presented with claims of greatness, such
as "My world-famous," "My grandmother's secret recipe" or "My prize-winning." If
you hear any of these, it's generally wise to stay as far away as possible.

So why does potato salad have to be so bad so often? Why does it have to drown
in mayo and contain enough celery to feed a small country? The answer is, it
doesn't.

We may have a few more cold snaps left in this wonky climate pattern we're in,
but soon, very soon, Tampa, we'll find ourselves in the primo weather pattern
that reminds each of us why we live here. And you'll be ready for a picnic in
the park with Michelle's Aunt Carolyn's spinach and potato salad with
lemon-Dijon vinaigrette.

Abandon the mayo, celery and eggs and try a no-fail potato salad bursting with
Dijon, lemon and shallots that you can truly claim to be "prize-winning."

Visit the Sherpas at www.cooksncompany.com and www.culinarysherpas.com.

SPINACH AND POTATO SALAD

2 pounds red potatoes

¼-pound bacon

1 lemon, zested and juiced

2 small shallots, minced

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

3 tablespoons olive oil

2 cups spinach leaves, stems removed

Sea or kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Place the potatoes whole in a large pot of generously salted water. Place over
medium high heat and simmer until they are easily pierced with a knife. (We cook
these whole to prevent the potatoes from getting beaten up, mushy, and starchy
during the cooking process). Drain and allow them to cool enough to handle.

Meanwhile, cook the bacon over medium heat, until crisp. Remove from the pan,
allow to cool, and chop. While the bacon is cooking, combine the lemon zest,
lemon juice, shallots and Dijon in a bowl and whisk to combine. Add the olive
oil, a little at a time, to the bowl while whisking the whole time until the oil
is incorporated. Season the dressing with salt and pepper to taste.

When the potatoes are cool enough to handle but still warm, cut them into
bite-sized pieces (cut smaller potatoes into quarters and larger ones into
sixths or eighths). Place the potatoes in a bowl, add the spinach leaves and
bacon, and toss with the dressing while the potatoes are still warm. This will
allow them to soak up as much flavor as possible, and will wilt the spinach
leaves a bit. Let the salad cool to room temperature and serve.

Serves 4

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               23 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Historic opportunity' for Glades, South Florida

BYLINE: MANLEY FULLER, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 364 words


By MANLEY FULLER

Special To The Tampa Tribune

The Everglades and South Florida's water quality and supply will be profoundly
positively affected by the purchase of the U.S. Sugar lands south of Lake
Okeechobee. We need to take the long view of this multi-decadal project.

Critics don't offer viable alternatives. Earlier plans had to work around the
existing sugar lands that were never available to the state on such a large
scale. Gov. Charlie Crist has the vision to recognize that we need large
additional properties south of Lake Okeechobee to adequately treat and redirect
water flows to the south rather than continuing to degrade the east and
Gulf-coast rivers and estuaries.

The governor's team has sensibly downsized the project in these difficult
economic times with an option to purchase additional lands when resources are
sufficient. The state can utilize critical portions of the U.S. Sugar land for
restoration and then trade less-than-essential lands to other sugar growers to
acquire additional parcels for critical for water treatment, storage and flows.

Questions have been raised about the costs of this project. But one should
consider that other sugar land owners have been recently pushing gigantic new
rock mines, inland ports, etc., which if approved would significantly change
land prices in the Everglades Agricultural Area.

Everglades restoration is about clean waters for fish and wildlife and habitats.
But it also is about water supplies for millions of people and about an
ecosystem that is more resilient to rising sea levels and future storms.

The U.S. Sugar agreement is a key element in the future of South Florida's
environment and economy, which are inextricably linked. Concerned citizens and
conservation organizations such as the Florida Wildlife Federation have
consistently advocated for major land purchases in the Everglades Agricultural
Area as being needed to get the waters clean and in the right places to restore
the Everglades. We should grasp this historic opportunity.

Manley Fuller is president of the Florida Wildlife Federation.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               25 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wisconsin team wins Ocean Sciences Bowl

BYLINE: JOSÉ PATIÑO GIRONA, jpatino@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 300 words


The University of South Florida St. Petersburg hosted the event.

By JOSÉ PATIÑO GIRONA

jpatino@tampatrib.com

Science students from across the country were in the Tampa Bay area this weekend
to test their knowledge of ocean organisms, atmospheric science and underwater
geology at the 13th annual National Ocean Sciences Bowl.

Defending champions Marshfield High School of Marshfield, Wis., took the title
again Sunday, beating the 24 other high schools that competed in the bowl hosted
by the University of South Florida St. Petersburg and the university's College
of Marine Science.

The event is geared toward educating students and teachers about the oceans and
their impact on the climate, weather and economics.

The three-day event began Friday, with students taking part in activities at
Caladesi Island, Fort De Soto Park, Weedon Island, Mote Marine Laboratory in
Sarasota, Lowry Park Zoo and the Florida Aquarium. Participants were 125
students who won regional competitions in their home states.

A team from Durant High School in Plant City represented Florida's Gulf Coast in
the competition.

The event is sponsored by the Consortium for Ocean Leadership, a
Washington-based nonprofit organization that represents ocean research education
institutions and organizations whose mission is to advance research, education
and ocean policy.

Reporter José Patiño Girona can be reached at (813) 259-7659.

Photo Credit: Photo from Candace C. Mundy

Photo: Marshfield High School students, from left, Elisa Prebble, Priya Pathak,
Seth Berger and Alex Jensen participate in the Ocean Bowl's final round. The
Wisconsin high school team bested 24 others, allowing the school to retain the
championship title.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               26 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

La Niña may intensify storm season

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 343 words


By NEIL JOHNSON

njohnson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Water in the equatorial Pacific Ocean is quickly switching from warmer
than normal to cooler, scientists say, and that could add to a hurricane season
already predicted to produce a prodigious number of storms.

The developing La Niña also could bring higher temperatures for Florida and less
rain during the fall and winter, said Amy Godsey, state meteorologist.

Scientists at the Climate Prediction Center say Pacific water temperatures are
growing cooler after being unusually warm since May 2009. They expect that to
continue as a La Niña forms this summer.

During a La Niña, water across a vast stretch of the Pacific near the equator
grows cooler than normal. The last was August 2007 through June 2008.

An El Niño, which faded last month, has the opposite effects on hurricanes and
weather in Florida late in the year.

When the Pacific is undergoing a La Niña, winds blowing from the west and high
in the atmosphere diminish and create conditions that make it easier for
hurricanes to form.

An El Niño causes those winds to increase and is the main reason this past
hurricane season was relatively tranquil, with only nine named storms.

The waning El Niño and possibility of a La Niña during hurricane season were
major factors in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's
prediction that the 2010 season could see 14 to 23 named storms, with eight to
14 hurricanes.

The average season has 10 named storms and six hurricanes.

It takes a couple of months for changes in the Pacific Ocean to show up in the
atmosphere, and it probably will be August before the La Niña's changes are
reflected in the winds, Godsey said.

Besides making conditions more hospitable for developing hurricanes, a La Niña
tends to reduce rainfall during the already dry Florida fall and winter.

"A La Niña has busy hurricane seasons and busy fire seasons," Godsey said.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (813) 259-7731.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               27 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Expedition aims to check on Gulf

BYLINE: ROB SHAW, rshaw@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words


Three-month trip will study oil spill's effect on various waters.

By ROB SHAW

rshaw@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG - It has protested whaling in the Antarctic Ocean, chased off
people illegally fishing for the Patagonian toothfish and studied climate change
in the Arctic.

Now the Arctic Sunrise, a 165-foot icebreaker owned by Greenpeace, is heading to
sea for nearly three months to study the wide-ranging effects that 172 million
gallons of oil have had on the Gulf of Mexico.

It was scheduled to depart from the Port of St. Petersburg early today.

At a news conference Wednesday deep in the ship's steamy hull, some of those
going on the mission said they don't believe the majority of the oil has been
recovered.

"The oil is there. It's not just gone," said Paul Horsman, a marine biologist
who has studied spills around the world. "The fact is we don't know where it
is."

Jo Billups, a music teacher from Orange Beach, Ala., said oil washed up there as
recently as this weekend.

"I'll go out on a limb and say I think they'll find oil," she said. "I can go
home and find it."

Horsman, Billups and others sat in front of poster-sized color photographs of
oil-stained coastline. In one, Greenpeace volunteers held a sign that was a
takeoff of the BP logo that said "Beyond Petroleum."

Scientists will monitor sponges in the Florida Keys to see if traces of oil and
dispersants have passed through them. Researchers will study blue crab larvae
and check for new dead zones well below the surface of the Gulf. And they will
board a helicopter to try to see if the number of dolphins, turtles and whales
is what it should be.

"This isn't going to kill the Gulf, but there is little question that we are
going to be feeling the effects of this spill for decades," said John Hocevar, a
marine biologist and oceans campaign director for Greenpeace. "So much of this
is still unknown. We are just beginning to understand what is happening now, let
alone what will be occurring in coming years and decades."

Greenpeace workers have been dotting the Gulf Coast shoreline since the April 20
explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig 40 miles south of Louisiana.

They have taken water quality samples, monitored the air and reported when boom
was not adequately protecting the shoreline. Hocevar has seen much of the
devastation firsthand, such as when he came across 50,000 dead hermit crabs in
an area smaller than a football field.

The group also used Wednesday's news conference as a platform to renew its call
for cleaner energy sources.

"The energy policy of the U.S. has to change," said Dan Howells, deputy campaign
director for Greenpeace. "We just have to stop this."

Horsman agreed.

"It's a wakeup call to all of us," he said, adding that other countries are well
ahead in pursuing cleaner energy. "If the U.S. misses this boat, they will be
left behind."

About 100 researchers and scientists - working in shifts of about 22 at a time -
will take turns on the voyage, which costs $5,000 a day and is being paid for by
private donations.

They have come from places such as Tulane, Texas A&M, North Carolina State and
Nova universities.

"Science comes first," said Capt. Peter Willcox, another Greenpeace activist.
"We're going to let the science do most of the talking."

Reporter Rob Shaw can be reached at (813) 259-7999.

Photo credit: Staff photos by PAUL LAMISON

Photo: The Arctic Sunrise, a Greenpeace ship, prepares for its Gulf of Mexico
trip. Scientists will visit the Florida Keys, the Dry Tortugas and the northern
Gulf to examinethe oil's impact.

Photo: From left, Dan Howells, Jo Billups, Paul Horsman and Capt. Peter Willcox
discuss their Gulf voyage.

Photo: Nicole Sands prepares food Wednesday in the galley of the Arctic Sunrise.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               30 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Freezing temperatures keep anglers in port and kill fish

BYLINE: FRED EVERSON

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 547 words


By FRED EVERSON

Record-breaking cold weather literally has killed local fishing. After a
prolonged cold spell dropped Gulf water temperature down to 51 degrees, we are
sure to lose a lot of snook, and many other species as well.

I've seen dead spadefish, mullet and a wide variety of baitfish in the Little
Manatee River, as well as jack crevalle floundering about on the surface in a
state of shock. It looks like we will have a major fish kill to start the New
Year.

So much for global warming, some might say, but it is indeed a byproduct -
hotter summers and colder winters are both associated with the phenomenon,
according to marine research scientist and snook guru Ron Taylor.

My boat has not strayed from its lift yet this year, and until the air
temperature rises above 60 degrees, it is going to stay put. Once things get
back to normal, I will probably check things out at the power plant in Apollo
Beach. I expect it's getting crowded with fish seeking heat. Foremost among
these should be cobia, shark, ladyfish and jacks.

Normally my feet live in flip flops, but this weather forced me to pick up some
extra socks. The two pair I had weren't cutting it and, if this keeps up, I may
have to go back for more. I also had a terrible head cold that began a few days
after New Year's Eve, which would have been even more painful had the weather
been better. As it is, it made staying on the couch under cover a lot easier.

Twenty years ago, I lived in Vermont where such January weather as we've
experienced in Ruskin this month would be considered a heat wave. We actually
fished in it, albeit through three feet of ice, for yellow perch that seldom
exceeded 10 inches. After 15 years in Florida, I shudder at the thought. What
was I thinking?

Hopefully, the trout fishing will be good, once this cold weather subsides. I
was catching and releasing big trout on the flats right up until Christmas, and
prospects were bright for the season opener on New Year's Day.

In fact, I had my boat in the water before daybreak on an extreme low tide so I
could get out once it warmed up, but that never happened. The thermometer on my
porch locked up at 41 degrees, and that seemed to be it for the next two weeks.
Mercifully, winter is short in this part of the world, but spring can't come
soon enough after this.

Anyone who takes to the water when it's this cold should be sure to stay dry and
warm. Hypothermia is a possibility, even in Florida, particularly if you get
wet.

I recall going across the bay years ago to fish for trout and getting caught in
a good blow on the way back. It was a most unpleasant ride without a jacket. By
the time I got back to the ramp, I was soaking wet, my teeth were chattering and
I was chilled to the bone.

Fred Everson is an outdoor writer and Ruskin-based fishing guide. All South
Shore fishermen and guides may submit information and photographs to be included
in this column by calling (813) 830-8890 or sending an e-mail to ihunt
snook@aol.com

Photo: Photo by FRED EVERSON

Photo: The sun rises on a lovely, yet chilly, 29-degree morning on the Little
Manatee River recently. Dead spadefish, mullet and a variety of baitfish have
been spotted.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANGLER'S ALMANAC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               31 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Like a field of dreams

BYLINE: COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR, cpastor@tampatrib.com

SECTION: CARROLLWOOD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 656 words


The butterfly garden is a "pollinator garden," attracting bees and wasps in
addition to the butterflies that can pollinate other plants.

By COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR

cpastor@tampatrib.com

LAKE MAGDALENE - An unused swath of land at Lake Magdalene Elementary is now a
living science lesson.

Students, teachers and a landscape architect transformed the spot between two
classroom wings into a butterfly garden shortly before the school year ended.

"It's really blossomed," said third-grade teacher Allison Comolli.

Red sage, cassia and scarlet milkweed began attracting butterflies, bees and
wasps this year. Children have kept journals in science class about what they
have seen and report to Comolli when they spot a chrysalis, getting a firsthand
look at how caterpillars become butterflies.

The project started after third-grade teacher Shannon O'Sullivan received a
grant from the Tampa Bay Rays Baseball Foundation to participate in an
Earthwatch expedition. Earthwatch, a nonprofit organization, lets volunteers
join scientific research teams as assistants at sites worldwide. O'Sullivan's
grant took her to Nova Scotia to study how climate change affected mammals.

The trip came with $2,500 for O'Sullivan to put toward an environmental project
with her students. She hadn't realized the money would be coming but had no
problem finding a use. She and Comolli had been working with Lake Magdalene's
Green Team, an outgrowth of its after-school service club.

The Green Team has encouraged recycling paper and collects empty Capri Sun
packets to be turned into purses. O'Sullivan asked the fourth- and fifth-graders
during the last school year what they wanted to do. The first idea they
mentioned was a butterfly garden.

Comolli said they liked doing something for the school that would last a long
time.

Guidance counselor Gina Jones connected the Green Team with Brian Schatz, a
landscape architect with Schatz Landscape Design. Schatz had helped the school
before when it built a patio outside the cafeteria.

The students researched online to find out what types of plants would attract
butterflies and e-mailed a list of what they would like to Schatz. Schatz
reviewed it and told the students what would and wouldn't work on their site. He
worked with the students to plan the garden and returned to help build it.

The butterfly garden technically is a "pollinator garden," Schatz said,
attracting bees and wasps in addition to the butterflies that can pollinate
other plants. He looked for flowers with shapes that make it easy for insects to
reach nectar, as well as plants that would thrive with minimal watering.

Schatz installed low-volume drip irrigation and brought in better soil to mix
with sand, covering it with pine straw to mulch. Other than removing dead
blossoms from the plants, maintenance should be minimal, Schatz said.

The garden is like a "field of dreams" for butterflies but not baseball, he
said: "If you plant it, they will come."

Reporter Courtney Cairns Pastor can be reached at (727) 451-2343.

Photo Credit: Photos from Shannon O'Sullivan

Photo: Red sage, cassia and scarlet milkweed attract butterflies, bees and
wasps. Children have kept journals in science class about what they have seen.

Photo: A butterfly lands in a garden children helped plant at Lake Magdalene
Elementary to attract butterflies and bees.

Photo: Children in an after-school service club started the garden late last
year with help from a grant.

Photo: The butterfly garden at Lake Magdalene Elementary bloomed recently with
plants that attract butterflies and bees.

Photo Credit: Photo by COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR

Photo: Brian Schatz, a Tampa landscape architect, left, and fifth-graders at
Lake Magdalene Elementary created a butterfly garden at the school. Teachers
Shannon O'Sullivan, left, and Allison Comolli join Principal Dodi Davenport.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               32 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Races a chance to see globe trotters

BYLINE: LAURA KINSLER, lkinsler@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 522 words


Equestrian competition replaces Little Everglades Steeplechase.

By LAURA KINSLER

lkinsler@tampatrib.com

DADE CITY - Equestrian teams from across the world will travel to Dade City's
Little Everglades Ranch this month to compete in the area's first international
combined driving event.

The four-day competition, which starts Jan. 28, promises to provide a taste of
the atmosphere that made the Little Everglades Steeplechase the county's most
popular tourist event. Ranch owners Bob and Sharon Blanchard canceled this
year's steeplechase because the poor economic climate forced several of the
longtime sponsors to back out.

"I just can't afford to subsidize it anymore," Bob Blanchard said.

Sharon Blanchard said the family has been planning to host a combined driving
event, but it took more than a year to build the course, which differs from a
steeplechase course because the horses pull carriages.

"People ask us how we can afford to host this event," Sharon Blanchard said.
"Well, there's no prize money."

At its height, the steeplechase awarded $100,000 in prize money and drew 15,000
spectators a year. The combined driving event has a smaller fan base and also
falls on one of the area's busiest weekends. Event organizer Kevin Campbell said
the schedule was determined by the U.S. Equestrian Federation.

"We really couldn't have picked a worse weekend if we tried - with Gasparilla
and the Kumquat Festival," Campbell said.

The Little Everglades competition is the first of three qualifying events in
Florida for this year's world championships, which will be hosted in Kentucky.
The Dade City event will be followed by qualifying events in Ocala and Live Oak.
More than 50 teams from across the United States and as far away as Europe and
Australia have registered to compete.

"We're going to have it every year, and it will be part of a Triple Crown in
Florida," Blanchard said. "We're hoping we can change the date next year so it
doesn't have to compete with Gasparilla."

Spectators got a glimpse of the sport when organizers arranged an exhibition
during last year's Little Everglades Steeplechase. The sport is divided into
four categories: ponies, singles, pairs and four-in-hand.

Saturday's Cross Country Marathon promises to be the most exciting of the
four-day event. Teams will race through a 16-kilometer course at full gallop
while maneuvering around water hazards, gates and other obstacles. A team will
leave the start gate every seven minutes.

Spectators can watch from the tailgate area or walk along the course to see the
obstacles up close, ranch manager Katie Carris said. The Blanchards also set
aside time Saturday for the fan-favorite Jack Russell terrier races.

"We're definitely having the Jack Russell races," Blanchard said. "I think
they're even more popular than anything."

Reporter Laura Kinsler can be reached at (813) 259-8109.

Photo Credit: Staff file photo by FRED BELLET (2007)

Photo: Sharon and Bob Blanchard are the race directors for the Little Everglades
International Combined Driving Event.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               33 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bean faces budgetary challenge

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, msalinero@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1075 words


County administrator must handle financial gap without severely cutting
services.

By MIKE SALINERO

msalinero@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Hillsborough County Administrator Pat Bean survived a crucial test last
month, holding onto her job despite a barrage of criticism from commissioners
who judged her 2009 performance subpar.

Bean will face another tough session Feb. 3, when she presents the commission
with her plans for managing county government in the final two years of her
contract. To prepare for that presentation, Bean met with Commissioner Rose
Ferlita on Friday and has meetings scheduled with other commissioners in the
next several days.

Commissioners said last week that they expect more than platitudes from Bean
about making Hillsborough the greatest county in the United States.

"I want her to determine what our core mission is and then how we're going to
provide that in an environment where taxes are going down," said Commissioner
Mark Sharpe, who made an unsuccessful motion at the December meeting to fire
Bean.

Maintaining services

In 2009, Bean had one of the toughest years of her 33-year-career. The county
faced a $140 million deficit in spring, and commissioners were dissatisfied with
the administrator's answer to the crisis: massive layoffs and deep cutbacks in
services to residents.

She also angered the board by giving herself and the county attorney 1 percent
pay raises without commission approval, and raising her top aides' pay, also
without commissioners' knowledge.

County budget officers are expecting another shortfall this year, as the
recession continues to reduce tax revenue. Commissioners said Bean must find
ways to close the budget gap without severely cutting services.

"When we start in terms of tackling the next budget, we should not try to focus
on decreasing services to balance the budget," Ferlita said. "We have to look at
the budget at the front end and concentrate on efficiencies."

One avenue Ferlita wants Bean to explore is tapping into the financial expertise
of residents in private industry. She said the commission could name a citizen
advisory board made up financial experts who would look for ways to save money
or increase revenue.

Innovation a must

A common theme among commissioners is that the challenge for government -
continuing to provide quality services despite sinking tax revenue - requires
innovation, heavy on planning with definitive, measurable objectives.

"I think our strategic plan is not really strategic," said Commissioner Kevin
Beckner, a financial planner. "There are so many goals that lack substance. We
need to, as a board, revisit what our goals and expectations are for the
county."

Commission Chairman Ken Hagan agreed that the goals and objectives, last
reviewed in 2008, need to be updated in light of the recession and reductions in
property taxes approved by voters and the Legislature during the past three
years.

"The economic and budgetary climate has really forced all governments, not just
county governments, to change the way we operate," Hagan said. "It's important
we increase efficiencies, accountability and improve organizational
performance."

Commissioner Al Higginbotham said he wants commissioners involved earlier in the
budget process, instead of waiting until Bean presents her budget in the spring.
Commissioners were shocked by the public reaction to the deep cuts Bean proposed
in her budget for programs such as animal services, and parks and recreation.

"They cut parks services and animal services; then commissioners say, 'That's
not what we wanted,'" Higginbotham said. "Well, she can't read our minds."

Higginbotham also wants Bean to closely examine the county's annual
contributions to nonprofit organizations, such as the YMCA, Lowry Park Zoo and
the Children's Home. Last fiscal year, the county gave $24 million to nonprofit
groups, but reduced that to $18.9 million this year.

The organizations should be required to present the county with business plans
that show money is not being wasted, Higginbotham said. He also suggested the
groups could consolidate services to save money.

Ability to bounce back

Bean agreed with most of the commissioners' suggestions and said she and her
staff are looking for ways to operate more efficiently. But despite Sharpe's
charge that she resists new ideas, Bean insists she was initiating cost-cutting
strategies several years ago, before the recession and tax reform depleted
county coffers.

For example, in preparing the fiscal 2007 budget, Bean said she instructed
department heads to submit proposed efficiencies that would not result in cuts
in services. The departments could not shift the costs elsewhere or violate
civil service rules. The effort resulted in nearly $17.4 million in savings that
Bean said were validated by budget analysts.

"It wasn't sleight of hand; it wasn't moving the pea under the shell. These were
legit," she said.

Proof of her team's financial accomplishments is the county's Triple-A bond
rating, Bean said. Standard & Poor's gave its highest rating to the county's
general obligation bonds several years ago. And last month, the credit agency
upgraded the county's bonds for buying conservation lands to AAA.

She also denied that the county's strategic plan lacks measurable objectives.
For example, the plan's first goal of strengthening county government finances
includes an objective of maintaining a general obligation rating of AA. That was
exceeded with the AAA rating, Bean said.

Another goal calls for the county to reduce the percentage of non-property tax
revenue from 16 percent to 18 percent. This year, the percentage rose to 19.2
percent.

Jim Norman, the longest-serving commissioner, said Bean needs to refocus and put
2009's "embarrassing issues" behind her. She has that ability, Norman said, as
evidenced by the county's strong credit rating and the solid team she has
assembled at the top.

"We're poised as well or better than any county to bounce back fast," Norman
said. "We're positioned better than most and it's because of the leadership team
and she's responsible for that."

Reporter Mike Salinero can be reached at (813) 259-8303.

Photo Credit: Staff file photo by JAY NOLAN

Photo: Hillsborough County Administrator Pat Bean will present her management
proposals on Feb. 3 to county commissioners, who judged her 2009 performance as
subpar.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               34 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 28, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

California idea worth copying? Abso-darn-lutely

BYLINE: Tom Jackson, tjackson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 544 words


By Tom Jackson

tjackson@tampatrib.com

As Florida's Legislature counts down the final hours to its annual
sausage-making session, it's clear there is plenty of heavy lifting ahead. (OK,
I mixed metaphors. What do you want for 50 cents?)

There's a $66 billion budget that requires trimming; an economy that cries out
for expansion and diversification; an education system begging for reform; an
energy policy ripe for rational re-inspection free from climate-change hysteria;
and a tax code that invites tweaking. Add a couple of historic-moments
resolutions intended to remind Washington why the nation is named the United
States of America and you've got a mighty full table.

Still, you wonder if there isn't late-breaking room for one more item. One
that's comfortably small and, except for its ability to invite ridicule from
certain smug corners, bereft of controversy. One that engages our better angels
and attempts to lift us from the muck of our social quagmire. And one, best of
all, that doesn't cost a dime to implement.

We refer here to a quaint little movement, born in Southern California and now
sprouting green shoots around the globe, designed to reduce - if not stamp out
altogether - the human proclivity for foul language.

A week without cringing

That the push was born a couple of years ago from the brain of a Pasadena,
Calif., teenager - living just over the mountain from Hollywood, the world's
potty-mouthed enabler - is intriguing enough. McKay Hatch, 16, identified foul
language as a portal to less suitable behavior, including drug abuse and
bullying; he started a club, which led inevitably to T-shirts, a rap video and a
Web site (www.nocussing .com). Next: a global tour.

Can peace in the Middle East be far behind?

But first, the California Assembly, some of whose members represent that
self-same tawdry Tinseltown, has passed an anti-cussing resolution. If the state
Senate follows suit, the Golden State will establish the first week of each
March as "Cuss-Free Week."

While supporters of the measure passed out "cuss jars" ahead of the vote - utter
an oath, deposit coinage - lawmakers were quick to note the resolution carries
no statutory penalties. It is, simply, an attempt to raise the level of
discourse and with it the degree of civility in our otherwise combustible
relationships.

Dust off your thesaurus

This Space understands and values the purifying, edifying and challenging nature
of living without swear words, having declared our own selves profanity-free in
the 1980s. In this X-rated world, where people think nothing of broadcasting
vulgarities into their Bluetooth devices while standing in line at Starbucks,
the habit is ever in need of reinforcing.

But it's worth it. The endeavor expands the imagination, cultivates the
vocabulary and elevates the practitioner. What's the last social program passed
by any government agency that accomplished nearly as much?

We would prefer the Florida Legislature consider an entire cuss-free month but
even if all they can come up with is a week, will we cheerfully consider it a
hopeful beginning?

Darn tootin' we will.

Keyword: The Jax Files, for Tom Jackson's bonus insights.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               35 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 1, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NOTEBOOK

BYLINE: Bill Ward

SECTION: SPECIAL SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words


Conditions ideal for final race

TAMPA - After all the times the Gasparilla Marathon featured difficult running
conditions - everything from hot and humid to cold and windy - it seemed fitting
the 10th and final running of the race Sunday met with almost perfect weather.

Temperatures were in the mid-40s for the 6 a.m. start in downtown Tampa and,
unlike many cool days like that along Bayshore Boulevard and Davis Islands, the
wind was not a serious factor.

But the weather was not the reason race director Susan Harmeling and the
Gasparilla Distance Classic's board of directors decided to cancel the marathon.
It was a result of what Harmeling called a "strain on city services" that led to
the race's end.

"We are ever-mindful of what we're asking from the city of Tampa with an event
that uses 26.2 miles of its streets," Harmeling said when the announcement was
made to cancel the marathon. "In light of the current economic climate, where
the city has to make budget cuts and reduce staff, we believe this decision is
the right thing to do."

The city of Tampa is a co-sponsor of race weekend and provides services such as
police, road barricades and waste management without charge.

Harmeling said no other major changes are being made to the race weekend in
2011, set for Feb. 26-27. The 15-kilometer and 5k races will take place Saturday
and the half marathon will be staged the following day.

Final (big) numbers

Despite the downturn in the economy, Gasparilla's race weekend broke records.

Saturday's 15k pulled in 17,347 registrants, while the 15k had 4,240. By itself,
the 15k total was not a record but when combined with the 5k, it eclipsed the
single-day combined mark.

Sunday's total of 4,623 runners for the half marathon - an event that will stand
alone Sunday next year - bettered the record of 4,511. And with a certain amount
of sentimentality attached to the final running of the Gasparilla Marathon, that
race drew a record total of 2,987.

Rising to the challenge

Some 220 brave souls signed up to compete in Gasparilla's 15k, 5k and half
marathon - The Bud Light Challenge - and 179 even hardier types registered to do
the 15k, 5k and marathon - the Michelob Ultra Challenge.

When the running shoes stopped pounding Sunday morning, it was 41-year-old Jon
Williams of Coconut Grove who captured the Bud Light crown, while 48-year-old
Kip Litton of Davison, Mich., won the Michelob Ultra title.

Williams started out by running the 15k in 53 minutes, 5 seconds, then did the
5k less than two hours later in 17:35. He came back Sunday morning and finished
the half marathon in 1:20:24. All three of his times were respectable on their
own - particularly for a masters (over 40) runner.

Litton, meanwhile, went 54:05 in the 15k, 17:33 in the 5k and cracked three
hours in the marathon with his 2:57:56. Again, as a masters runner, those are
some impressive marks. But in Litton's case, he's nearly in the grand masters
(over 50) division.

Runners in these divisions not only received a finishers medal for each of their
three races, but also a special medal for racing in one of the challenge
divisions.

Bill Ward

Photo Credit: Staff photo by BILL WARD

Photo: Nearly 7,000 runners head out into the darkness Sunday for the start of
the marathon and half marathon.

Photo Credit: Photo by SCOTT PURKS

Photo: Participants in Saturday's 5-kilometer run had to deal with a steady rain
but many had the support of family and friends along the finish line.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FINISH LINE: PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS GASPARILLA DISTANCE CLASSIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               36 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pragmatic Crist launches offensive blitz

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words


While criticizing opponent Marco Rubio, Crist says he is going "honest and
accurate" in U.S. Senate campaign.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA Bruised from a pummeling in polls and conservative media for six months,
Gov. Charlie Crist is fighting back in the Republican U.S. Senate primary.

With his 18-year political career in peril, Crist, who has never held back from
negative campaigning, is attacking opponent Marco Rubio.

He has ceased the frontrunner's strategy of ignoring Rubio, and criticizes him
at every opportunity - though Crist usually calls him as "my opponent" or "the
speaker."

On the positive side, Crist is pushing the pragmatic image that got him elected
governor, emphasizing it as a difference between himself and the proclaimed
conservative purist Rubio.

Crist has been moving in this direction for two or three weeks, but the new
strategy hit the forefront this week in Crist's State of the State address
Tuesday night and in a National Review interview Thursday, when Crist launched
his sharpest attacks yet.

In the speech, he repeatedly urged legislators to temper political rhetoric with
practicality, a clear reference to the primary race.

"Taken to an extreme, conviction becomes inflexible, even destructive," Crist
said. "We do a disservice to the people who elected us ? to elevate ideology
over problem-solving."

The lines drew applause from Democrats but silent stares from many in Crist's
own party.

In the interview, he called Rubio's claim to conservatism the "greatest fraud
perpetrated on people," and added, "When this guy calls himself the real
conservative in the race, I've got to point out that it's the opposite."

Rubio's campaign calls Crist's tactics a sign of desperation by a losing
candidate trying to reinvent himself.

It pleases Crist's allies, however.

"I definitely think he needed a change. He was trying to be almost oblivious to
the attacks, and that definitely hasn't worked," said lawyer and ex-legislator
Curt Kiser.

Recent polls have shown Crist as much as 18 points behind among GOP primary
voters; the Real Clear Politics Web site gives Rubio an average 12-point lead in
recent polls.

Crist's career might survive a close loss to Rubio, Kiser said, but probably not
a double-digit defeat in his own party's primary.

In the National Review interview, even as he was bashing Rubio, Crist denied he
was going negative.

"That's not my nature," he said, adding that he was "going accurate and honest."

The consummate politician

Crist is known as the nicest of political nice guys in person, but his campaigns
have often included negatives:

*In his first run for public office, winning a state Senate seat in 1992, Crist
ran a radio ad in which he reworded the "Beverly Hillbillies" theme song to make
fun of alleged absenteeism by his GOP primary opponent, state Rep. Jeff Huenink.

* In 2000, running for education commissioner, Crist ran an ad condemning
Democratic opponent George Sheldon for a 1970s arrest for driving while
intoxicated. Crist pulled the ad after news broke that George W. Bush, then
running for his first term as president, also had a 1970s DWI arrest.

*In his 2006 race for governor, Crist pounded Democratic opponent Jim Davis with
TV commercials featuring an empty chair to dramatize charges that Davis missed
votes in Congress.

"People have always underestimated Charlie Crist's toughness," said Brian
Ballard, a long-time political ally and occasional adviser. "Sometimes his
niceness gets equated with weakness or softness. He relishes a good fight."

If he's stepping up attacks on Rubio, Crist also seems increasingly willing to
stand by parts of his own record that could be vulnerable among conservatives.

His support of President Barack Obama's stimulus plan is the biggest brush Rubio
uses to paint him a liberal.

In a CNN interview in November, Crist sought to distance himself from the plan -
"I didn't endorse it," he said - even though he clearly supported the idea.
Tuesday night, Crist didn't back off the stimulus. He staunchly defended it and
accused critics, implicitly including Rubio, of hypocrisy.

"A few governors may have rather loudly condemned the stimulus money, but that
did not stop any of them from quietly accepting it," he said.

As Crist's campaign frequently points out, Rubio has said that as governor, he
would have accepted some of the money; Rubio responds that accepting the money
once the program has been enacted is different from supporting it.

Two news events have given Crist ammunition: revelations of Rubio's use of a
Republican Party credit card for what appear to be personal expenses, and the
indictment of former House Speaker Ray Sansom.

Crist's campaign says Sansom was Rubio's "handpicked budget chief" when Rubio
was state House speaker. Sansom is accused of tucking $6 million in the state
budget for an aircraft hangar to benefit a political contributor.

Crist also draws parallels because both Rubio and Sansom got jobs at hometown
colleges - Florida International University in Rubio's case - after the schools
benefitted from appropriations during their time in power. Rubio, unlike Sansom,
hasn't been accused of wrongdoing in connection with the FIU appropriations, and
says he scrupulously paid personally for credit card charges other than
legitimate party business.

Unfortunately for Crist, he also has some ties to the credit card and Sansom
incidents.

Crist didn't veto the airplane hangar project, and he chose state party Chairman
Jim Greer, who ran the party while much of its financial meltdown was happening.

Crist of old reappears

That isn't stopping Crist, however, from harping on themes of government
corruption, trust and personal responsibility in his campaign - terms aimed at
Rubio.

The campaign tack revives memories of the Charlie Crist of 2006.

Facing a primary opponent who sought to appeal to the party's conservative base,
Tom Gallagher, Crist proclaimed himself the conservative heir to former Gov. Jeb
Bush, but didn't back off his moderate stances. He emphasized his willingness to
work across party lines with Democrats and proclaimed himself a civil rights
leader; he called himself pro-life, but said he didn't want to tighten
restrictions on abortion.

He crushed Gallagher with 64 percent of the vote.

The political climate, however, was different then, said University of Central
Florida political scientist Aubrey Jewett.

As the Bush presidency wound down in declining poll ratings, "Republicans and
conservatives felt beleaguered," Jewett said. "They were worried about winning
the general election. They figured Crist could win in an era that was not
entirely favorable to them."

Today, he said, "They feel emboldened and confident they could win with a very
conservative candidate."

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo: Charlie Crist. His strategy is reminiscent of 2006 campaign for governor.
His strategy is reminiscent of 2006 campaign for governor.

Photo: Marco Rubio. His camp calls Crist's campaign a desperate attempt to win
the race. His camp calls Crist's campaign a desperate attempt to win the race.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               38 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Federal energy program needs some Florida reality

BYLINE: JAY LILES, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 288 words


By JAY LILES

Special To The Tampa Tribune

President Obama recently unveiled details of a $6 billion proposal to provide
cash rebates to homeowners who make energy-saving improvements to their homes.
While the program, known as Homestar, extends rebates to those who retrofit
their homes to make them more energy efficient, it does not provide incentives
that would protect homes from major weather events, including hurricanes.

At a time when lack of additional funding forced the state-run My Safe Florida
Home program to expire last summer, seeking stimulus funding for mitigation is
especially important. Energy savings and disaster resistance can be achieved
simultaneously.

An energy-efficient and disaster-resistant home greatly reduces greenhouse gas
emissions daily and does not need to be replaced after a storm, further reducing
greenhouse gases. For this reason, it is important that the Obama administration
consider expanding the Homestar program to include storm mitigation.

My Safe Florida Home helped retrofit nearly 33,000 homes, and various other
programs implemented nationwide, including here, have resulted in savings of $4
or more for every $1 spent.

By supporting home mitigation on a federal level we can help protect against the
devastating effects of hurricanes while reducing the state's exposure to
catastrophic damage.

I urge Florida's congressional delegation to understand the importance of Obama
including storm mitigation as part of the Homestar program - to protect some of
the country's most vulnerable citizens and the environment.

Jay Liles is the Florida Wildlife Federation policy advocate.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               39 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Taking the air out of farming, ranching

BYLINE: JOHN HOBLICK, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 289 words


By JOHN HOBLICK

Special To The Tampa Tribune

Florida's farmers and ranchers, like most Americans, have been struggling to
make ends meet during these troubling economic times. How well they fare in this
effort takes on added importance because their fellow citizens can ill afford to
add skyrocketing food costs to their list of challenges.

Because of this, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's proposed regulation
of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act could not have been more
poorly timed. These regulations come with overwhelming economic costs, not just
affecting the agriculture industry but also small and large businesses
throughout the state.

To comply with the EPA's new rules, businesses will be forced to make expensive
renovations to existing structures or purchase new buildings and equipment.
Additionally, these regulations will lead to lengthy, time-consuming permitting
processes that have the potential to grind business to a halt. And, unless other
nations agree to adhere to the same standards, American businesses will face a
competitive disadvantage in the world marketplace.

As Florida's largest agriculture organization, representing nearly 140,000
members, we are committed to fighting these harmful regulations. Recently,
delegates from the American Farm Bureau Federation adopted a resolution urging
Congress to pass legislation that would stop the EPA from setting regulations on
greenhouse gases.

Ultimately, the cost to cultivate, harvest and process crops impacts every one
of us when we check out at the grocery store.

John Hoblick is president of the Florida Farm Bureau Federation.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               41 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pinellas considers plan to add $5 vehicle fee at Fort De Soto Park

BYLINE: STEPHEN THOMPSON, spthompson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 296 words


Four county commissioners support the proposal.

By STEPHEN THOMPSON

spthompson@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG - That family outing at Fort De Soto Park is likely to become a
little more expensive.

Pinellas County appears to be on the verge of enacting a $5 a vehicle charge at
the popular park. On Tuesday, four of seven county commissioners expressed
support for a $5 fee.

An $8 fee initially pitched was too high, some commissioners said.

Commissioners have not yet settled the issue. County Administrator Robert S.
LaSala is expected to return to the board with a final proposal, which will
include a suggested charge for the county's other parks as well.

Currently, vehicles are assessed only a 35 cent toll to access the park, but
that money goes to the state Department of Transportation.

The four commissioners who expressed unqualified support for the $5 fee at Fort
De Soto were commission chair Karen Williams Seel, Ken Welch, John Morroni, and
Susan Latvala. Nancy Bostock was interested in exploring a per-person fee, and
Neil Brickfield and Calvin Harris were opposed to the vehicle fee.

"I think in this (economic) climate there are a lot of people whose only
entertainment is going to the park," Harris said.

Morroni said, however, that at some recent public hearings, Pinellas County
residents said they supported a charge. "They realize nothing is free anymore,"
he said.

Latvala echoed those sentiments. "They want access to (the parks) and they don't
mind paying," she said.

Reporter Stephen Thompson can be reached at (727) 451-2336.

Photo credit: Staff photo by BRUCE HOSKING

Photo: Visitors enjoy Fort De Soto's beaches, where a $5 a vehicle fee has been
proposed.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               42 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rail backers, foes prep strategy

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, tjackovics@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words


Hillsborough County voters will decide fate of a 1 cent sales tax increase for
transportation improvements.

By TED JACKOVICS

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - To gather support for a 1 cent sales tax for a new metro transit
authority 40 years ago, then-Atlanta Mayor Sam Massell flew over a clogged
expressway in a helicopter and shouted through a bullhorn: "You want to get out
of this mess? Vote yes."

"And this being the Bible Belt, they thought God was telling them what to do,"
Massell said in a Georgia Public Broadcasting interview in 2007 about his
successful efforts to transform a bus system into the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid
Transit Authority.

It's still too early to know whether anyone will be as creative as Massell in
campaigning for or against a 1 cent sales tax surcharge to help fund light rail
in Hillsborough County's Nov. 2 referendum.

Campaign efforts by advocacy and anti-tax groups, public officials and the
business community, however, are expected to surge this summer, shaped by
well-worn talking points honed in dozens of similar tax referendums nationwide.

Nationwide since 2000, slightly more than 70 percent of tax measures to fund
transportation have passed, according to a survey by the private Center for
Transportation Excellence, a Washington-based transit advocate. Despite the
recession and the onset of a high profile tax resistance movement, eight transit
referendums passed and three failed in 2009.

This year, voters in 30 areas from Walla Walla to Wimauma will choose whether to
raise their taxes to fund transportation measures.

So far, the outcomes nationwide are three measures passed and three failed to
increase taxes for public transit.

St. Louis drew attention in April, when voters by 63 percent to 37 percent
approved a half-cent sales tax increase to restore lost bus service and avoid
trimming light-rail schedules. A similar measure failed in 1997 and 2008.

Hillsborough County, however, likely will provide the nation's biggest
transportation story of the year.

In January, the Obama administration selected the Tampa-Orlando route for the
nation's first high-speed rail line.

In November, Hillsborough County residents will decide on the sales tax
surcharge that would help fund the area's first light-rail system, along with
bus and road improvements added to the referendum to broaden its appeal.

If voters approve the sales tax increase to 8 cents on the dollar - 6 cents of
which by law goes to the state - that decision could lay the groundwork for a
half-dozen nearby counties to pursue similar plans to support an integrated
regional transit plan.

Education campaign

"Two things make Tampa different from anywhere else," said Alan Wulkan, managing
partner of InfraConsult LLC of Scottsdale, Ariz., who was hired nine months ago
by the Hillsborough Area Regional Transit Authority for $99,800.

"First, a huge public education effort is needed in Hillsborough County with the
high-speed rail, TBARTA, HART and county transportation task force initiative.
The public is rightfully confused and all of what is happening piecemeal must be
clarified.

"Also, Hillsborough's vote will count very heavily on how surrounding counties
like Pasco and Pinellas proceed with transportation tax referendums. Frankly,
the success of high-speed rail is at stake. It's not only the Tampa region, but
transportation for the entire Central Florida corridor is at stake."

Public confusion generally begins with people who indicate they do not
understand the differences between the Tampa-Orlando high-speed rail line and
the proposed light-rail system whose first phases could link North Tampa,
downtown and West Shore.

Complicating matters are myriad transportation planning groups, economic
development agencies and advocacy groups, all with their own acronyms.

Among them: HART, which runs the county bus system and would run light rail;
TBARTA, the Tampa Bay Area Regional Transportation Authority whose
representatives from seven counties are trying to ensure coordinated regional
transportation plans; several MPOs, county-based Metropolitan Planning
Organizations that set long-range plans, and FDOT, the state's transportation
department with a handful of Tallahassee officials spearheading Florida's
high-speed rail initiative.

Honing strategies

In addition, two advocacy groups are already weighing in: "Ax the Tax," an
Orlando-based group that opposes rail initiatives nationwide, and "Moving
Hillsborough Forward," a Tampa coalition backed by the majority of the area's
business and economic development groups, are honing referendum strategies that
have begun to surface.

"We have successfully led six anti-rail battles in Florida since 1997," said
Doug Guetzloe, Ax the Tax chairman and a native of Tampa. "They use the same
playbook each time. It's basically an attempt to fund a mandate of which there
is no known end price."

Guetzloe's strategy will be to discuss rail costs while rallying support from
local and state tea party groups.

"We support buses and most people do," Guetzloe said. "Fixed rail is a
190-year-old technology with a new millennium pricing."

What about light-rail investments and ridership and economic development success
that Salt Lake City, Charlotte, N.C. and Portland, Ore., have reported, along
with cities even more traditionally tied to the auto including Phoenix, Dallas
and Houston?

"P.T. Barnum said a fool is born every minute," Guetzloe responded.

Guetzloe expects to raise between $50,000 and $75,000 for the Ax The Rail Tax
initiative. Moving Hillsborough Forward will release a financial report at the
end of June.

That group is backed by the Tampa Bay Partnership regional economic development
group, the Tampa Bay Builders Association, the Greater Tampa Association of
Realtors, the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, The Westshore Alliance and the
Tampa Downtown Partnership, among others.

Will Tampa be left behind?

Business leaders worry that urban rail transit systems in Charlotte, Denver and
elsewhere provide a competitive edge in corporate expansion, relocation and
ultimately have an impact on the local area's average wage, which, at $36,094,
was about $10,500 behind Dallas and $9,500 behind Atlanta, a Partnership report
indicated last year.

"Corporate relocation specialists need to be confident their employees will have
options of how to get to work and to recreation," said David Singer, a Holland &
Knight lawyer in Tampa who heads Moving Hillsborough Forward.

"Looking at what will happen to this region if the tax doesn't pass is somewhat
alarming. We will have no choice if we don't have mobility options but to build
more roads."

The group drew 70 people to Friday's recruitment campaign for speakers to spread
the transit message, with the idea no group is too small to contact, backyard
barbecues included.

A television campaign will be launched later in the summer along with increased
reliance on social media networks such as Twitter and You Tube.

The group has made allies out of environmentalists and builders, Democrats and
some Republicans.

Leaders acknowledge they face plenty of work, even while emphasizing opponents
have not offered a plan beyond retaining the status quo while the county
population is expected to increase by a half-million in the next 25 years.

HART commissioned a survey of 600 county residents in July and August 2009 by
Ilium Associates Inc. of Bellevue, Wash., which found 33 percent would
"definitely" vote for a 1 cent tax increase, and 34 percent would "probably"
vote for it. Fifteen percent "definitely" opposed such a measure, and 10 percent
would "probably" vote against the measure.

Joe Chillura, a Tampa architect who served on the city council and various
county planning organizations, has spoken to many people who say they will not
support the transportation tax surcharge.

Chillura proposed the half-cent Community Investment Tax that county voters
supported by 53 percent to 47 percent in 1996 to pay for building Raymond James
Stadium along with funds for schools, fire and police departments, sidewalks and
other infrastructure.

"The question I have is whether the public is ready to embrace any kind of tax
in an economic depression," Chillura said. "I've always supported mass transit,
but the climate now is one of skepticism.

"But if people know how the money will be spent, it could provide a
psychological boost to the light-rail issue."

Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813) 259-7817.

(CHART) TYPES OF MASS TRANSIT

Light Rail

Similar to a modern trolley.

Runs on tracks, which may be along city streets.

Multiple rail cars coupled together.

High-speed rail

Trains run at 150 mph or faster.

Operates between cities with few stops.

Commuter rail

Uses conventional diesel or electric-powered trains.

Heavy, double-deck rail cars for peak workplace travel.

Runs between suburbs and cities.

Subway

Uses electric-powered trains.

Most routes underground, although may run at street level or on elevated tracks.

Serves major cities.

Bus rapid transit

Uses modern buses, sometimes with two sections for added capacity.

Operates most effectively in designated lanes free of auto traffic.

Equipped with devices to change stop lights when buses operate in traffic.

Tribune map; Source: staff research

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               43 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LUXURY FOR LESS

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, tjackovics@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words


The recession has forced hoteliers to cut prices in an effort to boost
occupancy.

By TED JACKOVICS

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - You may not have considered staying at Ritz-Carlton in Naples two years
ago when the average room price was $340. Take a look now.

The same room for mid-June will cost Florida residents $199 a night.

A room at the Ritz-Carlton Naples Golf Resort will cost you $119 a night this
summer instead of the $307 a night listed in the AAA Auto Club South's 2008
Tourbook.

The depth and impact of the recession on the travel industry has forced
hoteliers nationwide to trim rates to encourage business.

The average price at which hotels booked rooms and their percentage of occupancy
declined nationwide from $108.82 and 62.9 percent in April 2008 to $97.72 and
58.4 percent in April 2010, Smith Travel Research reported.

Florida hotel room prices declined from $128.63 and 67.6 percent occupancy two
years ago to $112.82 and 64.6 percent in April, while room prices in the
Tampa-St. Petersburg market declined from $120.63 and 67.1 percent occupancy in
April 2008 to $101.20 and 61.7 percent in April 2010.

Even with reducing prices, the strategy did not create a panacea - nearly half
the rooms nationwide remained vacant throughout 2009.

The industry, however, is hopeful that these rate cuts will make a difference.

"For the leisure traveler, they are able to get great rates, especially during
the summer months," Tampa-based hospitality investment consultant Lou Plasencia
said. That means maybe they can extend their vacations by a few days, while
theme parks, museums and attractions also are providing a lot of attractive
packages.

"The benefits for the corporate traveler today is that they are able to get very
good rates at very fine hotels," he said.

"A lot of companies had completely canceled meetings in the past 24 months. Now
there's a pent-up demand for sales and marketing meetings, meetings with vendors
and for training. There's just a pent-up demand for face-to-face meetings."

Signs now have begun to appear that the impact of the recession on the
hospitality industry is lessening. Occupancy rates have begun creeping up,
although room rates have not matched the same pace, interviews and reports from
industry observers show.

For example, the average daily rate at which hotels booked rooms in major
Florida markets in April declined 2 percent compared with a year ago, but
occupancy rose 4.1 percent, Smith Travel reported.

That's good news for travelers at the same time those in the industry continue
to sort out how to stay afloat in a business that also has felt the impact of an
inflexible banking and lending industry.

Problems persist even though they may not be obvious to travelers booking a
reservation or pulling up to a hotel to check in.

Real Capital Analytics Inc., a worldwide commercial property investment research
firm, reported $1.3 billion in distressed loans on 1,417 full and limited
service hotels in 2008, $18 billion a year ago and $34.7 billion this year. That
includes $3.6 billion in 154 distressed Florida hotels and $191.4 million in 16
distressed hotels in the metro Tampa area.

But the average person is unlikely to realize that any particular hotel may be
suffering from problems with debt, foreclosure, bankruptcy or restructuring
issues.

"Nice hotels are not going to cut prices because they are in trouble because
they want to maintain their brand," said Ben Thypin, senior market analyst with
Real Capital Analytics in New York.

"If you see good rates at a four- or five-star hotel in the summer, it is likely
for something to boost demand for a slow season."

In many cases hotels in perfectly good financial standing will drop rates, said
Jeff Higley of Smith Travel Research.

"We are seeing some signs the worst is behind us in terms of occupancy," Higley
said.

There's a big difference between having a slow season that does not meet an
annual budget expectation and facing deeper financial problems that affect
mortgage and debt payments, especially now that lenders are unlikely to allow
much leeway.

Some major name hotels have been forced into filings for protection through
bankruptcy in recent months, including the owners of the lavish Amelia Island
Plantation north of Jacksonville and the Extended Stay Hotels that have
properties in Tampa. The Ritz-Carlton at Lake Las Vegas in a tony development 20
miles south of the Nevada strip closed for business last month.

The Plasencia Group, which has eight offices nationwide, has retooled parts of
its business activities to provide the evolving services clients seek in putting
together deals for hotel properties in a distressed market.

"The deals we are working on seem to be getting more complicated," Plasencia
said, pointing out that some lenders have become unwilling owners of hotel
assets, while other investors have experience in buying real estate but not in
operating a hotel.

"There's much more to operating a business with a hotel; you must operate a
variety of businesses from the guest rooms to restaurants to parking garages and
laundry facilities. You have a lot of employees. It's extremely
management-intensive."

Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at 813-259-7817.

Photo credit: Photos from Thinkstock and staff files

Photo: Think that a nice hotel by the beach is going to break your budget? It
may be time to think again as hotels such as The Ritz-Carlton in Naples, top,
and teh Amelia Inn at Amelia Island Plantation, bottom, have dropped prices to
boost occupancy and rebound from the recession.

Photo credit: Ritz-Carlton Lake Vegas file photo (2004)

Photo: Leisure travelers should be able to find great rates at hotels during the
summer months. Locations such as The Ritz-Carlton and many other hoteliers are
offering deals to raise occupancy rates that have taken a hit during the past
two years.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               45 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 14, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 475 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Scott deceiving voters

I don't get it. Voters say they are opposed to the enormous amounts of money
funding campaign advertisements and repulsed by fraud in the system. Yet here
comes Rick Scott, and voters are giving him a positive glance at sitting in the
governor's mansion.

Well, Scott has a mansion paid for by a company he ran that has become a poster
child and example for the biggest Medicare fraud case in U.S. history - paid for
by taxpayers' money, pure and simple.

Conservatives are all atwitter about Gov. Crist dropping any pro-life reference
from his Web site. To the best of my knowledge, Crist supported legislation that
limited abortion and never benefited financially from the procedure. Yet Scott
benefited financially from elective abortions performed at his hospitals to the
point where pro-life investors refused to invest in his company. With all this
history in mind, how can Scott claim success as a manager, accountability or a
pro-life stance?

It is said that a sucker is born every minute. Hopefully in Florida, voters can
keep this particular birth rate low and not support Scott's campaign.

SANDY GRAVES

Land O' Lakes

Regulating clouds

The EPA wants to regulate "greenhouse gases." The "greenhouse gas" that
contributes the most to "global warming," and is thus the most dangerous, is
water vapor.

Now, how is the EPA going to regulate clouds?

BILL DANIEL

Plant City

Gas conspiracy

John Botelho needn't worry about conspiracies with regard to the price of
gasoline ("Gasoline conspiracy theory," Letter of the Day, June 10). Many
factors, including the value of the dollar versus other currencies, play a part,
but rest assured the market sorts it all out.

One of the forces working on both oil and gasoline is the economy. Energy, as a
commodity, is a barometer for economic activity in general. Despite what our
dear leader and his minions have to say about its health and well-being, and
regardless how often the propagandists in the press parrot it, even something as
horrendous as the Gulf gusher isn't much impacting prices these days because,
yawn, there is no real demand.

I laughed out loud a day or so ago when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, expressed
"surprise" at the record set by gold. Ignoring barometers, especially when one
hits you over the head like gold reaching an all-time high, must be a
requirement for loyal Obamatons.

DWAYNE KEITH

Valrico

Ask Gary

The 1-800-ASK GARY Amphitheatre? That's so cheap that it's funny! You are aware
that this is the kind of mentality that gave us the pay toilet?

LES CROSBY

Tampa

After the oil leak

What will all the TV stations report after the oil leak is fixed? We are swamped
with 10 minutes of the same views on every newscast. Enough is enough.

JIM BOARD

Lutz

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               46 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ruskin youth wins state FFA office

BYLINE: LOIS KINDLE, lkindle@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 535 words


She will represent 10-county Area V

By LOIS KINDLE

lkindle@tampatrib.com

RUSKIN - Nicole Liles is headed to the University of Florida to major in
agriculture communications and political science.

Under normal circumstances, she would be starting classes this fall, but the
18-year-old Palmetto High School graduate is postponing that for a year to move
one step closer to her ultimate goal.

"I want to be the first elected female agriculture commissioner in Florida," she
said.

Toward that end, Liles will spend the next 12 months as one of the national FFA
organization's six area vice presidents, a coveted role for someone with such
high goals. One of 14 finalists in a statewide competition, she learned she had
won the job in mid-June.

"I'm so excited," she said. "I have political aspirations, and I have a passion
for the agriculture industry and Florida's history. I think people take
agriculture for granted in Florida."

As a child, Liles wanted to become a veterinarian. In the seventh grade, she
joined FFA and remained active in the group through high school, becoming club
president.

She said she got the bug for political office after meeting Florida Agriculture
Commissioner Charles H. Bronson while on a Farm Bureau field trip to Tallahassee
in 2009.

"From there, I knew I wanted to go into the political side of agriculture,"
Liles said.

After writing an essay on climate change, legislation and renewable energy for a
contest sponsored by Peace River Electric Cooperative, she earned a trip to a
youth leadership conference in Washington, where she met then-Congressman Adam
Putnam on Capitol Hill.

"That trip is what sparked her interest in becoming politically active," said
her mom, Cindi.

She applied to be a messenger in state House and served in March.

"It was amazing," Liles said of the experience. "I didn't want to come home."

In April, she took FFA leadership training in Haines City and learned that any
graduating senior could run for state office. While there, she applied,
interviewed and made a required presentation to show her agricultural
experience. She also took a written exam and participated in group
problem-solving activities.

Liles sought to represent Area V, which covers a 10-county area, including
Hillsborough.

Since April, she has attended FFA functions in those counties, meeting members
she hoped would eventually give her their votes. At the state convention in
Orlando in June, which was attended by 3,500 state FFA members, Liles was
permitted to actually campaign.

During her term, she will be expected to organize and host a conference, conduct
a workshop and attend a national leadership conference in Washington, D.C.
During the 2010-11 school year, she will also present FFA chapter programs to
agriculture classes in Area V schools and intern with the Florida Department of
Agriculture.

UF has deferred Liles' admission so she can fulfill her duties.

Reporter Lois Kindle can be reached at (813) 731-8138 or (813) 627-4760.

Photo: Nicole Liles. Hopes to be first elected female agricultural commissioner
Hopes to be first elected female agricultural commissioner

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               49 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa's 'greening' effort wilts

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words


Only four businesses are certified.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - One year ago, Tampa partnered with an environmental consulting firm to
certify "green businesses" that were striving to reduce the city's greenhouse
gas emissions.

The goal of the program, touted by Mayor Pam Iorio as proof that Tampa was a
leader in Florida's green movement, was to recognize businesses that adopt
environmentally sustainable practices while encouraging other local businesses
to follow suit.

To date, however, only four businesses have been certified under the program.

"We were really excited about participating, thinking that a lot of local
businesses were going to get onboard," said Kevin Baker, whose Tampa-based
office design business, Florida Business Interiors, was one of the first to sign
up. "But then it just fell apart."

Thomas Snelling, deputy director of Tampa's Growth Management and Development
Services, oversees the program as the city's "green officer." He acknowledges
the lack of participation, which he attributes to "changes in leadership" at the
city's nonprofit partner, The Sustany Foundation, but said the city is committed
to making it work.

"It's still alive and well," he said. "We're trying to regroup and get the word
out again."

The Sustany Foundation didn't return a telephone call seeking comment.

By contrast, other cities with similar "green business" programs have reported
robust participation. Some are expanding the programs to accommodate demand.

The Chamber of Commerce in Knoxville, Tenn., unveiled its Green Business
Recognition Program in cooperation with the city government in August 2008 and
has about 40 participating businesses, said Garrett Wagley, who oversees the
program.

San Francisco, which has been certifying green businesses for about six years,
has nearly 200 participants, with hundreds more actively seeking certification.

"It's been very successful," said Clark Hatchet, who runs the green business
program for the city's environmental department. "It's being expanded into a
statewide program."

Under Tampa's program, participating businesses must submit to an annual energy
audit and are given a grade by environmental consultants who work for the
foundation. The grade is based on how many environmentally sustainable practices
they have adopted.

Businesses are graded on criteria such as recycling and waste reduction, energy
and water conservation as well as pollution reduction. Yearly fees to
participate in the program, ranging from $149 to $1,000, are based on the number
of employees.

The fees go toward administrative costs. The city doesn't pay Sustany for
running it.

The program includes mandatory requirements such as setting up a recycling
system and installing low-flow toilets, and non-mandatory guidelines such as
installing rain barrels to conserve water and using motion-sensor lighting and
recycled toilet paper.

Tyler Freriks, marketing and fundraising coordinator for the Children's Cancer
Center - one of four businesses certified by Tampa's program - said
participating has helped the center reduce waste by 50 percent and utility bills
by 35 percent.

"It's saved us a lot of money," she said. "We've seen a lot of benefits."

Freriks said participating in the program also put the center in touch with a
contractor who donated his time and money to retrofit their office with
low-emission lighting.

The center received a grade of 90, she said, the highest of those participating.

Baker, the office design business owner, said he hopes the city puts more effort
into marketing the program.

"We've gained business from it," he said. "I'd like to see it come back."

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679.

Photo credit: Staff photos by MICHAEL EGGER

Photo: Overhead light fixtures require only one tube.

Photo: Florida Business Interiors uses environmentally friendly cleaning
products and cleaning rags.

Photo: Its climate control system can be set by zones.

Photo: Walls and tables at the interior design company use a renewable source of
wood veneer.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               50 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To create jobs, cut the uncertainty

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


Hiring has remained slow because business leaders are worried about what's going
to happen next with the economy and taxes. The nation has lost faith in
one-time, jump-start fixes.

"Unusually uncertain" is how Federal Reserve boss Ben Bernanke characterized the
economic outlook two months ago.

President Obama, as he steps up his public appearances this campaign season,
should give the economy more of what it hungers for: stability and
predictability.

Instead, he has unsettled the economic climate a little more by proposing a new
round of vague spending, an irrational tax increase on energy producers and a
new infrastructure bank that would be independent of Congress.

With elections coming up, partisan solidarity for billions more in stimulus
spending is beginning to crack. Democratic Sen. Michael Bennett of Colorado made
a good point when he said lots of money remains unspent from the Recovery Act
and should be used before investing in new public-private partnerships that
would appear to add to the deficit.

A well-designed infrastructure bank may be a good thing, but as proposed it
seems more of a front-loaded gimmick to spend more money now at the expense of
future taxpayers and future projects.

Would bank members be wined, dined and lobbied by folks wanting projects
approved? Would it be truly independent, and if so, independent of whom? If it
is supported by taxpayers, it should not be beyond the oversight of taxpayers'
elected representatives.

To raise revenue, Obama wants to surprise oil and gas companies with a tax
increase, frequently described as closing a loophole.

His proposal to end the tax break for domestic production of oil and gas is just
the sort of arbitrary change that worries businesses making long-term
investments.

As the Tax Foundation points out, the tax break exists to encourage domestic
manufacture of everything, including toys, software, music, highways and cars.
But the producers of domestic energy for those cars would, under this plan, be
singled out for tax punishment.

"It appears that it all comes down to environmental politics, not sound tax
policy or even sound economics," says Tax Foundation President Scott Hodge.

The White House should be proposing ideas that are clear, sound and sustainable,
such as Obama's call to make permanent a tax credit for research and development
that expired last year.

Another helpful idea would be to make next year's taxes more predictable by
simply extending existing tax rates for all taxpayers.

He should listen to the Democratic candidate for Florida governor, Alex Sink,
who says that to eliminate the tax breaks for upper-income taxpayers as promised
by Obama, "will hurt our ability to get people back to work."

Just extend all tax rates, she says. It's simple and doable.

The argument for raising taxes on couples making more than $250,000 a year is
that the rich will invest the savings and not spend it, as lower-income families
will, to help the economy. Sink understands that the economy needs both
investment and spending.

Unless Congress can reach agreement, tax cuts will expire for everyone in
January. That is worrisome.

The Bush tax cuts didn't prevent the recession, and continuing them won't set
off a growth boom. But with the country mired in high unemployment and slow
growth, Obama would do well to pay more attention to the dissension building in
his own party.

Photo Credit: The Orlando Sentinel

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               51 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New rules will make it easier to rack up frequent-flier miles

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, tjackovics@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 314 words


British Airways flights between Tampa and London can count as American Airlines
credits.

By TED JACKOVICS

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - People flying British Airways between Tampa and London soon will benefit
from a regulatory change that will allow them to claim American Airlines
frequent-flier miles for the trip.

Travelers also can claim American Airlines frequent-flier miles for connecting
British Airways flights to other European destinations from London after heading
to or from Tampa.

After 14 years of negotiations, American and British Airways, which along with
Iberia airlines make up the Oneworld alliance, obtained antitrust immunity in
July, enabling them to offer coordinated frequent-flier programs.

Under current programs, a passenger flying British Airways from Tampa to London
and then changing planes for a British Airways flight to Greece could claim
American Airlines frequent-flier awards only for the London-Greece leg of the
flight.

Once the new program is in place, in October or November, passengers can choose
frequent-flier awards on British Airways or American, whichever suits them, for
each of the flights on their trip.

Companies making travel arrangements for employees can sign contracts with
American Airlines if they choose, said Trudy Carson, who handles air service
development for Tampa International Airport.

Tampa International this week announced British Airways is increasing nonstop
service between Tampa and London Gatwick Airport from five to seven days a week
beginning March 27.

"The daily service should encourage business travel from Tampa," Carson said.
Eighty-five percent of London-Tampa fliers originate in Europe, and most of
those are leisure travelers, Carson said.

Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813) 259-7817.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               52 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 580 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Light rail and jobs

In the debate about light rail, it's easy to become confused when someone says
it will create jobs. Exactly how does light rail create jobs? Having just
returned from the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce's annual benchmarking trip,
where we visited Phoenix, I saw the answer to this question firsthand.

The first round of jobs comes from building the light rail. Hillsborough will
need to hire construction workers and contract engineers. These jobs potentially
could span the duration of all six light-rail line constructions.

After each line is completed, the real estate around the rail will develop
further. Residential and commercial buildings will pop up around the stations.
Many of the jobs at this point will be service and retail positions created by
shops and restaurants.

Light rail creates a richer commercial climate and a competitive job market. I
will be voting for countywide transportation and for Hillsborough's future.

JOHN P. BAUMANN JR.

Tampa

Keep options open

Iran's leader continues to demonstrate his bizarre and erratic behavior by
accusing the U.S. government of engineering 9/11 ("Ahmadinejad tells U.N. that
America staged 9/11 attacks," Nation + World, Sept. 24).

Allowing this madman to have nuclear weapons will assure a nuclear war and
destabilize the Middle East. President Obama must keep all options on the table,
including a military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities.

DOUGLAS WEILAND

Clearwater

More sanctions

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's suggestion that elements in the U.S.
government may have aided or planned the 9/11 attacks to "save the Zionist
regime" is deeply offensive to the loved ones of those who died and to all
Americans. The United States should step up efforts to pass a new round of
sanctions in the U.N. targeted at the Iranian Central Bank, which finances and
facilitates Iran's illegal nuclear activities.

WANDA MCGROARTY

Dundee

Crist's independence

I don't care who paid when Gov. Charlie Crist took his family to Disney World,
or if he changes his mind about things as circumstances evolve, or if he
caucuses with the Democrats or Republicans. I only know that he is the only
candidate for the U.S. Senate from Florida who is not encased in a concrete
straight-jacket of party obedience. He will do what he thinks is right for the
country - not a particular party or lobby.

HUGH SMITH

Lakeland

March fan

The "Taj Mahal" hero has a credibility issue that requires resolution ("Rubio
denies fault for costly building," Metro, Sept. 16). As one so vocally concerned
with debt, Marco Rubio's free wheeling with the Grand Old Party's money is a
matter of fiscal integrity. Sadly, this begs the question: Just what else is
being concealed and hidden from voters?

Thank our defender of government in the sunshine, Tribune reporter William
March, for his persistence for the truth in our all-too-often darkened halls of
the Legislature. Journalistic public service at the finest level!

AUSTIN R. CURRY

Tampa

Power of the press

Reporter William March and The Tampa Tribune continue to push for anybody but
Marco Rubio in the U.S. Senate race ("Rubio billed floor to GOP, blogger says,"
front page, Sept. 23).

This is disgustingly biased journalism at its worst. Let the people decide.

Whether the liberal media understand it or not, the tea party was likely created
by them.

MARK NEWMAN

Lutz

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               53 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We just need a snarling psychic marsupial

BYLINE: Mike Winter, Pop and Circumstance

SECTION: GETAWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 542 words


By Mike Winter

Pop and Circumstance

Ah, October, that magical time of year when Tampa Bay area residents, much like
the Whos from Whoville, gather on our porches and patios, on our sundecks and
balconies, on our boat docks, verandas and lanais, and lift our collective
voices to the heavens in the age-old ritual of wondering aloud to anyone within
earshot when, in the name of all that is holy, will the cooler weather arrive?

You'd think we'd know better by now. It's not as if we live in a particularly
variable climate. It was hot last October. It was hot the October before that.
Odds are it will be hot this October, as well. And yet, hope springs eternal.
Sweaters are unpacked. Cider and butternut squash cravings peak. Last year at
this time I caught myself staring at the windows, wondering if I should switch
out the summer screens for winter ones. Luckily, I remembered we don't have
winter screens before any actual effort was exerted, so no harm was done. But it
does underscore the fact that even a longtime resident like myself can get antsy
for a change after September.

New arrivals from regions that actually have seasons have it much worse and
usually go through a difficult period of adjustment characterized by bouts of
intense wistfulness for Indian corn, acorns, buckeyes, McDonald's pumpkin
milkshakes and other inedible foodstuffs. Many also experience Restless Leaf
Raking Syndrome - in which arms twitch uncontrollably in long sweeping motions -
as well as an irrational need to stock up on firewood.

This isn't to say there's nothing in Florida to herald the end of summer. Au
contraire. We have love bugs. And ragweed pollen. And when the conditions are
just right, love bugs covered in ragweed pollen. It's a combination that never
fails to get me all misty-eyed. And sneezy. I've even gotten choked up a time or
two, but each time the swelling in my throat went down and I was fine.

A new tradition

The problem is that we never know when the heat will break. What we need is our
own version of Punxsutawney Phil, a quasi-clairvoyant critter we can drag out of
its burrow once a year and pin all of our seasonal expectations on. Instead of a
groundhog predicting the end of winter, we could have an opossum predicting the
end of summer.

I envision a new Labor Day tradition: A group of local dignitaries gathers on a
stage, blathers on for a few minutes about how great it is living in the
lightning and lap-dancing capital of the world, and then the one who drew the
short straw reaches down and drags a snarling, overheated ball of fury from its
cage. If the official loses two or more fingers in the ensuing melee, the
prediction will be for six more weeks of heat. If only one finger is lost or,
say, an ear, then cooler weather is just around the corner.

Admittedly, this will be a blood spectacle, but I'm sure I'm not alone when I
say a bureaucrat wrestling with an angry marsupial is a small price to pay to
know whether it will soon be cool enough to open the windows at night and asleep
to the gentle patter of pollen-covered love bugs banging against the screens.

I'm getting all teary-eyed just thinking about it.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               54 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rubio wins Senate race

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words


Crist's fate is uncertain after losing to the Republican challenger

BY WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA Republican Marco Rubio won Florida's open U.S. Senate seat Tuesday night,
easily beating two other strong candidates in an unprecedented three-way race.
Rubio's win seals the downfall of one of the most popular politicians in state
history, Gov. Charlie Crist.

Tuesday night, Rubio called the election's Republican sweep "a second chance for
Republicans to be what they said they were going to be not so long ago."

"The United States of America is simply the single greatest nation in all of
human history, a place without equal in the history of all mankind," he told a
crowd of supporters, reprising the theme of stump speeches he's given for nearly
two years.

"But we also know that something doesn't seem right. Our nation is headed in the
wrong direction and both parties are to blame," he said. "What Americans are
looking for desperately are people that will go to Washington, D.C., and stand
up to this agenda that is taking us in the wrong direction."

Rubio spoke at a gathering at the Biltmore Hotel in Miami that attracted
international attention, with news organizations from more than a dozen nations.

His phenomenal rise over the last two years, from a little-known former state
House speaker from Miami, has led to speculation that a role in the 2012
Republican National Convention in Tampa could put him on the presidential
political map -- the place where Crist used to be.

Crist spoke for a little more than two minutes to a crowd of several at the
Vinoy Hotel in downtown St. Petersburg.

"God bless him and his family, I know that he will serve our state well," he
said of Rubio.

"It's been an interesting race, to say the least," he said. "It's a tough night,
but there's a great future ahead."

He gave no hint what his future might include, after what may be the end of a
meteoric political career that had spanned four elective offices over 18 years.

Democrat Kendrick Meek, who left a comfortable U.S. House seat where he has
spent four terms to run for the Senate, told his Key Biscayne gathering, "We won
tonight." During the campaign, he said, "We stood on our feet at all times. Our
knees were not shaky at any time."

Meek could emerge with a bright future. In his campaign, "He demonstrated strong
character, a class act," by holding his ground refusing to consider suggestions
that he drop out, said Wayne Bailey, a Stetson University political scientist
who's active in Democratic politics.

He said Meek also benefitted from "a color blind, non-race oriented campaign,
which suggests that Florida is moving past racial politics."

Meek could be a candidate for an appointed job in the Obama administration, and
then could return to Florida and again be a candidate for statewide office, he
said; similar speculation has concerned Crist.

The astonishing reversal of Crist's political fortunes reflects his attempt to
move the Republican Party in a moderate direction at precisely the wrong time,
when the party was starting a move in the opposite direction.

"He has gone from a leading political force not only in Florida, but nationally,
to somebody who is now going to have to be looking for a new vocation," said
retired University of South Florida political scientist Darryl Paulson, a
Republican. "Meanwhile, Marco Rubio has followed precisely the opposite
trajectory --a mirror image of Crist."

Barely more than a year ago, Crist was the state's dominant Republican and one
of the nation's most popular governors, with job approval ratings near 70
percent. He was considered invincible either for re-election or the Senate race.

His May 2009 announcement that he would run for the Senate instead of
re-election as governor was considered a stepping stone to a presidential bid,
and was greeted by a national party endorsement.

But as governor, he had angered the conservative wing of the party, still led by
Rubio's patron, Jeb Bush, with such initiatives as a climate change summit,
speeding restoration of former felons' voting rights and appointing Democrats to
high posts, including Supreme Court Justice Ed Perry.

His gravest offense was appearing with Obama in Fort Myers in February 2009 to
back the stimulus plan, and their famous on-stage hug.

"The hug," as it came to be known, put real energy into Rubio's challenge to
Crist in the Senate primary, which initially had been considered quixotic.

"Challenging a sitting governor of your own party is not normally considered the
next logical step up the political ladder," Rubio said frequently in stump
speeches.

But as Crist angered conservatives, they began to gravitate to Rubio.

In August 2009, the conservative political journal National Review put him on
its cover as a symbol of the growing conservative insurgency against national
party leaders -- his first major national recognition.

An endorsement by conservative commentator George Will followed, along with
better performance in polls and fundraising.

In this spring's legislative session, when Crist vetoed several pet legislative
items of the GOP leadership, including a teacher merit-pay bill, his
relationship with the party collapsed, as did his poll standing against Rubio.
Sure to lose the primary, he dropped out and announced his no-party candidacy in
April.

"We ran him out of the party," boasted Pinellas County party activist Tony
DiMatteo, a former Crist ally turned Rubio backer.

As the race came to a close, Crist blasted his former party, saying it had taken
a turn to the "extreme right."

Not everyone agrees Crist's political career is over.

Losing to a candidate who got less than 50 percent of the vote is "not a
resounding defeat, it's more of a fluke," said Lance deHaven-Smith of Florida
State University, a long time observer of Florida politics. "I would think he
could come back."

But Paulson noted, "He's burned bridges with the Republicans. There are enough
Democrats who remember Chain Gang Charlie and don't trust him, and not enough
independents to put together a winning coalition."

Paulson said Crist "is probably the best-liked Florida politician ever to lose a
statewide election."

Reporters Rich Mullins and Peter Bernard contributed to this report.

(813) 259-7761

wmarch@tampatrib.com

(CHART) U.S. Senate

5,853 of 6,881 precincts (85%)

Marco Rubio, R ............... 2,405,267 (50%)

Kendrick B. Meek, D .......... 956,652 (20%)

Charlie Crist, NPA ............ 1,407,365 (29%)

NPA = no party affiliation

Note: Figures may not add up to 100 percent because of rounding

Photo: Marco Rubio

Photo: Kendrick Meeks

Photo: Charlie Crist

Photo credit: ALAN DIAZ/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: Republican Senate candidate Marco Rubio and his wife, Jeanette, smile as
national TV stations call the race in his favor Tuesday night.

Photo credit: MIKE CARLSON/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: Gov. Charlie Crist and his wife, Carole, approach a lecturn as he
concedes.

Photo: Senate candidate Rep. Kendrick Meek speaks to supporters. Meek finished
third in the race.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: U.S. SENATE RACE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               55 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pasco in Brief

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 854 words


COUNTYWIDE

Hospice opens Trees of Life

Hernando Pasco Hospice is celebrating its 16th annual Tree of Life, a community
event to remember and pay tribute to those we love. In Pasco County, there are
eight Trees of Life ready for HPH ornaments. Donations support the
not-for-profit agency's patient and family care programs.

People can place an order for the ornaments of their choice by calling the HPH
Foundation at 1-800-486-8784, by going online to www.hph-hospice.org or visiting
one of the tree locations. Eight different ornaments are available based on the
contribution amount.

Tree of Life locations are: the HPH Marliere Hospice Care Center, 6801 Rowan
Road, New Port Richey; HPH Hudson Hospice House, 12139 Majestic Blvd., Hudson;
HPH East Pasco Hospice House, 37441 Clinton Ave., Dade City; HPH East Pasco
Hospice Care Center, 37439 Clinton Ave., Dade City; and in center court at Gulf
View Square mall, 9409 U.S.19, Port Richey.

The West Pasco Chamber of Commerce, 5443 Main St., New Port Richey and the
Zephyrhills Woman's Club, 38549 Fifth Ave., Zephyrhills, also will have trees
but donations are not accepted at those locations.

To ensure that an ornament is hung on the tree of one's choice, orders must be
received no later than Dec. 15.

WESLEY CHAPEL

Ice skate at Shops at Wiregrass

The ice skating rink at the Shops at Wiregrass is open from 1 to 9 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Saturday, and noon to 6 p.m. Sundays through
Jan. 2. Cost is $5 before 5 p.m. including skate rental, for a 20-minute
session, and $8 after 5 p.m. to close.

The new Fresh Market at Wiregrass will feature vendors selling fresh local
produce, fruits, flowers, cheese, dairy products and crafts from 9 a.m. to 1
p.m. Saturday. The market will be held the first Saturday of every month
throughout the year.

Between 6 and 9 p.m. Saturdays through Dec. 18 volunteers will sell blinking
stars pins for the benefit of the Kids Wish Network and the Shiners' Hospitals
for Children. Pins are $2 each.

The Shops at Wiregrass is at State Road 56 and Bruce B. Downs Boulevard.

Senior social happens today

A social for area seniors will be held from 1 to 3 p.m. today at the New River
Branch Library, 34043 State Road 54. All area seniors are invited to attend. For
details, call the library at (813) 788-6375.

Library book club meets Saturday

The First Saturday Book Club will meet from 11 a.m. to noon Saturday at the New
River Branch Library, 34043 State Road 54. For information, call the library,
(813) 788-6375.

Teen gamers meet Saturday

The teen gaming club will meet form 1 to 4 p.m. Saturday at the New River Branch
Library, 34043 State Road 54.

All youths in grades six and above are welcome. For information, call the
library at (813) 788-6375.

HUDSON

Business tips from retirees

The Service Corps of Retired Executives will present a free seminar at 11 a.m.
Saturday at the Hudson Regional Library, 8012 Library Road. "Successfully
Managing and Growing Your Business" will address how to deal with the continual
changes confronting small businesses in today's business climate. For
information or reservations call the library at (727) 861-3040.

SHADY HILLS

'Christmas Spectacular' is Sunday

Tin Pan Alley Productions presents "A Christmas Spectacular" at 3 p.m. Sundayat
Bishop McLaughlin High School's Eleanor Dempsey Performing Arts Center, 13651
Hays Road. Tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for children. For tickets and
information, call (727) 379-6557.

HOLIDAY

Mass. Club sets Christmas party

The Massachusetts Club will hold its December Christmas party and meeting on
Dec. 11 at the Beacon Square Civic Association, 3741 Bradford St.

Those attending should arrive between 11 and 11:30 a.m.; the party starts at
noon. A buffet of roast beef or chicken, with vegetables, rolls, dessert, and
coffee will be served. There will be gifts and poinsettias given away. Tickets
are $15 for members and $17 for guests. Reservations should be made before
Monday.For ticket information, call (727) 372-7973. For club information, call
(727)862-8115 or visit www.SuncoastMassachusettsClub.org.

DADE CITY

Nelson's aides in town Tuesday

A representative of U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., will be available to assist
constituents with casework from 10 a.m. to noon Tuesday at the Hugh Embry Branch
Library, 14215 Fourth St.

ZEPHYRHILLS

Holiday craft fair is Saturday

Forest Lake Estates will hold its annual holiday craft fair from 9 a.m. to 1
p.m. Saturday at the mobile home park located on County Road 54 East.

Lunch will be available from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. A variety of items will be
offered for sale, including hand-quilted articles and jewelry.

Send east Pasco County news to Carol Jeffares Hedman, P.O. Box 863, San Antonio
FL 33576, or to cjhedman@aol.com

<EM>

Send west and central Pasco news to Diane Loebel, The Tampa Tribune, 6214 U.S.
19, New Port Richey FL 34652 or e-mail to dloebel@tampatrib.com

<EM>

Submissions must be received at least one week before publication and should
include the name and telephone number of a contact person.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               57 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Professor seeks polar cures

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 449 words


USF's Bill Baker finds an organism that has the potential to fight malaria.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - From the waters of a melting Antarctic glacier, a University of South
Florida researcher has found an organism with the potential to fight malaria and
other diseases that plague people in the tropics.

It's one of several minute creatures that Bill Baker, a professor in the USF
Department of Chemistry, has gathered from the freezing water and brought to the
university for study.

He discovered the malaria-fighting compound with Dennis Kyle, of USF's
Department of Global Health. Their findings were recently published in the
Journal of Natural Products.

Baker doesn't see great commercial application in the compound, found in a
bright red sponge. It doesn't improve on existing tropical disease drugs. But he
said its discovery has strengthened his belief that the Antarctic waters are
filled with potential cures for a variety of ailments.

"We have a really cool algae that produces a very potent antiviral agent," he
said.

It's a protein, and he and others at USF are trying to unlock the secrets of how
it works.

Baker has spent 20 years searching the Antarctic and other oceans for organisms
that might produce new medications. Several years ago, one of his Antarctic
finds produced a chemical compound that fights skin cancers linked to
overexposure to sunlight.

He sees the Antarctic and the Arctic as untapped sources of medical treatments.

Scientists in search of natural cures prefer warm weather regions, Baker said.
"It's not easy to dive in 2 degree centigrade water."

That's 28 degrees Fahrenheit. But it helps having National Science Foundation
living quarters, laboratories and ships in the Antarctic.

The NSF pays for much of Baker's work. His primary purpose is to study the
ecology of the polar waters, where the sun barely shines for several months a
year.

He gathers Antarctic sponges, seaweeds and other creatures to study how the
organisms interact chemically with one another in their unique environment. He
was there in 2008 and plans to return early this year.

When they're back in Florida, he and his USF colleagues use a multistep process
to test his samples for their pharmaceutical potential.

"We have a pipeline of things here in different stages of research," Baker said.

Over time, those discoveries could yield dozens of disease-fighting compounds.

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

Photo: Professor Bill Baker thinks the Antarctic Ocean is filled with organisms
that could be potential cures for numerous illnesses.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               58 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The sun will never set on American idealism

BYLINE: STEVE OTTO, sotto@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 583 words


By STEVE OTTO

sotto@tampatrib.com

For most of us 100 years is a lifetime, and a pretty good life at that. But in
the history of nations and empires, a century is not such a big deal.

I was reading Barbara Tuchman's book, "The Guns of August," earlier in the week,
mostly because it was the top book on a stack I was using to keep the door to my
den closed to keep out the cats. They like to sit on the laptop's warm keyboard,
which slows down writing but keeps them happy.

Tuchman's Pulitzer Prize-winning book is about the prelude to and first month of
World War I. It's worth reading for the first chapter alone.

The setting is the funeral of King Edward VII of England. Tuchman is not one of
those writers who drags history from one date to the next. She brings it to
life; in this instance taking her readers to the streets of London, to the
pageantry of nine kings leading the funeral procession, riding three by three.

A blaze of splendor

"In scarlet and blues and green and purple," she writes, "helmets, gold braid,
crimson sashes, and jeweled orders flashing in the sun. After them came five
heirs apparent, forty more imperial or royal highnesses, seven queens - four
dowager and three regnant - and a scattering of special ambassadors from
uncrowned countries. Together they represented seventy nations in the greatest
assemblage of royalty and rank ever gathered in one place and, of its kind, the
last. The muffled tongue of Big Ben tolled nine by the clock as the cortege left
the palace, but on history's clock it was sunset, and the sun of the old world
was setting in a dying blaze of splendor never to be seen again."

Good stuff, isn't it? I felt like I was standing there watching a European royal
version of Gasparilla without the beads. That's when I looked at the date and
discovered the funeral took place exactly 100 years ago this week.

One of the oddities of the parade was that many of the royal participants in
that funeral procession - although from different countries - were related; they
were family.

And yet they were all about to get swept up in a global conflict that would be
called the war to end all wars. It would an awful, confused and indecisive war
that ultimately would lead to another worldwide war a few years later.

Now, a century later, those same European powers have faded from the world scene
and the royals have become even more irrelevant.

American sunset?

I've read and heard suggestions that America's turn at the top of the heap is on
the decline, that we are like those regal leaders of a century ago who in a
sense were marching in their own funeral procession. I keep hearing that the
future belongs to emerging powers such as China and India, and that our time in
the sun is over.

It's fun to speculate on what it might be like 100 years from now and whether
the American experiment will continue. But it is an unfair comparison. We are so
much different from that group of overdressed royals in that procession.

They represented different countries, each looking inward and with little
understanding of their place in the world. We are one country and a republic
that, despite our differences, has a common belief in the rights of all people.

America still might be an experiment in democracy, but I would take all bets
that a century from now we still will be taking our place in the sun.

Keyword: Otto Graphs, for more of Steve Otto's musings.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               60 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3106 words


ALFONSO, Henry E. Sr., 82, a U.S. Army and Air Force, Korean War veteran, died
July 20, 2010. Visit www.veteransfuneralcare.com for guestbook. Veterans FC,
(727) 524-9202

AMARO-LUGO, Antonia, 88, passed away Sunday, July 18, 2010. A funeral service
will take place at 10 a.m. Friday, July 23, 2010, at Florida National Cemetery.
Survivors include her loving family. Wells Memorial

Funeral Home. www.wellsmemorial.com

BOONE, Gladys Knighten, 82, of Tampa, passed away peacefully at her home July
20, 2010. She was preceded in death by her husband, William (Bill) Boone, and
son, David Boone. Survivors include her son, Stephen Puttonen and his wife,
Kelly Puttonen; grandchildren, Breana and Alisha Puttonen, Shea Kilby, Steve
Puttonen and Nicole Yongue; and several great-grandchildren. She was a native
Floridian, residing in Tampa for over 65 years. Her final days were spent
surrounded by family and friends whom she touched throughout her life. She will
be greatly missed and fondly remembered as a loving, thoughtful, caring wife,
mother, grandma and great-grandma. The family would like to thank the LifePath
Hospice, Ruby Team, for their tremendous support and compassionate care in her
final days. The family will receive friends 1-2 p.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010, at
Garden of Memories Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa, with graveside
services beginning at 2 p.m. at Garden of Memories Cemetery.

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

BRINEN, Philip B., 90, of Tampa, died Wednesday, July 21, 2010. Mr. Brinen came
to Tampa from his native Georgia in 1947. He had served as a first lieutenant in
the U.S. Army during World War II, was co-owner of Brinen & Sinsley Insurance
Agency for over 35 years, a member of Congregation Schaarai Zedek, a member of
Westshore Sertoma, the Tampa Sports Club and was a 32nd degree Mason and member
of Egypt Temple Shrine. Survivors include his beloved wife of 55 years,
Gertrude; son and daughter-in-law, Jeff and Jenny Brinen of Denver, Colo.;
daughters and sons-in-law, Robyn and Dr. Robert Kessler of New Orleans, La., and
Fredda and Dr. Steven Weisbond of Tampa; sister, Edythe Kessler of Tampa;
grand-children, Jennifer, Beth and Alex Kessler, Drew Brinen, and Erin and Jay
Weisbond; and several nieces, nephews and cousins. Graveside funeral services
will take place at 11 a.m. today, Friday, July 23, at Schaarai Zedek Cemetery.
In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Congregation Schaarai
Zedek. An online guestbook is available at www.segalfuneralhome.com

SEGAL FUNERAL HOME

BROWN, Joe E., 73, passed away June 25, 2010. A memorial service will take place
at 11 a.m. July 24 at Baylife Church, 1017 Kingsway Road, Brandon, FL 33510.

FEAGLE, Wilbur L. III "Billy," 36, of Tampa, left us peacefully Thursday, July
15, 2010. He is survived by his parents, Wilbur L. Jr. and Connie Feagle;
daughter, Gabriella Feagle; half-brother, Richard Robb; and grand-mother, Maude
Feagle, all of Tampa. Billy was Accredited Systems Engineer (ASE) certified, and
graduated from Dale Carnagie. He was awarded Number 1 Used Truck Sales Manager
for United States Class 8 Trucks and graduated from five Volvo training schools.
The family will receive friends 2-3 p.m. Sunday, July 25, with a memorial
service to follow at the funeral home, 1602 W. Waters Ave. In lieu of flowers, a
college fund has been set up for Billy's daughter with John Hancock Freedom 529,
Attn, Steve Fortner, CFP, 1511 N. Westshore Blvd., Suite 870, Tampa, FL 33607.
Swilley Funeral Home. (813) 932-6157

GAIDUSEK, Anne, died July 27, 2010. Her survivors are her daughters, Paula,
Barbara and Mary; seven

grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. Michels & Lundquist FH

GAY, Hardrick, passed away Tuesday, July 20, 2010. He is survived by his loving
wife, Barbara; devoted daughter, Desiree; and loving family. Hardrick worked for
Hillsborough County for 41 years and Aikens Funeral Home. A Catholic wake
service will take place from 5:30 to 6:30 Friday, July 23. The funeral mass will
take place 11 a.m. Saturday, July 24th, at St. Peter Claver Catholic Church.

GLAROS, Mary H., 85, of Plant City, Fla., passed away Wednesday, July 21, 2010.
She was born in Brantly, Ala., and was a lifelong resident of Plant City. She
was a homemaker and of Baptist faith. Mrs. Glaros was preceded in death by her
son, Greg. Survivors include her husband, William Glaros of Plant City; her son,
Steve Glaros and wife, Teresa, of Lakeland, Fla.; grandchildren, Tara, Alex,
Zach and Josh; and great-grandson, Mason. A graveside service will take place at
11 a.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010, at Mount Enon Cemetery. Wells Memorial Funeral
Home www.wellsmemorial.com

GONZALEZ, Josephine B., 90, of Tampa, passed away peacefully July 20, 2010. She
was a truly devoted wife, mother and Nana, and will be missed by everyone who
knew her and will love her always. Mrs. Gonzalez embraced everyone she ever met
as a friend. She made a loving home for her beloved husband of 59 years, Louis,
who survives her; along with their children, Louis F. (Nancy) and Joseph M.
(Susan); four grand-children, Joel, Chad, Alex and Angelica; many nieces and
nephews; and friends who will always remember her warm smile and gentle heart. A
funeral Mass to celebrate her life will take place at noon Saturday, July 24, at
St. Paul Catholic Church in Tampa. Private interment will follow. In lieu of
flowers, donations may be made in Josephine's name to Lifepath Hospice, or any
charity of your choice. Words of comfort may be expressed at www.blountcurry.com

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

GREEN, Master Deputy Anthony, of Tampa, died July 13, 2010. Survivors iclude his
wife, Sara; two daughters, Estralita and Antonia; and stepdaughter, Jamea. Ray
Williams FH

HACKETT, Dorothy, 90, of Hernando, Fla., died July 20, 2010. She is survived by
her loving family. Holloway Funeral Home. (813) 855-2439

HART, Florence, died July 21, 2010. Funeral services will be at 12:30 p.m. July
24, at St. Frances Cabrini. Visitation will be 10:30-11:30 at: Pinecrest FC,
(352) 684-0001.

HARVEY, Thomas G., formerly of Vineland, N.J., and Palm Bay, Fla., passed away
Friday, July 16, 2010, at Lifepath Hospice House in Sun City Center, Fla., of
natural causes. He was predeceased by his parents, John Harvey and Regina Mente
Harvey; and siblings. He his survived by six nieces and three nephews.

He served in the U.S. Army during World War II and retired from the postal
service after 20 years of service. Mr. Harvey enjoyed bowling, walking along the
beach and the outdoors. He very much enjoyed visiting his favorite coffee shops
and restaurants. A funeral service will take place 10:30-noon Friday, July 23,
2010, at National Creamation and Burial Society, 308 E. College Ave., Ruskin, FL
33570. The burial will take place at 2 p.m. at National Cemetery in Bushnell,
Fla. Donations can be made to Lifepath Hospice House, 3723 Upper Creek Drive,
Sun City Center, FL 33573.

HERRERO, Laudelina "Nina," 95, passed away July 20, 2010. She was born November
10, 1914, in Tampa. Laudelina is survived by her daughter, Frances Carfi;
grandsons, John (Brenda) and Rick (Louisa); as well as six great-grandchildren,
Tiffany (Mike), John Jr. (Jenn), Ashley, Jordan, Gabi and Joey. Online
condolences may be made at www.marsicanofh.com. Arrangements are entrusted to
Marsicano-B.Marion Reed-Stowers Funeral Home

ICKES, Patricia Clawges, 64, of Brooksville, Fla., passed away July 20, 2010,
sur-rounded by her family and friends, after a battle with lung and brain
cancer. She was born September 20, 1945, in Bradford, Pa., and raised in Big
Shanty, Pa. A resident of Tampa since 1967, she was employed by BST Global for
30 years. Pat was the daughter of the late Bud and Ginner Clawges. She is
survived by her husband of 45 years, John; son, John Daniel and his wife, Joy;
daughter, Kari (Ickes) Frank; four grand-children, Justin and Emily Frank and
Michael and Christopher Harley; sister, Kay Rizzuti; brother, Bob Clawges; many
nieces, nephews and extended loving family members; and numerous friends. She
was preceded in death by her brother, Carl Clawges; and two sisters, Judy Swaney
and Linda Baker. Pat was a loving, caring wife and devoted mother. She enjoyed
Friday night bingo with her best friend, Vickie, and celebrations and holidays
with her family and friends. Pat is very much loved and will be greatly missed.
A celebration of life will take place at 1 p.m. Saturday, July 24, at Brewer &
Sons Funeral Homes, Seven Hills Chapel, 280 Mariner Blvd., Spring Hill, FL
34609, (352) 688-4991, fax (352) 688-5673. In lieu of flowers, donations may be
made to Villa Madonna School Ana Maria Auxilium Awards, 315 Columbus Drive,
Tampa, FL 33602-1306. http:// www.salesiansisters.org/giving/scholarship.html or
HPH Hospice Foundation, 12107 Majestic Blvd., Hudson, FL 34667-2455. Brewer &
Sons (352) 688-4991

JOHNS, Richard A., 49, of Spring Hill, Fla., died July 21, 2010. He is survived
by his mother, Sandra; two brothers; and three sisters. Turner FUneral Home.
(352) 796-9661

JORDAN, James R. "J.J.," 84, of Dover, Fla., died July 21, 2010. He is survived
by several cousins, including his cousin, Dorothy Lehthoa; many friends,
including Wesley Gallagher; and members of the Dover Church of Christ. A
graveside service will take place at 4 p.m. today, July 23, 2010, at Dover
Cemetery, with friends gathering from 3:30 to 4 p.m. at the graveside. Visit
haughtfuneralhome.com (813) 717-9300

JORDAN, Willard Wilson, 79, went to be with the Lord Tuesday, July 20, 2010.
Willard moved to the area 54 years ago from Alabama and was Baptist by faith. He
was preceded in death by his wife of 53 years, Shirley; son-in-law, David
Shannon; great-granddaughter, Rory Gill; his parents, Jessie and Lilly Jordan;
seven brothers, Norton, Cecil, Conley, Louie, Melvis, Olvie and Forester; and
one sister, Gener Mae Coleman. He is survived by his two daughters, Judy Shannon
and Loretta Gill (Clarence); four grand-children, Corrie (Felix), Shane
(Adelle), Tracy and Allison; six great-grand-children, Kayla, Kevin, Stephanie,
Nikki, Shelby and Emily; four sisters, Ruth Robinson, Mag Jordan, Eula Beasley
and Lonnell Mathis; and one brother, Harvey Jordan. The family will receive
friends 2-3 p.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010, at Serenity Meadows Funeral Home
Chapel, with funeral services beginning at 3 p.m. The burial will follow at New
Hope Cemetery, Brandon, Fla. Donations may be made to Youth Ministries, Fowler
Avenue Baptist Church, P.O. Box 16217, Temple Terrace, FL 33687 or LifePath
Hospice.

SERENITY MEADOWS

JOHNSON, Clarence, of Tampa, died July 12, 2010. Survivors include his wife,
Verdell; daughter and four

sons; grandchildren; and other relatives and friends. Ray Williams Funeral Home

KUESTER, Eric J., 87, of Apollo Beach, Fla., passed away July 19, 2010. He was
preceded in death by his wife, Mary, of 67 years; and son, Eric A., 52, who
passed on May 3, 2010. Surviving are his son, Ronald; and daughter, Kathy;
grand-children, Robin, Robert and Richard; great-grand-children, Tyler, Marc,
Sevin and Liam; and friends and family members who loved him very much.
Visitation will take place 6-8 p.m. July 23, with funeral service and interment
at 2 p.m. July 24, both at Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home, 2323 W. Brandon
Blvd., Brandon. Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home.

MACK, Ronnie, 47, passed away July 14, 2010, at Kindred Hospital-Central Tampa.
Survivors include his mother, Nettie Mack; brother, Andre Mack; and daughter,
Ronny Mack.

MESSINA, Carmelina Mirabella "Millie," 96, of Tampa, passed away July 22, 2010.
Millie was born and lived in Tampa her entire life. She was preceded in death by
her husband of 65 years, Andrew "Andrea" Carlo Messina, a member of Egypt Temple
Shrine 33rd Degree. Together they were called the "Flying Messina's." They
traveled the Far East, Europe and North America. Millie is remembered for her
continuous smiling face, her love of music and dancing (especially when Andrew
played his trumpet) and her most giving heart to everyone who walked into her
home. Millie will be remembered as a vivacious and loving soul, devoted wife,
mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Millie is survived by her daughters
and sons-in-law, Antoinette Deen of Tallahassee Fla., JoAnn Messina of Marietta,
Ga., Carol Jean Herman, Anna and Bill Cunnane of Odessa, Fla., and Andrea and
Jorge Aldecoa of Miami Fla.; grandchildren and spouses, Devin and Kate, Brian
and Rebecca and Sisco and Kelly Deen, Jorge III, Amanda and Alyssa Aldecoa, Carl
Cunnane, Kevin and Tina Cunnane, Shana and Mike Gustafson, Carol Ann and Curtis
Day, Charlie and Corrie McCann, Andy and Verity McCann; and 16
great-grandchildren. A special thank you goes to her daughter, Anna Cunnane, for
her years of continuous unrelenting dedication, warmth and love for her mom's
best care. A special "God Bless" goes to Dianna Torres and the entire Trinity
Assisted Living home caregivers who partnered with Anna for her mom's excellent
loving care, and Hospice of Tampa's Green Team for their dedicated service and
care. Funeral services will take place at 5 p.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010, at
Segal Funeral Home, 3909 Henderson Blvd., Tampa. The family will receive friends
prior to services beginning at 4 p.m. Flowers will be accepted or donations can
be made to the Alzheimer's Association. An online guestbook is available at
www.segalfuneralhome.com

SEGAL FUNERAL HOME

MILES, Lois Dell, 95, of Tampa, passed away July 18, 2010. She retired after 37
years as an educator for the School District of Hills-borough County. She is
survived by her son, Dr. Charles Chester Miles; grandchildren, Lois A. Miles,
M.D., and Eric C. Miles; first cousin, Helen Bronson and husband, Dr. Oswald P.
Bronson; and many other relatives and friends. The funeral services will be
conducted at 2 p.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010, at Tyer Temple United Methodist
Church, 3305 N. 15th St. The visitation will begin at 5 p.m. and the family will
receive friends 7:30-8:30 p.m. Friday, July 23, at Ray Williams Funeral Home,
301 N. Howard Ave. Interment will follow in Rest Haven Memorial Park. Ray
Williams Funeral Home. (813) 253-3419

MYERS, Charles Benford Jr., died July 15, 2010. Survivors include his fiancee,
Bernita Dove; children; seven grand-children; and relatives and friends. Ray
Williams FH

PHILLIPS, Edward, 94, of Holly Hill, Fla., died July 22, 2010. He is survived by
his loving family. Holloway Funeral Home. (813) 855-2439

PINKOWSKI, Kenneth, died July 21, 2010. For visitation and funeral services,
contact Pinecrest Funeral Chapel, Spring Hill, Fla., (352) 684-0001.

POWELL, Kirby, 73, a lifetime resident of Plant City, Fla., departed this life
July 20, 2010. Mr. Powell was a member of Lone Oak Baptist Church, a retired
member of the Asbestos Worker's Local 67 and a veteran of the U.S. Air Force. He
was preceded in death by his parents, Alvah and Nettie Powell; and his brothers,
Robert, Herbert and LeRoy. He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Annette
Powell; daughters, Kim Hendrix (Randy) of St. Marys, Ga., and Vickie Tew
(Timothy W.) of Plant City; brothers, Rufus Powell, Jack "Aaron" Powell and
James Powell; grand-children, Cpl. David Tew, U.S. Marine Corps, (Crystal) of
Kinston, N.C., and William "Bill" Tew of Plant City; and close friends, Coleman
and Peggy Tew. A celebration of life will take place at 3 p.m. Saturday, July
24, 2010, at Lone Oak Baptist Church, 3505 Lone Oak Road, Plant City, FL 33567;
where the family will receive friends at 2 p.m. Interment will follow at
Hopewell Memorial Gardens, Plant City. In lieu of flowers, memorial
contributions may be made to LifePath Hospice, 12973 Telecom Parkway, Suite 100,
Temple Terrace, FL 33637, and/or Lone Oak Baptist Church Goodtimers. Expressions
of condolence may be sent at www.hopewellfuneral.com.

HOPEWELL FUNERAL HOME

SANTORO, Tony, 79, of Lutz, Fla., passed away peacefully July 20,2010. He lived
in the Tampa Bay area for the past 31 years. Tony was born and raised in the
Philadelphia area and was an avid baseball fan. Tony enjoyed the finer things in
life, including nature, a good pitching performance and the perfect Manhattan
cocktail. He was the fun-loving husband, father, and friend, who was never
without a joke. Tony went out of his way to make others happy. He was loved by
everyone. Tony is survived by his beautiful wife of 40 years, Pat; daughter,
Vicky Hill and her husband, Mike Hill, of Tampa; daughter, Stephanie Santoro and
her daughter, Laurel, of Wesley Chapel, Fla.; and brother, Ron Santoro and his
wife, Marie Santoro, of West Chester, Pa. The family will receive friends noon-4
p.m. Sunday, July 25, with services to follow at 9 a.m. Monday, July 26, at
Blount & Curry Carrollwood Chapel. Interment with military honors will take
place at Florida National Cemetery.

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

SMITH, Wayne D. Sr., 86, of Tampa, passed away Friday, July 16, 2010. He is
survived by his wife, Ada; son, Wayne Jr. "Pete" of Riverview, Fla.,;
step-daughter, Heidi J. Serrano of Tampa; granddaughters, Nikki Kamowski (Mike)
and Michelle Parker-Ippolito (Mark), both of Tampa; brother, Eddy Smith of
Kentucky; great-grand-children, Kristin, Dylan and Justin Kamowski and Cody and
Caleb Parker. The family will receive friends 5-6 p.m. Sunday, July 25, with a
memorial service to follow, at the funeral home, 1602 W. Waters Ave. Swilley
Funeral Home

(813) 932-6157

SOS, Imre J., 84, passed away July 20, 2010, after a short illness. He is
survived by his loving wife and family in Hungary.

WILLIAMS, Camille Hepburn, of Tampa, died July 16, 2010. Survivors include her
children, David and D. Nikki; five grand-children; and relatives and friends.
Ray Williams FH

WILLIAMS, Christopher Troy Jr., died July 18, 2010. Chris and Meg are thankful
for his life and release him to Jesus. He is loved and will be missed. Brewer &
Sons FH

WILLIAMS, Mary Alice, of Tampa, passed away July 16, 2010. A graduate of Plant
High School, she was employed for 20 years at Sears Service Center and for seven
years as an intake counselor at the Salvation Army. She is survived by her three
sons, Michael (Shrika), Marlon (Desire) and Theodis Williams; seven
grandchildren; a sister; two brothers; and a host of other relatives and
friends. The funeral service will take place at 2 p.m. Saturday, July 24, 2010,
at Ray Williams Memorial Chapel, 301 N. Howard Ave. Visitation will be 5-8 p.m.
Friday, July 23, at Ray Williams Funeral Home. Interment will follow in Rest
Haven Memorial Park. Ray Williams Funeral Home

(813) 253-3419

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               61 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Rubicon' is a slow-burning spy thriller

BYLINE: WALT BELCHER, wbelcher@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words


By WALT BELCHER

wbelcher@tampatrib.com

The new spy thriller "Rubicon" relies on suspense, paranoia, symbolism and a
dark foreboding tone to tell its story.

Forget flashy gunplay and explosions. Those looking for simple James Bond-style
action may not easily warm to this smart, complex drama about a possible global
conspiracy.

"Rubicon" begins its run Sunday night on AMC, the home of "Mad Men" and
"Breaking Bad." The first episode, which has been shown in several sneak
previews, airs again at 8 p.m., followed by a new episode at 9 p.m.

James Badge Dale stars as Will Travers, a talented-but-depressed intelligence
analyst. He works for a Manhattan-based agency that sifts through information
gathered by the FBI, CIA and others looking for potential threats to national
security.

This unglamorous side of the spy game suits Travers. He has never emotionally
recovered from the loss of his wife and daughter during the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.

The title refers to a river in ancient Rome that the military was not supposed
to cross for fear of an insurgency. When Julius Caesar led his troops over, it
marked a point of no return.

In the opening episode, Travers discovers a curious pattern in the answers to
crossword puzzles published by different newspapers on the same day. It's not
clear where this is headed because "Rubicon" itself is a puzzle.

Things are not what they seem in this world and not everyone at his agency can
be trusted. When Travers' mentor (Peter Gerety) is killed in a commuter train
wreck, one suspects foul play or something else (was he really on that train?)

Concurrent with the train wreck is the suicide of a wealthy man. His widow
(Miranda Richardson) begins her own investigation. Somehow all of this will be
tied together eventually.

"Rubicon" is a slow-burner that builds with each episode. There are some
parallels to 1970s spy thrillers such as "The Conversation," "Three Days of the
Condor" or "The Parallax View." Like those films, "Rubicon" will raise questions
about the ethics and morality of spying.

The producers say the conspiracy will be solved in the first 13 episodes and a
new puzzle will arise for the second season.

TYPE CAST: Former Florida State University football coach Bobby Bowden plays
himself on the light-hearted "The Glades" crime drama at 10 p.m. Sunday on A&E.

"The Glades" is a new series filmed in South Florida. The episode has cocky
police detective Jim Longworth (Matt Passmore) investigating a murder in the
small town of Pahokee.

The body of a murdered businessman turns up in a sugar cane field days before
the annual "Muck Bowl," a high school football game that draws national
attention. But the Pahokee quarterback is a prime suspect.


TV DEBATE: Bright House Network's Bay News 9 will carry a debate at 8 p.m.
Sunday with Republican candidates for Florida attorney general: former
Hillsborough prosecutor Pam Bondi, Lt. Gov. Jeff Kottkamp and former state Rep.
Holly Benson. A second debate with Democratic candidates for Senate U.S. Rep.
Kendrick Meek and Jeff Greene, airs at 8 p.m. Monday. Anchor Al Ruechel will
moderate both.

TUNE IN TONIGHT

"Friday Night Lights," 8 p.m., NBC

Things heat up for Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) and his wife Tami (Connie
Britton) before next week's season finale as the underfunded East Dillon Lions
prepare to battle the Dillon Panthers, their wealthier, crosstown rivals.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               63 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3151 words


ALLEN, Elizabeth Levins, died August 18, 2010. Survivors are her children,
Samuel, Stanley, Lester, Gregory, Marva and Charlene. Ray Williams FH, (813)
253-3419

ARAYA, Harry Joseph, SR., 77, of Tampa died August 24, 2010. Services

will take place August 28. Arrange-ments are entrusted to Gonzalez Funeral Home,
(813) 931-1833.

CALDWELL, Ethel M., 105, of Sun City Center, Fla., died August 24, 2010. There
will be no service. National Cremation & Burial Society, Ruskin, Fla., is
handling the arrangements.

CALVIN, Nicholas Ward, 25, of Huntsville, Ala., formerly of Lutz, Fla.,

passed away August 24, 2010. Nick was an amazing son, brother, grandson and
friend and will live on in the hearts of everyone who knew and loved him.
"Although the pain of losing him will never heal, the memory of his warm smile,
his laughter, and his loyalty to those he loved will get us through the days
until we are with him once more." Nicholas was preceded in death by his paternal
grandmother, Eddi Calvin. He is survived by his devoted parents, Yvette Nichols
of Tallahassee, Fla., and Dr. Douglas P. Calvin of Lutz; his sister, Natalie;
brother, Christopher; maternal grandparents, Brian A. Schneider and Annette Holt
Abney; and paternal grandfather, Dr. James R. Calvin; as well as countless
friends who will remember him with love always. A memorial service to celebrate
his life will take place at 2 p.m. Saturday, August 28, at Blount Curry
Carrollwood Chapel. The family will receive friends beginning one hour prior.
Words of comfort may be expressed at www.blountcurry.com

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

CLARK, Robert Glen, 83, of Clearwater, Fla., died August 23, 2010. He is
survived by his loving family. Holloway Funeral Home Inc., Oldsmar, Fla., (813)
855-2439

CURRY, Pierce A. Jr., died August 20, 2010. He is survived by his wife, Johnnie
Ruth; sons, Darrell and Jwan; and grand-children. Ray Williams FH, (813)
253-3419.

DAY, John Clayton, "J.C. Day," 68, of Tampa, passed away peacefully, after a
valiant fight with cancer August 22, 2010. J.C. was a graduate of Juniata
College and pursued a career in the concrete and cement industry for over 40
years. He was an avid sports fan and spent his spare time on the golf course. He
was a positive, fun loving person who will be greatly missed by all who knew and
loved him. J.C. is survived by his loving wife of 47 years, Ruth Ann, and their
four children, John; Craig and his wife, Tresa; Kerry and her husband, Chris
Sproles; and Duane and his wife, Sara. J.C. was a wonderful grandfather to nine
grandchildren, J.T., Alex, and Scotti Day; Katie, Nick, Avery and Sarah Sproles;
and Matthew and Caroline Day. J.C. is also survived by four sisters and one
brother. A memorial service to celebrate his life will take place at 10:30 a.m.
Saturday, August 28, at First Presbyterian Church, 400 Zack St., Tampa. In lieu
of flowers, the family asks that donations be made in J.C.'s name to Moffitt
Cancer's Prostate and Kidney Foundation, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612.
Words of comfort may be expressed at www.blountcurry.com Blount Curry
Carrollwood Chapel

(813) 968-2231

DICKSON, Melanie, 45, of Riverview, Fla., passed away Wednesday, August 18,
2010. She is survived by her son, Shane Dickson; father, Ancil Stephens; mother,
Carolyn Junkin; grandmother, Minnie Brooks; seven sisters; one brother; eight
nieces; one nephew; and many uncles, aunts, cousins and friends. A memorial
service will take place at 11 a.m. Friday, August 27, at First Baptist Church of
Gibsonton. A gathering of family and friends will take place afterwards at
Showmen's Club on Riverview Drive.

DOW, Elna, 88, of Brandon, Fla., passed away August 26, 2010. She is survived by
her loving family. Holloway Funeral Home

(813) 855-2439

FLORES, Katie Marie, 8 years old, of Seffner, Fla., received her wings Monday,
August 23, 2010. Please visit www.

hillsboromemorial.com for service information. Arrangements made by Hillsboro
Memorial Funeral Home

HARRIS, Vicki Christine, 48, of Tampa, passed away August 21, 2010. She was the
owner of Artistic Armor Tattooing in Tampa. She is survived by Pennie Whitt,
James Harris, Taunya Gaddie, Jessica Harris, Katie O'Neill, Mike Harris, Autumn
Foley, Jeff Simmons and Ronda Porta. A celebration of life gathering will take
place noon-3 p.m. Sunday, August 29, 2010, with a memorial service at 4 p.m. at
Blount & Curry Carrollwood Chapel, 3207 W. Bearss Ave., Tampa, FL 33618, (813)
968-2231.

JOE, Charles, passed August 18, 2010. He leaves his wife, Elizabeth; children,
Johnny, Raynard, Betty and Bernadette; and others. Stone's Memorial Funeral
Home, (813) 259-7903

LeMASTER, Ramona, 84, of Valrico, Fla., went to be with the Lord Wednesday,
August 25, 2010. She is survived by her loving family. For service information
and guestbook, go to

SOUTHERN FUNERAL CARE

LINSKY, Elizabeth Jaques "Betty," 98, of Tampa, passed away Saturday, August 21,
2010. She was born in Chicago, Ill. She resided in Winter Park, Fla., where she
owned the Sugar Plum Shoppe (1956-1976), and Altamonte Springs, Fla., for more
than 40 years before relocating in 1990 to John Knox Village, Tampa. "Nana" as
she was called by her loving family, is survived by her son, William J. Linsky
and his wife, Carol; and son, James Linsky and his wife, Susan. She was
predeceased by her husband, William C. Linsky and her daughter, Ann Hutchinson.
Nana truly treasured her family and enjoyed spending time with her six
grandchildren, Michael, Barbara, Kenny, Mark, Tom and Shannon; as well as her 15
great-grand-children; and seven great-great-grandchildren. Through the years, it
became a family tradition for Nana to recite the blessing in Swedish at holiday
gatherings. She opened her heart to all who knew her and touched the lives of
many friends she considered her extended family. A cornerstone of the Linsky
family, she will be dearly missed. A memorial service will take place at 2 p.m.
Saturday, August 28, at Chapel of John Knox Village. The Rev. St. Clair Moore of
Temple Terrace United Methodist Church will officiate. In lieu of flowers, the
family requests that a memorial contribution be made to your preferred charity.

MCCULLOCH, Alice, 92, passed away August 22, 2010. She was predeceased by her
husband of 41 years, Francis "Frick" McCulloch; son, Jerry McCulloch; brother,
Harry Porter; sister, Lorraine Bryne and son-in-law, Jerry Garrison. Survivors
include her loving and devoted daughter, Charlotte A. Garrison; brother, Raymond
"Buddy" Porter; grandchildren, Cindy Lepley, Kim (Darrell) Blagg, Lisa (Tony)
Wayne, Jeff McCulloch and Jennifer (Dewayne) Cordes; great- grandchildren,
Mackenzie Wayne and Ashtyn Kelley; daughter-in-law, Patty McCulloch;
sister-in-law, Opal McCulloch; and many nieces and nephews. Alice will be deeply
missed by all.

MIRABELLA, Marie, 79, of Tampa, passed away Tuesday, August 24, 2010. She was
preceded in death by her husband, Sam Mirabella Sr., and her parents, Charles S.
and Rema Dean of Citrus County. Marie was born in Tampa and grew up in Citrus
County. She was a graduate of Citrus High School, attended the University of
Florida and graduated from the Gorden Keller School of Nursing in 1953 as a
Registered Nurse. In her early years she worked at Tampa General Hospital and
then for the Hillsborough County Health Department. The family would like to pay
a special thanks to the nurses and techs of Tampa General Hospital, 6th floor
West Elderly Care and also to the Tampa General Rehab staff. Marie was a devoted
wife, mother, grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. She loved watching the
Florida Gators football and basketball teams, traveling, reading and being
outdoors. She was also a longtime member of Palma Ceia United Methodist Church
and her faith was very important to her. She is survived by her children, Sam
Mirabella Jr. (longtime companion, Pam Stine), Charles M. Mirabella (wife,
Joanne), and Shelly M. Lightsey (husband, Tom); and her grandchildren, Lauren,
Michael, Jack, Matthew and Simi; as well as many nieces and nephews. A graveside
service will take place at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, August 28, 2010, at Oak Ridge
Cemetery in Inverness, Fla., with a memorial service to follow that afternoon at
1 p.m. at Palma Ceia U.M.C., 3723 West Bay to Bay Blvd., Tampa, Fla. In lieu of
flowers, please send donations to the Arthritis Foundation, 1-800-283-7800; The
American Cancer Society, 1-800-227-2345; or the Palma Ceia U.M.C. Building Fund,
(813) 837-1541. Please sign the online guestbook at www.

BlountCurryMacDill.com

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

MOORE, Clara W. "Boots," passed away August 24, 2010 in Tampa. She was born in
Savannah, Ga., January 9, 1930. Boots grew up in Tampa, attending Jefferson High
School January class of 1948. She lived her life giving generously and doing for
others. She enjoyed gardening, cooking, the arts and her family. She traveled
extensively as the wife of a U.S. Air Force pilot and also since retiring from
the service. She was a wonderful wife, mother and friend to all that knew her.
She is survived by her loving and caring husband of 61 years, Stephen G. Moore
Sr.; and children, Stephen G. Moore Jr., Debra Lopez and Stacy G. Moore.
Services will take place at 11 a.m. Monday, August 30, at her longtime church,
Palma Ceia United Methodist Church in Tampa.

MORALES, Roberto, 56, of Tampa, passed away Wednesday, August 25, 2010. He is
survived by his wife, children, family and friends. Affinity Cremation

PALMER, Teresa Virginia, 68, of Gibsonton, Fla., passed away August 24, 2010.
Teresa loved to go on cruises. She is preceded in death by her beloved husband,
Harold Palmer. Survivors include her sons, Richard and John Morse; daughters,
Pamela Peterson, Michele Kilburne and Tammy Palmer; 10 grandchildren; and eight
great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be conducted by Chaplin Guy Glass
of LifePath Hospice. Please send memorial donations in Teresa's name to LifePath
Hospice, 12973 N. Telecom Parkway, Suite 100, Temple Terrace, FL 33637. Visit
www.hillsboro memorial.com to leave condolences.

PETTIS, Jerry C., 67, of Tampa, passed away Wednesday, August 25, 2010. Jerry
retired from both the U.S. Air Force and the U.S. Postal Service. He is survived
by his brother, Robert Pettis; and three sisters, Mary K. Fernandez, Sarah Brown
and Jenell Obourn. The family will receive friends 3-4 p.m. Saturday, August 28,
2010, followed by a memorial service at 4 p.m., at Florida Mortuary, 4601 N.
Nebraska Ave., Tampa. Words of comfort may be expressed at floridamortuary.net

FLORIDA MORTUARY

POULINE, Ronald Jr., 51, of St. Petersburg, Fla., passed away August 26, 2010.
He is survived by his loving family. Holloway Funeral Home

(813) 855-2439

REUTERWALL, Owen Elias Jr., passed away Tuesday, August 24, 2010. He was
preceded in death by his parents, Helda and Owen Reuterwall Sr. Survivors
include his loving wife, Mary Elizabeth "Liz"; daughter, Linda Willison;
grandchildren, Brady Harris and Ivey Oestreich; great- grandchildren, Laurel
Harris, Taylor Oestreich and Allan Oestreich; and sisters, Martha Jacobson and
Elsa Dales. He was a Korean veteran who served in the U.S. Navy from 1948 to
1952. He worked in the banking industry and in 1981 he was elected to serve as
Potentate for the Egypt Shrine. He was also a member of Temple Terrace United
Methodist Church. Services will take place at 10 a.m. Monday, August 30, 2010,
at Terrace Oaks Chapel. Interment will take place at 12:30 p.m. following
services at Florida National Cemetery, Bushnell, Fla. The family will receive
friends 2-5 p.m. with a Masonic service at 4:30 p.m. Sunday, August 29, 2010, at
the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to
Shriner's Children Hospital, 2900 Rocky Point Drive, Tampa, FL 33607. Words of
comfort may be expressed at www.blount curryterraceoaks.com.

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

RHODES, Margaret, "Midge," 77, of Port Richey, Fla., passed away Tuesday, August
24, 2010. She was born in Long Island, N.Y., and moved to Florida in 1973. She
is the mother of three, Patricia Carrano of Brandon, Fla., Debbie Kendrick of
Land O' Lakes, Fla., and George Schmidlapp of Land O' Lakes; and has a wonderful
son-in-law, Thomas C. Kendrick; seven grand-children, Shawn, Samantha and
Stephen Schmidlapp, Kimberly and Amanda Carrano and Robert and Tracy Kendrick;
seven great-grandchildren, Courtney Costa, Trinity Christie, Derek Weeks and
Kylie, Ireland, Tiertia and Hailee Kendrick; life's best friend, Jean Kraemer;
as well as many other good friends and family. A celebration of Margaret's life
will take place at 2 p.m. Saturday in the Orchards of Radcliffe, 7745 Radcliffe
Circle, Port Richey, FL 34668. Words of comfort may be expressed at
Loylessfuneralhome.com

LOYLESS FUNERAL HOME

RUBY, Dolores Ann Elizabeth Gates, of Riverview, Fla., died August 20, 2010, at
her home surround-ed by her loving family. Dolores was born Sept-ember 2, 1921,
to Emery and Julia Gates in Presto, Pa. Her parents emigrated from Budapest,
Hungary, in the late 1800. Dolores and her eleven siblings were first generation
American born. She is survived by her husband of 61 years, William; her son,
William II and his wife, Brenda; her daughters, Dolores, Karen and Diana; her
nephew, Robert Carter; seven grand-children, Stephanie, Diana, Mary, Abigail,
Bernadette, Shane, William III and Adam; and four great-grand-children. Dolores
was a veteran of World War II. She served in the Women's Army Corps as a
communications specialist and attained the rand of T3. Dolores was stationed at
the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., occupied Germany and Fort Monmouth, N.J. She
also was a real estate broker, a community and church volunteer and active in
all educational activities of her children. Dolores loved people, dancing, golf
and bridge. She was beautiful, smart and funny. Her family misses her very much.
She was a lifelong Catholic and will be honored at a memorial Mass at 3 p.m.
Friday, August 27, 2010, at Saint Stephen Catholic Church, 5049 Bell Shoals
Road, Valrico, Fla. Burial will take place at Arlington National Cemetery,
Washington. Memorial contributions may be made to National Cancer Institute in
Dolores' memory.

SCHULTZ, Lance Cpl. Nathaniel Joseph Augustus, 19, of Brandon, Fla., went home
to be with his Lord Saturday, August 21, 2010, while serving with the U.S.
Marines in Afghanistan. He was born in Stuart, Fla., and Nate had lived in the
area since 2001 after moving here from Coral Springs, Fla. After completing the
Florida Youth Ranch Program, he graduated from Countryside High School in
Clearwater, Fla. Nate joined the U.S. Marine Corps. in June 2009 and was
promoted to lance corporal August 1, 2010. He was a highly focused and dedicated
Marine, and had been awarded the Purple Heart, the National Defense Service
Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal
and the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon. He enjoyed playing guitar, trumpet,
saxophone, hunting, hiking, fishing and the beach. He is survived by his mother,
Lisa Naktin; father, Duane Schultz; sisters, Shahna Maggard, Stephanie Schultz,
Charlotte Maguire, Deanna Maguire and Grace Maguire; maternal grand-parents,
George and Ilse Roberts; paternal grand-

mother, Antoinette Schultz; three nephews; a niece; and his fianc*, Britney
Victoria. The family will receive friends 5-9 p.m. today, Friday, at Serenity
Meadows Funeral Home, 6919 Providence Road, Riverview, FL 33578. A funeral
service will take place at 11 a.m. Saturday, August 28, 2010, at Bell Shoals
Baptist Church, 2102 Bell Shoals Road, Brandon, FL 33511. A one hour visitation
will take place at church prior to service time. Burial with honors will take
place at Sarasota National Cemetery following services. Memorial donations may
be made in Nate's honor to Florida Sheriff's Youth Ranch Inc., P.O. Box 2000,
Boys Ranch, FL 32064.

SERENITY MEADOWS

SCOBEE, Lloyd E., a retired U.S. Army sergeant major, died August 24, 2010.
Visit www.veterans funeralcare.com to sign the guestbook. Veterans FC, (727)
524-9202

SIPPLE, David Gilbert, 70, went to be with the Lord Friday, August 20, 2010. He
was predeceased by his wife, Karen Marie Sipple, and daughter, Donna Sipple. He
is survived by his sons, Russell D. Sipple, Randy P. Sipple; daughter, Cristine
Marie Sullivan "Crissie" (John); granddaughter, Courtney Nicole; one
great-grandson; and his brother, Douglas Melvin Sipple. Visitation will take
place at 2 p.m. Saturday, August 28, 2010, with the funeral service begining at
3 p.m., at Garden of Memories Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa, Fla.,
followed by burial at Garden of Memories Cemetery.

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

SMITH, Mozelle E. "Mo," 86, of Tampa, passed away peacefully August 19, 2010.
She is survived by her loving husband, Henry B. "Smitty" Smith; children, Dale
(Richard), Stan (Pat), Diana (Eli), Karen ( Ray), Ben (Margaret), and Susan
(Keith); 15 grandchildren; 27 great-grandchildren; and four
great-great-grand-children. A memorial service will take place at 1:30 p.m.
Sunday, August 29, Grace United Methodist Church, 6800 E. 21st Ave., Tampa. The
family requests donations go to LifePath Hospice in lieu of flowers.

SORACCA, Donald E., 86, died August 23, 2010. He was a veteran of U.S. Army Air
Corps of World War II. He is survived by his wife, Una Soracca. Veterans Funeral
Care

STARR, Shawn T., 49, of Tampa, died August 23, 2010. He is survived by his
loving children and family. For service information, call Blount & Curry West
Chapel, (813) 814-4444.

SWITSER, Brenda S., 54, died August 25, 2010. She is survived by her daughter,
Rhonda (Brian); brother, John; sister, Gerry Ann; and grandson, Dominic. Dobies
FH

WEAVER, James C. Sr. "Jimmy," 63, of Tampa, went to be with the Lord August 25,
2010. He was the owner of J&J Trucking of Tampa Inc. Jimmy is survived by his
wife of 32 years, Jody; daughter, Jennifer Mortensen and her husband, David;
son, James Weaver Jr. and his wife, Rachel; two grand-daughters, Madelyn
Mortensen and Mikayla Weaver; grandson, Noah Mortensen; and was awaiting the
arrival of a fourth grandchild. He was also "Grampy" to Grace and Gunnar
Mortensen, and David Gillespie. A celebration of life service will be conducted
at 6:30 p.m. Saturday, August 28, 2010, at Seminole Heights Baptist Church, 801
E. Hillsborough Ave., Tampa, FL 33603. The family will receive friends one hour
prior to the service at the church. The family requests in lieu of flowers,
those wishing may make a memorial donation to All Children's Hospital
Foundation, P.O. Box 3142 St. Petersburg, FL 33731, in memory of Jimmy.

ADAMS & JENNINGS FUNERAL HOME

WILLIAMS, Alma Ruth, died August 18, 2010. She is survived by her daughter,
Gwelda (Clarence); grand-children; siblings; aunt; and others. Ray Williams FH,
(813) 253-3419

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               64 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hometown heroes? Yeah, right

BYLINE: Steve Otto, sotto@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words


BY Steve Otto

sotto@tampatrib.com

Yeah, it has been a real spirit-lifter, watching the fire sale going on across
the bay where "our" Rays are being shipped off to the fat wallets of baseball.

Doesn't it make you feel warm and fuzzy inside reading that Rays' star Carl
Crawford has gone to the Red Sox for about what it would cost to build half a
dozen schools?

At least all that money being tossed around by the lords of the game isn't
leaving town. New York Yankee captain Derek Jeter has signed for another $55
million or so, which should enable him to add a few turrets and a moat to his
manse going up on Davis Islands.

All of this sure makes me hope the taxpayers of Hillsborough and Pinellas
counties will figure out a way to build a billion-dollar retractable roof dome
somewhere around here to suitably house our hometown heroes.

I seem to recall hearing complaints that when visiting teams come to town, their
fans outnumber the locals and we should be embarrassed at our lack of support
for "our" team. Apparently they are "our" team only until a better offer comes
knocking.

It's almost enough to make the NFL look good -- until you remember it is
considering a lockout next season because the league doesn't have it good
enough. I know those of you who can't afford to buy tickets to the stadium your
tax money bought are feeling the NFL's pain.

The Hillsborough Board of County Commissioners, not exactly known for doing the
right thing, actually did something right last week by reconsidering an earlier
decision and giving the job of county administrator to interim Mike Merrill.

One of the issues with Merrill is that one of the job requirements, according to
the county charter, is a master's degree in something related to the position.
Merrill's master's is in religious studies, which sounds perfect for a job
requiring the patience of Job, the wisdom of Solomon and the occasional raining
of plagues on parts of the county.

On Tuesday, the World Trade Center of Tampa Bay is giving its annual Sam Gibbons
Lifetime Achievement Award to Monsignor Laurence Higgins.

The premise is that the recipient has displayed "exemplary dedication to his
community, state and country in forwarding the importance of international
involvement in an ever increasing global society."

Well, I know the monsignor was one of those who helped bring the original Tampa
Bay Rowdies to town. Many of those great international players still are around
and active in community affairs.

My question is, who is going to give the invocation at the luncheon? Monsignor
Higgins is practically the official invocator at any big event in town. If you
don't have Monsignor Higgins in his Irish brogue delivering a blessing, it's
hardly an event worth noting.

sotto@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7809

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company


                               65 of 65 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Toxic homes get little help

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words


Chinese drywall has disrupted the lives of hundreds of American families, and a
reasonable question is: Why did U.S. law offer no protection?

If more homes were affected, Congress might have forced some accountability on
foreign importers, but a bill to do just that has gotten nowhere.

It is infuriating to learn that the Chinese companies that sold a dangerously
faulty product here are beyond the reach of U.S. courts. Meanwhile, a judge has
ruled that a homeowner's insurance policy does not have to cover damage caused
by defective building material.

That's reasonable, because if insurers were liable, they would need to inspect
homes carefully before insuring them against bad material. And this drywall is
bad stuff.

Sulfur fumes wafting from the walls, primarily in houses in Florida and a few
other warm, humid states, have made people sick, ruined air conditioners and
corroded electrical wiring.

A comprehensive report by the Miami Herald-Tribune and ProPublica says the U.S.
government has no clear standards for air testing or for home remediation.
Giving homeowners some power to protect themselves would be better than sending
government inspectors into homes to test the air, which could lead to new and
costly interventions in areas best left to the homeowner's discretion.

At this point, the government isn't sure how many homes are affected. Many more
sheets of bad wallboard were imported than were used in the 6,500 homes in which
the product is now believed to have been installed, the Herald-Tribune reported.

There has been no official finding that the drywall fumes cause health problems,
no level determined for safe exposure, no guidelines for how to deal with
contaminated products removed from affected homes, no federal lawsuit against
the responsible importers and distributors, and no Congressional hearings to
figure out what to do or to head off similar problems in the future.

A bill called the Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act was introduced
months ago to require foreign manufacturers selling in this country to hire a
representative to be headquartered here. That agent would communicate with
consumers, answer complaints and if required by U.S. law, pay claims.

Importers worry that the requirement would raise the cost of doing business, but
that is a flimsy excuse for not holding foreign manufacturers to the same
standard as U.S. manufacturers. They should be at least partly accountable for
injuries their products cause to U.S. consumers.

The cost of ripping out defective walls, replacing pipes and wires, and
installing new appliances can exceed $100,000.

Hillsborough Property Appraiser Rob Turner was among the first public officials
to speak out loudly in defense of injured homeowners and to offer them a
substantial property tax break. He urges anyone who thinks they might have toxic
drywall to contact his office.

The hope is that the worst is over, but the fear is that it's not. The Chinese
Drywall Complaint Center suspects that some homebuilders "were intentionally
intermixing toxic Chinese drywall with U.S. made drywall."

If that is true, more than 100,000 homes built or remodeled from 2001 to 2008 in
Florida and other Southern states could contain drywall capable of causing
mysterious health and mechanical problems, according to the center.

No lawmaker could have foreseen that a benign product like wallboard could be
capable of sticking families with a home they cannot afford to fix, cannot
safely live in and cannot sell.

But it's easy to anticipate that some health and safety issues will arise in the
era of global trade. It's bad business to leave U.S. consumers so open to
international exploitation.

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Our Views

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company
