
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 21, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More than meets eye in climate debate

BYLINE: ROBERT P. ROTH, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 804 words


BY ROBERT P. ROTH

Special to The Tampa Tribune

The Nov. 8 editorial, "Don't ignore science," (Our Views) referenced a story
concerning physicist Richard Muller and his supposed conversion from being "a
long-time climate change skeptic" to his research supporting land-based warming
over the past 60 years. In addition to presenting the AP/WSJ version of the
story, and further, taking some Republican presidential candidates to task for
their pronounced skeptical views regarding the so-called science regarding
climate change, you went so far as to suggest that "the majority of climate
scientists say the burning of coal, oil and other fossil fuels is a factor" (or
cause of rising land-based temperatures).

You closed the piece by advocating that the "prudent reaction is to confront the
facts, develop a long-term course of action and find ways to encourage private
markets ... to develop clean-energy and other technologies that will enable the
nation to cope with whatever climate change comes our way."

Well, let's look at the facts, specifically with respect to two questions: Is
the planet warming? Is the warming due to anthropogenic ("man-made") influence?

JunkScience.com, managed by Steve Milloy, has refuted the contention that Muller
was ever a true skeptic and suggests that Muller's research study under the
Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature Group (BEST) is at "best" a sideshow.
Land-based temperature records are biased, notably those in urban areas (more
below). Ocean temperatures do not show the warming evident in land-based
temperature data, nor does the only truly scientific record, satellite-based
readings, which only extend back just over 30 years. This is not a sufficient
timeframe to verify any claim regarding climate change, however.

Land-based temperature stations suffer from the urban heat island effect (i.e.,
the concrete jungle). That is, modification of the land surface via urban
development leads to enhanced heat retention. This heat retention tends to be
most predominant at night. Take a look at the temperature record for Tampa over
the past 35 years (back to a period when the mainstream media was concerned with
global cooling). Recall that Carrollwood at one time consisted of orchards and
horse farms.

The preceding chart depicts the average daily low and high temperatures on an
annualized basis from 1976-2010 at Tampa International Airport. Note that the
overall trend in the average daily minimum temperature does depict a distinct
upward trend. Not so with the average daily maximum temperature. The Orlando
data is very similar.

In this sense yes, the apparent warming is, in fact, anthropogenic. Is it a
cause for concern, though? Consider that historic records (written and tree-ring
data) indicate that the Northern Hemisphere was much warmer during the Medieval
Climate Optimum (AD 950-1250), so warm, in fact, that Viking settlers grew crops
in Greenland and Newfoundland. Consider also that in more recent times, the
1990s were in part the warmest decade on record due to the fact that the
collapse of the Soviet Union resulted in the closure of hundreds of weather
stations in the Arctic due to budgetary concerns.

The question of causality is also not a given. CO2 is not the most prevalent
greenhouse gas in the atmosphere (it is water vapor) nor do increases in CO2
concentration precede warming (rather the latter; some scientists suspect that
warming results in the oceans releasing additional CO2). The majority of CO2
emissions result from natural as opposed to man-made sources. In this sense the
"science is far from settled."

Most of the proposed solutions entail a greater reliance on intermittent,
non-dispatchable electric energy resources such as wind or solar, a chimera in
the true sense of the word. Both sources are only available at full capacity
roughly 20 percent to 30 percent of the time -- hardly a substitute for
base-load coal, natural gas or nuclear resources.

Absent generous subsidies, renewable resources are only renewable in the sense
that the taxpayer (or ratepayer) renews them. These non-firm generation sources
also require a dispatchable resource, such as a natural gas-fired combustion
turbine, as backup.

The consumer faces a much greater health risk from the mercury vapor in a
compact fluorescent bulb if he accidently breaks one than he will ever face from
incremental CO2 emissions in his lifetime.

When it comes to fears of catastrophic anthropogenic global warming, the late
Will Rogers probably said it best: "It ain't the things we don't know that get
us in trouble; it's the things we do know that just ain't so."

Robert P. Roth of Tampa is an economist who has worked in the energy industry
for more than 26 years.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Can insurers' 'view' save us from climate change?

BYLINE: BRIAN THOMAS, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 712 words


BY BRIAN THOMAS

Special To The Tampa Tribune

People judge risk badly. We worry too much about minor hazards and are
nonchalant about more serious ones. We're especially inept at judging chronic
long-term risks -- like climate change.

Insurance is a major part of how we deal with risk. Can it lead us to more
viable ways to address climate issues? The picture is mixed.

When we manage risk by buying insurance, we endure the slow, small pain of
insurance premiums in exchange for a big compensation should something ugly
happen. The insurers profit from our lack of knowledge about risk. Buying
insurance goes against the grain, but paying our premiums gives us a little more
security against fires, earthquakes, business interruption and the numerous
other events against which we can buy an insurance product.

The optimistic point of view is that insurance can play a major role in guiding
businesses and individuals toward more climate-friendly decisions. In theory,
insurers study the real probabilities of known hazards, figure out a viable
premium that gives themselves a profit and the policyholders the agreed-upon
protection against the risk. When climate change raises the risks of flooding,
business interruption and other insurance hazards, the premiums go up, which can
lead their policyholders to change their behavior. Financing for a new factory
can be prohibitive or even impossible to get, if insurers won't cover it.

In practice, though, this theory is faulty for several reasons. Climate change
poses special challenges to insurers, not merely because they are on the hook
for many weather risks such as hurricanes.

First, to single out one kind of insurance, many factors combine in extreme
weather events. A hurricane has many causes, and global warming might only be 2
percent of the overall risk. If that part grows from 2 percent to 5 percent, it
seems negligible but in fact it's quite significant. As one insurance executive
said, "Even a minor increase in a risk like that can mean billions of dollars in
additional losses to insurers."

If climate change is turning up the dial, these familiar events may break out of
their boundaries and become more frequent, more intense or changed in unexpected
ways.

Second, insurers are people too, and the cognitive blind spots that afflict
individuals also affect the risk business. In practice, the insurance industry's
grip on certain probabilities often relies on seat-of-the-pants methods that are
subjective and whose overoptimistic assumptions are sometimes rudely corrected
by ugly surprises, especially when risks are constantly changing, as they are
with climate change.

Third, insurance functions well when the risks of various hazards are truly
independent of each other, and truly random. One trouble with climate change is
that climate instability tends to make floods, windstorms and other extreme
weather more interrelated.

One force binding all these factors together more tightly is land use. Consider
Florida, where the laws, business practices and general culture are geared to
developing every square inch of land near water -- oceans, certainly, but also
lakes, streams, wetlands. Even in the absence of climate change, this is an
obviously dangerous policy. Rather than resisting, many property and casualty
insurers have pulled away from vulnerable coastal property in Florida. In
response, Florida created its own public insurance pool. Result? Development
continues, and the state fund is actuarially unsound. A few more storms would
bankrupt the state, which would then call on the federal government -- as the
stand-in for taxpayers in all other states -- to bail them out.

These three factors mean the insurance industry is weaker than it appears in
matters of changing social and economic policies. The only way to change these
entrenched policies would be for other social forces to align with the insurance
point of view. That will require energetic political leadership and vigorous
regulation. The market alone cannot save us.

Brian Thomas is a sustainability consultant with a focus on communications. He
is currently a member of the New York City Panel on Climate Change.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crop research tackles climate change

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words


Racing to beat the heat

BY KEVIN WIATROWSKI

The Tampa Tribune

BALM Here in southern Hillsborough County, about as far as you can go on County
Road 672, Jay Scott walks amid rows of tomato plants, imagining the future.

In the future, changing weather patterns could make Florida hotter and wetter
than today -- conditions that could wreck the state's tomato industry.

With that in mind, Scott and his crew at the University of Florida's
agricultural research station are reinventing the tomato. They're breeding
tomatoes that thrive in higher temperatures and resist the diseases that come
with wet conditions.

In the short term, the new varieties could give the state's farmers more time to
grow and harvest their crops. In the long term, a more heat-tolerant version
could become the go-to tomato as the climate continues to shift, Scott said.

Weather watchers got a glimpse of the future this month when the National
Climate Data Center in Asheville, N.C., released new once-a-decade "normal"
temperatures for communities across the United States.

The normals represent the average of daily temperature readings across 30 years.
The numbers released this month cover 1981 through 2010, a range that includes
some of the hottest years in recorded history.

The new numbers confirm what scientists have said for nearly 25 years: The world
is getting warmer. In the past 50 years, normal temperatures have crept up
decade after decade, according to the federal data center.

The change between 2000 and 2010 ranges from a half-degree during a Tampa summer
to 2 degrees for a Detroit winter. Those are small numbers but, like revolving
interest on a credit card, they add up rapidly.

"It is a big deal," said Anthony Arguez, who compiled the new numbers.

Across Florida, temperature changes can depend on how urban or rural a location
is. At Tampa International Airport, for example, the difference between July's
new average temperature (83) and the average in 2000 (82.7) is three-tenths of a
degree. Twenty miles to the east, July in Plant City is four-tenths of a degree
hotter now than a decade ago.

Meanwhile, in eastern Pasco County, rural St. Leo's July normal jumped by twice
that amount, from 81.9 to 82.6 degrees.

Changes in Tampa Bay communities pale compared with those elsewhere, however. In
the nation's midsection, states from Michigan to Missouri to Montana have seen
their average winter temperatures warm by as much as 4 degrees.

Warmer winters have drawn armadillos north from their Deep South stomping
grounds. They've also let slip hordes of mountain pine beetles, which used to be
held in check by long cold winters. As their populations have exploded, they've
killed thousands of acres of Rocky Mountain pine forests.

So far, the Southeast has avoided environmental changes affecting other states.
But climatologists and agriculture experts aren't resting easy.

Rising carbon-dioxide levels in the atmosphere could boost the growth of some
plants -- wheat and rice among them -- while harming others, notably corn,
according to a joint report released last week by the American Society of
Agronomy, the Crop Science Society of America and the Soil Science Society of
America.

But even those benefits of rising temperatures are likely to be undone as
shifting weather changes rain patterns, crop yields, pest distribution and even
the nature of soil itself, the report noted.

Changes will vary by place and by crop, the report says.

In Florida, they're worried about a fungus called tomato spot.

It thrives in Florida's warm, wet summers and quickly destroys tomato plants
that become infected. State agricultural experts see a future when summer heat
and humidity take hold sooner and last longer, putting at risk the tomato
harvest in Ruskin and beyond.

That possibility has Scott and other UF researchers working to engineer a tomato
plant that's immune to spot and will produce fruit at temperatures in excess of
75 degrees, the limit of conventional plants.

While they're at it, the researchers also are trying to breed tomatoes that can
survive colder winters as well. That's because the same forces pushing up
long-term temperatures also make it harder to forecast the weather from year to
year, said David Zierden, the state climatologist.

"It's not necessarily a 1- to 2-degree change in average temperature where the
risk lies," Zierden said. "The risk is going to be in the extremes."

That could mean colder cold snaps, a special concern for citrus and strawberry
growers -- and, as folks around Plant City learned last year, for the neighbors
who share groundwater with them. Round-the-clock pumping to protect strawberry
fields depleted local wells and opened sinkholes.

UF researchers are working on technology to protect strawberries from the cold
without water. That could mean covering plants with fabric instead of ice -- a
potentially expensive and labor-intensive change, but one that could pay off if
cold snaps continue.

"We don't know if it's going to be enough to pay for the technology over time,
but it looks promising," said Craig Stanley, assistant director of the Balm
research station.

Florida is likely to become a proving ground for other techniques aimed at
helping both farmers and their crops adapt to a changing climate.

Federal agriculture officials this month injected $6.9 million into those
efforts. Of that, $1.9 million will go toward helping farmers who provide much
of the East Coast's winter vegetables, preparing their fields and their bank
accounts for changing temperatures.

"Farmers like to see a clear picture in their minds," said Clyde Fraisse, a UF
assistant professor of agriculture and bioengineering. "All the uncertainty
we're seeing in climate change makes it very hard to gauge what can be done."

Another $5 million federal grant will help develop a strain of corn that can
thrive in hotter temperatures.

Why grow Midwestern corn in Florida?

"Florida is kind of the future of the Midwest," said UF corn expert Curtis
Hannah. "We can torture-test the corn here."

Hannah will work with researchers in Iowa and Wisconsin to genetically engineer
corn that can thrive in temperatures that already are proving to be more than
conventional corn can handle. He said it could be more than a decade before
heat-tolerant corn comes to market.

In the meantime, temperatures continue to creep upward.

"From a long-term standpoint, developing tougher plants is a difficult thing to
do when you don't know what the temperature's going to be like," Stanley said.
"It takes a long time to develop plant varieties."

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

Photo Credit: KATE CALDWELL/STAFF

Photo: Jay Scott, a horticulturist at a University of Florida research station,
is working against warmer weather patterns by trying to prepare crops to thrive
if summers become hotter and wetter. In the past 50 years, normal temperatures
have crept up each decade.

Photo: Florida's climate already allows for a fungus called tomato spot. Experts
say the threat increases if temperatures keep going up.

Photo Credit: KATE CALDWELL/STAFF

Photo: The UF research team is working to engineer a tomato plant that will
produce fruit in high-temperature environments.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bay area polluters to report gas data

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words


Businesses must give numbers to EPA by the end of the month

BY KEVIN WIATROWSKI

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- The Tampa Bay region's largest polluters have until the end of the
month to tell federal officials how many tons of heat-trapping greenhouse gases
they produced in 2010.

The Environmental Protection Agency has spent the past year collecting emissions
data from polluters, ranging from power plants to pig farmers. The deadline is
Sept. 30.

The registry echoes the agency's established Toxic Release Inventory, which
tracks industrial pollution such as lead and mercury.

Congress set up the greenhouse-gas registry as a way to track emissions, with an
eye toward future limits on the heat-trapping chemicals that some scientists say
have warmed the planet for the past century. Reporting is mandatory for
companies that produce more than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases in a year.

Environmentalists say the registry is an important step toward getting a handle
on future climate change.

"Regardless of how one feels about cap and trade, carbon management of any kind
will require accurate emissions data and companies that know how to estimate
them," said Evan Juska, U.S. policy chief for The Climate Group, in an email.
"As the saying goes, 'You can't manage what you don't measure.'"

In 2007, then-Gov. Charlie Crist brought Juska's London-based environmental
group to Florida to study ways that government and businesses can work together
to curtail climate change by reducing greenhouse gases and increasing the use of
clean-energy sources, such as wind and solar.

In the Tampa Bay region, the registry's reach may be limited to power plants and
landfills. EPA officials couldn't provide a list of Florida companies they
expect to file with the greenhouse inventory, but the Bay area lacks a lot of
the heavy industries, large agricultural operations and other polluters
mentioned in the registry framework.

Two local businesses that will tally their greenhouse footprints with the EPA
are Tampa Electric Co. and Progress Energy Florida, the region's two big
electricity generators. Both run coal-fired power plants that release thousands
of tons of carbon dioxide each year.

Both companies have reduced their carbon footprints in recent years by switching
some power plants to gas. But they still remain among the region's biggest
polluters.

Tampa Electric reports its pollution output to the Chicago Futures Exchange,
which tracks emissions from companies across the country and runs its own
version of a cap-and-trade program to help bring down emissions. The exchange
was created to help businesses prepare for a federal cap-and-trade program.

The exchange's owners announced last month that they will close the money-losing
project early next year because there's no sign that a federal cap-and-trade
program is on the horizon.

Progress Energy Florida spokeswoman Suzanne Grant said the company has reported
its greenhouse-gas releases for several years to The Climate Registry, a
nonprofit online clearinghouse for greenhouse release information.

Progress Energy's latest filing, for 2009, showed the company emitted more than
48,000 tons of carbon dioxide from its operations in both Florida and North
Carolina.

The EPA program dovetails with what Progress is already doing, Grant said.

"Our goal is to be the type of organization that shares information with its
customers," Grant said.

Progress Energy's soon-to-be parent company, North Carolina-based Duke Energy,
does not report to The Climate Registry and has challenged some parts of the EPA
greenhouse-gas program.

Progress Energy's greenhouse footprint has fluctuated in recent years, rising
lately with the shutdown of the damaged Crystal River nuclear plant in Citrus
County, Grant said. Another planned nuclear plant in neighboring Levy County
should bring Progress Energy's greenhouse-gas profile down in the coming years,
she said.

The EPA's greenhouse rule focuses on large, stationary polluters because they're
easier to track than mobile pollution sources, such as cars, said EPA
spokeswoman Cathy Milbourn.

"Over the years, cars have actually gotten pretty clean," Milbourn said.

An earlier EPA rule forced automakers to start controlling greenhouse gases,
starting with their 2012 models. Similar rules have reduced other tailpipe
emissions, such as those that create smog, Milbourn said.

Despite those changes, cars remain the largest single source of greenhouse gases
in Tampa, accounting for half of the 8.9 million tons of climate-change
pollutants emitted in 2009, according to a report released last week by the city
council.

City officials have pledged to reduce Tampa's carbon footprint to its 1990 size
by 2025. As things stand now, the city is already 16 percent over that goal and
climbing.

The greenhouse registry has raised the ire of congressional Republicans, who
passed a measure -- the Energy Tax Prevention Act -- in the House of
Representatives last spring that would ban the EPA from regulating carbon
dioxide or even collecting data about it and other greenhouse gases such as
methane. The measure has been sent to the Senate for consideration.

The EPA's greenhouse-gas registry comes two years after the Obama administration
proposed setting up a cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse emissions.

The proposal would set a limit on greenhouse emissions nationwide, then allow
big polluters to buy emission credits from smaller polluters. A similar strategy
helped reduce the pollutants that cause acid rain.

Obama's cap-and-trade proposal ran afoul last year of power companies, which
argued that the policy amounted to a tax on them and would drive up power bills.

Since then, cap-and-trade has largely vanished from the public radar.

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

Photo credit: PAUL LAMISON/STAFF

Photo: Tampa Electric Co. will be reporting its emissions data to the EPA's
greenhouse-gas registry.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scott displays a crush on Texas

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words


But numbers show that Florida already compares favorably

BY WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA If Florida Gov. Rick Scott has an idol, it's probably Texas Gov. Rick
Perry.

Everywhere he goes, Scott extols Perry's work in making the Lone Star State
business-friendly.

"He's done the best job in the last two years of building jobs," Scott told the
crowd at the State Fair Governor's Lunch in Tampa on Monday. "Texas has done a
better job of building jobs (than) any place in the country by a long shot."

Scott says Florida must imitate Texas -- by cutting business taxes, cutting
regulations and making it harder to sue doctors and businesses -- to revive its
own economy.

In fact, he says, he intends to out-Perry Perry.

"As I explained to Rick Perry, whatever they do in Texas, we're going to do
better," Scott said in his inauguration speech.

The two have regular phone chats, and Scott says they joke about the
competition.

"We've got to make sure we beat 49 other states" to become the nation's premier
place to do business, he said in Tampa.

According to independent business analysts including Forbes magazine, it's true
that Texas under Perry has built a business-friendly reputation.

"It's one of the nation's premier places for business," said John Boyd of The
Boyd Company, Inc., a business relocation service that publishes the BizCosts
ranking of states' cost of doing business.

Texas has lower unemployment than the national average, and lower unemployment
and foreclosure rates than Florida, where the business climate suffered much
more in the recession.

In fact, Texas' economic performance has made Perry a GOP celebrity with
occasional 2012 presidential mentions. Scott's cheerleading, meanwhile, has made
Perry a talking point for Florida Republicans.

"Texas is an example of a state that's getting it right," outgoing Sen. George
LeMieux after Scott's inauguration speech.

But Florida also has a long-standing reputation as business friendly, business
experts say -- and not everything is wonderful in the Lone Star State.

Texas has problems that raise questions about how much Florida ought to emulate
its western competitor.

Florida, for example, faces a $3.6 billion-plus state budget deficit for 2012.
Scott says that calls for slashing business taxes, education spending and
environmental protections.

But Texas' pending state budget gap, $13.4 billion, dwarfs Florida's, according
to a study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

As a percentage of their 2011 budgets, the Center said, Florida's deficit is
less than half the size of Texas'.

As of December, Florida had the third-worst unemployment rate in the nation, at
12 percent, and it had the nation's third-worst foreclosure rate for 2010,
according to RealtyTrac.

Texas' 8.3 percent jobless rate was better than most, and its foreclosure rate
29th worst -- both better than Florida, but worse than some states with higher
taxes and stricter business regulations.

Meanwhile, Texas also was No.1 in the nation in food stamp recipients, averaging
3.5 million during 2010, while Florida, with almost as large a population, was
fourth with 2.6 million.

According to figures compiled by the Kaiser Family Foundation, Texas in 2010
also was:

Fifth in the nation in the percentage of its population at "near-poverty" income
levels -- less than 139 percent of federal poverty level -- while Florida was
18th.

Fourth in its incarceration rate, while Florida was seventh.

33rd in median annual income while Florida was lower, but not much, at 38th.

Boyd, the BizCosts publisher, said Florida has enjoyed a reputation as favorable
to business.

"The issue that concerns business in recent years has to do with Florida's
spending and budget problems, and the concern that the budget will be paid for
on the backs of the business community," he said.

Texas is one of six states with no corporate income tax, a factor in competition
with Florida, Boyd said.

But Florida's 5.5 percent rate is among the lowest of states that do have
corporate taxes -- only six taxing states are lower.

Meanwhile, the Tax Foundation has ranked Florida consistently better than Texas
in business tax climate for several years.

Scott nonetheless proposes to cut the corporate tax rate to 3 percent this year,
and end it by 2018.

Much of the difference between the two states arises simply because Texas is an
oil state, said Elizabeth McNichol of the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities.

In the recession, she said, "Florida was hit early and hard" because of its
dependence on real estate development and tourism.

"Texas was insulated at the start of the recession because oil prices were
high," she said. "That insulation has been worn thin, and now their revenues are
not enough."

One of the most oft-cited rankings of business climates in states comes from
Forbes, which looks annually at six categories, ranging from costs of doing
business to quality of life.

Those rankings show Florida and Texas nearly equal in 2008, before the full
force of the recession hit -- Florida ranked eighth overall and Texas ninth.

By 2010, however, Florida had dropped to 26th while Texas inched up to seventh.

The biggest change came in categories reflecting the recession's effect on the
Sunshine State's economic climate and population growth. Neither state changed
much in cost of doing business, which includes taxation, or in its regulatory
burden.

Florida dropped from first in 2008 to 36th in 2010 in economic climate, and from
fifth to 14th in availability and educational level of the labor force, a
category including migration into the state.

Texas, meanwhile, moved up significantly in the economic climate category, from
11th to second, and growth prospects, from fourth to first.

In his speeches, Scott cites a different ranking:

"The Pacific Research Institute ranks Florida's regulatory climate worse than 44
other states," he said in a November speech justifying his decision to freeze
all new state regulations and slash corporate taxes for unemployment benefits.

That referred to a 2008 study, which differs not only from the 18th-place
ranking in Forbes that year, but also from a study by the Mercatus Institute at
George Mason University.

It ranked Florida 19th in regulatory freedom, and 22nd overall, with other
categories including fiscal policy, economic freedom and personal freedom.

Scott contends his proposal to cut corporate taxes is bearing fruit already.

"Governor's tax cut plan attracts 224 jobs to Florida," says the headline on a
Feb.10 news release from his office concerning the decision of fuel cell maker
Bing Energy to move from California to Tallahassee.

In the news release, however, the company's executives praise Scott's tax
proposal but say they made their relocation decision before Scott took office --
in part, to work with a Florida State University scientist.

Scott didn't respond to repeated requests through his press office for an
interview for this story.

He and Perry, however, are alike in other ways as well.

Perry was among the first high-profile Republicans to attempt to stigmatize
Barack Obama by calling him a a socialist, in 2008, and made attacking Obama
part of his 2010 re-election campaign, linking his Democratic opponent with
Obama.

Scott did the same last year, repeatedly calling his Democratic opponent Alex
Sink "an Obama liberal."

They share another political tactic -- both refused in 2010 to visit newspaper
editorial boards seeking their endorsements. Perry's pollster said that was
because the endorsements produced few votes.

Not everyone agrees that Florida puts draconian burdens on business, or that
slashing business taxes and lifting regulations is the best way to revive the
state's economy.

"We're already near the top in that ranking," meaning a business-friendly
climate, Sink said after hearing Scott speak at the Governor's Lunch about his
admiration for Texas.

"In my opinion the thing that will bring our economy back is a high-quality
school system," she said.

Sink said she's considering founding a policy institute to "shed a light on what
businesses do look at" in considering where to locate or expand and create jobs.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

813 259 7761

Photo: Gov. Rick Scott

Photo: Gov. Rick Perry

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida job prospects look good, study says

BYLINE: MICHAEL SASSO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 708 words


Economic recovery expectations strong, firm says

BY MICHAEL SASSO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- Not used to lagging behind other states in jobs, Florida soon may be
among the nation's leaders in job creation, a new study by a prominent economics
firm suggests.

But interpreting the data is tricky, and economists differ in their opinions.

To Karl Kuykendall, a regional economist with IHS Global Insight, Florida's
recovery will be relatively strong compared with those of other states.

But Bob Allsbrook, chief economist at Regions Bank, is less optimistic. Sure,
Florida will rank high in job creation, he says, but that's largely because it
fell so far and has room to grow.

IHS Global Insight, a Boston-based economics firm, said it expects Florida to
start adding jobs slowly but ramp up over the next several years. Employment
should rise by a slight 1.3 percent this year, which means an additional 86,000
jobs statewide, Kuykendall said.

By 2013 and 2014, the state should add jobs at a 2.65 percent clip, or about
200,000 new jobs a year, before slowing down slightly through 2016.

All told, Florida should add jobs at an annual rate of 2.2 percent through 2016.
That should place the state sixth in the country in job growth, behind other
Sunbelt states including Texas and Nevada. Other states should add jobs at an
average rate of 1.65 percent, IHS Global Insight predicts.

Construction is one of the industries that should rebound, the economics firm
predicts. Since the recession, half of all construction jobs in Florida have
vanished. The firm predicts that employment in construction will rise from
348,000 people today to a half-million by 2016.

Erik Suojanen, who runs a plumbing company in Pasco County, is cautiously
optimistic. Suojanen employed 200 people during the boom years but now employs
30. He's hoping the government will get behind environmental programs such as
incentives to retrofit people's homes.

"I guess I could say cautiously optimistic," he said. "I don't see us setting
the world on fire."

Other industries that should add jobs: business and professional services,
health services and wholesale trade and transportation.

Naysayers have suggested Florida has lost its momentum for the long term, but
IHS Global Insight thinks otherwise. The state is affordable again because real
estate prices have fallen so much, Kuykendall said.

Plus, the state stands to gain from trade with booming Latin American countries
such as Brazil and Peru and through the expansion of the Panama Canal. Finally,
the firm expects Florida's warm climate to once again begin drawing people from
the North and abroad.

Still, not everyone sees so many positives.

Florida may be near the top of the nation in its rate of job growth, but that
won't necessarily be fast compared with past years. During the mid-2000s, the
job growth rate in Florida exceeded 4 percent a year, nearly double the rate IHS
Global Insight is predicting.

Even as more people get jobs in Florida, the unemployment rate will be
relatively high. The unemployment rate was 11.9 percent last year in Florida and
should fall to 6.9 percent by 2016, which historically is fairly high, IHS
Global Insight's data show.

Allsbrook, the Regions Bank economist, notes that Florida may, indeed, create
jobs more quickly than other states. But it has lost so many jobs since the
recession started that any increase in jobs is magnified.

The real question is when will Florida create as many jobs as it lost, and
that's not easy to answer. Allsbrook notes that Floridians, like other
Americans, are much more prone to saving money and paying down debt these days.
That's good for them financially, but it will hold back the economy.

Also, the state's housing sector is struggling, he said.

For his part, Kuykendall said, it's true that Florida won't grow as quickly as
it did, say, in the 1990s. But the country and conditions are different now, and
he insisted Florida has a bright outlook overall.

"Yes, Florida will not be breaking any previous growth records," Kuykendall
said. "But its recovery will still be strong, especially relative to other
states."

msasso@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7865

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 2, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bad economy, missteps took toll on Crist

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 927 words


Outgoing governor bolted GOP to run as an independent

The Associated Press

TALLAHASSEE -- Outgoing Gov. Charlie Crist will linger in some short-term
memories for his failed independent Senate run and his pardon of singer Jim
Morrison. People thinking longer term will recall a governor who persuaded
Republicans and Democrats to work together but blundered away his potential for
success at the national level.

Crist, who leaves office Tuesday, enjoyed widespread popularity for much of his
term. He built a reputation as a national leader on climate change and had
support from Democratic, Republican and independent voters.

Politically and on policy issues, he was a winner in his first two years in
office.

But a bad economy and uncharacteristic political miscalculations set his
political career in reverse.

The man who was mentioned as a potential 2008 running mate for Republican Sen.
John McCain of Arizona and a possible future presidential candidate is looking
for a job outside of politics.

"People found out about his political philosophy. ... His compass didn't point
north, it didn't point south, it didn't point east and it didn't point west. It
pointed any way the wind was blowing for him," said state Sen. John Thrasher,
R-St. Augustine, chairman of the state GOP. "You can be a populist for so long
before it catches up to you, and that's exactly what happened to him."

Crist easily won office in 2006 and immediately sought to win over Democrats and
Republicans. When times were good, the parties came together. They passed
legislation aimed at lowering the cost of property insurance and property taxes,
ensuring voting machines had paper trails and Crist's first priority: putting
violent offenders who violate probation back in prison.

"There was a great sense of cooperation, Republicans and Democrats really
working together very, very well," Crist said. "Unfortunately, this past year
that wasn't the case."

Crist held summits on climate change and appeared with singer Sheryl Crow to
bring awareness to clean energy. He remained in the national limelight when
Florida moved up its 2008 presidential primary date and major GOP candidates
began knocking on his door looking for help.

Crist endorsed McCain and helped pushhim to victory in Florida, a win that
helped him cruise to the nomination. Crist campaigned with McCain and appeared
on national television to promote him, leading to speculation that Crist would
be McCain's running mate.

But McCain choseAlaska Gov. Sarah Palin. Soon after McCain's loss, Crist's luck
began to change. He upset many Republicans when he joined newly elected
President Barack Obama on stage to rally support for a $787 billion stimulus
package most Republicans opposed.

Crist's embrace of Obama, an enduring image from that event, was used against
Crist repeatedly when he decided to run for Florida's open Senate seat. He
miscalculated by assuming it would be an easy walk to the Republican nomination.
Crist supporters failed to force former House Speaker Marco Rubio out of the
race.

As the economy grew worse, Rubio criticized Obama's spending policies and tied
Crist to them.

"You had a governor that has had a very difficult economic time to deal with and
has shown nothing to really counter the bad economy except platitudes: 'I love
Florida, isn't she great?'" said David Johnson, a Tallahassee-based Republican
strategist. "The clock ran out on his good time because he was governor during a
very bad time."

What had made Crist successful, his personality and ability to engage voters, no
longer worked.

"We need more than a nice guy. No one can take that away from him. He is a very
nice guy, but being governor during tough times requires more and he doesn't
have it," Johnson said.

Crist was also hurt among Republicans when he continued defending his
hand-picked GOP Chairman, Jim Greer, despite a growing cry for his ouster
because of outrageous spending.

After Greer was removed from office, he was accused of funneling party money to
himself through a corporation he set up and was charged with grand theft.

With his numbers plummeting in the Republican Senate primary, Crist chose to
bolt the GOP and run as an independent. He reached out to unions and other
groups that back Democrats. He vetoed Republican priorities, such as bills that
would require women to get an ultrasound before having an abortion and one that
would strip teachers of tenure and based merit raises on test scores.

He succeeded in pulling Democratic votes from U.S. Rep. Kendrick Meek in the
three-way Senate race. Rubio won the general election. Crist will leave the
governor's office when Republican Rick Scott is sworn in.

Still, Crist said he had no regrets about his decision, saying he no longer felt
comfortable in the Republican Party.

"I just didn't feel that was a place I wanted to be anymore," he said. "It
couldn't be -- not being honest with myself, about how I felt about treating
others, doing unto others. There was harshness to it that I'm not compatible
with," he said.

And for the critics who called him a say-anything-to-get-a-vote candidate, Crist
said he has always just been himself.

"I really didn't change, he said. "I've always been pretty broad and trying to
always be understanding of other points of view and not try to be judgmental of
different points of view. It just became formalized when I went independent."

Photo: Gov. Charlie Crist said he left the GOP because he no longer felt
comfortable.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why we must support clean energy in U.S.: our national security

BYLINE: STEVEN ANDERSON, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words


BY STEVEN ANDERSON

Special to The Tampa Tribune

There is a lot of debate and discussion about clean energy these days.

Should we press ahead as a nation to move away from fossil fuels? Should the
government continue supporting the nascent clean-energy industry, similar to
what it has done for decades for the oil and gas business? Do we really even
need clean energy in our country?

Based on our collective years of service in uniform, totaling more than a
century in both peace and war, we think the answer should be, unequivocally,
yes.

The reason, in our opinion, has nothing to do with politics or business and
little to do with what we all pay at the gas pump.

Continuing to move our country toward a future powered by clean energy is, first
and foremost, a matter of national security.

Around the globe, our troops risk their lives daily and we spend billions of our
tax dollars defending U.S. interests and ensuring the free flow of oil sustains
the global economy. The sad irony, however, is that our men and women in uniform
are too often battling terrorist groups that are funded by petro dollars
unwittingly sent to foreign financiers by Americans every time they fill their
tanks.

In Afghanistan and Iraq, we have watched our young soldiers and Marines die in
action in convoys of fuel trucks, dubbed "Taliban Targets" by some soldiers.
Last year, one out of every 24 fuel convoys saw casualties. Hundreds have died.
Thousands more have been seriously wounded.

In the skies, we struggle with the ever-increasing costs of keeping our planes
fueled and flying. The Air Force is the nation's largest user of energy,
spending about $8 billion on fuel and electricity every year. About 84 percent
of that goes to fuel our aircraft.

On the seas, climate change tied to fossil fuels is creating increased severe
weather events and natural disasters. These are threat multipliers that generate
instability in fragile regions and will only increase the mission load of our
armed forces. Receding ice packs are opening new sea routes, creating friction
over who could and should be able to operate in them.

Our dependence on oil and the problems it causes for national security run even
deeper than that.

The United States currently has an estimated 3 percent of the world's proven oil
reserves. Our country uses more than 20 percent of the world's production of oil
each year. We simply do not have enough oil to keep our country and our military
operating without continuing to pay higher and higher prices, and at greatly
increased risk to the lives of our service men and women.

Without changing our energy mix, we will continue to undermine our economic
stability -- and with it, our stature in the world. The United States sends more
than $350 billion a year to other countries just to pay for our oil addiction.
That money strengthens the economies of other countries -- many of which are
hostile to us -- while at the same time increasing our national debt.

There are some who say now is not the time to invest in clean energy, given our
current economic woes. Some say the well-publicized failure of solar company
Solyndra is proof that clean energy doesn't work and that government support
shouldn't be an option.

That sort of thinking is short-sighted, misinformed and takes the wrong lessons
from one company's failure.

In fact, there may be no better time for our country to increase support for
clean energy than now, when our economy is in desperately need of jobs and
emerging clean-energy companies are trying to grow -- and in doing so, add new
employees, many of them veterans.

The military knows climate change is happening and that our current energy
posture is a growing threat to national security. Clean energy is a solution we
must pursue.

Already, the Navy and Air Force have pledged to get at least half of their fuel
from alternative sources. We now have planes and ships that run on fuels made
from plants and algae, and bases that get their electricity from the sun and
wind.

The Army is working toward a "Net Zero" strategy where bases will consume only
as much energy or water as they produce.

Marines at forward operating bases are using portable solar panels to charge
communication equipment, high-efficiency LED lighting systems to find their way,
and other energy-efficient equipment that increases the mission effectiveness of
troops while reducing the need for vulnerable fuel convoys.

All these are positive steps, but more can and must be done. As a nation, we
should move forward without further delay.

Our military can win our overseas wars sooner and bring home more troops and
contractors by greatly increasing energy efficiency and cutting our massive
petro-appetite.

Congress, in a truly bipartisan way, should push for every branch of the
military to immediately increase efforts to reduce dependence on oil and
increase operational readiness. We must have long-term policies that recognize
and address the direct relationship between military effectiveness and energy
efficiency.

The military services know they must embrace clean energy -- not because it is
cutting-edge or politically correct but because it makes sense for our troops
and our country's security.

If we truly want to support our troops and support our national security, all
Americans -- in Washington and all across our great nation -- need to keep
moving forward, quickly and surely, with clean energy.

Lt. Gen. John Castellaw, U.S. Marines (RET), served as deputy commander, Marine
Forces, U.S. Central Command and also as chief of staff of U.S. Central Command
in Tampa, Qatar and Bahrain. Brig. Gen. Steven Anderson, U.S. Army (RET), served
for 15 months as the senior U.S. and coalition logistician during Operation
Iraqi Freedom and later as the Army's director of operations and logistics
readiness at the Pentagon. Vice Adm. Denny McGinn, U.S. Navy (RET), served as
deputy chief of Naval Operations for Warfare Requirements and Programs at the
Pentagon. He also commanded the U.S. Third Fleet. He is now president of the
American Council on Renewable Energy (ACORE). Lt. Gen. Norman Seip, U.S. Air
Force (RET), served as commander, 12th Air Force at Davis-Monthan Air Force
Base, Ariz..

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Odd bedfellows

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words


Tampa has joined the ranks of much larger cities like New York and Baltimore as
a high emitter of greenhouse gases

BY CHRISTIAN M. WADE

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Tampa's carbon footprint rivals that of cities twice its size and is
expected to get even bigger unless actions are taken to reduce the city's
greenhouse gas emissions.

That's according to a Tribune analysis of other cities and a recently completed
study estimating the city's 2009 emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and
nitrous oxide, the three main gases contributing to climate change.

Sources of the greenhouse gas emissions include transportation, electricity and
natural gas, landscaping, water and sewer pumping and treatment, and solid waste
disposal.

The report breaks down the city's emissions by those produced by the community
as a whole and those produced from municipal government operations.

The analysis shows that communitywide carbon dioxide emissions were
approximately 8.9 million metric tons in 2009, joining urban centers such as New
York City and Baltimore as high emitters.

About 95 percent of Tampa's emissions came from gasoline, coal and other fossil
fuels used in energy production and transportation.

"That's a shocking number," said Christian Wells, an assistant professor of
anthropology at the University of South Florida and director of the university's
Office of Sustainability. "I'm a bit surprised at the amount that the Tampa
community, as a whole, is emitting."

The city government's emissions were 246,087 metric tons in 2009, with 70
percent coming solid waste and wastewater treatment facilities operated by the
city.

Ironically, the McKay Bay Waste-to-Energy facility, which has lowered methane
levels by reducing the amount of trash going into landfills, is also one of the
largest producers of greenhouse gases, accounting for about 35 percent of
Tampa's emissions in 2009, according to the report.

Thomas Snelling, the city's "green officer" and interim director of growth
management and development services, said the carbon inventory is the first in
Tampa's history and will serve as the benchmark for reducing the city's
emissions in the next 15 years.

"We've made a commitment to reduce our emissions, and from here everything we do
will be measured against this benchmark year," he said. "This is just the
beginning."

The city will face challenges.

Tampa, with more than 335,000 people, is estimated to grow by an estimated 21
percent between now and 2025, according to the study.

Meanwhile Tampa's communitywide greenhouse gas emissions could rise to nearly 12
million tons by 2025, a 32 percent increase from the 2009 levels.

Tampa officials want to roll back those levels through a mix of transportation
and energy conservation programs targeting emissions both at the government
level and communitywide.

Among the proposals: retrofitting city-owned buildings and traffic signals with
energy-efficient lighting, increasing recycling levels and planting more trees.

Other emission-reducing measures would focus on public education, from
encouraging commuters to ride bicycles to work to expanding the use of
low-emission vehicles.

Wells, from USF, said the city's plans are "bold" and will "require some tough
decisions in the current economic climate" about where they devote limited
resources.

"They're not just talking about turning off lights at the end of the day or
going after low-hanging fruit," he said. "They're talking about redesigning the
city for the future."

Given the city's budgetary constraints, funding for the upgrades will have to
come from state and federal grants and the private sector. "We just don't have
the money," Snelling said.

The city already has taken some steps, including expanding the city's recycling
program, offering tax incentives to developers to build environmentally friendly
buildings and requiring city buildings to be constructed using those sustainable
practice standards.

Money for the $70,000 study, conducted by the private consulting firm Atkins,
came from a federal energy conservation grant. Energy usage -- gas, electricity,
and petroleum -- for the city-owned facilities and utility accounts were
measured to determine the emissions.

The study didn't compare Tampa's greenhouse gas emissions to state or national
levels or calculate per-capita emissions.

A Tribune review of inventories conducted by other cities -- studying emissions
of the same greenhouse gases and using similar criteria -- suggests Tampa is in
the higher range.

For example, Boston, which has nearly twice the population of Tampa, emitted 1
million fewer tons communitywide in 2009, while the municipal government emitted
63,410 fewer tons.

Miami, with a population slightly higher than Tampa, emitted 4.1 million tons
less communitywide in 2007, its most recent study, while the city government
produced 163,673 fewer tons.

Still, Wells said comparisons between cities can be misleading. Factors such
climate conditions, traffic patterns, the kind of fuel used to generate
electricity and commercial and residential development can make those
comparisons difficult to draw, he said.

Tampa's emissions account for only a small portion of Florida's carbon
footprint, which was estimated at nearly 337 million tons in 2005, according to
the state's most recent inventory.

Wells said he hopes the report will get people talking about reducing energy
consumption andtransportation alternatives.

"Or at the least," he said, "educate them that transportation and energy are key
issues."

cwade@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7679

Photo: New York City

Photo: Baltimore

Photo: Tampa

Photo Credit: TRIBUNE FILE

Photo: The McKay Bay Waste-to-Energy facility accounted for about 35 percent of
Tampa's carbon emissions in 2009.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

So far, La Niña is all wet

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 378 words


Forecast of warm, dry winter is chillingly off base

BY NEIL JOHNSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- This winter was supposed to be dry and warm, or at least that's what
forecasters expected when water in the Pacific Ocean began to rapidly cool late
last year forming a La Niña.

So far, though, December and January have been neither.

When water in the equatorial Pacific cools as it did in the late summer, changes
in the atmosphere reach across the continent and alter Florida's weather.

During a La Niña, or cooler than normal water temperatures in the Pacific, our
usually warm and dry winter typically becomes warmer and drier than normal.

This year, Tampa saw its coldest December since records started in 1890 and
January was the fifth highest rainfall on record.

"It's been the opposite of what we expect during a La Niña," said David Zierden,
state climatologist.

Forecasters were sure Florida would see higher temperatures and less rain
because the current La Niña is one of the strongest in 60 years. It came on like
gangbusters in June and July with possibly the fastest drop in Pacific Ocean
temperatures scientists have seen, Zierden said.

December went against the climate predictions with an average temperature in
Tampa of 53.2 degrees, or 10.1 degrees below normal, and January's 6.3 inches of
rain was 4inches above normal.

Other changes in the atmosphere can trump the effects of a La Niña, said Amy
Godsey, state meteorologist.

Areas of shifting high and low pressure over northern latitudes open the path
for storms and frigid air moving across the United States.

One of the changing high and low pressure areas called the North Atlantic
Oscillation can bring frigid air and snow to the eastern part of the country
such as the storms that pelted the Northeast.

A different swing in the high and low pressure areas can mean more mild
temperatures.

Those changes can come and go over weeks.

Our weather pattern could become more typical of a La Niña over the rest of the
winter and bring a run of warm and dry weather.

Forecasts from the national Climate Prediction Center call for below-normal
rainfall the next three months.

njohnson@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7731

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Attacks made in social context

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words


Political climate also contributes, USF expert says

BY WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

In 2009, an angry tea party crowd shouted down U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, D-Tampa,
as she tried to talk about health care reform at a town hall meeting in Tampa.
Scuffling broke out between security guards and attendees trying to push into
the meeting room.

Castor didn't fear for her own safety, but was shocked by the crowd's behavior,
she said.

But in the aftermath of the weekend shooting of an Arizona congresswoman, Castor
saidU.S. political rhetoric needs to be toned down, or more such shootings could
occur.

She acknowledged that Jared Loughner, the alleged assailant of Democratic U.S.
Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, was "a mentally ill young man" and virtually nothing is
known about his motives.

But, she said, "You can't take a person out of the charged atmosphere. The
rhetoric out here is overheated all across the country. If we want to prevent
this from happening again, we've got to tone down the rhetoric."

As the political blogosphere and airwaves reverberate with accusations and
outraged responses, there are indications Castor and others saying the same
thing may have a point.

There is no scientific evidence that today's polarized political climate
contributes to violence in this case or in general, said Randy Borum, a
University of South Florida psychologist who studies motivations for violence.

But, he said, just calling someone "crazy" isn't an explanation.

Extreme behavior, including assassination, "is rarely just the function of
what's going on in somebody's head.It's usually at least partly a function of a
social context, and political climate might be part of that context," he said.

"The unanswerable part of the question is, had it not been for inflammatory
political rhetoric, would he have found something else for his cause?" Borum
said.

When Borum and a group of colleagues studied motivations of assassins in the
1990s, one surprising finding was "how diverse their motives were, and there
were usually multiple motivations," he said.

In the aftermath ofSaturday's shooting, there have been widespread calls for
politicians and their supporters to tone down their rhetoric. But there
isskepticism that any such cooling will occur, or will last.

"We're all guilty at times of hyperbole, and all should examine our rhetoric,"
said Steve Schale, a Florida-based Democratic strategist. "I hope going forward
everybody will sort of own their part of it."

Castor cited the economic depression, overheated political rhetoric,
"glorification of violence and guns, and the unlimited money that can go into
political advertising, where people can say anything and don't have to say who
they are" as causes for "the coarsening of our discourse" and factors that could
contribute to political violence.

Rick Wilson, a Tallahassee-based Republican media consultant, summed up the
conservative reaction to the shooting, saying there's no reason to attribute it
to political rhetoric. He said Democrats and the left are trying to stoke the
issue for political gain.

"It's a horrible commentary on the shameless American left that they are willing
to leap to that conclusion and try to leverage political gain for themselves
from a horrible tragedy," he said. "He was crazy. People who are crazy are
crazy," he said.

University of Central Florida political scientist Aubrey Jewett is pessimistic
about long-term change in U.S. political rhetoric. He expects some change for
the next few weeks, but "as the election season starts heating up, we'll see the
rhetoric heat back up with it."

Schale said fractionalization of news media and society also is to blame. "We
all live in our own tents; we watch our own news, and we all think the other
side is always wrong," he said.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7761

Reporter Keith Morelli contributed to this report.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 18, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time to change how we view 'nuclear power'

BYLINE: STUART FARRIMOND, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1044 words


BY STUART FARRIMOND

Special To The Tampa Tribune

We are in an increasingly energy-hungry world. As we sit enjoying breakfast in
well-lit, air conditioned homes, Nigeria is crippled by power outages. The most
rapidly developing African nation is blighted by near-continuous black-outs. At
night, families huddle around kerosene burners for heat and light.

However, we in the West are not immune to the perils of energy shortages. Oil
supplies are dwindling, and the USA's aging electricity grid is buckling under
our insatiable appetite for 24/7 air conditioning, computing and entertainment.
Washington, D.C., recently saw a new wave of blackouts -- one, ironically,
causing a shutdown in the nation's electricity control center.

Unless something is done soon, our future could be a very dark one.

A few weeks ago I wrote an article about an alternative nuclear power called
thorium reactors ("The future of nuclear power after Fukushima," Views, April
17). Promising clean, affordable, safe power, thorium energy could meet the
world's needs both for today and tomorrow.

Not everyone saw it that way: The piece was greeted by Tampa readers with a
mixture of fervent excitement and cautious skepticism. Many wanted more answers
-- surely, the solution can't be that simple.

So, in an attempt to get to the core of the matter, I approached some experts to
get those questions answered.

Kirk Sorenson is the nation's figurehead in the "clean nuclear power"
revolution. He became inspired about thorium energy while working as a novice
engineer for NASA. By chance, he stumbled upon an old nuclear power manuscript
from the 1950s. Thumbing through its dusty pages he was instantly captivated by
the potential of this long-neglected technology. After half a career dedicated
to researching and testing thorium power, Sorenson is now the USA's top thinker
in alternative nuclear power. So convinced that thorium offers real solutions,
he even ditched his day job to form a new thorium-energy company, Flibe Energy.

Had Fukushima, Chernobyl and Three Mile Island been thorium reactors, it is
unlikely the word "disaster" and "atomic energy" would be so synonymous,
Sorenson exhorts: "The key to safety is the fluoride reactor technology."

John Kutsch, another leading light in thorium technologies and executive
director of the Thorium Energy Alliance, agrees. "Fukushima absolutely,
positively would not have happened. ... It would have been impossible to hurt [a
thorium reactor] by flooding them. They would have just frozen in place," he
says.

Thorium reactor technology sounds too good to be true. In terms of efficiency
and waste, thorium reactors would blow conventional nuclear power off the map -
they are to conventional atomic energy what a hybrid car is to a gas-guzzling
Chevrolet. Thorium is plentiful, and radioactive waste is negligible. So I
probed Sorenson, "There must be some disadvantages?" His reply was telling: He
insists that the main problem with thorium energy is "that people don't know
about it."

He went on: Moving forward with thorium-generated electricity means "educating
the populace that liquid-fluoride thorium reactor technology can solve the
issues of nuclear power that have troubled them in the past." The stigma of
"nuclear" is a tough one to shake. Because of this, it seems many of us would
rather stay in the comfort of our aging Chevrolets.

These staunch advocates of alternative nuclear power are not without their
skeptics. Among them is geology expert Dr. Chuck Magee from the Australian
National University. Something of a lone voice in a climate of enthusiasm, Magee
insists that thorium is neither as abundant nor as foolproof as Sorenson and
Kutsch would have us believe. Kutsch rebuffs his comments, saying, "Thorium is
more abundant than lead [and] is usable practically right from the ground, so no
filthy refining is needed."

Nevertheless, even enthusiastic Sorenson concedes that thorium may not be
perfect. Thorium reactors offer "about 95 percent safety improvement [but] you
can still build an unsafe thorium reactor if you're a bad or incompetent
engineer." So even if thorium reactors won't scare the neighbors with
radioactive emissions and can't be turned into a nuclear bomb, they certainly
aren't the sort of thing you want to bang together in your garage on a rainy
Sunday afternoon.

The promise of a safer, cleaner, more abundant power source is exciting, but the
thorium ship is about to leave the dock.

China, India and Japan have all cottoned on and are pressing ahead with funded
thorium energy programs. Their reactors could be online and generating
electricity within about five years.

The USA and Europe are also in an ideal situation to exploit this technology but
are getting left behind. Kutsch told me that the West is being stifled by lack
of funding and "endless regulation meant for uranium and plutonium."

To date, the only active liquid-fluoride thorium reactor project in the United
States is that of Sorenson's start-up company. Europe has none.

I know we all want a better, more sustainable future for both us and our
children; but if we want to get serious about a "clean energy breakthrough" we
need to be serious about change. The way we think about "nuclear power" needs to
change. Laws need to change, and policies need to change. It's time both we and
politicians seriously listen to what visionaries like Sorenson and Kutsch are
saying.

Embracing these new technologies could mean that our future has the potential to
be a very bright one -- and hopefully one without the smell of kerosene.

Dr Stuart Farrimond, originally trained as a medical doctor, teaches science and
health sciences at Wiltshire College in the United Kingdom.

Photo credit: CLIFF MCBRIDE/STAFF

Photo: The Crystal River Nuclear Plant along the Citrus County coast has been
shut down since late 2009, after structural damage was discovered in the plant's
containment structure. Progress Energy Florida, which owns the plant, initially
considered closing it completely but a few weeks ago decided repairing it is the
best option, in part because replacing the lost energy source would be more
expensive over the long run.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 21, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why we should worry about Arctic ice

BYLINE: STEFAN RAHMSTORF, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 739 words


BY STEFAN RAHMSTORF

Special to The Tampa Tribune

Largely unnoticed, a silent drama has been unfolding over the past weeks in the
Arctic. The long-term consequences will far outstrip those of the international
debt crisis or the demise of the Libyan dictatorship, the news stories now
commanding media attention. The drama -- more accurately, a tragedy -- playing
out is the rapid disappearance of the polar ice cap, the Arctic Ocean's defining
feature.

In September, the sea-ice cover on the Arctic Ocean melted all the way back to
the record-low level recorded in September 2007. At 4.4 million square
kilometers, it was the smallest ice cover since satellite observations began 40
years ago, with 40 percent less ice than in the 1970s and 1980s.

Back in 2007, the record low stunned climate scientists, who considered it an
outlier in an otherwise much slower decline in sea-ice cover. We blamed unusual
wind conditions in the Arctic that year. But satellite data since then have
proven us wrong. This year, we reached the same low level without exceptional
wind conditions. It is now clear that we are seeing not just a steady decline of
sea-ice cover but a rapidly accelerating decline.

If this continues, we will probably see an ice-free North Pole within the next
10 to 20 years. Yes, that sounds shocking. But there is good reason to fear that
the rate of decline will indeed continue to rise and that satellite images of a
blue polar ocean will grace the covers of news magazines sooner rather than
later.

The reason is that the ice is also getting thinner. This is harder to measure
than the area of ice cover, which is easily viewed by satellites. But various
data, including measurements from ships and aircraft, confirm that the ice has
thinned by roughly half since the 1980s. This also makes physical sense, given
the rapid warming in the Arctic.

If the ice cover simultaneously shrinks and gets thinner, then the shrinkage in
area is first steady but then accelerates toward the end, when the remaining ice
becomes ever thinner and more vulnerable to melting. This is what I fear is
happening now.

Yearly estimates show that 2011 set an all-time low for overall ice volume --
which is computed from both area and thickness -- in the Arctic Ocean. Ice
volume is already down to about one-third of what it was in the 1980s. If the
downward trend in ice volume of the past 20 years merely continues at a constant
pace, practically no ice will be left in 10 to 15 years.

Global warming, caused by our greenhouse-gas emissions is thus far continuing
unabated. 2010 was one of the two hottest years on record globally, despite
extremely low solar activity. Thus, it is almost certain that warming --
including in the Arctic -- will continue in the coming decades. And the ice will
continue to melt.

This loss of ice will not only turn the Arctic ecosystem upside down, affecting
many animals that are adapted to a life with sea ice. It will affect all of us.
If the Arctic ice disappears in the summer months, we will lose a giant mirror
that reflects solar heat back into space and helps keep the planet cool. The ice
loss will amplify global warming and upset weather patterns.

The ice loss will amplify warming especially in the Arctic -- indeed, this is
already happening. Moreover, disproportionate Arctic warming is already
affecting one of the most important components of the global climate system: the
Greenland Ice Sheet. If this giant structure melts, sea levels worldwide would
rise by about 7 meters (almost 23 feet).

And this melting, it appears, has already begun. As NASA data revealed earlier
this year, the Greenland Ice Sheet is losing mass at an accelerating pace. As
tide gauges from around the world show, sea levels are indeed rising.

The warmer it gets, the faster the sea rises. While sea level was nearly
constant for centuries after the Middle Ages, it rose at an average rate of
almost 2 centimeters per decade during the 20th century. Over the past two
decades, the rate has exceeded 3 centimeters per decade.

This is why we ignore the silent meltdown in the north at our own peril. It is a
sign of global warming -- and a grave warning sign for us all.

Stefan Rahmstorf is professor of physics of the cceans at Potsdam University and
department head at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Other Views

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

From Scott's speech

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 513 words


"We gather today to talk about Florida's future, to assess where we are ... to
define where we want to go ... And to plan how to get there ... The giant oak
trees that surround us here are what they are because acorns had a plan. "

"For all the unemployed, life without a paycheck is a desperate daily scramble
to provide the basics. I've been a child in a home like that.... So, for me, job
creation is a mission. My personal memories fortify my commitment to this
mission."

"Faced with a deep recession, some say the answer is to expand the role of
government. That's the approach the administration chose to take in Washington.
It's the wrong approach. ... Prosperity comes from the private sector."

"All that's been missing is the determination to create the most favorable
business climate in the world ... Florida has to offer the best chance for
financial success. ... Three forces markedly reduce that chance for success --
taxation ... regulation ... and litigation. Together those three form 'The Axis
of Unemployment.' Left unchecked they choke off productive activity."

"We'll also re-examine every regulation to make sure its benefits outweigh its
costs. Unless they are pruned, regulations grow like weeds ... We will conduct a
top to bottom review of all state regulations and weed out unnecessary ones that
hinder job creation."

"Job creators need to know that the state government of Florida stands ready to
work with them, not against them ... Our main message to potential job creators
will be, 'How can we help you succeed?'"

"Floridians have entrusted us with their tax dollars ... We will require
accountability budgeting in state government and force each and every state
department to justify its spending and performance every year."

"Once we take the right steps, Florida will become the most exciting place in
the world to live and work."

"Let's commit today to make Florida the premier location for Innovation. Let's
encourage the modern tinkerers ... the out-of-the box thinkers ... Let's make it
easy to build and grow a business in Florida ... Let's tell the world 'If you
can dream it, it's easy to make it happen in Florida.'"

"The very wealthy will always have plenty of options, but most Floridians ...
have far too little say in how their children are educated or how health care
services are provided. None of this is written in stone. All that's missing is
the courage to change."

"We'll also apply some of the key tools that private businesses use to create a
culture of constant improvement. We'll measure everything ... We'll implement
changes based on what we learn from those measurements. And, most importantly
... we'll hold everyone accountable."

"I believe that each of us is responsible to our Maker for what we do with the
time allotted to us on this Earth. Recognizing that my Maker is watching over my
service as Governor, I will be resolute in seeking bold, positive change."

For the full text of Scott's speech, go to TBO.com.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nature takes central role in film festival

BYLINE: BILL PRESCOTT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 592 words


BY BILL PRESCOTT

The Tampa Tribune

An aging sasquatch decides to retire to the countryside with friends to
contemplate his life.

In an Asian country, the people don't hate bugs; they love and collect them as
pets.

New Yorkers nearly riot when owners of a posh Fifth Avenue building try to
remove a hawk's nest from one of its ledges.

Movies about these and other intriguing scenarios can be seen starting tonight
and for the next eight days at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg. They're
included in the 13th annual Visions of Nature, Voices of Nature Environmental
Film Festival, a free event open to the public.

No tickets are needed, but an open mind could come in handy.

"We look for films that make you look at things differently," said Catherine
Griggs, a festival organizer and associate professor of American Studies at
Eckerd. "We try to avoid the preachy films that bore people."

There are many environmental films made to help people understand the problems.
However, Griggs said, most of them describe a large-scale problem that leaves
the audience with a sense of helplessness about the situation. The lineup for
the Eckerd film fest, though, features movies that approach topics on a more
intimate level.

"We select films on important issues that are engaging films as well," Griggs
said.

But don't expect only one-sided pro-environmental anything movies. One film, she
said, "is critical of the whole idea of climate change." The movie, "Cool It,"
will be followed by a panel discussion about global warming by academics,
scientists and experts. And "there will be a good amount of time for the public
to ask questions," Griggs said.

Filmmakers and film scholars will be on hand before and after each screening to
introduce the feature, and answer questions and engage the audience in
discussions about their perspectives.

The festival begins tonight with "Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives,"
the sasquatch story. A Thai film, it won a Golden Palm award at the 2010 Cannes
Film Festival. As Boonmee recalls his past, ghosts and spirits emerge to comfort
and haunt him. Griggs deemed the film "surreal."

"It's got a lot of buzz," she said.

The other films in the series are "Obselidia," about a door-to-door salesman who
writes a book about obsolete things; "Cool It," which takes exception to the
conclusions of the film "An Inconvenient Truth"; "Split Estate," about the dirty
consequences of natural gas production; "The Greenhorns," about sustainable
agriculture; "Beetle Queen Conquers Tokyo," about Japan's love affair with bugs;
"Bag It!", about an "average guy" who changes his life by deciding not to use
plastic bags at the grocery store; "Nostalgia for the Light," about Chile's
vastAtacama Desert, the driest place on Earth; and "The Legend of Pale Male,"
about a wild red-tailed hawk that appears in New York City's Central Park.

Short films and entries in the Visons/Voices Environmental Short Film
Competition also will be shown.

bprescott@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7644

(CHART) 2011 VISIONS OF NATURE, VOICES OF NATURE ENVIRONMENTAL FILM FESTIVAL

When: Today through Feb. 26. All show times 7 p.m. except 2 p.m. on Sunday for
"Cool It"

Where: Miller Auditorium at Eckerd College, 4200 54th Ave. S. in St. Petersburg.

Cost: Free

Information: www.eckerd.edu/eff/ or call (727) 864-7979

Photo Credit: BALCONY RELEASING

Photo: A hawk glides above New York City's Fifth Avenue in "The Legend of Pale
Male," to be shown at the film fest.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mother Earth finds friends at USF fest

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 365 words


The college's botanical gardens were an apt setting

BY KEVIN WIATROWSKI

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- With Toyota Priuses in the parking lot and organic produce for sale
inside, Saturday's Earth Day celebration at the University of South Florida drew
a varied, if low-key, crowd.

The festival was held beneath the canopy of the USF Botanical Gardens. The list
of participants ranged from Tampa Bay Water and other government agencies to
beekeepers and bluegrass musicians.

Kristen Riley of Tampa brought along her son, Riley Owens, 4. She tries to teach
him the importance of living gently on the Earth.

"We touch on why we recycle, what the different symbols mean," she said.

Earth Day is officially April 22. It began 41 years ago at the urging of
then-Wisconsin Sen. Gaylord Nelson.

A year before, the United States had gone through the shock of seeing a river --
Cleveland's Cuyahoga -- catch fire thanks to the level of pollution it carried.

The early 1970s became a period of governmental and nongovernmental action on
the environment, including adoption of the Clean Water and Clean Air acts.

Decades later, global climate change is seen as a looming threat, along with
potential shortages of clean water and fossil fuels.

Susan Daddono was among the vendors at USF; the Safety Harbor woman was selling
health and beauty products.

Daddono said the current environmental challenges seem huge but could be
addressed if everyone made small changes to their lives -- what they eat, how
they get around, even the kind of health care products they use.

"Just one simple step," she said. "If everyone did just one little step, we
could make a difference."

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

Photo Credit: SCOTT ISKOWITZ/STAFF

Photo: Magnolia Organics offers up fresh vegetables at the Earth Day celebration
at the University of South Florida on Saturday.

Photo: Jonathan Fisher of Fisher Home Bees shows off some honey bees. The
company sells honey, bees and pollination services.

Photo: Riley Owens, 4, colors a lion at the event. His mom, Kristen Riley of
Tampa, teaches him to be Earth-friendly.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hiring incentives tweaked

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


County changes rules in attempt to spur job growth

BY MIKE SALINERO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- In an attempt to jolt the stagnant local economy back to life,
Hillsborough County commissioners enhanced economic development incentives
Wednesday.

Commissioners unanimously passed the incentive changes after watching a
presentation that showed the Tampa metropolitan area lagging far behind Raleigh,
N.C.; Charlotte, N.C.; and Atlanta in economic growth.

"We have experienced more job loss percentage-wise than the nation as a whole,"
said Chief Financial Administrator Bonnie Wise in her presentation to
commissioners.

Among the changes: lowering the average wage companies have to pay to qualify
for the county's Premier Business Bonus program from 150 percent of the average
area wage to 115 percent, or $46,833. Commissioners also changed the program's
required minimum capital investment from $36,000 to $10,000 per new job created.

Companies that meet the lower thresholds can get $300 per job from the county if
they locate in an unincorporated area, or $150 if they set up shop in Tampa,
Plant City or Temple Terrace. The municipalities have the option of matching the
county's $150 incentive payment.

The Qualified Target Industry tax refund, which matches state money with local
tax incentives, was also modified to lower required wage levels.

New employers can now match the lower of average wages paid in the state, county
or the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater metropolitan area. Previously, the
companies had to pay the average metro area wage.

And commissioners accelerated the process for companies to get property tax
exemptions that were approved by voters last November. Now it takes two, instead
of three, commission meetings to approve a tax exemption.

"This communicates to the business community that we have a proactive and open
business climate," Wise said. "It makes us more competitive."

In other business, commissioners refused to hear a presentation by the
consultant group Gordian Knot LLC, which wanted to do an efficiency study of the
county attorney's office for $210,000 plus expenses. Instead, commission
Chairman Al Higginbotham made a motion to have interim County Attorney Don Odom
bring back cost-cutting suggestions derived from an earlier, $25,000 Gordian
Knot study.

John Foster, one of the Gordian Knot partners, said after the meeting that the
county had missed a chance to save hundreds of thousands of dollars.

"If you or I had $200,000 to invest in improving our savings and efficiencies to
achieve $600,000 in annual savings, I'm sure we'd do that all day," he said.

msalinero@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-8303

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Too cool about warming

BYLINE: MARTY ESSEN, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 652 words


BY MARTY ESSEN

Special to The Tampa Tribune

As a professional speaker, I've spent much of the past four years performing at
colleges across the country. While the subject of my show is rare and
interesting wildlife on all seven continents, I also address the effects of
global warming.

I do this by showing a photo of a Canadian glacier with a large lake at its
foot. "That lake wasn't there 50 years ago," I tell my audience. "That lake is
there because of human-caused global warming. Despite the overwhelming
scientific evidence that global warming is real and caused by humans, it amazes
me that it's still a controversy here in the United States. But it's not a
scientific controversy; it's a political controversy. In fact, 97 percent of
climate scientists -- those who do the actual peer-reviewed research -- are in
agreement that global warming is human-induced."

After a recent show on a major college campus, the university's chancellor
approached the stage and told me how much he appreciated what I said about
global warming. I thanked him and mentioned that the first time I made the
statement, I expected at least one student to heckle me. But after countless
shows, no one had issued a challenge.

The chancellor replied, "You'll probably never have a student challenge you.
Students today are different than they were during the Vietnam War. It's rare
for them to passionately speak-up either for or against an issue -- and when it
comes solving our global warming crisis, we need them to speak up."

Although there are many things we can personally do to fight global warming
(driving smart, recycling, updating to high-efficiency appliances, using
florescent light bulbs, adding home insulation, minimizing water use, turning
off lights, limiting air conditioning, etc.), individual efforts are not enough.

The key to defeating global warming is convincing our political leaders that
saving our planet is Job One.

What should our government do? Everything possible to accelerate the transition
from fossil fuels to renewable energy. A partial list includes protecting
sensitive areas from risky oil-drilling operations, strictly regulating
coal-burning, dramatically increasing automaker fuel-efficiency requirements,
offering generous subsidies for installing solar panels, and most importantly,
investing heavily in alternative energy research and development.

For those who believe it's not our government's place to get involved, just
think of what the government does now to protect our oil interests in the Middle
East.

To impede progress, fossil-fuels-industry-linked think tanks produce opinion
pieces, creating doubt that human-induced global warming is real. Fox News,
conservative talk radio and right-wing bloggers then promote those ideas to
their unquestioning audiences.

Although their efforts resemble earlier attempts to hide the dangers of tobacco,
CFCs and DDT, this time the perpetrators are much better at delivering their
message. Talking points such as "CO{-2} is not pollution," "in the 1970s
scientists were predicting an ice age" and "Climategate proves the scientists
lied" are examples of their work.

For the record, too much CO{-2} is a problem because it traps heat like the
windows of a car on a sunny day; in the 1970s only 10 percent of climate
scientists were predicting a cooling period; and multiple independent panels
have cleared the Climategate scientists of any wrongdoing.

Just as students once rose up to save lives by protesting our government's
failure to end a war, they must now rise up to protest our government's failure
to start a war -- a war against global warming that will literally save lives.

Marty Essen is a frequently booked college speaker and the author of the
award-winning book, "Cool Creatures, Hot Planet: Exploring the Seven
Continents."

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Natural gas could fuel economy, drive energy independence

BYLINE: BILL BUNTING

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 662 words


By BILL BUNTING

With the national unemployment rate at 9.1 percent and a much higher rate in the
Tampa Bay area, something has to change. On one of my guest appearances on
"Florida This Week" on WEDU my comments on natural gas as part of the solution
generated a lot of interest. Here are my thoughts.

Every time an American fills the gas tank, we are sending money out of the
country -- in some cases to people who hate us. We shouldn't be dependent on
foreign oil where we are strengthening the economy of anti-Americans and where
oil can be $55 a barrel one day and $150 a barrel one month later.

Oil at $85 a barrel is costing us $3.50 a gallon at the pump. There are abundant
resources of natural gas in North America. Natural gas, where available at the
gas pump, costs $2 a gallon or slightly less.

Switching to natural gas would not only reduce dependence on foreign oil, it
could help get Americans back to work. Instead of bolstering the economies in
the Middle East and Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, Americans in Midwestern states
along with Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio could provide natural gas to the
Tampa Bay area, putting Americans to work and keeping money here. In turn, there
would be more income tax dollars that would help keep Americans and our Social
Security system solvent. This effort also would reduce greenhouse gases in the
environment.

I have contacted Hillsborough County Commissioner Al Higginbotham, Pinellas
County Commissioner Neil Brickfield and Pasco County Commissioner Henry Wilson,
along with representatives from TECO and People's Choice, to get together to
talk about how we can make changes in the Tampa Bay area to shift to natural
gas. I am in the process of contacting a representative from Clearwater Gas as
well.

The first step should be getting all county and municipal vehicles operating on
natural gas. This would not only pay for itself but would enhance the life of
the vehicle engine. Pasco County Administrator John Gallagher, who has the most
experience, will join us in the talks.

When Gallagher was New Port Richey city manager in the 1970s, he had a fleet of
vehicles running on propane. By combining the purchasing power of three counties
and 2.5 million people (a larger population than some states), along with
long-term contracts, the Tampa Bay area would be in a better position to
negotiate and make the shift to natural gas vehicles. Stabilized overhead on
government vehicles would help keep real estate taxes down.

According to NGV America (Natural Gas Vehicles for America, www.ngvamerica.org),
30 different manufacturers produce 100 models of light-, medium- and heavy-duty
vehicles and engines for retrofit. A 2011 list is available at
www.ngvamerica.org/pdfs/marketplace/MP.Analyses.NGVs-a.pdf.

Currently, Emerald Coast Clean Cities Coalition is working on using more natural
gas; this includes Escambia, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa, Walton, Bay, Washington and
Gadsden counties. In the Suncoast region, there is an ongoing effort in
Hernando, Pasco, Hillsborough, Pinellas, Polk, Manatee, Sarasota, Charlotte, Lee
and Collier counties.

However, we need a coordinated effort to make effective changes, and a Tampa Bay
coalition is a good first step.

If we are successful in these talks, Gov. Rick Scott and incoming House Speaker
Will Weatherford, can have serious discussions to bring in car manufacturers and
hopefully put in a plant to produce natural gas vehicles in the bay area.

In addition, coordinated efforts can expand across the state. Utility companies
should follow suit and make the shift to reduce our electric rates, improve air
quality and add jobs in America.

While Washington is talking about getting jobs, Tampa Bay can lead the way in
this effort.

Bill Bunting is Republican state committeeman for Pasco County. He lives in
Hudson.


Photo: Bill Bunting

Photo credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

YOUR VIEWS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Florida's geology is changing

I gasped after reading Matthew Glans' comment concerning the rise of sinkholes
not being due to "any naturally occurring phenomenon (Florida's geology hasn't
changed) but rather lawyers out for their next payday" ("Sinkhole controversy,"
Your Views, Sept. 22).

Glans, a legislative specialist, needs to take a science course.

Actually, the geological patterns are changing, thanks to overdevelopment in
Florida and changes in climate. Florida's landform is "karst" or limestone,
which is being burdened by severe drought, which intensifies its "brittleness"
and vulnerability to sinkholes.

Land areas where the limestone landform is close to the ground surface are
especially susceptible to sinkholes.

Due to overdevelopment in the last few decades, Florida has endured an increase
in well pumping, vibrations from heavy traffic and numerous excavations of
artificial retention ponds.

When intense rains and storms arise or a water line breaks during road
construction, the already compromised ground is ripe for a sinkhole.

Chyrisse P. Tabone

Dade City

Republican games

President Obama's administration is facing many of the same challenges FDR did
in the Great Depression -- i.e., wars financial crisis and drought in the
Midwest.

And just like FDR, Obama is facing an uphill battle to get his financial
recovery plan through both houses of Congress. FDR ultimately succeeded.

One can only hope that Obama's plan gets the green light.

I applaud Obama's efforts to do what's right for America. In my opinion, the
Republican Party is playing a game called "Unseat Obama."

While they're making points with each other, the rest of us are wondering when
they will actually do the job they were elected to do, set aside greed and do
what's best for their constituency.

Anita J. Latter

Tampa

Gay adoption

Candy Olson's recent commentary in the The Tampa Tribune ("Opening eyes and
hearts to gay adoptions," Views, Sept. 20) may lead some readers to believe that
her views are those of the Catholic church she attends and serves as a
Eucharistic minister.

The Catholic church's official policy is to oppose homosexual adoptions because
it implies acceptance of the assumption that gender roles are interchangeable,
which leads to the another assumption, that the influences of two women, or two
men, are no different and just as good as the influences of a mother and a
father.

A child who grows up with a mother and a father is exposed to both the masculine
and the feminine, which allows that child to grow in an intimate, connected and
balanced experience to both sexes.

It is the church's official policy that every child should have this right.

Olson's view on this issue is in direct opposition of church policy.

Please do not misinterpret her personal advocacy of the rights for homosexuals
to adopt to be the official position of the Catholic church.

S. Meade

Tampa

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TV documentary recalls Pearl Harbor

BYLINE: Walt Belcher, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 561 words


By Walt Belcher

The Tampa Tribune

Almost immediately after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor, the federal
government feared there might be more attacks and realized President Franklin D.
Roosevelt didn't have a bullet-resistant car.

And he couldn't run out and buy one. Federal law at the time prohibited the
administration from spending more than $750 on any automobile.

So to get Roosevelt from The White House to the Capitol to ask Congress to
declare war, the Secret Service borrowed Al Capone's 1928 armored Cadillac from
the Treasury Department, which had seized the vehicle when the gangster was
convicted of income tax evasion.

Small details and odd facts make history interesting.

And a new documentary, "Pearl Harbor: 24 Hours After," is full of them. Debuting
at 8 tonight on the History Channel, the two-hour film recalls what happened on
Dec. 7 and 8 in 1941.

Today marks the 70th anniversary of the surprise Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor
and other U.S. military installations in Hawaii, an action that plunged the
country into World War II.

The History Channel's film is based on a book, "Pearl Harbor: FDR Leads the
Nation into War," by Steven M. Gillon of the University of Oklahoma. Gillon is a
consultant for the network.

Another interesting detail from the documentary: Roosevelt's advisers felt that
his six-minute and 30 second speech was too short. But it was effective and his
"a day that will live in infamy" line still resonates.

Questions are raised about whether Roosevelt may have been slightly under the
influence of cocaine, which might have been used as a remedy for chronic sinus
congestion.

Reportedly, Roosevelt's initial reaction after learning of the attack was an
agonizing cry of "No!"

For a fictional look back at Pearl Harbor, Turner Classic Movies offers "From
Here to Eternity," at 8 tonight. This 1953 adaptation of a James Jones novel is
about the soldiers on a Honolulu army base before the Pearl Harbor attack. It
stars Burt Lancaster, Frank Sinatra, Montgomery Cliff, Donna Reed and Deborah
Kerr.

CLINTON DEBUT: Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton will make her debut as an
NBC News correspondent on "Rock Center with Brian Williams" on Monday night.

She joined the network last month. Her report will be on a nonprofit
organization in her home state of Arkansas.

Clinton is the second former first daughter to work for NBC. Jenna Bush Hager,
daughter of George W. and Laura Bush, joined NBC's "Today" show in 2009.

COLD TV: Discovery Channel says its documentary series "Frozen Planet" will
premiere March 18 with seven episodes, including a program on climate change
hosted by David Attenborough.

On that seventh episode, theBritish naturalist will investigate what rising
temperatures will mean for the planet and life on it, Discovery said Tuesday.

"Frozen Planet" is described as "the ultimate portrait of our Earth's polar
regions." It will be narrated by Alec Baldwin.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.


(CHART) Tune in Tonight

"The Middle," 8 p.m., ABC

It's a quadruple night of new Christmas-themed comedy with "The Middle,"
"Suburgatory,""Modern Family" and "Happy Endings."

Photo: A History documentary shows how President Franklin D. Roosevelt responded
after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Roadblock' or sprawl manager?

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words


Scott wants to dismantle agency that reviews growth

BY MIKE SALINERO

The Tampa Tribune

"Job killer" is how Gov. Rick Scott described the Florida Department of
Community Affairs.

State Sen. Mike Bennett, R-Bradenton, dubbed the department a "monster
roadblock" to economic development.

Scott and Bennett are not alone. The agency charged with managing growth in the
country's fourth most populous state is under attack by big business, developers
and conservative politicians.

Scott has proposed dismantling the department, shrinking the number of DCA
employees from 358 to 40, and slashing its $780 million budget by 83 percent.

The governor and his business supporters see the DCA as a meddling bureaucracy
that slows down worthy building projects, impeding any chance of recovery for
the state's comatose real estate market.

Yet the agency's supporters counter that one of Florida's most robust real
estate booms crashed, not because of DCA's review process but because of
overbuilding and inflated real estate prices.

"Without the state review we had, there would be more sprawl, more
overdevelopment, more traffic congestion, more environmental degradation, more
crowded schools," said Tom Pelham, who served as DCA secretary twice, most
recently for Gov. Charlie Crist.

"If you remove the state review, and return to the old way of doing things, I
think that would be the result," Pelham said.

Even Billy Buzzett, Scott's newly appointed DCA secretary, said in a recent
presentation to legislators that the department approves 93 percent of local
growth plans it reviews.

Yet, under heavy lobbying from builders and other big business, the Legislature
seems poised to decimate DCA in the name of job creation.

"We have companies that would have moved to Florida years ago if they could have
got a permit out of DCA," Bennett said. "They really have been a hindrance to
job creation and growth in so many areas."

The Department of Community Affairs grew out of the 1985 Growth Management Act.

Florida's population was exploding at the time, transforming sleepy towns into
busy exurbs. Lawmakers wanted to make sure local governments had plans to guide
the growth to areas where roads, schools, sewer and water were available and
away from environmentally sensitive lands.

The law required all cities and counties to draw up comprehensive, or "comp,"
plans to guide land-use decisions. The DCA was given authority to review the
plans to make sure they complied with the provisions of the growth-management
law.

It's these reviews that developers see as tiresome at best and obstacles to
growth at worst.

They note that the local development regulatory process, which includes noticed
public hearings, can take a year or more. Final decisions on projects are made
by elected public officials or their appointees.

"Why should you have a state agency overlooking every single Walmart in the
state?" asked Nancy Linnan, a lawyer representing Associated Industries of
Florida, the Florida Home Builders Association and other business groups.

"It's stifling the creativity of local governments in dealing with their own
problems," Linnan said. "They have the tools to do that; they have the local
officials."

Bennett, the Bradenton senator, said DCA delayed construction of Babcock Ranch,
billed as an environmentally sustainable town in Charlotte and Lee counties, and
the city of Destiny, planned but never built in Osceola County at Yeehaw
Junction.

A spokeswoman for Kitson & Partners, developers of Babcock Ranch, said DCA's
review caused no problems or delays.

But in the case of Destiny, the planned city that won the Clinton Climate
Initiative award for it eco-friendly design, the department's lengthy review did
contribute to the project's failure, said developer Anthony Pugliese.

"Our lenders pulled out of the deal," Pugliese said. "They pulled out for other
reasons, but (DCA) was a contributing factor because we could have got it done."

The agency's supporters agree the growth-management law may need changing to
speed up the development process. They even concede that DCA probably shouldn't
review every comp plan amendment.

But when big development projects cross county lines or infringe on valuable
ecosystems, they say, a state referee is still needed to decide what's in the
best interest of all the people, not just special interests.

Environmental groups point to the department's rejection of a Miami-Dade County
comp plan change that would have shifted the county's urban boundary. The change
was approved to allow water and sewer line extensions to a planned warehousing
and distribution center in the Everglades, recognized as a World Heritage Site
and International Biosphere Reserve.

The county and the developers appealed the case to an administrative law court,
but DCA prevailed there, too.

"If we are going to be talking about cases where paving over the Everglades is
at issue, we think it's absolutely essential there be a traffic cop at the state
level that will blow the whistle and be able to step in and say no," said
Charles Lee, a lobbyist for Audubon of Florida.

Even when DCA agrees with a comp plan amendment, just having the agency involved
gives residents who oppose a development an avenue to challenge the decision.

For example, five residents of Wakulla County, a rural county southwest of
Tallahassee, challenged a comp plan amendment in 2002 to change 266 acres from
rural to urban zoning. The rezoning would have allowed 404 houses to be built on
land that drains toward Spring Creek Spring, the largest volume spring in the
state.

The residents argued that the geology of the area -- limestone rock with
numerous fissures and sinkholes -- put Spring Creek at risk of contamination
from urban pollutants. The DCA ruled in favor of the county and developer
despite those concerns.

But the residents appealed the agency's order to an administrative law court in
Tallahassee, where they prevailed. The

judge's ruling was later upheld by the governor and Cabinet.

Howard Kessler, a Wakulla County commissioner at the time, said that without the
DCA, the citizens would have had nowhere to appeal.

"The fact that DCA was there, and provided a way for input other than just one
side of the story, was a very valuable asset to all the citizens of the state,"
Kessler said.

Buzzett, the new DCA Secretary, declined to comment. But he said recently he
supports a diminished state role in growth management.

"Local governments have become more sophisticated in planning and managing
growth," he said.

That may be true for urban counties such as Hillsborough and Pinellas. Peter
Aluotto, Hillsborough's director of Planning and Growth Management, said he
remembers few if any projects delayed because of DCA.

But rural counties like Wakulla have small planning staffs, if they have one at
all. Commissioners in those counties, desperate for any kind of economic
development, often approve developments that endanger priceless natural
resources, DCA supporters say.

Susan Anderson, a former DCA regional planner in the Big Bend area, argues that
in addition to helping smaller counties, the department can look at impacts from
multicounty developments.

"Local government tends to be focused on very narrow interests," Anderson said.
"And they are more politically vulnerable than the state's review agency is."

msalinero@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-8303

Photo Credit: FRED BELLET/STAFF

Photo: The Department of Community Affairs grew out of the 1985 Growth
Management Act, which required

all cities and countries to draw up comprehensive plans to guide land-use
decisions.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Blissful boot camp

BYLINE: MICHELE SAGER, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words


Fitness vacation packages allow travelers to get away while they get in shape

BY MICHELE SAGER

The Tampa Tribune

ST. PETE BEACH -- In the morning shadows of the Don CeSar Beach Resort, most of
those milling about took in the crisp morning air, sipping coffee on the pool
deck or strolling the beach.

But one group didn't seem to notice the surrounding luxury.

With twisted faces and clenched fists, the vacationers grunted and moaned with
every movement, their sweat mixing into the powdery white sand beneath them.
Their morning was full of lunges, sit-ups, squats and a four-mile run along the
shoreline -- all part of an expensive fitness vacation package offered at the
resort.

Fitness vacations are becoming a popular niche in the travel industry. Such
trips often cater to "fitness fanatics" who want to do more than lounge on a
beach or soak in the spa. Organizers plan vacationers' fitness activities and
meals and provide counseling.

Programs, such as the one at the Don Cesar, are geared as boot camps, while fat
camps, girls getaways, adventure treks and other types of fitness vacations also
are popular.

Maria Walker founded Getaway Fitness, the Westchase company that organizes the
fitness vacations at the resort, three years ago. She wanted to serve the
traveler who wanted to combine a luxury vacation with a grueling workout.

"People do it for all different reasons," she said. "Some do it simply because
they want to get back in shape and believe they'll be more motivated in a
tropical setting. Others have had something happen in their life, and they are
looking for a boost to change their life."

Getaway Fitness runs programs at a San Diego resort and locally at the Don
CeSar. Walker also plans to expand to a golf resort soon.

Guests pay between $1,000 and $7,000, depending on the length of their stays,
which typically range from a day to two weeks. Each day, trainers lead them
through five hours of intense fitness activities that include cardio, strength
training, biking, kayaking and swimming. The package also includes their stay at
the resort.

Trainers try to take the sting out of the workouts by providing scenic
surroundings for exercisers. Instead of sweating through routines in a
windowless gym, guests can test their limits while staring at blue skies and
pounding waves.

Trainer Kellie Pioch works with people at every fitness level.

"We get the fitness fanatics, but we also get the people who don't think they
can do anything," she said. "But they usually leave here with a sense that they
are physically and mentally stronger than they ever thought."

Lots of companies have started offering fitness travel packages across the
country, and even abroad, usually in warmer climates or at all-inclusive
resorts.

Fit Interest Tours, based in San Diego, created a fitness division two years ago
to offer fitness-focused trips.

"Our clients are typically the fitness nuts, like marathon runners who don't
want to just sit around a hotel on vacation," said David Lawrence, the company's
director. "They are also people who may have once been fit and are trying to
jump start their fitness program again."

Booking these types of vacations in slow economic times can be tough, though,
Lawrence said.

"These are definitely luxury vacations, and people are cutting back on
luxuries," he said. "But that said, interest remains high in getaways that
center on fitness."

Fitness vacations are a hot trend in the travel industry, said Julia Valentour,
a spokeswoman for the American Council on Exercise.

"There seems to be more and more of these out there because they appeal to all
types of travelers," she said.

Some trips focus on individual fitness, while other vacations center on sports
such as golf, Valentour said. Vacationers also can get price breaks on trips at
luxury resorts by offering to teach fitness classes.

Getaway Fitness offers a less-expensive option for locals. For $200, people can
get the same five hours of fitness as vacationers, plus breakfast at the hotel.

Those who sign on come looking to change their bodies but end up changing their
lives, Walker said.

"Many of these people have had something happen to them, and they are just
looking for something to give them that boost to move to the next level," she
said.

Jennifer Thimmesch came from Keller, Texas, a suburb of Fort Worth, for a 14-day
program at the Don CeSar.

"I was in between jobs and feeling blah, and I was completely out of shape," she
said.

"The first day was so hard I was ready to go home, but I stuck with it, and it
changed my life.

"It's really not a vacation; it's an experience. This isn't about my family, my
kids, it's just about me."

msager@tampatrib.com

(727) 815-1073

Photo Credit: RUGENE MOORE/STAFF

Photo: Jennifer Thimmesch of Keller, Texas, top, is working up an early morning
sweat during boot camp at the Don CeSar Beach Resort in St. Pete Beach. She is
one of many people who are combining their luxury vacations with grueling
workouts.

Photo: The beach near the Don CeSar resort in St. Pete Beach is not just a place
to relax, it's also a scenic location to get in shape if you sign up for a
fitness boot camp.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 968 words


Foreclosure-prevention workshop is May 21

TAMPA -- U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, D-11th, is hosting her sixth
foreclosure-prevention assistance workshop, scheduled Saturday, May 21, from 9
a.m. until 2 p.m.

The workshop will be held at Jefferson High School, 4401 W. Cypress St.

Representatives from banks, nonprofits and other community groups will be on
hand to answer questions, provide one-on-one counseling and share financial
advice, including details about the Hardest Hit program.

For details, call (813) 871-2817 or visit www.castor.house.gov.

28% of homeowners are now 'underwater'

NEW YORK -- More than 28 percent of U.S. homeowners owed more than their
properties were worth in the first quarter as values fell the most since 2008,
Zillow Inc. said Monday.

Homeowners with negative equity increased from 22 percent a year earlier as home
prices slumped 8.2 percent over the past 12 months, the Seattle-based company
said. About 27 percent of homes were "underwater" in the fourth quarter,
according to Zillow, which runs a website with property-value estimates and real
estate listings.

Home prices fell 3 percent in the first quarter as foreclosures spread and
unemployment remains high, Zillow Chief Economist Stan Humphries said. Prices
won't find a floor until 2012, he said.

U.N.: Renewable sources may power the world

NEW YORK -- Solar power, wind and other forms of renewable energy may meet as
much as 77 percent of global consumption by 2050, according to a United Nations
report.

Moving beyond fossil fuels such as oil and coal to develop sources of renewable
energy will require as much as $5.1 trillion in investment from 2011 through
2020 and an additional $7.2 trillion for the decade ending in 2030, according to
the study by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

Fiat may acquire up to 70% of Chrysler

NEW YORK -- Fiat SpA has options to increase its stake in Chrysler Group LLC to
more than 70 percent as the U.S. government seeks to exit its investments in the
auto industry.

Fiat may buy the U.S. Treasury's remaining stake in the 12 months after it
repays debts to the government, Chrysler said Monday in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chrysler said in April that it would issue
new debt to repay the government loans, allowing Fiat to exercise an option to
increase its stake to 46 percent from 30 percent.

F-150 fuel tank straps may be rust-prone

DETROIT -- U.S. safety regulators are investigating a fuel tank problem that
could affect more than 2.7 million Ford F-150 pickup trucks.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Monday that the steel
straps holding up the truck's gas tank can rust and break, possibly causing a
fuel spill and fire. No injuries have been reported from the possible defect.

The agency is looking into trucks from the 1997 through 2001 model years.
NHTSA's investigations often lead to recalls.

Hertz, Avis in bidding war for Dollar Thrifty

NEW YORK -- Hertz is raising the stakes in its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc. in hopes of besting rival Avis' efforts to acquire the
Oklahoma-based car-rental agency.

The two vehicle rental heavyweights have been in a virtual tug-of-war over
Dollar Thrifty for a little more than a year, with both looking to snag the
Tulsa-based company because its clientele is largely the leisure traveler. Hertz
and Avis cater mostly to business travelers.

Hertz Global Holdings Inc. offered $72 a share in cash and stock Monday, worth
about $2.25 billion and 3.3 percent above Dollar Thrifty's closing price last
week.

Nuclear-power production jumps

NEW YORK -- U.S. nuclear-power production rose 4.7 percent in the largest jump
in more than five months as operators started reactors in New Jersey, Georgia,
Texas and Nebraska, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said.

Power generation nationwide increased 3,301 megawatts from May 6 to 73,358
megawatts, or 72 percent of capacity, the largest increase over three days since
Nov. 23, according to an NRC report Monday and data compiled by Bloomberg.

Twenty-six of the nation's 104 reactors were offline.

HP debuts cheaper online laptops

NEW YORK -- Hewlett-Packard Co., the largest maker of personal computers,
introduced new business laptops and a wireless broadband service designed to
help travelers bypass more expensive plans offered by mobile-phone carriers.

The HP ProBook 5330m and HP EliteBook 2560, which are being released this month,
will be able to use the new HP DataPass online connection, designed to lower
Internet costs for business travelers who need only occasional access.

The industry's PC shipments declined 3.2 percent last quarter, hurt by sales of
tablets, research firm IDC said last month. Hewlett-Packard plans to release its
own tablet called the TouchPad in the next few months.

Sysco reports gains, plans acquisitions

NEW YORK -- Sysco Corp., the biggest North American distributor of food to
restaurants, rose the most since 1987 after sales beat projections and CEO
William Delaney said he's focused on acquisitions.

Sysco said Monday that sales in the third quarter ended April 2 rose to $9.8
billion, beating the $9.5 billion average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Purchases helped increase revenue 0.6 percent, the Houston-based company said.

Shakes, coffee help boost McDonald's

OAK BROOK, Illinois -- Sales of McDonald's shakes, coffee drinks and breakfast
food helped revenue at its restaurants open at least 13 months rise 6 percent in
April, the company said Monday.

Business was strongest overseas, with the figure rising 6.5 percent in Europe,
Asia, the Middle East and Africa. U.S. growth of 4 percent was slower but still
ahead of industry trends.

From staff and wire reports

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce chair

BYLINE: DEREK MAUL, Special correspondent

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 649 words


BY DEREK MAUL

Special correspondent

BRANDON Melissa Snively wears a lot of hats in this town.

She's an Insurance agent, Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce chair, mom of
four, networking professional, Outreach Clinic board member, Junior League,
National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors board member and
Scouting den leader.

"You just roll your sleeves up and get involved," she said. "This is a great
climate for business if you're committed and if you're the right person to be an
entrepreneur."

Snively's commitment to the chamber of commerce has emerged from her
understanding that networking works best when a business puts in as much as it
expect to get out.

"I got involved with the Chamber Ambassadors committee as soon as I joined in
2001," she said. "The idea is to make new members feel welcome and to let them
know about the opportunities. You get what you give and it's come full circle
for me.

"Networking is still primarily about fostering one-on-one relationships. The
Internet is great, but studies still show that when it comes time to purchase
goods or services, most people want to do business in person."

Her goals as 2011 chair include membership retention, membership growth, and
making sure the chamber provides the highest benefit possible to member
businesses.

"Of course that looks different for each member," Snively said.

With 1,400 member businesses, the chamber hopes to recover some of the ground
lost over the past few years of economic hardship.

Snively moved to the Brandon area in 2001, when she was selected to open a new
State Farm agency designed to service Lithia, FishHawk, South Brandon and
Riverview.

"FishHawk is an incredible community," she said. "It's still actually growing
and thriving. Unbelievable. I couldn't be happier. The families that live here
make the community. We have incredible people out here that I've gotten the
opportunity to know and do business with."

Born in 1970 in El Paso, Texas, during her father's Army duty tour at Fort
Bliss, Snively went on to live in Germany and West Virginia before the family
settled in Winter Haven in 1976.

"I graduated Auburndale High School in 1988," she said, "and I couldn't get out
of town fast enough."

Snively studied secondary English education at the University of Florida (1992),
taught for a few months in Lake Wales, traveled as a leadership consultant for
the Zeta Tau Alpha sorority, then found her niche in insurance.

Snively first hooked up with State Farm as an underwriter. Then she learned the
agency ropes in West Palm Beach, where she trained agents in new technologies
and married her husband, David. In 2001 she was awarded State Farm's new Lithia
agency.

The agency, open 10 years this summer, has four agents on staff and serves
around 2,000 families.

"Ninety percent of our business is families," Snively said. "Financial services
now make up around 25 percent of my book, but we're still very strong in auto
and homeowners insurance. And I believe - with recent legislation plus some
additional changes - we're moving in the right direction."

The bottom line for Snively, and she keeps this under each one of those hats she
wears, is securing the best possible future for both her clients and the
community.

"People are very exposed out there," she said. "Insurance can leverage so much
to your benefit. People don't have to be ruined financially. Don't be afraid to
ask questions."

derekmaul@gmail.com

(CHART) Meet Melissa Snively

Title: Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce chair

Business: The Melissa Snively State Farm Insurance Agency

Address: 16637 FishHawk Blvd, Suite 104

Telephone: (813) 662-3622

Web: www.snivelyinsurance.com

Photo Credit: TAMPA TRIBUNE DEREK MAUL

Photo: Melissa Snively is Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce chair and very
active in the community.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A Few Minutes With...

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP hopefuls defend pasts

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words


Tea party climate pushes candidates for Senate further right

BY WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- The Republican U.S. Senate primary is becoming a race to the right as
the three leading candidates abandon former moderate policy positions to cater
to conservative GOP primary voters.

Each of the candidates -- Mike Haridopolos, Adam Hasner and George LeMieux --
claims to be the authentic conservative in the race, but each is being forced to
defend previous stands that don't fit the party's current political mood.

"They saw what happened to Bill McCollum," University of Florida political
scientist Dan Smith said of the Senate candidates, referring to McCollum's loss
to tea party favorite Rick Scott in last year's GOP primary for governor.

So far in the race for the conservative turf:

Hasner, a former state House majority leader, has stoked tea party backers by
opposing what he contends is a threat to impose Islamic Sharia law in the United
States, and has eagerly embraced the Contract From America pushed by the
conservative FreedomWorks organization.

But he has also had to answer for past support for state cap-and-trade
legislation and a high-speed rail project.

LeMieux says his budget hawk credentials as a former appointed U.S. senator make
him "the most conservative person in the race" and promised a talk show caller
recently that he will be watchful against a takeover of the country by the
United Nations' environmental Agenda 21 initiative.

His biggest handicap: answering for his ties to his political patron, former
Gov. Charlie Crist, a bipartisan-oriented moderate now reviled by conservative
Republicans.

Haridopolos has resisted conservative litmus tests, including refusing to back
the U.S. House Republicans' Medicare revamp plan, but contends that as state
Senate president, he delivered rather than just talked about a conservative
agenda.

Sticking points: Under his leadership, the Senate failed to pass the kind of
tough illegal immigrant legislation tea party enthusiasts wanted. Along with
Hasner, he helped pass a 2009 state budget including $2 billion in tax and fee
increases.

Smith said the right turn may not be "the smart move" for the general election.

"There's little chance that 2012 is going to look like 2010 when it comes to
turnout in Florida," he said. "The electorate is not going to be as skewed to
the right" -- although it probably also won't be as skewed left as 2008, when
Barack Obama drew a tsunami of young and minority voters, Smith said.

Democratic U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, with no prominent primary opponent, has no
pressure to alter his political profile, which Smith characterized as "middle of
the road."

"As a Republican, the question is, which game do you want to play -- do you move
right to win the primary, or do you want to hedge your bets in the primary so
you can be more competitive against Nelson in the general?" he said.

Hasner, Haridopolos and LeMieux have long records in government, where ideology
often gives way to practicality.

A dark horse candidate, Mike McCalister, a former Army officer who has never
held public office, will also appeal to tea party voters. He got a surprising 10
percent of the vote in the primary against Scott and McCollum last year.

In an interview, McCalister's political adviser John Yob tagged Haridopolos,
Hasner and LeMieux as "the Tallahassee triplets," and said an outsider resume is
important to tea party voters.

Yob cited McCalister's speaking slot at this weekend's Republican Leadership
Conference in New Orleans as "an indication of how seriously tea party groups
and conservatives are taking his potential."

Hasner has run hardest to the right and blasted LeMieux over his ties to Crist.

In a web video, Hasner ties LeMieux to Crist's support for PresidentObama's
stimulus plan, Crist's proposal for a state cap-and-trade program to reduce
carbon emissions and a proposed Everglades restoration land purchase, which the
video calls a "taxpayer funded bailout of Big Sugar."

The stimulus plan and Everglades initiative came after LeMieux resigned as
Crist's chief of staff in December 2007, but Hasner spokesman Rick Wilson said
LeMieux praised Crist for both in political newsletters.

"George LeMieux shaped Charlie Crist's philosophies and policies," Wilson said.

LeMieux has said repeatedly that he pushed Crist in a conservative direction
while working for him, and that Crist "went to the left after I left."

"People are going to be more focused on what I did in office than what someone I
worked for did in office," he said in an interview. "I got great reviews from
conservatives when I served in the Senate."

Hasner, whose district is plurality Republican but located in heavily Democratic
Broward and Palm Beach counties, also co-sponsored a cap-and-trade bill during
the 2008 session.

He says it was intended to deflect a more stringent Crist plan by requiring
legislative approval, but a news release at the time from his office praised the
bill as "a response to concerns over global climate change" that would put
Florida "at the forefront of production and use of alternative energy."

He also campaigned for re-election in a battery-powered Toyota, and in 2009
sponsored taxpayer-funded incentives for electric cars.

During his 2004 campaign, the South Florida Sun Sentinel twice paraphrased
Hasner describing himself as a moderate Republican seeking tighter controls on
private school tuition vouchers, and backing stem-cell research and a judicial
bypass for requirements that minors notify their parents about abortions.

Wilson, Hasner's campaign strategist, didn't deny the accuracy of those stories,
but said Hasner "has never been a moderate. If you look at his record in the
Legislature, Adam Hasner is a peerless conservative leader. Everyone else in
this field is trying to reinvent themselves -- Adam doesn't have to."

Hasner and Haridopolos were legislative leaders in 2009 -- Hasner as House
majority leader and Haridopolos in line to become Senate president -- when the
Legislature passed a budget, including some $2 billion in increases in tobacco
taxes and automotive and court fees.

Haridopolos says his record as Senate president this year, closing a state
budget deficit with lower spending and no new taxes, is a stronger conservative
record than the promises made by Hasner and LeMieux.

He says he regrets the $2 billion tax increase, but said it's dwarfed by cuts in
property and intangibles taxes he successfully fought for.

"I applaud the other guys for saying all the right things -- the difference is I
... followed up with the actions," he said in a recent interview. "I came into
the Senate when it was very much left of center and I converted it to right of
center."

But Haridopolos has gone through an embarrassing public struggle to come to a
position on the plan proposed by U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., to turn Medicare
into a voucher program. House Republicans passed the plan, but Democrats say it
will be an effective weapon against Republicans.

Asked in an interview last month about the Ryan plan, Haridopolos didn't take a
position and switched the subject from Medicare, which serves the elderly, to
the cuts he helped engineer in Medicaid, which serves the poor.

"We fundamentally changed Medicaid," he said. "We wanted to make it like welfare
reform back in 1996 -- I'm willing to take on those entitlement issues."

Haridopolos later said he doesn't back the Ryan plan, but not until after a
conservative radio show host kicked him off the air after Haridopolos refused to
give a direct answer.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

813 259 7761

(CHART) Where they fall

Here are the some of roadblocks the three main GOP candidates for U.S. Senate
face in the race to the right and each campaign's response:

ADAM HASNER

Roadblocks:

? Co-sponsored a cap-and-trade bill in 2008

? Sponsored taxpayer-funded incentives for electric cars in 2009

? Past news reports say he called himself a moderate who backed alternative
energy initiatives and other progressive causes.

Campaign response:

? Cap-and-trade bill was an attempt to block a stronger plan

? Hasner "has never been a moderate," says campaign strategist Rick Wilson

MIKE HARIDOPOLOS

Roadblocks:

? Was a legislative leader in 2009 when Legislature passed large tax increases

? Struggled to find a position on and ended up opposing Republican Medicare
revamp proposal

Campaign response:

? Though not for the Medicare proposal, Haridopolos says he favors entitlement
reform and made big cuts to state Medicaid program

GEORGE LEMIEUX

Roadblocks:

? Was chief of staff for then-Gov. Charlie Crist, who supported President
Obama's stimulus plan, proposed a cap-and-trade program and an Everglades
restoration land purchase

Campaign response:

? Says he tried to move Crist to the right and left the administration before
most of Crist's liberal initiatives

? Voters should look at LeMieux's record in the U.S. Senate, when he temporarily
served after Mel Martinez stepped down

Photo: Adam Hasner

Photo: Mike Haridopolos

Photo: George Lemieux

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Garbage trucks might go green

BYLINE: RACHEL PLEASANT, The Pasco Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words


Trash hauler wants to roll out vehicles that run on natural gas

BY RACHEL PLEASANT

The Pasco Tribune

ZEPHYRHILLS -- Think of a typical garbage truck and the words "quiet" and
"clean" don't normally come to mind.

In Pasco County, that could change in a few years.

Last month, Fort Lauderdale-based Choice Environmental Services purchased Dade
City-based Central Carting Disposal, which had garbage contracts with several
Pasco municipalities.

Choice was the first refuse company in the state to fuel its vehicles with
natural gas. Now it wants to bring that technology to Pasco, and the ideal site
for a refueling station would be Dade City, where the company already has
equipment, facilities and employees.

"Hopefully Dade City and the county will be an enthusiastic partner," said Jim
Sage, executive vice president of Choice, which is owned by Charlotte,
N.C.-based Swisher Hygiene.

In 2008, Choice began searching for alternatives to expensive diesel fuel.

"We looked at a lot of things," Sage said. "There are hybrid trucks available
where they use a combination of hydraulic, electric and diesel. The problem we
saw with all of those was that the source, whether it's electrical or whatever,
there is still generation required. The better alternative is natural gas.
Natural gas is there for us to drill and pipe.

"There are some landfills that produce natural gas as things decompose, so it's
almost a full circle," he said.

Choice partnered with Clean Energy -- whose directors include
oil-magnate-turned-natural-gas-advocate T. Boone Pickens -- to build a refueling
station in Pompano Beach. Sage said the site, about 8 miles from Fort
Lauderdale, was chosen because of the city's enthusiasm for the project.

In 2009, Choice put its first compressed natural gas truck into operation in the
Fort Lauderdale area. The fleet has grown to 13.

The trucks are equipped with natural gas engines, and each has four natural gas
fuel cells.

According to Choice, the trucks have the same range as diesel-powered versions
but produce 25 percent less greenhouse gases. They also are quiet.

"You can stand by one and have a conversation, and you don't even notice it,"
Sage said.

The company said it is saving 30 percent annually by using compressed natural
gas trucks instead of diesel.

Choice also has operations in Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Fort Myers and Highlands
County and plans a gradual switch at all sites to compressed natural gas.

In Dade City, the company has not pinpointed any sites for a refueling station,
and it probably will be two to three years before a station can be built and the
trucks begin operating in Pasco.

City Manager Billy Poe wasn't aware of Choice's use of compressed natural gas
technology and said the company's current operations are outside the city.
Still, Dade City would be interested in helping bring a refueling station to the
area.

"We would definitely want to sit down and discuss that," Poe said.

rpleasant@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-8170

Photo credit: CHOICE ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES

Photo: Choice Environmental Services, which has purchased Dade City-based
Central Carting Disposal, says it was the first refuse company in the state to
fuel its vehicles with natural gas.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time to plow under farming subsidies

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 603 words


Negotiations over raising the national debt ceiling have given federal lawmakers
the chance to reshape the nation's fiscal picture for years to come -- if they
will take it.

Republicans want spending concessions from the Democrats, who in turn want the
GOP to acquiesce to revenue enhancements. Same old, same old. Except in this
dour economic climate spending reformers are not the only members of Congress
serious about trimming future budget deficits.

A place to start would be to cut farm subsidies. The government spends up to $30
billion a year subsidizing agriculture, including large-scale farmers who aren't
hurting for money. Although that's a pittance of the budget, it's the kind of
expense that galls taxpayers.

And if Congress is poised to make changes to Medicare, Medicaid and even Social
Security, it is inconceivable that agriculture would not share in the sacrifice.
Thus members of both parties seem prepared to reduce farm giveaways.

"Think about that," writes Kimberley Strassel of The Wall Street Journal. "For
decades, the House and Senate agriculture committees have been the last redoubts
of congressional bipartisanship, liberals and conservatives united in beating
back any outside attempts to cut off tens of billions annually for price
supports, crop insurance, weather assistance, conservation handouts and
nutrition programs."

But given the pressure of the federal budget, along with sky-high commodity
prices, it seems likely there will be farm subsidy reform and a smaller farm
bill next year, although the House recently failed to curtail direct payments to
farmers, even those making up to $750,000 a year.

Having said that, there is a difference between market-distorting subsidies and
a federal investment in agriculture. As Florida Commissioner of Agriculture Adam
Putnam points out, agriculture is one of the bright spots in our economy and
must not be shortchanged.

Putnam will not equate farm subsidies with corporate welfare. As a member of
Congress, he argued that government support for farmers ought not be based on
income but on whether the farmer farms full-time or as a hobby.

For example, the large landowner supporting several generations of farmers is
contributing more to the national food output than the hobby farmer on a 10-acre
spit of land.

Payment limits are tough, Putnam said. "I don't want to defend the ADMs (Archer,
Daniels, Midland Co.) of the world, but only 1.5 percent of the population is
involved in the production of agriculture, and people aren't standing in line to
get into it. To feed the other 98 percent, we can't return to the Norman
Rockwell-like vision. Hobby farms are healthy and good, but they are not
supporting the food needs of our population."

And, Putnam cautions, agriculture is a cyclical business. Even with this year's
soaring prices for crops such as corn and soy beans, a farmer doesn't know what
next year will bring.

Florida has been a bit player in setting farm policy, which has historically
been a Midwestern, grain-driven process. But staying competitive in the global
economy, maintaining a robust agriculture infrastructure and improving our
ability to grow more food on fewer acres is as important to our state as any
other.

Money for research and development is important, and farmers need long-term
stability to make planting decisions and other commitments.

But continued big money appropriations to Big Agriculture is an affront to
taxpayers. It's time Congress finally put an end to the "subsidy business as
usual."

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Our Views

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Airport chief gets passing grade

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words


But outcome of Joe Lopano's efforts may take years to assess

BY TED JACKOVICS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- The contentious discussion of a proposed $50,000 raise for Tampa
International Airport's new chief executive finally had reached a crossroad.

"In essence, what we are doing is taking a second-round draft pick, who barely
gets in during the season, renegotiating his contract and saying, 'We are going
to pay you more based on your potential,'" aviation authority board member and
Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn said at the Oct. 6 session.

"I don't characterize Mr. Lopano as a second-round draft pick," board member Joe
Diaco responded in defense of the Dallas/Fort Worth airport's former marketing
executive. Joe Lopano, he said, trimmed $500,000 from the budget, increased
business and added flights.

But it could take years to assess the effect of Lopano's efforts to fulfill the
board's new mandate for Tampa International to be the "major driver in the
economic growth of the Tampa Bay region."

On Thursday, in a nod to his brief tenure of nine months, Lopano postponed board
discussion of adding a performance bonus to his contract in lieu of the raise of
his $250,000 salary he turned down two weeks ago, citing the bad economy.

Lopano has brought energy, change, promise and a degree of accomplishment,
including recruiting a nonstop flight to Switzerland with possible connections
to 40 destinations from Zurich.

He restructured the airport staff, added top management with specialized
backgrounds, and budgeted hundreds of thousands of dollars in new marketing and
promotions programs.

Lopano also launched a master plan update and a multimillion-dollar improvement
program for the main terminal while promising reduced costs for airlines.

He says he finished the 2011 fiscal year nearly $2 million under budget, has
forged partnerships with local business and tourism groups, and centralized the
procurement process.

"I like to move fast," he said last week. "We've already accomplished a lot, and
I have a new executive team in place that's as committed and energetic as I am."

But many of his initiatives will require time to assess.

The swift success in persuading the Swiss charter airline Edelweiss to move from
Orlando to Tampa was helped by $700,000 worth of airport and visitor bureau
incentives from an air service development program Lopano created.

Tampa's incentive programs run for up to two years, after which an airline must
determine whether there's sufficient demand to continue a flight when the
incentives run out. Today's celebrations can become tomorrow's disappointments,
a dynamic that has bedeviled many U.S. airports.

It will also take time to assess the long-term value of airport concessions and
future development of vacant airport property, given market uncertainties and
typical vendor turnover.

An example of the volatility is the airport's economy parking garage. Planned
during a booming economy, it sits half-empty much of the year, a monument to the
nation's economy gone awry.

"Every decision I make is geared toward ensuring the success of the airport,
creating jobs and contributing to the economic growth of the entire region,"
Lopano said.

"And it's not just about tourists. It's about cargo, it's about direct flights
to international and domestic destinations that will help Tampa attract new
businesses."

Lopano's aggressive style in overseeing marketing, customer service and airline
real estate at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport largely played out beyond
the public eye.

As Tampa airport's chief executive, Lopano is expected to reflect the public
face of the facility.

The board unveiled Lopano's incentive program and new main terminal furnishings
at the Tampa Museum of Art in June, opening the session with a boisterous video
of the Tampa Bay Lightning's playoff run.

An evening informational session at the historic Cuban Club in Ybor City last
month for the airport's new Cuba charter air service drew airport officials and
potential travelers who struggled to discuss plans over the festive music.

But Tampa International struck out for the second consecutive year in its
attempt to recruit Condor Airlines to fly to Frankfurt, one of five
international target markets Lopano identified, along with Mexico City, Brazil,
Colombia and Panama.

Condor decided to fly out of Baltimore despite a presentation in July from Tampa
executives that Lopano said in his self-evaluation for the board was "1,100
times greater than had been previously presented."

Officials at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport
declined to reveal the incentive package they offered Condor, but said they had
been working with the German airline for several years.

"Developing air service does, in some cases, take years," spokesman Jonathan
Dean said, adding that the real motivation for the new service was passenger
demand.

Bob Rohrlack, Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce president and CEO, traveled to
Frankfurt for Tampa's presentation. He wants Lopano to continue to court the
airline, and he added praise for his efforts.

"You swing and miss a whole lot more than you connect, but you have to be at the
plate swinging," he said.

"Tampa's airport, seaport, the universities and MacDill Air Force Base -- they
are all commerce drivers," Rohrlack said. "But if we don't help them succeed,
they will shrivel up and have less impact than they should have."

Lopano faces additional challenges.

Critics of the previous airport administration want a flight to Latin America
more than any other, but competition from Orlando continues to build, recruiting
airlines and increasing service.

Lopano's proposed pay raise struck a nerve with aviation authority employees who
contended in a flurry of emails to The Tampa Tribune that their recent 3 percent
raises served only to offset the new state-mandated retirement fund
contribution.

Some expenditures have drawn attention.

In July, the airport retained local public relations consultant Beth Leytham to
assist in creating a "receptive" public climate for authority goals.

Paid $175 an hour, Leytham billed the authority $13,737.50 for 78.5 hours of
service in July and August, which included "Sunday coverage" of the aviation
authority and her attendance at the monthly board meeting.

Leytham's services were discontinued after Lopano hired former St. Petersburg
Times reporter Janet Zink last month for $110,000 a year for a communications
position that was not advertised publicly.

"This is a management position that didn't require advertisement," Lopano said.
Though he advertised for a lower-paying media specialist position that attracted
95 applicants, he said, "as I was finalizing the structure of my executive team,
I decided I wanted to expand the scope of that job."

Lopano was met with negative public reaction in August after he recommended that
top management be allowed to fly business class on flights longer than two
hours.

The subject of a Fort Worth TV station's report for spending $147,000 for first-
and business-class travel over 18 months, Lopano backed off his Tampa request.

Nonetheless, he sees his presence in Tampa as a game-changer.

"... What you have seen in this initial period is only the beginning," Lopano
said in his self-evaluation July 30. "As the changes implemented during this
initial phase begin to take hold, I expect that Tampa International Airport will
very quickly become the example by which all other airports are judged."

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

(813)259-7817

Photo: Joe Lopano

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: TRIB2; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3121 words


BLANTON, Mary Ellen Raulerson, 80, passed away Wednesday, November 30, 2011. She
was born May 14, 1931, in Plant City, Fla., to Amos and Intha Lewis Raulerson.
She lived there her entire life. She was a devoted and lifelong member of Salem
Primitive Baptist Church. She was predeceased by her loving husband of almost 50
years, Zoya Arthur Blanton. She is survived by her daughter, Lynda Blanton
Wilson (Robert); son, Thomas Michael "Mike" Blanton Sr. (Cynthia); four
grandsons, Thomas Michael "Bo" Blanton Jr. (Connie), Tee Jay Blanton, Lance
Wilson and Andrew Wilson; and three great-grandsons, Conner, Colby and Ethan
Blanton. A celebration of life will be held at 11 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, at
Salem Primitive Baptist Church, 14402 Salem Church Road, Sydney, Fla., where the
family will receive friends beginning at 10 a.m. Interment will be at Salem
Cemetery. Expressions of condolence can be made at www.hopewellfuneral.com

BLAY, Ashley, 20, of Tampa, passed away Monday, November 28, 2011.

BRADFORD, Billie Faye, 75, passed through death into eternal life peacefully and
in prayer, surrounded by her loving family, November 30, 2011. She is survived
by her husband of 51 years, Curtis Bradford; daughter, Debby Bradford Kampert;
daughter and son-in-law, Ricci and Stephen Lubrant; and grandchildren, Justin,
Rachel, Chas, Chase and Carlee. Billie was a loving and devoted wife, mother and
grandmother. Most of all she loved spending time with her family. Billie also
loved being a nurse. She practiced as a Licensed Practical Nurse for 10 years
before returning to school to earn her associates degree and worked as a
Registered Nurse for another 20 years. A life's celebration will be held at noon
Saturday, December 10, at Impact Church of Keystone, 10925 Tarpon Springs Road,
Odessa, FL 33556, with fellowship immediately following. In lieu of flowers,
please make donations to LifePath Hospice.

CHAMPLIN, Neil T., 61, a U.S. Military veteran, passed November 27, 2011.
Services with military honors will be held December 8. Gonzalez FH, (813)
931-1833

CLINE, Jerry L., 65, of Tampa, a U.S. Navy veteran who served on the USS
Kearsarge, passed away November 21, 2011. He was born in Logansport, Ind. He is
survived by his daughter, Gina (Steve) McConnell; his son, Tom (Katie) Cline;
brother, Dale Cline; three nephews; one niece; one grandson; and three
granddaughters. A memorial service will be held 2-4 p.m. Saturday, December 10,
2011, at Melech Hospice House, 11125 N. 52nd St., Temple Terrace, FL 33617,
(813) 984-2200.

COPP, Joanne Marie, was born August 6, 1957, in West Palm Beach, Fla., passed
away November 30, 2011. She was preceded in death by her father, Harvey H. Copp
Jr.; brothers, Stephen and Kevin; and sisters, Linda and Karen. She is survived
by her son, Andrew Southworth; daughter, Ryan J. Southworth; mother, Phyllis;
sisters, Donna, Jackie and Gina; brothers, Dean, Glenn, Shawn and Wayne;
numerous nieces and nephews; and three granddogs. Joanne was a longtime employee
of Denny's Restaurants. She was loved by all who knew her. The family would like
to thank Joanne's many friends for their love and support. In lieu of flowers
and gifts, please make donations to LifePath Hospice of Hillsborough County and
the American Cancer Society. At Joanne's request, there will be no services.

COX, Muriel S., 85, of Brandon, Fla., died December 2, 2011. She was an area
resident since 1962 coming from Chamblee, Ga., and a member of the First United
Methodist Church. Muriel was an alumna of Florida State University's second
graduating class and member of Phi Mu Sorority. She is survived by her husband,
Bob; son, Robert S. Cox; daughter, Laura C. Cox; five grandchildren; and four
great-grandchildren. Private family services were held.

CRENSHAW, Martin L., 72, of Tampa, passed away Thursday, December 1, 2011.

CROSSGROVE, Shirley L., 96, of Tampa, died November 3, 2011. She was predeceased
by her husband, Thomas Crossgrove. A memorial service will be held at 2 p.m.
Sunday, December 11, 2011, at Trinity Presbyterian Church, 14925 North Blvd.,
Tampa. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the
Building Fund of Trinity Presbyterian Church.

DEHART, Cameron G., 83, died November 23, 2011. He is survived by his daughters,
Michelle Reynolds and Marlene DeHart; and sisters, Betty Utt and Ernestine
Angstadt.

GARCIA, Dr. Andrew W., passed away suddenly at the age of 69, November 16, 2011,
while in Canberra, Australia. Son of Capt. Justo M. Garcia and Annie Ducker
Garcia, born October 31, 1942, in Roatan, Honduras, Andrew moved to Tampa as a
small boy in 1946, graduating from Hillsborough High School in 1960. While at
Hillsborough High, he worked at The Tampa Tribune. Andrew earned a Bachelor of
Arts degree in Physics from University of South Florida, graduating as a charter
member of the class of 1963. He served in the U.S. Army before entering Texas
A&M, earning a master's degree in Physical Oceanography. He then continued his
studies, earning a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Meteorology from Purdue
University. Andrew worked for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Vicksburg,
Miss., for 39 years, developing numerical models, studies of tsunamis,
developing wind, wave and storm surge models, and researching the coastal
effects of cyclones. In 2008, Andrew joined the Corps Action for Change team to
help revise policies and procedures to adapting the effects of climate change.
Andrew received awards that included the Department of Army Superior Civilian
Service Medal of Excellence, the US National Weather Service Modernization Award
and the American Society of Civil Engineers Life Member Award. Andrew was
preceded in death by his father, Capt. Justo Garcia. He is survived by his wife,
Heather of Vicksburg; daughter, Fawn Anderson; son-in-law, Scott Anderson;
granddaughter, Emma Garcia Anderson of Boston, Mass.; mother, Annie Garcia;
sisters, Sharon Oleson and Cleo Garcia Bechtold; nephews, Paul Thompson and
Matthew Bechtold of Tampa; and many cousins residing in the United States and
Honduras. Andrew loved his work, was devoted to his family, lived life
passionately and shared his father's love of the sea. He was concerned for our
world's future, never quit caring for others and has left a positive impact on
the world. He had boundless patience and generosity, yet displayed both with
quiet modesty. A memorial service will be held 3-5 p.m. Wednesday, December 7,
at the Davis Island Yacht Club. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to
the charity of your choice or to www.heifer.org

GOINS, Lee, 90, died December 1, 2011. Visitation will be 10:30-11:30 a.m. at
Whitfield Funeral Home, with services at 12:30 p.m. at Florida National
Cemetery.

GUNTER, William S. Jr., 68, passed November 24, 2011. A memorial service will be
at 10 a.m. December 10 at Faith Family Worship Center, 14514 Del Valle Road.
Brewer & Sons FH

KING, Viola M. "Vi," 94, of Sun City Center, Fla., formerly of Battle Creek,
Mich., passed away Thursday, December 1, 2011, at Sun City Center Hospice House,
with her loving family at her side. Born in Prospect Park, N.Y., March 10, 1917,
Vi was a homemaker and a member of Prince of Peace Catholic Church. Vi moved to
Sun City Center in September 1982. Vi was preceded in death by her husband,
Edward M. King, December 3, 1998; and two sisters and a brother. Survivors
include her sons, Dennis E. (Karen) King of Sun City Center, Laurence A. King of
Cave Creek, Ariz., and Ronald J. (Lori) King of Battle Creek. Vi is also
survived by her five grand-children and two great-grandchildren. A Mass of
resurrection will be said at 11:30 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, 2011, at Prince of
Peace Catholic Church. Interment will be held Wednesday, December 7, 2011, at
Florida National Cemetery, Bushnell, Fla. In lieu of flowers, memorial
contributions can be made to LifePath Hospice, 3725 Upper Creek Drive, Ruskin,
FL 33573.

LOVERIDGE, Anthony George, Bubba "The Mullet Man," 42, of Zephyrhills, Fla., who
was born August 25, 1969, died November 23, 2011. He was an infinitely beloved
son, brother, father and soul-mate. Survivors are his fiancee, Shannon Wilkes;
mom, Margaret "Lucy" Dillon; and one special dad, Eddie Wilkes; daughters,
Desaray (Robert), Kristina, Cheyenne and Breanna; siblings, Fran (Kenny), Kitty
(Skeet), Matt (Kim), Laurie (Tom), Patty (Charlie), Rex (Robin), David
(Stephanie) and Ruth (Michael); grandchildren, Autumn and Robert Jr.; and many
nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his dad, Rex A. Dillon Sr.; and
sister, Suzie. A memorial service will be held at 10 a.m. Saturday, December 10,
2011, at Oasis World Outreach, 35636 State Road 54 West, Zephyrhills, FL 33541.

LUGO, Margarita, 89, passed December 2, 2011. She is survived by her loving
family. Services will be at 11 a.m. Monday at Woodlawn Cemetery. Boza & Roel
Funeral Home

MACAULEY, Gertrude "Bachey," 79, passed away November 24, 2011. Bachey was born
in Tampa August 25, 1932, and resided in the Tampa Bay area. Her loving family
and friends survive her and her husband, William A. Macauley, preceded her in
death. She graduated from Hillsborough High School and was an employee of Ferman
Chevrolet for 50 years. She enjoyed travel, crafts and time with family and
pets. She will be cremated and a memorial service to celebrate her life will
take place at 10 a.m. Saturday, December 10, 2011, at the Garden of Memories
Funeral Home, 4207 E. Lake Ave., Tampa. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests
donations be made to LifePath Hospice.

MCKEOWN, Helen, 66, of Tampa, passed away Tuesday, November 29, 2011.

MIKLINSKI, Charles Edward, 74, of Clearwater, Fla., passed December 2, 2011. He
is survived by his loving wife, Dorothy, and family and friends. Neptune Society

MOTES, Zeda, 85, of Brandon, Fla., passed away December 2, 2011. She was an
active member of The Church of Christ, Riverview, Fla., where her husband
retired as a minister. She was preceded in death by her parents, two sisters and
two brothers. Zeda is survived by Alton, her husband of 63 years; daughters,
Sherry Wolf, Vicki Washburn, Pamela Smith and Rebecca deVries and husband, John;
brother, Dr. R.B. Barton Jr. and wife, Jane; 11 grandchildren; 13
great-grandchildren; many nieces and nephews; and numerous friends. A visitation
will be held 6-8 p.m. Monday, December 5, 2011, and a funeral service will be
held at 10 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, 2011, at Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home,
with Karl Whitehead presiding. Interment will follow the service at Hillsboro
Memorial Gardens.

NEWCOMER, Barbara J., 77, died at home in Sarasota, Fla., November 24, 2011,
after a long illness. Survivors of this boone, Iowa native include her beloved
husband, John; four daughters, Tampa Tribune reporter Michelle Bearden, Leslie
Bailey (Mark) of Tierra Verde, Fla., Kelley Jamieson of Sarasota and Stephanie
Slaybaugh (Tony) of Denver, Colo.; three grandchildren, Casey, Natalie and Jake
Slaybaugh; sisters, Beverly Hinkle (Wes) of San Diego, Calif., and Bonnie
Holthus (Bob) of Louisville, Ky., and Hot Springs, Ark.; and two step-sons, Tom
Newcomer (Lilly) of Los Angeles, Calif., and John W. Newcomer (Norma) of Miami,
Fla. She also leaves behind many nieces, nephews and lifelong friends. She was
preceded in death by her parents, Del and Janet Bennett; and grandson, Kevin
Jamieson. First and foremost a great mother to her daughters, Barbara also had
an impeccable flair for fashion, a gift of spontaneous creativity and a keen
artistic sense. While living in the Detroit, Mich., area with first husband, Wes
Bearden, she was an art representative with Skidmore Sahratian Inc. in Troy.
Barbara's joie de vivre was unparalleled; her eye for interior design was sought
by many. She was feisty, vivacious and unforgettable. Her luminous smile and
infectious personality will never be forgotten. A gathering of her friends and
family took place at The Field Club in Sarasota, where she was a member. In
February, a celebration of Barbara's fabulous life will take place around the
Valentine's Day holiday. She will always be remembered as a hearts-and-angels
kind of gal. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations in her name to
Prevent Blindness Florida, 200 2nd Ave. S., St. Petersburg, FL 33701. To view
obituary and leave condolences, please visit TBO.com

O'BRISKI, Josephine, 74, of Punta Gorda, Fla., passed away November 26, 2011.
She is survived by a loving family and friends. Brewer & Sons Funeral Home,
(813) 835-4991

OLDHAM, Gloria, 85, passed away November 21, 2011, under the care of hospice.

PANIAGUA, Miguel A., 80, of Tampa, passed away December 1, 2011. Survivors are
his loving wife, Julia; children, Agnes, Angie and Michael; and four
grand-children. Neptune Society

PERDOMO, Ricky, 51, of Tampa, passed away December 2, 2011. He is survived by a
loving family. Boza & Roel Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.

PEREZ, Pedro L., 89, of Pinellas Park, Fla., passed away December 2, 2011. He is
survived by his children, Nelson and Maria; sister, Clara; and grand- and
great-grandchildren. Holloway FH

PIPPIN, Gary Lynn, 52, of Seffner, Fla., passed away at home with family and
friends, Tuesday, November 22, 2011. Born August 24, 1959, in Richmond, Va., he
was predeceased by his father, Cecil Pippin; and grandfather, Everett Reckley.
He is survived by his wife, Hannah Pippin of Seffner, Fla.; daughters, Lauren
Reyes and husband, Paul, and Cecilia Hapner; mother, Carol Osentoski and
husband, George of Atlanta, Ga.; grandmother, Christine Reckley of Bedford, Va.;
sisters, Sharon Polman and Terri Pippin; nieces, Jesseca Gray and Heather
Pippin; and Lauren's brother, Travis McCaslin. A memorial service will take
place at 1 p.m. Saturday, December 10, 2011, at Stowers Funeral Home. In lieu of
flowers, memorial donations may be made to LIVESTRONG.

REGAN, Ronald M., 57, of Lithia, Fla., passed away December 1, 2011. He is
survived by his loving family.

RIORDAN, Robert John, 82, of Kenneth City, Fla., passed away December 2, 2011.
He is survived by his loving family. Holloway FH, Oldsmar, Fla., (813) 855-2439

ROGERS, Lynn Ellen, 51, of Brandon, Fla., died September 1, 2011. Born in
Baltimore, Md., to Jim and Rosemary Rogers, Lynn is survived by her
grand-father, Harold Kness; her parents; sisters, Susan (Rogers) Alday and Janet
Rogers; brothers, James and William Rogers; her nephews, Joshua Knezinek and
Robert and William Alday; niece, Stacy Knezinek; and brother-in-law, Robert
Alday. A funeral Mass will be held at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, December 10, 2011, at
Nativity Catholic Church Chapel, Brandon, Fla. Interment will be held privately
at Sarasota National Cemetery.

ROJAS, Eduardo P., 63, of Brandon, Fla., passed away Monday, October 24, 2011.

RUMORE, Mary M., 88, of Lakeland, Fla., passed away Friday, December 2, 2011.

SHELL, Henry Hilliard III, passed away November 15, 2011. Being blessed with a
keen wit and a love of people, coupled with innate kindness, Henry had a gift
for using humor to put people at ease. These traits endeared him to all who knew
him, loved him and sought his company. Stories abound with examples of practical
jokes he pulled through the years. Henry Hilliard Shell III was born in 1931 in
Bartow, Fla., the first child of the late Henry Hilliard Shell Jr. and Irene
Brown Shell. He grew up in Tampa graduating from H.B. Plant High School and the
University of Tampa. He was in the insurance and real estate business and also
served as a real estate appraiser. Henry was a past member of the Tampa Yacht
and County Club, Ye Mystic Krewe of Gasparilla, the University Club and the
Merrymakers Club. Like many of his generation who came of age in the fifties, he
loved cars, and especially those made in America which were big, powerful and
beautiful. He collected those vintage cars and loved going to car shows in
Georgia and other southeastern states. The love of his life was his wife, JoAnn
Hixon Shell, daughter of the late Tampa mayor. JoAnn predeceased Henry. In
addition to his family, he is survived by many friends who loved him and were
enriched by his wit, zest for life and friendship. A memorial service will be
held at 2 p.m. January 8, 2012, at Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church, Tampa.
Donations to favorite charities are suggested in lieu of flowers. Henry
supported The Children's Home, 10909 Memorial Highway, Tampa, FL 33615 and Tampa
Bay History Center, 225 S. Franklin St., Tampa, FL 33602.

SMITH, Frances C., 92, formerly of Oldsmar, Fla., passed away December 2, 2011.
Survivors are children, Wayne, William and Frances, and numerous grandchildren.
Holloway FH

WARREN, Phyllis Turner, died peacefully December 2, 2011, at 102 years of age.
Mrs. Warren was born in Tampa October 29, 1909. She was the widow of Tampa
businessman, James W. Warren, and the daughter of the late Lorenne M. and Alonzo
G. Turner, a pioneer Tampa family. She attended local schools, graduating from
The English Classical School and Hillsborough High School. She attended Hollins
College and Florida State College for Women (FSU). She was a member of Kappa
Delta Sorority. Mrs. Warren was a 1930 Merrymakers Club sponsor and Queen of Ye
Mystic Krewe of Gasparilla in 1931. Until the time of her death, she was the
oldest living Gasparilla Queen. She was a member of the Junior League of Tampa,
St. John's Episcopal Church and former member of The Chiselers, Tampa Yacht &
Country Club, and Palma Ceia Golf and Country Club. Phyllis was predeceased by
her husband, James Whitfield Warren, and her brother, Alonzo Howard Turner. She
is survived by her daughter, Lora Warren Hulse; and her son, James Whitfield
Warren III (Samantha) of Tampa; grandchildren, David Y. Hulse (Jean) of
Tallahassee, Fla., James Edward Hulse (Jenny) of Charlotte, N.C., James
Whitfield "Shamus" Warren IV (Lauren) and Cody Tarver Warren; and three
great-grandsons, Mathew Wade Hulse, Lane Turner Hulse and James Whitfield "Whit"
Warren V. Graveside services will be held at 11 a.m. Monday, December 5, at
Mrytle Hill Memorial Park, with the Rev. Eric Kahl, Rector of St. Mary's
Episcopal Church officiating. The family wishes to thank the dedicated nursing
personnel at Canterbury Tower Health Center, Tampa General Hospital and LifePath
Hospice Continuous Care Team for their loving care during Mrs. Warren's final
days. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in memory of Phyllis to
Tampa General Hospital Foundation, P.O. Box 1289, Tampa, FL 33601-1289; The Girl
Scouts of West Central Florida, 5002 West Lemon St., Tampa, FL 33629; or
LifePath Hospice, 3010 West Azeele St., Tampa, FL 33609.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New governor bold but hazy

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 493 words


Upon taking office Tuesday, Gov. Rick Scott promised to show us an economic
miracle in Florida, then left the state wondering precisely how he plans to make
it happen.

Under his leadership -- he is already looking ahead and planning to win a second
term -- Scott wants to make Florida the world's most exciting place to live and
work. The keys, he said, repeating his campaign themes, are simply lower taxes,
fewer regulations and less litigation.

He immediately created an office of fiscal accountability and regulatory reform
to weed out unnecessary state rules. Speaking with unpolished sincerity, Scott
left no doubt that he is determined to cut state government to the bone.

What that will look and feel like, the state can only guess. Perhaps because of
his political inexperience, Scott shared no colorful anecdotes, in the style of
Ronald Reagan, to help an uneasy population better picture what he wants to do.
Scott's approval rating is a mere 30 percent, which suggests his vague attacks
on government foster more confusion than confidence.

He is not as warm and fuzzyas Charlie Crist often was. Scott is bold and hazy.

He told taxpayers that Florida raises enough revenue to meet all its needs,
which is to say he thinks the projected budget shortfall is no problem to cover.
But he also promised to phase out business income taxes and cut property taxes,
raising questions about how small a state government he has in mind.

Scott promises a maximum amount of choice in education and health care, as if
such policies would cost less.

While decrying regulations, he didn't mention state-regulated insurance rates
and utility rates. He had nothing to say about transportation, not even the
job-creating rapid-rail project that he has left in limbo.

Scott promises Florida an economic resurgence, whether the federal government
takes the right steps or not. He spoke asif Florida were an independent entity
that can defy national and global economic trends.

What Scott really campaigned against, and why he got more votes than his
Democratic opponent, was unpopular policy from Washington, not Tallahassee. Most
environmental protections and growth rules, for example, have their origins with
neighborhood organizations, local boards and pro-taxpayer groups, and they are
broadly supported.

Scott's promise to put 700,000 Florida residents to work by cutting state
regulatory policies, taxes and fees will soon run into that political reality.

If Scott is to continue building his reputation as a business-oriented realist,
and not a dreamy optimist, here are some realities he should keep in mind.

He got less than 50 percent of the popular vote. Every member of the Cabinet got
a larger percentage. He won a close election, not a mandate to run the state as
if it were his private company, scot-free of other opinions.

Photo Credit: The Associated Press

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Our views

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OBITUARIES

SECTION: TRIB2

LENGTH: 1377 words


ALLS, Juanita Venice, 84, of Wesley Chapel, Fla., passed away April 6, 2011. She
is survived by her sons, Troy L. Crews and Melvin N. Crews; sister, Jewell
Williams; six grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren. In lieu of flowers,
please make donations to Alzheimer's Foundation for Research.

ADAMS & JENNINGS FUNERAL HOME

BALBIN, Ramon Jr. "Cutie," 69, of Tampa, passed away April 8, 2011. He is
survived by his loving family. He was a Christian. The family gives special
thanks for the care given by Dr. Alejandro Cintas. Private services will take
place at a later date. Boza & Roel funeral home is in charge of arrangements.

BALLOU, Judith Addams, 75, passed away Thursday, April 7, 2011. She is survived
by her sons, Frank, Doug and Mark. Garden of Memories Funeral Home

BRANNON, Vivien, 101, of Spring Hill, Fla., died April 6, 2011. She is survived
by her children and grandchildren. Pinecrest Funeral Chapel

(352) 684-0001

CRYTSER, Daniel T., 84, of Port Richey, Fla., died April 6, 2011. He is survived
by his son, Karl; daughter, Cynthia; and family. Michels and Lundquist FH

(727) 845-1957

DECK, Viola H., 93, of Riverview, Fla., died April 7, 2011. She is survived by
her nephew, Howard Johnston, and loving family. Services will be announced at a
later date.

DULIN, Magaline Taylor "Madge," 84, of Tampa, passed away peacefully April 6,
2011. Madge was born in Shaw, Miss., September 12, 1926, to Mattie Bole Taylor
and Robert Ether Taylor. Called Maggie, she graduated from Benoit High School
and business school in Greenwood, Miss., where she met her husband, James Walter
Dulin. They moved to Tampa in 1954 with their five-year-old daughter, Debba.
Daughter Jan was born in 1960, and Madge was an untiring volunteer at Mitchell
and Grady Elementary Schools, including serving in their PTA organizations. She
was a member of Bayshore Baptist Church since 1954. Madge loved flowers, and won
several flower arranging awards with the Tampa Garden Club. An avid bridge
player, she belonged to several bridge clubs for over 50 years and loved playing
bridge with her special friends. She also enjoyed attending Bucs games with her
husband, Jimmy, who was a die-hard Bucs fan from their first game until his
death in 1981. Madge volunteered many hours as an usher and in the gift shop at
the Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center and at the Tampa Visitor's Center. In later
years, she loved playing Bingo, dancing and singing with her new friends at
Grand Court. Above all, Madge, "Gramma Maggie," was a loving mother,
grandmother, great-grandmother and friend. She was a perfect example of patience
and unconditional love and always had a warm smile and cheery greeting for
everyone she saw. Madge was predeceased by her parents; sister, Victoria
Herbison; and husband, James Walter Dulin. She is survived by her daughters,
Debba Ely (Mark) and Jan Weiss; grandchildren, Brad Ely (Elizabeth), Elizabeth
Korobin and Amelia Weiss; great-grandson, Jake Ely; sisters, Louise Servadio
(Dominic) of California and Mary Sue Ozbirn of Mississippi; many nieces and
nephews; and loyal friends. Many thanks go to Dr. Martha Price, the staff at
Grand Court, and LifePath Hospice Garnet Team. The family will receive friends
6-8 p.m. Friday, April 8, and a memorial service will take place at 3 p.m.
Saturday, April 9, at Blount and Curry Funeral Home, MacDill Avenue Chapel.
Donations may be made in Madge's memory to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 5100
W. Kennedy, Suite 195. Please sign the online guestbook at www.

BlountCurryMacDill.com

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

FINAN, Marie E., 80, of Tampa, passed away April 4, 2011. She is survived by her
loving family. Holloway Funeral Home (813) 855-2439

JACKSON, Leonard, 76, died April 7, 2011. He is survived by his wife, Lorraine,
two daughters, two stepchildren, two brothers and grandchildren. Heath Funeral
Chapel

JAMES, Calvin, 80, of Tarpon Springs, Fla., died April 6, 2011. Visitation will
be 2-4 p.m. and 6-8 p.m. Tuesday, with services at 11 a.m. Wednesday, at Michels
and Lundquist FH.

KAUL, James Michael, the husband of Marguerite Wright Kaul, passed away April 6,
2011. Services will take place at 10:30 a.m. today, Saturday, April 9, at St.
Mary's Episcopal Church, a Requiem Mass celebrated by the Rev. Canon Dennis
Kezar at 4311 West San Miguel St. in Tampa, Fla. James Michael Kaul, son of
Ralph Rains Kaul and Elizabeth Hazen Kaul, was born August 17, 1943, in
Washington, D.C., and grew up in Arlington, Va., with his younger sister, Judith
Marie Kaul. He will be laid to rest at Columbia Gardens in Arlington, Va., in
the family plot. Mr. Kaul, a retired international banker, was a proud veteran
of the U.S. Navy. He graduated from Brown University in Providence, R.I., and
New York University Stern School of Business. As an international banker, he
traveled throughout the world with his family; and throughout his three decades
of living outside America, Mr. Kaul developed an ever-growing love for his
country. He is survived by his wife, Marguerite; two sons, David Kaul of New
York City, N.Y., and Chad Kaul of Berkeley, Calif.; daughter, Marelise Kaul of
Tampa; and granddaughter, Cecily Hazen Kaul. Other survivors include his sister,
Judith Marie Kaul; a loving extended family that includes Wayne Seward; and many
loyal friends such as Pam and Dennis Bandyk and Carla and Frank Rieger. In lieu
of flowers, donations may be sent to St. Mary's Episcopal Day School, 2101 South
Hubert Ave., Tampa, FL 33629; or The Muscular Dystrophy Association, 3450 E.
Fletcher Ave., Suite 100, Tampa, FL 33613.

KING, Michael Joseph, 60, of Ruskin, Fla., passed away April 6, 2011. He is
survived by two loving sons and family members.

PEREZ, Gabriel, 21, passed March 26, 2011. He is survived by his father, Carlos;
mother, Mercedes; and family. Services will be at 11 a.m. Saturday at Stone's
Memorial FH.

PLUMEY, Maria, 53, died April 5, 2011. A Mass will be at 2 p.m. April 9 at St.
Joseph Catholic Church, Tampa, with visitation 4-6 p.m. April 10 at Blount &
Curry Carrollwood Chapel.

PORTER, Clemmie Leon, 68, died April 7, 2011. He is survived by his loving
family. A visitation will take place at 6-8 p.m., today, Saturday, April 9,
2011, at Stowers Funeral Home.

PORTER, Rachel, 94, died March 23, 2011. She is survived by her family. Viewing
will be 6:30-8 p.m. Friday, with services Saturday, at Winslow Honors FC, (813)
752-3091

RANEY, Lida F. Carter, 69, of Wesley Chapel, Fla., passed away Wednesday, April
6, 2011. She is survived by her loving family. Loyless Funeral Home, (813)
996-6610

SUTTON, Faye, 83, of Tampa, went to meet the Lord April 7, 2011. She was born in
Dill City, Okla., December 8, 1927, to Arch and Gladys Slatton, and was the
second of seven children. She moved to Tampa in the 1960s, where she began her
30 plus year career working with her brother, Norman "Slats" Slatton, at Buddy
Bi-Rite and was instrumental in its early success. She was a member of Temple
Terrace Church of Christ. Faye was a beautiful, compassionate woman who touched
many lives, and she was loved by all those who were blessed to have known her.
She enjoyed spending time outdoors, working among her plants and flowers,
reading, and nourishing her family. She is survived by her daughter, Vickie
"Judy" Garrison (Wayne); sons, Larry Sutton and Steve Sutton (Gloria); beloved
brothers, Monte Slatton (Lea) and Thomas Slatton (Roselyn); and sister, Mary Ann
Koren; six grandchildren, Melanie, Kelly, Brent, Ashley, Adam and Aly; six
great-grandchildren; and many adoring nieces and nephews. She was preceded in
death by her brothers, Jack, Norman and Jerry Slatton; and brother-in-law, Bill
Koren. A viewing will take place 5-7 p.m. Sunday, April 10, 2011, and a funeral
service at 11 a.m. Monday, April 11, 2011, at Blount & Curry Carrollwood Chapel.

BLOUNT, CURRY & ROEL FUNERAL

WHITMORE, Harold, 58, died April 6, 2011. Survivors are his mother, Jimmie; a
daughter, Chesie; two brothers; and two sisters. Global Mortuary, (727)
530-3600.

YENGEL, Adele L., 98, died April 6, 2011. She is survived by her daughter,
Kathryn; son, James; stepchildren, Thomas and Kathleen; and family. Michels &
Lundquist FH

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Strawberry Crest's IB status opens doors

BYLINE: EMILIE PLANTS, Special correspondent

SECTION: PLANT CITY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 973 words


BY EMILIE PLANTS

Special correspondent

DOVER -- Freshman Brian Do sees his education at Strawberry Crest High School as
part of his personal pursuit of the American dream.

His parents moved to the United States from Vietnam following the war. They
struggled to learn English.

His spot in Strawberry Crest'sInternational Baccalaureate World School program
opens a lot of doors.

"They didn't have an opportunity to pursue higher education," Do said of his
parents. "I'm hoping to have it."

Do scored a win at the recent Hillsborough County Science Fair and will go on to
compete statewide.

His goal is to get a scholarship to MIT and become a mechanical engineer, and he
believes the IB program is the way to get there.

"I wanted something that would challenge me and help me in the future as well,"
Do said.

The high school at 4691 Gallagher Road was granted IB status in its second year.
It joins IB World Schools that include Hillsborough, King and Robinson.

Strawberry Crest Principal David Brown has high hopes for students coming from
the IB program. They can "write their own ticket" when it comes to higher
education, he said.

"These students are going to walk out of this program, and they are going to be
my boss. They'll be making the majority of the decisions in this world," Brown
said.

Strawberry Crest had to go through rigorous testing and officials filed
mountains of paperwork to obtain the IB status. Thestudents, in turn, face
challenging courses and testing during their high school years.

Strawberry Crest has 125 sophomores and 140 freshmen in its IB program. The
school graduates its first IB students in 2013.

Kaitlyn Kett is a sophomore who's ready to take on a place in the world as a
behavioral psychologist working in the criminal justice system or with children.

"I plan to attend Liberty University or Vanderbilt," she said.

Kett said the IB setting makes for an ideal place to learn

"I like the fact that it's a small setting and we all know one another. The
students are more mature and challenged with a lot more. I like to be challenged
with my studies," she said.

Kett's work will be graded by instructors halfway around the world, as well as
by her teachers at home.

"They're taught with a slightly different perspective. It's a global perspective
and much more rigorous," IB coordinator Tiffany Ewell said.

Ewell is confident the IB World School is going to take her students to a higher
level.

"They're looked highly upon by colleges and universities. A student who can go
thru four years of IB is more apt to get through four years of college," she
said.

Advanced Placement Euro instructor Estella Cubano enjoys pushing her students to
think on a higher plane.

"I love talking with my kids. I get to have an intellectual discussion with them
every day. Through my subject, I get to introduce them to the world," she said.

Sophomore Adriano Triana has found instructors such as Cubano to be caring and
helpful.

"I like how the teachers are always there to help us after school. If you ask
them, they'll stay," he said.

Triana, who hopes to pursue biotechnology at Yale or MIT, is enjoying the
camaraderie with his fellow IB students and his place in the Strawberry Crest
marching band.

"Everybody knows each other," he said.

Advanced Placement English instructor Magnolia Allen, who came from a 30-year
career at King High School, also has a passion for teaching the IB students.

"My passion stems from the students' motivation, the parental support and the
family feel. It's exciting to see the students' willingness to take risks and
learn to do things differently than they've ever done before. I wouldn't be
anywhere else but here," she said.

Allen prides herself on students like sophomore Dana Beriswill.

"She writes the best essays," Allen said.

Beriswill joined the IB program from a home-schooled environment but feels at
home in the public school system.

"In the beginning, I wasn't sure about being here. Now, I love it! It's so much
fun," she said.

Beriswill plays piano and enjoys doing dramas with Horizon Christian Church.

"I like how they vary the structure of the classes and everything is more
hands-on," she said.

Fellow sophomore Michael Alvarado is looking forward to all the IB World School
has to offer.

"I play Little League baseball and still enjoy normal things. It does take a lot
of hard work, organization and study habits. If you have all that, you're good,"
he said.

Alvarado hopes to attend MIT and become an architect.

"People say IB kids have no life," he said. "It's not true at all."

Photo credit: EMILIE PLANTS

Photo: Assistant Principal of Magnet Curriculum/International Baccalaureate
coordinator Tiffany Ewell, left, speaks with AP Euro instructor Estella Cubano.
Students say Cubano and other instructors are helpful and caring.

Photo: Advanced Placement Algebra II instructor Daniel Rothrock opens his class
with a warm-up problem.

Photo: Marissa Montanez takes notes during her Algebra II lesson at Strawberry
Crest High School.

Photo: Brian Do and Brittany Randles display their projects at the Hillsborough
County Science Fair. Do's entry was selected to represent Strawberry Crest High
School at the statewide science fair.

Photo: Kyrylo Pavlychenko studies a culture in his Advanced Placement Biology
class at Strawberry Crest High

School.

Photo: International Baccalaureate students, from left, Nick Vargas, Chanucey
Thomas and Brian Shinawongse are taking Algebra II.

Photo: International Baccalaureate students and band members, from left, are
Joshua Cockream and Kaleb Starr.

Photo: The International Baccalaureate student debate team is composed of, from
left, Brian Do, James Russo, Erik Legge, Kristin Knotts, Tristen Ray, Anisha
Kesarwani, Joshua Judge, Deepthi Naidu and Joshua Cockream.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Those 4 little words

BYLINE: GARY BARG, Special correspondent

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 279 words


BY GARY BARG

Special correspondent

I like to say that there are two sets of three little words all family
caregivers need to have at their disposal and use as frequently as possible.

The first set is obvious to you romantics out there; those words are, of course,
"I Love You." You can't say that enough. Add in a smile and a warm hug for good
measure.

Any longtime reader will already know what the second set of words is, and that
the words "Who's your supervisor?" must be used unfailingly and fearlessly
whenever necessary. They will work wonders when you face any unreasonable
roadblock as you care for your loved one.

Recently, at a Fearless Caregiver Conference, a family caregiver expanded my
caregiving vocabulary. It turns out that she was getting extremely frustrated by
having to answer the same questions over and over again from her mother who was
living with Alzheimer's disease.

After one such session, she was about to respond angrily to her mom, who would
not have understood anything but the anger in her daughter's voice. Before she
had a chance to speak, her husband (a wise man, indeed) took her aside and said
the following four words. I would like you to say them to yourself whenever
those unimportant things happen that make us lose our perspective.

The phrase is: "What does it matter?"

Gary Barg is founder and editor-in-chief of Today's Caregiver magazine and
www.caregiver.com, author of "The Fearless Caregiver," and the host of
conferences held nationwide, including events this year in Tampa and Orlando.
Contact him at gary@caregiver.com

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Fearless Caregiver

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Memorial Day setup

BYLINE: SARAH LONGWELL, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 531 words


BY SARAH LONGWELL

Special To The Tampa Tribune

Memorial Day marks the unofficial start of summer. Neighborhood block parties
and backyard barbecues bring camaraderie to every street corner in the warm
summer evenings.

But be careful when taking advantage of that early-summer activity: If you have
even a single drink and run afoul of a police officer who doesn't like your tone
at a checkpoint, you could end up spending the rest of the year fighting a DUI
charge. It doesn't matter if you're under the legal limit, obeying the rules of
the road and have your hands at 10 and 2. Failing to recite the alphabet
backward might net you a night in jail and a black mark on your driving record.

Roadblocks are an increasingly popular tool with local police. Often funded with
special grants from the federal government, roadblocks typically stop hundreds
of drivers and net only one or two drunks -- if they catch any at all. Far more
frequently, police officers hand out tickets for broken taillights and expired
tags.

Why? Modern technology. Checkpoints can catch drunken drivers only if the
drivers don't know where the checkpoints are. However, between bar buddies
text-messaging each other a checkpoint's location and iPhone apps such as
"Trapster," which utilizes the Global Position System to warn drivers of DUI
roadblocks, it isn't hard for a driver to learn about the location of a
checkpoint and avoid it

Who ends up being inconvenienced? You -- casual drinkers who want to have a
glass of wine with dinner, a bottle of beer at a baseball game or a drink with
neighbors at an early summer barbecue. These aren't the dangerous drivers who
cause fatalities: The average blood-alcohol content in a drinking-related
fatality is .19 percent. To get to that level, an average-sized man would have
to drink 10 beers over the course of two hours.

An examination of the data by the American Beverage Institute confirms there's
no meaningful relationship between states allowing checkpoints and a decrease in
fatalities. Of the seven states with the lowest percentage of traffic fatalities
from alcohol, four permit checkpoints; the same is true for the seven states
with the highest percentage of fatalities from alcohol. No real pattern emerges.
Checkpoints aren't a silver bullet for ending drunken-driving deaths.

This isn't to say we should do nothing. The hospitality industry is committed to
getting dangerous drivers off of our streets, but there are better, more
efficient ways to target them.

Roving saturation patrols, for example, catch far more drunks at a far lower
cost to communities. They also have the added benefit of catching other drivers
engaged in dangerous behaviors like speeding and talking on a hands-free cell
phone -- both of which behaviors, by the way, are more impairing for drivers
than having a BAC level of .08 percent.

Perhaps police officials should be asked to focus on tactics that get dangerous
drivers off the road instead of costly publicity stunts that fail to make us any
safer.

Sarah Longwell is managing director of the American Beverage Institute.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kicking off a new high school season

BYLINE: A Tribune staff report

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1387 words


The Tribune's prep writers check in on several teams as football practice begins

A Tribune staff report

Tampa Catholic

The goal of the first day of practice?

"Surviving," said Crusaders defensive coordinator David Lewis.

Approximately 60 Tampa Catholic players attempted to do just that as they hit
the practice field early Monday morning. Not as green as they were last year,
coach Bob Henriquez noted the upside of having to play so many freshmen last
season, including starting quarterback Chivarsky Corbett and offensive lineman
Cory Martinez, is the valuable playing experience they gained.

There's also an undertone of anger with the team feeling slighted and perhaps a
bit overlooked.

That's why it was near 100 percent attendance with the players eager to get the
season kicked off. Used to hearing nearly every excuse in the book for missing
practice, Henriquez got a new one.

"This is the first time I've had a coach missing because of the global stock
market meltdown."

Katherine Smith

Berkeley Prep

Buccaneers players walked off the practice field after their first workout with
arms intertwined while singing, "Lean On Me."

The song wasn't just lip service. With the team gathered in a huddle,
quarterback Destin Nichols reminded his teammates he was there for them if they
needed anything.

All-around athlete Nelson Agholor also spoke, hoping to pump up the players.

"Let's prove to everybody how great we're going to be," Agholor said. "We're not
going to be just good, we're going to be great."

With a core group of seniors who have played a major role in the resurrection of
the Berkeley Prep program, there's an added sense of excitement as their last
season begins.

"There's something about this team that feels special," wide receiver Christian
Hardegree said. "We've all grown up together putting in the work. We knew we had
something special from the beginning and we've just been growing and growing and
growing.

"It feels about time. We'll see what happens"

Katherine Smith

Newsome

Newsome's quest for a fourth consecutive district title got off to a good start
Monday, despite one of its key players being out with an injury.

Coach Ken Hiscock said senior Royce Easley, who has offers from Georgia Southern
and Youngstown State, could miss the preseason game against Steinbrenner and
possibly more time after pulling a pectoral muscle during a weightlifting
session last Thursday.

Still, Hitchcock was pleased with how things went.

"We retained a lot on the first day," he said. "Our offseason really helped."

Barely into the first day of practice, Hiscock said there are position battles
at fullback and receiver. Meanwhile, Newsome returns just one starter on the
offensive line.

"Because of our depth, we've pulled back a little bit in practice rather than
beat each other up," he said.

The Wolves graduated 27 players from last year's team and Hiscock said he'll
have 12 seniors on this year's squad, but will also have 30 juniors.

"We have 14 weeks to get better, day by day," Hiscock said.

Nick Williams

Durant

Rain and flashes of lightning ended Durant's first practice. Coach Mike Gottman
couldn't believe the irony.

"It was on us in 10 minutes," he said. "We tried to go out in the morning to
avoid the afternoon rain."

Still, the Cougars were able to run through their punt and punt return units
before leaving the field and Gottman believes he's found a replacement for
kicker/punter Connor Bass, one of Durant's most effective weapons last season.

"Daniel Bowers, he's going to be good," Gottman said. "He was on JV and he was
money at times."

Gottman said Bowers, a junior, will battle with junior Sean Humphrey for the
starting punter position.

Nick Williams

Armwood

The No. 2 team in the nation is seemingly loaded at every position so why not
kicker.

Nick Feely, from the first family of kickers in Tampa, will kick for the Hawks
this season. Sidelined with an injury that threatened to prematurely end his
football career, Feely is back and as strong as ever.

Participating at a University of Michigan camp earlier this offseason, Feely won
everything, said his father, Tom, who trains several of the top kickers in the
area.

"He's had a good summer," Tom Feely said.

It's been a two-year process to get Nick Feely back onto the field. He suffered
severe breaks in his right leg and foot in a freak accident. Feely's older
brothers, including Arizona Cardinals kicker Jay Feely, excelled at Jesuit.

At Monday's practice, Feely quickly endeared himself to his new teammates by
nailing a pair of 50-yard field goals. Then he showed off his punting strengths.
Even running back Matt Jones, sidelined with a knee injury, was impressed.

"This is a good fit for him," Tom Feely said. "He's real excited."

Katherine Smith

Spoto

The expectations are high for senior receiver Geronimo Allison and he doesn't
intend to disappoint.

For the first time since his freshman year, when he played on Spoto's junior
varsity team, Allison (6-foot-3) is academically eligible. Although he hasn't
played a minute of varsity football, he is already regarded as one of the top
receivers in Hillsborough County.

"A lot of schools have been out here to look at him," Spoto coach Dale Caparaso
said. "USF, Florida and Florida State, but he doesn't have any film. They want
to wait to see him on film."

On Monday, Allison could hardly contain himself.

"I was really excited for today," he said.

Allison, who played spring football, earned a spot on the school's honor roll
last school year to raise his GPA and said he isn't going to take his final and
only varsity season for granted.

"Every chance I get, I'm showing out. No plays off and working hard on every
down."

Aside from Geronimo's first fall practice, other news at Spoto included Caparaso
returning from a three-day honeymoon in the Bahamas, and former Tampa Bay
Buccaneer Charles Bennett joining the staff to coach the defensive line.

Nick Williams

Sickles

Monday afternoon's showers did nothing to smolder the fire on the Sickles
practice field.

With each snap, pass pattern and block from the 65 varsity players, coach Brian
Turner and his assistants wanted and demanded perfection. That's the attitude
they anticipate carrying into the regular season just three weeks away.

"Everyday we talk about doing the right things and being smart and if you do
what we tell you to do and you learn and you game plan - we just make sure they
know we believe in them," Turner said.

Despite being lodged in what has been jokingly termed the "District of Death,"
which is the Class 6A-District 8 cluster with the likes of Armwood,
Hillsborough, Jefferson, King, Leto and Strawberry Crest, Turner has a simple
message for his players.

"We don't fear anybody," Turner said. "The word the kids use is swag and we want
our kids to have some swag. Our break (from the team huddle) every day is state
championship. That's what we tell them we want to do and we don't want to accept
anything different."

Eddie Daniels

Alonso

When Brian Emanuel accepted the coaching job at Alonso in March, he had a
confirmed 13 players show up. Things have changed dramatically in five months.

When he and his coaches took the field Monday afternoon, they were facing 70
eager players.

"Part of it is stability because obviously I'm the third guy in three years and
that's been really tough on our kids," Emanuel said. "Being that I was the
offensive coordinator last year, I think they know I'm not going anywhere. My
dream would be to be like Earl (Garcia) at Hillsborough or like Billy Turner at
Chamberlain.

"I want to be here, retire here. ... The kids know I care about them and the
coaches care about them."

So far, the proof is in the numbers.

Eddie Daniels

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: Tampa Catholic quarterback Mitchell Norden takes the snap as the
Crusaders open fall practice Monday.

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: First-year Jefferson coach Jeremy Earle works with the Dragons' new
quarterbacks.

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: Junior Nick Feely, Armwood's new kicker and the younger brother of
Arizona Cardinals kicker Jay Feely, drills a 50-yard field goal during his first
day with the Hawks.

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: Plant defensive lineman Michael Dvornik (right) leads a group through
warm-ups.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A reflection and appreciation

BYLINE: CHIP DIEHL

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words


By CHIP DIEHL

I remember Sept. 11, 2001, like yesterday. I was in the Pentagon when it was
struck. Reflections abound just mentioning the date -- spellbound at the
billowing smoke, the loss of life, the anger, wanting to help those suffering.
The impact and aftermath of this tragedy forever etched in our hearts and
memories.

I remember writing a commentary for the Tribune, trying to capture how America
had been attacked, how Americans were rallying to rescue those hurt and
supporting recovery operations. Accounting for office members. People holding
hands, praying. Salvation Army, churches, medical and firefighters all
responding to the Pentagon -- a whole wedge of the building had collapsed.
People digging to find survivors.

Sept. 11. Our nation was attacked. America was uniting, responding together. Our
freedom was being challenged; it would be defended.

In these ensuing 10 years, America has responded. Foremost, our nation has not
faced a similar attack since.

We all have our personal memories and countless reflections that may include the
tragic loss of life, combat and the way our lives have changed forever.

It's important to reflect and capture our thoughts, as we live, protect and
rebuild. But it's even more important to appreciate how our nation and
communities came together to protect the freedom and liberty we cherish so much.

Foremost, when you mention Sept. 11, I remember those initial calls with my wife
and family -- I was fine. I remember calls from friends here in Tampa: "Are you
all right?"

We will always remember those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice and died on
Sept. 11 and in the past 10 years. We pray for nearly 6,200 of our finest
Americans who have died fighting in support of Operation Enduring Freedom,
Operation Iraqi Freedom and now Operation New Dawn.

Equally, I am always so proud of the outpouring of support for our wounded
heroes, more than 42,000 young men and women -- including more than 2,000 from
Florida -- returning home after enduring so much pain and suffering.

Our nonprofit organizations -- Special Operations Warrior Foundation, Fisher
House, Operation HomeFront, Operation Helping Hand and Embracing Florida's
Wounded Heroes, to highlight just a few -- provide a warm, supportive arm around
the shoulder of our wounded brethren as they recover and to their families as
they sit by their bedside.

For all of us here in the Tampa Bay area, how will we ever thank the Bayshore
Patriots who have stood as our symbol, waving our flags every week for the past
10 years? Bless them for their pride and love while standing steadfast for our
country, military, first responders and our families.

Our health care over the past decade has been nothing short of amazing. If our
medics and medical evacuation teams can quickly get to a wounded soldier on the
battlefield, the chance for survival is unbelievable (percentages of survival
are close to 80 percent). Our James Haley Veterans' Hospital team continues its
miraculous care for so many of our wounded.

May we pledge to always support our wounded heroes. Remember, many are in their
20s. They will live another 50 years, enduring their wounds. We must be there
for them and their families.

Minutes after the attacks on the World Trade Center towers, the Pentagon and the
horrific crash of Flight 93 in Pennsylvania, our first responders were engaging.
I remember our fighter aircraft launching to protect our skies.

For the past 10 years, our National Guard, Reserves and Coast Guard have
"volunteered" to respond, engage and sustain our operations from Afghanistan to
Iraq to Africa.

Early on, our Guard and Reserve units mobilized, allowing us to project our
forces overseas -- and have never wavered in their commitment. Recently our
Florida National Guard returned from one of its largest deployments ever. Our
Coast Guard deployed its cutters and ships all the way to the Persian Gulf to
support operations.Today, members of our Coast Guard serve on our Navy ships,
providing vital guidance on international boardings and piracy in open waters.

A day I will forever remember was standing on the flight line at Karshi Khanabad
Airbase (K2) in Uzbekistan and seeing the long row of C-130s; on their tails
were the letters identifying the states they were from -- Wyoming, Tennessee,
California -- it made you feel and admire the great support our Guard was
committing to these operations.

Many Americans do not appreciate the extent of the international allegiance we
enjoyed since Sept. 11.

The largest coalition of nations "ever in history" came together -- the
"Coalition of the Willing" -- joining the United States as they too suffered the
loss of loved ones on Sept. 11.

At MacDill Air Force Base, the coalition grew to more than 60 nations, sending
delegations of military leaders around the globe. We could write books about the
historic contributions of our coalition nations -- stories that need to be told.

A few: Japan pledging millions of gallons of fuel for our coalition naval forces
-- giving free fuel to our allied ships, which was crucial logistical support;
Jordan, Egypt and South Korea deploying hospitals into Afghanistan and caring
for local Afghans by providing millions of immunizations and, for many, their
first trip to the doctor; nations such as El Salvador, Nicaragua and the
Dominican Republic sending forces into Iraq and fighting by our side. Nations
such as Moldova, Poland, Ukraine, Mongolia and many more sending units into Iraq
to support operations. Many died fighting beside us.

The coalition has been historic. Its members have suffered and sacrificed with
us. Most of all they have been "with us" to preserve global freedom and peace we
cherish.

Equally reassuring and uplifting have been the countless humanitarian and
infrastructure projects that have been completed. Building the "Ring Road" (like
an interstate system) across Afghanistan to allow the movement of goods is a
great example.

Since the times of the great Silk Road, the Crusades and Marco Polo, Afghanistan
has been a transient nation -- facilitating the movement of trade from Europe to
Asia. Completing the Ring Road serves as an economic engine in Afghanistan's
re-emergence as a nation. Even more, the U.S. Agency for International
Development and our international partners have built schools, hospitals and
roads, along with water, power and agricultural projects -- all touching the
hearts and minds of the local Afghans.

Our sons and daughters have deployed numerous times over the past 10 years.
Every year seems longer and longer. We all ask what the future beholds -- how
much more of our treasure must we endure?

For me, I only have to reflect back on that tragic morning of Sept. 11, 2001.

Then, as we have over the past 10 years and as we continue today, America came
together and responded.

We continue to stand strong in our fight to preserve and protect the freedoms we
hold so dear. We are united -- with our coalition partners -- to fight for as
long as it may take to make our world safe for us and for our children.

America is special. Wave our flag proudly. We'll protect it.


Brig. Gen. Chip Diehl (USAF, Ret.) is former wing commander at MacDill Air Force
Base.


Photo: Chip Diehl

Photo credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: In this Sept. 11, 2001 file photo, a priest prays over a wounded man
outside the west entrance of the Pentagon as emergency workers help the wounded
after the terrorist attack on the Department of Defense building.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dali special

BYLINE: CURTIS ROSS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words


Brush strokes of a bleak economy don't diminish area's shining cultural centers,
including the new Dali Museum

BY CURTIS ROSS

The Tampa Tribune

T AMPA It's a juxtaposition a surrealist might appreciate.

The groundbreaking of the new, $35 million Salvador Dali Museum was announced in
November 2008 against a backdrop of stock market freefall and financial panic.

"Those were the days," museum director Hank Hine says. "Big insurers and banks
going under, bailouts being sought."

But when the museum opens Tuesday, it will cap a period that has seen major
growth in the area's cultural landscape.

The Tampa Museum of Art moved into its new Curtis Hixon Park home last year. The
Glazer Children's Museum opened nearby in September. The Tampa History Center
opened a new downtown Tampa facility in 2009.

In addition, St. Petersburg's Museum of Fine Arts had a major expansion in 2008.

Funding for many of these projects was in place before the recession hit hard in
late 2008 and 2009. Still, the completion of the projects is a testament to
private sector support for the arts and the priorities of mayors Pam Iorio of
Tampa and Bill Foster of St. Petersburg.

"You've got to have the arts," says Iorio, who was unwavering in her support for
the Tampa Museum of Art's new home. "It's one of the ingredients to a
well-rounded city."

Foster and his predecessor, Rick Baker, were "integral" to the completion of the
Dali's new home, Hine says.

Elected in 2008, Foster "has been unstinting in his support," Hine says. "When
the county felt it couldn't provide funds, he said the city would match them."

About $25 million of the Dali's funding had been secured before the economic
crisis through a combination of state and federal grants and private donations.

Donations covered about half of the remainder. The rest came from Pinellas
County and St. Petersburg, putting in $2.5 million each.

The move had its critics.

Pinellas County covered its share by extending the 5 percent bed tax on hotel
and motel stays through 2021. The allocation from the bed tax drew criticism
from private citizens as well as county tourism officials.

The city's portion came from money originally intended for infrastructure
improvements, which riled some observers.

"It doesn't make sense that they're cutting back on infrastructure spending and
at the same time giving millions to the museum," Bruce Wright, a St. Petersburg
advocate for the homeless, was quoted as saying when the project got under way.

"This is not the time to spend taxpayers' dollars on a new museum," he said at
the time. "People need help."

Most of the projects were well into at least the planning stages before the
economic crisis.

The Museum of Fine Arts' Hazel Hough Wing opened in 2008, well ahead of the
crisis.

"We were lucky that the financial hit didn't happen until the end of 2008," says
Kent Lydecker, director of the Museum of Fine Arts.

Lydecker says the museum does not receive regular funding from the city.

"The city may provide funds for specific projects, but the majority of our
support comes from admission, grants and gifts," Lydecker says.

Private money accounts for a large percentage of funding, and often covers most
of the cost of museum construction and expansion.

"If they're getting public funds these days, it's a public-private partnership,"
Iorio says.

"One of the keys was the fact that this was a public-private partnership," says
C.J. Roberts, president and CEO of the Tampa Bay History Center, of the new
facility.

"Frankly, it's a healthy model," Roberts says. "I hope others are looking to the
example we set here."

The history center opened in 2009. Roberts acknowledges the museum's fortuitous
timing.

"We were moving forward before the current economic climate," he says. Still,
securing the money needed for completion showed the effects of the economic
downturn.

"It took a little longer to raise the final funds," Roberts says. "But even
during the lowest point of the stock market, people didn't stop giving to good
causes, although maybe they were taking longer to make the decision or
supporting at a lower level."

Having a benefactor with deep pockets also is helpful.

"We had the tremendous good fortune to have the Glazer Family Foundation get
behind the project," says Al Najjar, Glazer Children's Museum president and CEO.

The Glazer Family Foundation is the charitable organization of the family of
Tampa Bay Buccaneers owner Malcolm Glazer.

Najjar also touts the museum's partnership with Hillsborough County and Tampa's
efforts to create a cultural district downtown.

The Tampa Museum of Art was a key project for Iorio, who admits its birth was
"tumultuous," involving scuttled architectural plans and changes in location.

Still, Iorio says, she has never found the arts a hard sell.

"It's all part of what makes a city a quality place to live, along with low
crime rates and the infrastructure," she says.

"You have to have all of these things," Iorio says. "Most people end up
agreeing. Even if they say they'll never go to the museum, they agree with the
overall picture."

cross@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7568

Photo: The history center, Museum of Art and the new Salvador Dali Museum are
among the jewels of the Bay area.

Photo Credit: PAUL LAMISON/STAFF

Photo: Cultural centers such as the Tampa Museum of Art and the Glazer
Children's Museum are part of what makes a city a quality place to live, Mayor
Pam Iorio says.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 24, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rubio may be at center of tug-of-war between Republicans, tea party

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words


BY WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- New Florida Sen. Marco Rubio is at the center of an impending struggle
between established Republican leaders and the tea party faction in the U.S.
Senate.

Rubio hasn't said whether he intends to join the newly formed tea party caucus
in the Senate, but he could be a prime candidate.

Meanwhile, he was one of four freshman senators chosen by Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell, R-Ky., to go on a trip this month to Afghanistan and Pakistan, a
coveted travel slot that helps boost the profile of a new senator.

Congressional leaders in charge of such trips often use them to build alliances
with colleagues, including new members, experts on Congress note.

While he was running for office, Rubio declined the label of "tea party
candidate," although he spoke positively about the movement and its goals and
was considered its leading advocate among candidates for office nationwide.

Rubio "is proud of his relationship with the tea party movement and shares its
commitment to attacking the debt, defending the free enterprise system and
restoring the tradition of limited government," said spokesman Alex Burgos.

He confirmed that Rubio has been invited to join the tea party caucus, but "has
not made any decision about caucus memberships at this point."

Another well-known freshman, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.,announced formation of the
tea party caucus last week with Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., elected in 2004, and
fellow freshman Mike Lee, R-Utah, as inaugural members. Neither Paul nor Lee was
included on McConnell's trip.

For McConnell, the caucus could prove a thorn in his side, said political
scientist Norman Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute, a veteran
observer and analyst of Congress.

"If you are Mitch McConnell, you want to have members who will vote with you in
lockstep as much as you can," he said. "I'm sure he looks at something like the
tea party caucus with a bit of a jaundiced eye.

"There's no doubt that what we're going to see here is a serious struggle for
who co-opts whom," he said.

"You're going to have a very aggressive effort on the part of McConnell and the
leaders to co-opt people who were endorsed by the tea party, to make sure their
first loyalty is to the Republican Party."

Meanwhile, he said, the tea party adherents may seek to draw Republicans into
their orbit, and their goals may not always coincide with those of those of the
GOP leadership.

While some other Republican freshmen senators aren't considered likely to join
the tea party caucus, such as Mark Kirk of Illinois and Rob Portman of Ohio,
Rubio could be one of its highest-value recruiting targets.

McConnell likely was aware of that when he extended the invitation.

Besides Rubio, the delegation that travelled to Pakistan and Afghanistan
included Republican freshmen Sens. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, Pat Toomey of
Pennsylvania and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin.

All three are considered potential tea party recruits, though Ornstein said he
considers Ayotte unlikely.

Toomey, a former president of the business-backed conservative group Club for
Growth, challenged former moderate Republican Arlen Specter, motivating Specter
to switch parties -- a political sequence similar to Rubio's defeat of former
Florida Gov. Charlie Crist.

Johnson, a businessman, was considered a tea party champion.

Ayotte is a strong supporter of the Arizona anti-illegal immigration law, and
like Johnson, a climate change doubter.

Republican Sens. Lindsay Graham of South Carolina and Richard Burr of North
Carolina, both McConnell allies, also joined the trip.

For freshman legislators, such a trip provides "a boost in prestige" that
provides publicity and a degree of authority on a national security issue,
Ornstein said.

Rubio took full advantage, working a lunch with Florida troops in Kabul into his
schedule, plus a news conference call with state political reporters, including
video and photos provided to news outlets back home.

Leaders use such invitations as recruiting tools, Ornstein said, "especially if
the leader sees a member as up-and-coming," like Rubio.

"A highly visible, articulate and attractive Hispanic is very big for them," he
said.

The trip "isn't just to curry influence -- you also end up with a lot of
informal face time," Ornstein said.

"It gives the leader an opportunity to gauge new people," he said.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

813 259 7761

Photo credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: Sen. Marco Rubio, left, hasn't said whether he intends to join the newly
formed tea party caucus in the U.S. Senate.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Greetings from Florida

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 236 words


We told you so, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell: The Super Bowl - professional
football's biggest event - belongs in Florida, where you don't have to worry
about blizzards, ice and below-zero wind chill - or need a retractable roof.

The weather on Tuesday in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, the host for Sunday's
game, was as disruptive as Pittsburgh Steelers safety Troy Polamalu. A snowstorm
closed roads and temporarily shut down airports. Hundreds of flights were
canceled. Frigid weather is forecast for days.

Meanwhile, in Tampa - the host of four hugely successful Super Bowls - it was
another ho-hum winter day: some clouds, temperatures in the mid 70s. Great
weather is expected Sunday.

Fortunately for fans who will attend Sunday's game, Cowboys Stadium has a
retractable roof, which will be closed. But all this doesn't bode well for the
New York City area's inaugural Super Bowl in 2014, which will mark the first
time the game will be played outdoors in a cold-weather site. The New
Meadowlands Stadium doesn't have a roof - period.

It shouldn't be too late for Goodell and team owners to change their minds. The
game and the weeklong party should be held in a warm climate for the enjoyment
of players and fans. It's the Super Bowl, not Super Brrr.

Best we can tell, Raymond James Stadium is available.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A DECADENT DECADE

BYLINE: JEFF HOUCK, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLAVOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1765 words


South Beach food fest celebrates 10 years of wining and dining in the sand

BY JEFF HOUCK

The Tampa Tribune

If all goes as planned, Kira Astle-Jefferson will meet her cheese Yoda this
Sunday.

As manager of SideBern's restaurant in South Tampa, Astle-Jefferson was inspired
to learn more about cheeses by reading books written by Laura Werlin, one of the
country's foremost authorities and an award-winning author. After several years
of study and research, Astle-Jefferson

is now the cheese director at

SideBern's.

On Saturday, she'll drive to Miami Beach from Tampa to attend Werlin's seminar
on pairing cheeses and Italian wines. Two tickets will run her $197, but the
cost is more than worth it, she says.

"My only disappointment is that I couldn't go to all three of her seminars,"
Astle-Jefferson says. "Having someone in the area who normally wouldn't come to
Florida for any other reason will be very cool for me. I had to take that
opportunity."

The magnet drawing Werlin to Florida from San Francisco for the first time: the
2011 Food Network South Beach Wine & Food Festival, held on the sands of Miami
Beach. The festival, now in its 10th year, starts Thursday and runs through
Sunday.

"I was told that it was a party of 50,000 people on the beach," Werlin says.
"There's so much buzz around this. It's one of these parties that if you're not
part of it, you're out of it. It's exciting to be part of it now."

The South Beach festival, SoBe for short, hasblossomed from a modest charity
wine-and-food gathering into what Emeril Lagasse has called "spring break for
chefs." New York Times food critic Frank Bruni described it as "an exuberant
Foodstock." British chef Jon Ashton says SoBe is "the pina colada" of food
festivals.

Imagine a beer-soaked Anthony Bourdain, host of Travel Channel's "No
Reservations," trading naughty kitchen stories in front of an audience with Tom
Colicchio, head judge of Bravo's "Top Chef." At any moment, Food Network's
Southern belle Paula Deen might appear with her husband, Michael, and sons Jamie
and Bobby to turn a cooking demonstration upside down. Or you might see media
whirlwind Rachael Ray throwing down burgers with TV weatherman Al Roker and
French chef and restaurateur Daniel Boulud.

"It's sun and surf and sex and suds," says Key West chef Norman Van Aken, who
has appeared at SoBe every year since it began. "I think it's the big daddy of
food festivals like 'American Idol' is the big daddy of American TV."

The festival's roots stretch back to the annual Florida Extravaganza charity
event held by beverage distributor Southern Wine & Spirits to raise money for
Florida International University's hospitality program. In 2002, Southern's
media and special events director, Lee Schrager, saw potential in the 600-person
gathering.

The biggest food festival at that time was the staid and proper Aspen Food &
Wine Classic, a glamorous, high-altitude summertime shindig in the Colorado
mountains that had the endorsement of Food & Wine magazine. Not wanting to
compete, Schrager instead aimed to be the first big soiree of the food year by
leveraging the exotic charms of Miami to transform the Extravaganza into a
wintertime oasis for chefs living in colder climates.

Networking through friends of friends, he persuaded celebrity chef Alain Ducasse
to be the marquee name for the first year. Ducasse's star power pulled in such
luminaries as Nobu Matsuhisa, Gary Danko and Todd English.

The next year, Food Network star Bobby Flay jumped onboard along with powerhouse
chefs Alice Waters, Hubert Keller and Eric Ripert. Soon, Food & Wine magazine
joined as a headline sponsor.

The festival's profile exploded again in 2007 when Food Network came on as a
name sponsor after years of having its on-air talent make unofficial
appearances. As Food Network moved from a niche channel to a star-making vehicle
for people like Lagasse and Ray, SoBe's culinary status and reputation for
hedonistic extravagance grew accordingly.

South Beach now "makes the Aspen festival look like Masterpiece Theater" by
comparison, Van Aken says. As the attendance grew to 50,000, bigger names came
to play at the beach.

In 2007, Schrager lured Ferran Adria, widely acclaimed as the best chef in the
world, to Miami for a tribute dinner. In 2008, NBC's "Today" show broadcast from
South Beach. In 2009, the king and queen of Spain dropped by for a visit.

"The Food Network name gave us cachet and colossal media play," Schrager says.
"Our partnership really took us to the next level."

The festival's impact on Miami's international food scene has been "seismic,"
says Van Aken, who owns restaurants in Coral Gables and Orlando and is known as
the father of "New World Cuisine."

"There's no way there would be so many chefs and business partners coming here
if not for them coming to Miami for some of the most beautiful weather
imaginable and thinking, 'Why not be in paradise?' "

Although the intimate wine seminars and food demonstrations change year to year,
the South Beach festival's core is built around a handful of parties and
gatherings along an eight-block section of Ocean Drive.

First is Burger Bash, a noshfest started by Rachael Ray during the height of the
hamburger craze of the mid 2000s. Chefs compete to create the most sumptuous
burgers possible with the most luxurious ingredients. Sliders with foie gras?
That's for starters.

Next is the Grand Tasting Village, a four-block-long showcase of more than 200
restaurants, sponsors, and wine and spirit makers under 60,000 square feet of
tent space on Miami Beach's sugar sands.

Third is BubbleQ, a champagne-soaked barbecue at the north end of South Beach
that marries high-style beverages with elevated versions of backyard dishes. If
your backyard looks like Martha Stewart's, that is.

Laura Schmalhorst of Tampa's Chefs on the Loose restaurant and catering company
was among three dozen celebrity chefs invited to cook at the 2010 BubbleQ. She's
been attending and working the event since the festival began. This year, she's
working with a support company that supplies SoBe with all of the kitchen
equipment, tables and linens for its events and demonstrations.

Schmalhorst says the festival is an opportunity for chefs to mingle and
reconnect. They've survived the craziness of the holidays and the restaurant
doldrums that come after the hustle and bustle. They're usually flying in from
colder cities. They're in Miami to have fun as much as they are to showcase
their culinary chops, Schmalhorst says.

There aren't many places you can dish out red chili barbecued short ribs with
pureed hominy foie gras butter, flirt with Emeril and make friends with
Manhattan power restaurateurs. Van Aken still remembers the night that Waters
planted a kiss on him at BubbleQ, long before she became the patron saint of the
"slow food" movement.

"Daniel Boulud is one of the nicest guys," Schmalhorst says. "These guys are the
new rock stars, but you have proximity to them and you get to taste their food."

The keystone of the entire enterprise is Schrager, Schmalhorst says. The man's
BlackBerry may be closing in on 7,000 names in his contact list, but he calls
everyone by name.

"It's so neat because he is a very warm, approachable person and he remembers
you," she says.

"I'm no one compared to the pedigree chefs, but after all these years, he still
goes, 'Hi! How are you doing? I'm so glad you're here,'" Schmalhorst says. "He's
one of the reasons they've been so successful."

jhouck@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7324

Jon Ashton's Miso-Glazed Sea Bass with Soy Reduction and Pickled Cucumber Salad

Serves 6

1/3 cup sake

1/3 cup mirin

1/3 cup light yellow miso paste

2½ tablespoons (packed) dark

brown sugar

2 tablespoons soy sauce

6 6-ounce sea bass fillets,

each thinly sliced into 3

2-ounce slices

Soy Reduction (recipe

follows)

Pickled Cucumber Salad

(recipe follows)

In a shallow glass baking dish, combine the

sake, mirin, miso, sugar and soy sauce. Add the

fish and turn to coat. Cover and refrigerate for at

least 48 hours.

Heat a grill or frying pan to medium-high.

Remove the fish from the marinade. Grill for

about 6 minutes, 3 minutes per side, until just

opaque in the center.

Place the sea bass on serving plates, drizzle

with Soy Reduction, and serve with Pickled Cucumber

Salad.

Soy Reduction

1 pound dark brown sugar

1 cup soy sauce

¼ cup chicken stock

2 cloves garlic, cut in half

2 whole star anise

1 cinnamon stick (about 3 inches long)

In a saucepan, bring the sugar, soy sauce,

stock, garlic, star anise and cinnamon to a boil.

Simmer until the mixture coats the back of a

spoon.

Strain; discard the spices. Set aside.

Pickled Cucumber Salad

2 cups thinly sliced Japanese cucumbers

1 teaspoon salt

¼ cup rice vinegar

1 tablespoon soy sauce

1 tablespoon sugar

1 teaspoon Asian sesame oil

In a large bowl, combine the cucumbers and

salt and mix well. Add the vinegar, soy sauce,

sugar and sesame oil, and mix well. Let marinate

for 20 minutes before serving.

Adjust the seasonings before serving.

(CHART) Taste of SoBe

Orlando-based celebrity chef Jon Ashton went a different direction when making
this dish for the 2009 South Beach festival's BubbleQ party.

"People usually think of meats when barbecuing, but for the BubbleQ I decided to
go with sea bass instead," Ashton says. "Its firmyet- moist white flesh holds up
well on the grill, and it has a delicate yet flavorful taste.

I kept it simple and fun using miso as a glaze for sweetness." Ashton usually
serves the fish on steamed jasmine rice with Asian stir-fried vegetables. At the
BubbleQ, he chose a pickled cucumber salad, adding "a refreshing component to
counter SoBe's sizzling weather." The recipe is featured in the new "Food
Network South Beach Wine & Food Festival Cookbook" (Potter; $35).

Photo Credit: LAURA SCHMALHORST

Photo: BubbleQ, a champagne-soaked barbecue, is a signature event of the Food
Network South Beach Wine & Food Festival. The 2011 fun begins Thursday.

Photo Credit: LAURA SCHMALHORST

Photo: Laura Schmalhorst of Chefs on the Loose restaurant and catering company
in Tampa, poses with chef Emeril Lagasse, right, and South Beach Wine & Food
Festival director Lee Schrager after the 2010 BubbleQ event in Miami Beach.

Photo Credit: LAURA SCHMALHORST

Photo: Schmalhorst and assistant Peter Swiatek prepare a dish for BubbleQ during
the 2010 festival. She was one of three dozen celebrity chefs invited to cook
for the party.

Photo Credit: POTTER

Photo: Chef Jon Ashton's Miso Glazed Sea Bass is featured in the new "Food
Network South Beach Wine & Food

Festival Cookbook."

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

John's Pass Village to be new home for The Pier's aquarium

BYLINE: STEPHEN THOMPSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 535 words


Facility to have a new name and five times more space

BY STEPHEN THOMPSON

The Tampa Tribune

ST. PETERSBURG -- The aquarium at The Pier is moving to a new home at John's
Pass Village in Madeira Beach, the aquarium's board of directors announced
Tuesday.

The new facility, renamed the Marine Discovery Center and Aquarium, will have
11,500 square feet, more than five times the space it has at The Pier. It is
scheduled to open by the end of 2012.

The center will include four major new exhibits: Science on a Sphere, Planet
Water, Ocean Today and Climate Change. There also will be larger live exhibits
and an expanded touch tank.

"By marrying cutting-edge technology with live marine exhibits, MDCA will
entertain and engage our visitors and create appreciation for our planet's
marine environment, above and under water," board Chairman Mark Luther, a marine
science professor at the University of South Florida, said in a prepared
statement. "We will show visitors a world they cannot see anywhere else."

The aquarium will occupy two floors of space in John's Pass Village, which filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this year while reorganizing finances.

Hubbard Properties, which owns the building, slowly has added businesses,
though, andwith the addition of the marine center and aquarium, the occupancy
rate will be 100 percent, said company President Patricia Hubbard.

"This could not have come at a better time for us," she said. "Someone said it
was biblical, and I had to agree with that."

E. Howard Rutherford, the aquarium's chief executive officer, said master
planning and naming opportunities are in development. A $3 million capital
campaign will be announced this year. Twenty-five percent of that sum has been
pledged, Rutherford said.

The St. Petersburg City Council voted in August to tear down The Pier, an iconic
inverted-pyramid structure that juts into Tampa Bay on the downtown waterfront.
Engineers determined pilings underneath the 1,026-foot approach are near the end
of their useful life.

The city has planned to set aside $50 million to redevelop the location.
Demolition is expected in 2012 or 2013.

The aquarium board wanted a new location because the 2,000 square feet of space
at The Pier was considered insufficient, said Lari Johnson, a board member and
chairwoman of the committee entrusted with finding a new location.

More than 85,500 visitors come to the aquarium annually to attend Saturday
programs, the annual Spa Beach Splash free marine discovery day, and Summer
Marine Adventures summer camp, the facility says.

Photo credit: FRED BELLET/STAFF

Photo: Fish such as this striped belly pufferfish will be part of larger live
exhibits.

Photo credit: FRED BELLET/STAFF

Photo: The aquarium at The Pier in downtown St. Petersburg is moving to a new
home at John's Pass Village in Madeira Beach.

Photo credit: ANDY JONES/STAFF

Photo: The aquarium board wanted a new location because The Pier is expected to
be demolished in 2012 or 2013.

Photo credit: TODD L. CHAPPEL/STAFF

Photo: The Marine Discovery Center and Aquarium will have more space and is
scheduled to open in 2012.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 741 words


Yahoo deal adds way to share TV show info

SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Yahoo Inc. has bought the maker of mobile software that
makes it easier for people to let their friends know what TV shows they're
watching.

The deal to buy IntoNow, announced Monday, is part of Yahoo's effort to provide
more information-sharing services. The company, which is based in Sunnyvale, is
trying to give people more reasons to stay on its website and services instead
of increasingly popular online hangouts such as Facebook and Twitter.

IntoNow also lets viewers identify their favorite TV commercials, a feature that
might open up ways for Yahoo to sell more ads in its online videos.

Procter & Gamble raising prices on products

CINCINNATI -- Shoppers could soon see higher prices for Pampers diapers, Charmin
toilet paper and Bounty paper towels.

Procter & Gamble Co. said Monday that it raised U.S. list prices for those
products because of rising costs for pulp, oil and gas.

P&G said list prices for Pampers are up 7 percent on average, Pampers wipes up 3
percent, and Charmin and Bounty products up 5 percent. P&G said Luvs, its
lower-priced diaper brand, remains unchanged.

Paper products rival Kimberly-Clark Corp. said Monday that it will raise prices,
after reporting first-quarter net income fell 9 percent on rising costs. P&G
reports quarterly results Thursday.

PlayStation Network outage continues

LOS ANGELES -- The outage of Sony Corp.'s PlayStation Network ran into its sixth
day Monday as the company said it has no timeframe for restoring the
Internet-based system that links users in live game play worldwide.

In a blog post Monday, Sony spokesman Patrick Seybold said he couldn't predict
when rebuilding work would be completed but that it's a "time-intensive
process."

The company said Thursday that it would take a "full day or two" to restore
service after it first shut down the system that serves both PlayStations and
its Qriocity entertainment services the previous day.

It subsequently blamed the outage on an "external intrusion" and said it would
have to rebuild its system to add security measures and strengthen its
infrastructure.

Johnson Controls profit rises 29%

MILWAUKEE -- Johnson Controls Inc.'s fiscal second-quarter earnings climbed 29
percent on higher revenue as its auto parts, building climate control and
battery units reported double-digit sales increases.

The Milwaukee company forecast third-quarter earnings and revenue below Wall
Street expectations as parts shortages from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in Japan continued to disrupt auto production across the globe.

Whole Foods to rate household cleaners

AUSTIN, Texas -- Whole Foods Market Inc. is implementing a rating system for
household cleaning products, the latest effort by the natural-foods grocer to
enforce environmentally friendly standards on its suppliers.

The tiered system, which will assign red, orange, yellow and green ratings, will
take effect next year.

Jim Speirs, global vice president of procurement, said Whole Foods has always
had standards for its cleaning products, such as no animal testing. But over
time, officials have become frustrated by a lack of transparency when it comes
to products' ingredients, he said.

Apple's data collection probed in South Korea

Apple Inc. is being investigated by South Korea's communications regulator to
determine if it is breaking the law by saving data on the location of iPhone
users.

The Korea Communications Commission asked Apple how often information is
collected and saved, and whether users have a choice over whether it is saved or
deleted, the commission said in an e-mailed statement Monday.

From staff and wire reports

Photo credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: A gallon of regular unleaded gas now averages $3.785 in Tampa Bay,
compared with $3.798 last week and $3.05 a month ago. That's better than the
statewide average of $3.828, compared with $3.830 last week and $3.573 last
month, according to AAA Auto Club South.

Photo credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

Photo: A woman makes her way out of a Walmart store in Oakland, Calif. Walmart
stores have begun testing home grocery service in San Jose, Calif., to compete
with Amazon.com and Safeway. A minimum order of $49 is required, and prices are
the same as at the store. Delivery is the next day, and charges range from $5 to
$10. Tipping is not allowed.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What is dry eye syndrome?

BYLINE: CHARLES B. SLONIM, M.D., Special correspondent

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 600 words


BY CHARLES B. SLONIM, M.D.

Special correspondent

Dry eye syndrome, a lack of lubrication on the surface of the eye, is one of the
more difficult conditions that eye doctors are asked to treat. An estimated 20
million Americans suffer from varying degrees of dry eye, most commonly those
older than 50 and women. Postmenopausal women are particularly susceptible,
perhaps due to hormonal fluctuations.

Tears help keep the eyes healthy and comfortable. They bathe the eyes, keeping
them moist and washing out dust and debris, and protect against infection. Dry
eyes may occur if you don't produce enough tears, if existing tears evaporate
too quickly, or the abnormal composition of components (water, oils, proteins)
in your tear film.

While environmental changes, such as a windy day, dry climate or exposure to
smoke, may exacerbate dry eyes, the syndrome is typically a chronic condition
caused by a variety of factors.

As we age, the eyes naturally produce fewer tears and the quality of the tears
is reduced. Certain systemic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and
thyroid disease, are associated with dry eyes. Dry eye syndrome may be the side
effect of many medications, including antihistamines, antidepressants, some
blood pressure drugs and hormonal supplements. Dry eyes are a common complaint
of longtime contact lens wearers. Eyelid structure problems or disease are other
causes.

Whatever the cause, dry eye syndrome symptoms range from subtle and slightly
bothersome to severe and debilitating. They include mild irritation, persistent
scratchiness or foreign body sensation (like sand) in the eyes, burning,
stinging, sensitivity to light and blurred vision.

Ironically, the person with dry eye syndrome often visits the eye doctor
complaining of tearing or watery eyes. That's because excessive dryness from
lack of primary tears, which normally lubricate the eyes, acts to stimulate the
overproduction of reflex tears.

Dry eyes can often be relieved by supplementing your tears with over-the-counter
"artificial tears." Depending on the severity of your condition, these
supplements may only be needed twice a day or as often as every 15 to 20
minutes. In more severe cases, managing the eye lubrication regimen can become
quite complex. The many brands of artificial tears come in different
viscosities, from watery liquids to thicker gel-like drops to ointments. You may
need to try several kinds to find one that works best for you, and some people
require a combination of products for relief.

Occasionally the eye doctor will insert small silicone plugs (punctual
occlusion) to close the ducts that drain tears out of the eye. This may help
reduce the need for artificial tears.

When artificial tears no longer work, other treatments are available for chronic
dry eye syndrome. The prescription eye drop Restasis may be used to increase
production of your own tears. Tiny inserts placed just inside the lower eyelids
(Lacrisert) slowly release a surface lubricant (hydroxypropyl cellulose)
throughout the day.

New research indicates omega-3 fatty acids in cold-water fish oils and flaxseed
oils can alleviate symptoms. Sleep masks and bedtime moisture chambers can help
people who experience dry eyes upon waking in the morning. Eyelid surgery to
reduce the eye's evaporative surface may be required.

Consult your eye doctor about the best individual treatment for your dry eyes.

Dr. Slonim is an adjunct professor of ophthalmology at USF Health.

Photo Credit: THINKSTOCK

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ask The Expert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 13, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A game plan to win economic development in Hillsborough

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 696 words


By KEN HAGAN

In job creation, the days of relying exclusively on our favorable tax climate
and weather are long gone.

Using that outdated strategy alone, we've seen jobs and headquarters move to
Alabama, Georgia and Mississippi.

The Mitsubishi plant is a perfect example: 530-plus jobs and more than $30
million in wages did not come here. We lost that critical economic impact, and,
frankly, it wasn't even a close game.

Today, we are in a heightened competition for every job, and we must approach
economic development as much more than just a spectator sport.

To that end, I firmly believe that our strategy must be to turn all possible
resources into tools that not only attract new businesses to Tampa and
Hillsborough County but that stimulate the local economy and help our local
businesses create even more jobs.

The game plan

Over the past couple of years, I've made new business in Tampa and Hillsborough
a priority. I created the Economic Stimulus Task Force, which made several key
recommendations that the Hillsborough County Board of County Commissioners
approved.

We assisted small-business expansion by lowering the minimum for qualifying for
incentive programs.

We also zeroed in on industries that fit best and offer the greatest prospects
to the Tampa Bay area with our locational analysis and strategic plan.

In play now are targeted marketing strategies that include such things as our
ongoing efforts to identify permit-ready land for commercial and industrial
development; implement best practices and streamlining within our regulatory
system; and making incentives more accessible to businesses.

Tax exemption

Key to getting us back on the scoreboard was the tax-exemption program I
championed last year to create jobs. This program was overwhelmingly approved by
county voters; and, in fact, the city of Tampa followed our lead and approved a
similar measure in March.

Under this program and on a case-by-case basis, based upon the industry and
number of jobs created, property taxes may be reduced or waived for a period up
to 10 years.

This program will greatly assist local businesses that want to expand as well as
incentivize corporations that are considering relocation to make our local
community home.

Small business

Commissioner Sandy Murman joined our team in November and hit the scoreboard
with another important job-creation program that will create quality,
sustainable jobs and help reduce the unemployment rate in Hillsborough.

Designed to help small businesses, this program offers companies the opportunity
to free up capital to expand their business by providing a wage reimbursement of
50 percent of wage/salary cost of new jobs for three months.

Economic Development Authority

Currently, I am studying the possibility of expanding our Industrial Development
Authority into a full-blown Economic Development Authority that can own land and
arrange financing for corporate prospects.

Our current IDA already possesses most of these economic-development powers in
its charter; however, to date those powers have not been fully utilized.

Importantly, there are no increased costs or new levels of bureaucracy, and it
will further unify our economic-development partnerships with the Convention and
Visitors Bureau, USF and small-business development agencies.

In fact, this will greatly assist the county in developing our research park and
can help advance our life-science strategies.

Lastly, this strategy will not change or dilute the role of the Tampa
Hillsborough Economic Development Corp. or other partners. Rather, it will
better leverage individual resources and capital.

I believe this will be a home run for our economic-development and
corporate-recruitment efforts.

It remains my firm belief that the county commission must take a leadership role
in positioning our community to be leaders in job creation and provide a
sustainable model that will also guard against future economic downturns.

For my part, I will be working hard to put Tampa and Hillsborough County back to
work.

Ken Hagan is a Hillsborough County commissioner.

Ken

Hagan

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Athletes must be heat smart

BYLINE: MARY SHEDDEN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1027 words


Florida's scorching, humid days are a challenge for players

BY MARY SHEDDEN

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA -- DJ Searcy, Forest Jones and Isaiah Laurencin never met, but their
sudden deaths connect the three high school football players.

The 16-year-olds died within a week of one another after football practices in
the intense summer heat. Laurencin, an offensive lineman with Miramar High
School in Broward County, died July 26. Searcy and Jones, both from Georgia,
died last week -- Searcy while at a football camp near High Springs.

Their deaths are again drawing attention to the dangers of athletes working out
in extreme temperatures, as high school football officially begins today in
Florida and teams are allowed to start practicing for the upcoming season.

The heat index will reach well into the 100s most days as players run through a
gauntlet of conditioning workouts, drills and practices. The combination can be
dangerous and is one reason heat-related illnesses are a leading cause of death
among high school athletes in the United States.

Sadly, the recent deaths won't be the last, said athletic trainer Raena Steffen,
Hillsborough High School's team trainer.

"We can assist in trying to reduce the number of deaths with education and with
letting our coaches know the signs and symptoms and letting the parents know the
signs and symptoms," she said. "But unfortunately with the climate that we have
here in the state of Florida, we're going to be at a higher risk because of the
high temperatures and the high humidity."

Athletes are far more vulnerable to heat-related illness. Higher heart rates and
warm muscles add to the stress the body normally feels in hot weather, making
hydration and rest critical, said Eric Coris, the head medical physician for the
University of South Florida's athletic department.

Athletes are most at risk in the first seven to 10 days of practice, when their
bodies haven't yet acclimated to the heat. Coris recommends football players
stick to shorts, T-shirts and helmets at first. Heavy plastic pads and equipment
trap heat and increase the risks. Teams are not permitted to strap on pads until
Thursday, according to Florida High School Athletic Association rules.

These days, players and coaches are taking heat risks seriously.

"I think it's been a serious issue for a long time, but thanks to coverage and
awareness, people are getting the message," Coris said.

Taking proper precautions is the key. With proper conditioning, lots of water,
timeouts and medical help available on the sidelines, healthy children and teens
can safely play sports even in extreme heat, according to new guidelines being
released today by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

In an ideal world, schools would have a certified athletic trainer at every
practice and game, but that's not always possible because of budget constraints.
At the schools without trainers, the responsibility of safeguarding players
falls to the coaches. In Pinellas County, every high school has a trainer, but
fewer than half of Hillsborough County high schools do.

"Coaches have to use good judgment and common sense," said Lanness Robinson, the
athletic director for the Hillsborough County school district.

Pasco County school officials sent a memo to schools about heat illness, and the
county's athletic director, Phil Bell, sent emails to all the schools' athletic
directors telling them to remind their coaches to build frequent water breaks
into practice schedules.

In recent years, the National College Athletic Association has revised its
practice policies for hot weather. Two-a-day practices are spaced apart and held
during cooler times of day. Players also are given more time to acclimate to the
heat.

Sickle cell anemia is a new concern, partly because of a recent military study
showing the condition can increase the risk for heat-related death fortyfold,
Coris said. The disease slows a body's ability to circulate blood, an enormous
problem when a body is hot and dehydrated, he said.

Nine percent of all African-Americans have sickle cell anemia.

Medications also can affect how a player responds in the heat. Stimulants, such
as Ritalin, decongestants, antihistamines and some antidepressants, all can
increase a person's ability to handle heat, Coris said.

Size also is a factor. At 6 feet tall and 245 pounds, Jesuit High School
offensive lineman Kevin Ormsby is one of the larger players on his team and
knows he is more susceptible to heat-related illnesses.

The senior also knows from experience that playing football in extreme heat can
be fatal.

Ormsby was playing for the Tampa Bay Youth Football League's Dolphins in 2006,
the year 11-year-old Jamell Johnson collapsed while running laps during a
practice with the Nuccio Jaguars and died of heatstroke.

"That was an eye-opener," Ormsby said. "I think about it every day and drink a
lot of water, so I don't pass out or even have to die."

Reporter Rick Harmon contributed to this report.

mshedden@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7365

ksmith@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7860

(CHART) Beating the heat

Know the warning signs Heat exhaustion symptoms and signs:

Fatigue, inability to continue exercise, mild confusion, nausea, increased core
temperature, vomiting, fainting, chills on the head and neck

Heat stroke symptoms and signs:

Pronounced mental status changes, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, fainting,
hypotension, elevated core temperature, coma

Prepare your body

Drink water before, during and after practice. Stay away from sugary drinks and
caffeine. Stay away from salty foods, and eat more raw fruits and vegetables.

Source: Eric Coris, head medical physician for the University of South Florida
athletic department, and Raena Steffen, Hillsborough High School team trainer

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: Jesuit High football player Rico Gonzalez, right, and assistant coach
Chris Hesson take a water break Saturday. Hydration is key.

Photo credit: BILL WARD/STAFF

Photo: Jesuit football players warm up before a conditioning test early
Saturday. Experts say cooler times of day are best for practice.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A better state? It's up to you

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words


After helping pull most of the teeth out of Florida's longstanding growth law,
Billy Buzzett is returning to private law practice this week proud of his public
service.

We lack Buzzett's confidence that the reform is wise, but we don't doubt his
sincerity. And he's right that local governments still have powerful tools to
guide growth and protect taxpayers.

"That's where we are in this law," Buzzett tells us. "If it's your community and
you care about it, you need to fight for it ... hold these local officials
accountable."

Buzzett, a personable former executive of St. Joe Paper Company, will be the
last head of the Department of Community Affairs after serving only nine
action-packed months. Half the planning staff was laid off and the planning
agency is becoming part of the new Department of Economic Opportunity.

This page is not alone in worrying that the undermining of state law, something
developers have wanted for years, will lead to short-sighted planning decisions.
But Buzzett isn't worried.

"I don't know that you can legislate good behavior or legislate good planning,"
he said in a recent visit to the Tribune. "A lot of folks have been mourning the
old act. I'm trying to look to the future. I'm not convinced that all the
patterns of growth in this state have been good."

One of the Tribune's concerns is the potential for large, new cities to be
created in isolated rural areas, far from jobs and stores. Buzzett's
predecessor, Tom Pelham, was a convincing critic of some of these ambitious
plans.

Buzzett has a totally different perspective: "A few large landowners own an
awful lot of our state. They're about 10 or 12, all in the same club, called
Florida Land Council. They probably control about 10 percent of Florida's land.

"I was concerned that we weren't having a conversation with those landowners.
You could do system-wide protection of the environment. If the land was cut up
and had many, many, many owners, it's hard to get that consensus. Whether we'll
have (new) freestanding towns or not, I think it's a mistake to not do
large-scale plans. If we could today protect that land and give the landowner a
sense of certainty, I think we all win.

"All that's been done so far is to put in place a legal framework that can allow
local government and a landowner to have that conversation. Nothing more than
that. But I sure hope they do."

The bottom line is that in many areas of growth oversight, the state will now
stand aside while local elected leaders do as they please. Payment plans, called
concurrency, are no longer required to guarantee that roads, schools and parks
are built.

"It's optional," Buzzett says. "I haven't had anyone say we don't want to have a
system of concurrency ... Philosophically, I think the developer should pay it
all.

"I hear growth management is dead. People confuse the agency going away with the
program going away. The two are not the same."

Four years ago the Wall Street Journal suggested that Florida, as a destination
and economic powerhouse, was itself going away. We posed that newspaper's
headline to Buzzett: Is Florida over?

"No! No! We have a beautiful state. We've got a great lifestyle. We've got an
incredible climate.

"I think the best economic tool is the quality of life we have."

But growth management, while imperfect and sometimes cumbersome, was the most
effective safeguard citizens had for protecting their quality of life.

Now it will be completely up to residents, with limited time and resources, to
combat local governments that allow irresponsible development. The state will be
sitting on its hands.

Even during the current period of slow growth, many changes are being proposed
to local plans that will affect neighborhoods and taxpayers. Fees cut now, and
development rights granted now, won't be apparent until the housing market comes
roaring back.

Whether you realize it or not, the new, local battle over the character and
structure of Florida's future has already begun. We agree with Buzzett that
Florida is not over and "it's worth fighting for."

It is unfortunate the state now has largely abandoned the growth management
battlefield.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 25, 2011 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What if Disney World were still a dream?

BYLINE: JEFF HOUCK, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2347 words


Imagine life without the Mouse: No weddings, no NBA team, no 'I-4 corridor'

BY JEFF HOUCK

The Tampa Tribune

LAKE BUENA VISTA -- Standing in the spooky darkness of the Haunted Mansion, Paul
and Sherrye Archer wait their turn to enter the Magic Kingdom attraction at Walt
Disney World.

The mansion filled with ghoulish illusions has been one of the Archers' favorite
spots inside the park for the 19 years they have owned season passes. Disney
World is the Valrico couple's escape from the pressure of their teaching jobs.
Only an hour's drive from their front door, the four parks serve as weekend
getaways several times a year.

Their set-in-concrete routine for every Magic Kingdom visit: a beeline to
Adventureland and the Splash Mountain ride -- their favorite -- followed by the
rib-rumbling Big Thunder Mountain Railroad. Then the mansion, lunch, a dessert
and the Buzz Lightyear laser shooting gallery.

Inside the mansion's dark entrance lobby, a narrator speaks in a mortician's
ominous monotone. Sherrye, 61, whispers the script word-for-word.

"Your cadaverous pallor betrays an aura of foreboding, almost as though you
sense a disquieting metamorphosis. Is this haunted room actually stretching? Or
is it your imagination?"

Ah, imagination. The foundation upon which Walter Elias Disney built his
entertainment empire. It was imagination that brought a whistling Mickey Mouse
to the movie screen, then to TV and then to a land named after Disney in
Anaheim, Calif.

And it was imagination that led Disney to buy 30,000 acres of mosquito-choked
scrubland in the middle of Florida with the idea of building a themed resort
where visitors could spend money on rides, in restaurants and at hotels,
immersed in a world of his creation.

It would take a Disney-size imagination to ponder what Orlando and Florida would
be like if that first shovel of dirt hadn't been turned to build the Magic
Kingdom. As the park marks its 40th year in business Saturday, it maintains its
spot as the most popular theme park in the world, with an estimated 17 million
visitors a year who spill into Orlando and use it as an entry point for
exploring the rest of the peninsula.

"You're talking about the 500-pound gorilla in terms of tourism," said Mark
Bonn, a professor at Florida State University's College of Business and
president of Bonn Marketing Research.

"Historically, we were promoted as a sun and sand and ski destination," Bonn
said. "That all changed in a hurry when the Magic Kingdom opened."

Bonn's company has been tracking visitors for the city of Tampa for 17 years.
His numbers show that 20 percent of the tourists who visit Tampa and St.
Petersburg come here because of Disney and the other Orlando attractions it
paved the way for.

"If you were to take away 20 percent of spending in Hillsborough County, it
would be a devastating loss," Bonn said. "Disney was the engine that started it
all."

There are stories about why Walt Disney chose to build a duplicate park in
Florida.

One often-told tale is that Disney saw an employee, or "cast member," dressed in
cowboy garb strolling through the futuristic Tomorrowland at Disneyland. For the
big-picture Disney, who framed the construction of Disneyland with a
cinematographer's eye, the contrast ruined his intended illusion. A theme park
built properly would have tunnels for cast members to move without being seen,
an innovation he used at Magic Kingdom.

The other story mixes illusion with money: When Disneyland was built outside
Anaheim, Disney didn't anticipate the hoards of stores and rundown hotels it
would attract outside the gates. As they surrounded the park, it limited any
chance to expand.

"He wanted them to be immersed and not see a 7-Eleven outside the gates of the
Magic Kingdom," said Matt Roseboom, owner and publisher of Orlando Attractions
Magazine. "He bought enough land to do just that."

After scouting other places in the United States and within Florida, Disney
started scooping up land through dummy corporations to keep prices low.

The Florida Project, as he called it, was intended to build Progress City, a
concept that became Epcot and the town of Celebration.

Florida was all about big projects then. An hour away, billions of dollars were
being spent to launch men into space at Cape Canaveral. In 1962, the nearby
Kissimmee River was being straightened and drained to make way for grazing land
and agriculture. In 1964, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began digging the
Cross Florida Barge Canal to give ships a shortcut between the Atlantic Ocean
and the Gulf of Mexico.

"When you think about that time frame in Florida, you had a climate that was
conducive to having a year-round operation like they had in California," Disney
historian Dave Herbst said. "And they had the ability to buy a lot of land at a
manageable price."

Using its considerable lobbying power, the company negotiated with the state to
grant it eminent domain over the property to avoid the red tape of building in
Osceola and Orange counties. The Reedy Creek Improvement District -- overseen,
managed and policed by Disney officials -- was created.

After Disney died from cancer in 1966, his brother Roy took over the project,
nudging it toward a first phase of construction that included the Magic Kingdom,
the Contemporary and Polynesian resorts, golf courses, a campground and a
monorail.

When Lakeland residents William "Bill" Windsor Jr. and his wife, Marty, were
picked from the opening day crowd of 10,000 visitors to be the first to see
Magic Kingdom, along with their toddler sons Jay and Lee, there was no way to
predict the park's explosive growth.

That 43-square-mile property now consists of four theme parks, two water parks,
33 resorts and hotels, a shopping district, a sports complex and a boardwalk.
There remains ample room for parks and resorts if demand grows. Its success
spawned similar versions in France and Japan.

So large was Disney's economic gravity back then that SeaWorld duplicated its
San Diego theme park with an Orlando version in 1973. Universal Orlando more
closely mimicked the Disney model in 1990, with what later became multiple parks
and resorts. The three cemented the region as the world's top tourist
destination.

A Disney-commissioned study released in April estimates that the Disney property
generates $18.2 billion in annual economic activity in Florida, totaling 2.5
percent of the state's gross domestic product.

The study by Arduin, Laffer & Moore Econometrics showed Disney employs 62,000
who earn an aggregate of $1.8 billion. Statewide, 160,000 jobs lead back to
Disney: one out of every 50 jobs in Florida.

That doesn't include the millions of dollars that have flowed to Tampa or St.
Petersburg as travelers filter through. Or the construction workers that built
houses and widened Interstate 4 and Florida's Turnpike.

Disney and Florida have become so synonymous that marketing money spent by the
company to draw visitors acts as de facto promotion for the rest of the state,
economist Bonn said.

The state has a $25 million tourism marketing budget, while Disney spends $250
million to promote its attractions.

Without Cinderella's Castle, there's no reason to assume Orlando would be the
29th-busiest airport in the world, according to Airports Council International.
There's nothing to suggest "the I-4 corridor" would have become so coveted in
national politics.

"There would be no Orlando Magic basketball team," Bonn said, joking. "Funny how
they got that name, eh? What would they have called them, the Orlando Oranges?"

Roseboom recently broke the news in his attractions magazine that Disney plans
to feature a land in its Animal Kingdom park dedicated to "Avatar," the
largest-grossing movie ever.

Without the Magic Kingdom, Herbst never would have left his job as a sports copy
editor for the Pittsburgh Press to become a Disney historian. He will retire
this year after 30 years.

In 1977, he begrudgingly took a trip to Magic Kingdom instead of visiting his
grandmother.

"My friends loved Disney," Herbst said. "They said, 'You have to go to Walt
Disney World.' My response was, "Why? We have Kennywood!'"

After two days in the Magic Kingdom, he told his wife while driving north on
Interstate 95, "I'm going to work there someday.

"I was seeing myself as the guy on the horse-drawn trolley or some fun little
job," Herbst said. "I immediately sent a crazy letter to them after we got home.
I got back a letter that said, 'Thank you for your interest.'"

Four years later, he was a cast member.

Paul Archer worked as a cast member in the mid-1970s, sweeping up trash along
Magic Kingdom's impeccably clean Main Street U.S.A. His favorite park is Epcot:
Once you have swept up after the horses, it changes your view of Magic Kingdom,
he said.

Archer, 55, owns no Mickey Mouse-adorned apparel. His wife once bought them
matching Mickey Mouse outfits during a Disney cruise. He wore it. "Once," he
said, flatly.

The couple, who met as physical education teachers and coaches at schools in
Palm Bay, spend thousands of dollars a year at the park. Married for more than
20 years, they have no children but enjoy seeing the parks through the eyes of
their relatives' kids.

Paul, a physical education teacher at Corpus Christi Catholic School in Temple
Terrace, runs the Disney Marathon each year through the streets of the theme
parks and resorts. Sherrye, who teaches physical education at Stowers Elementary
in Lithia, wears her oversized Minnie Mouse hand to wave goodbye to students at
the end of the school year. They rarely buy souvenirs.

One time in 2005, they broke that rule. They got through the front gate of Magic
Kingdom at opening time and ran to their beloved Splash Mountain. As the first
two riders of the day, they went down the water toboggan alone. Twice. They
plunked down $15 for the 5- by 8-inch souvenir photo. It sits in a frame on
their mantel.

"That was the best day at the park ever," she said. "I'll never forget that."

Not everyone has been entranced by Disney's magic, though.

Members of the I Hate Disney World page on Facebook, for example, see the resort
as "a blight on the fetid swampland it was built on."

"It makes your average refugee camp look like a garden party," the page says.
"The most accursed place on Earth."

In 2008, Newark Star-Ledger parenting columnist Peggy O'Crowley bemoaned a trip
to Magic Kingdom, confessing her boredom and saying her kids were equally
underwhelmed.

"The heat, the long lines for rides, the $5 hot dogs, the plastic castle, the
adults wearing Goofy or Mickey ears ... it was all too much for us," she wrote.

Disney fans swarmed to the newspaper's website to defend the resort. "I am
guessing if there was one of the seven dwarfs you admire and resemble the most
it would be Grumpy," one wrote.

The definitive anti-Mouse screed remains Miami Herald columnist Carl Hiaasen's
83-page book, "Team Rodent: How Disney Devours the World."

Published in 1998, the book has become the Rosetta stone for despising the
Disneyfication of Florida and the country.

Hiaasen attacks the company for what he sees as its manhandling of the
Legislature to get its way, for destroying the environmental purity of Central
Florida and for insisting that nature is something to be managed instead of
nurtured.

"Disney is so good at being good," Hiaasen writes, "that it manifests an evil;
so uniformly efficient and courteous, so dependably clean and conscientious, so
unfailingly entertaining that it's unreal, and therefore is an agent of pure
wickedness. Imagine promoting a universe in which raw Nature doesn't fit because
it doesn't measure up."

Disney has responded to critics with efforts to tout its recycling efforts.
Visitors staying at resort hotels are asked to conserve towels to reduce water
use. Attractions at Animal Kingdom and Epcot tout the wisdom of being
ecologically minded.

But even critics know Disney isn't leaving Florida anytime soon.

Consider those big projects that emerged about the time Magic Kingdom was built.
NASA this year stopped sending people into space from Cape Canaveral. The
Kissimmee River straightening is being undone to rectify damage to the region
and to the Everglades.

The uncompleted barge canal didn't see the end of the first Nixon administration
and is now a greenway named for its most strident opponent.

Magic Kingdom, on the other hand, will add a village of new princess-themed
attractions to Fantasyland next year. And Disney Chief Financial Officer Jay
Rasulo announced Thursday the company's plan to expand into India. Shanghai
Disney is slated to open in 2015.

Disney endures.

jhouck@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7324

[CHART] The Mouse's footprint

43 square miles Size of Disney World

4 Theme parks on property

2 Water parks on property

33 Resorts and hotel son property

62,000 Cast members

$18.2 billion Disney's annual economic activity in Florida, according to a
Disney-commissioned study

$250 million Money spent on tourism promotion

20 percent Percentage of visitors to Tampa and St. Petersburg who come because
of Disney

17 million Visitors a year to Magic Kingdom

Photo Credist: ANDY DORSETT/STAFF ILLUSTRATION

Photo: Carl Hiaasen 'Team Rodent How Disney Devours the World' book cover.

Photo: Mickey Mouse

Photo: Disney World guests

Photo Credit: DISNEY

Photo: The blue-spired Cinderella's Castle, completed before the park's opening
in 1971, stands at the heart of the Magic Kingdom, where children and adults
have made memories amid Walt Disney's magic.

Photo Credit: JEFF HOUCK/STAFF

Photo: Kids of all ages wear the most famous ears of all as they visit the
perfect world created in Walt Disney's imagination.

Photo: Neuschwanstein Castle in southwest Bavaria, Germany, was the model for
Cindrella's Castle.

Photo: For four decades, Magic Kingdome has been a magnet for tourists from
around the world. It draws an average of 17 million a year.

Photo Credit: DISNEY

Photo: At the opening of Walt Disney World on Oct. 1, 1971, Roy O. Disney,
brother of Walt Disney, was joined by the character that started it all.

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 825 words


Tampa gasoline prices decline slightly

TAMPA -- Gas prices in Tampa Bay continue to linger at a stable level as world
markets wait for the next phase of a potential restructuring in the European
economy, and they could stay in this range through the holidays.

A gallon of regular unleaded now averages $3.303 in the Tampa Bay area, compared
with $3.344 a week ago, according to AAA Auto Club South. Statewide, a gallon
averages $3.384, compared with $3.420 a week ago.

The website TampaGas

Prices.com tracked a similar move, with gas falling 4.3 cents per gallon.

"I believe prices will remain between $3.35-$3.60 in Tampa for much of the rest
of the year," said Patrick DeHaan, a petroleum analyst with GasBuddy, which
publishes TampaGasPrices.com.

UPS expects 6% rise in holiday shipments

NEW YORK -- Online gift-buying procrastinators are expected to drive a 6 percent
increase in UPS package deliveries the week before Christmas this year.

The world's largest package delivery company said Monday that it expects a total
of 120 million packages around the world during its "peak week," compared with
113 million last year. The Atlanta company predicts its busiest day will be Dec.
22, when it expects to deliver 26 million parcels.

Sara Lee completes sale to Grupo Bimbo

DOWNERS GROVE, Ill. -- Sara Lee Corp. has completed the sale of its North
American fresh bakery business to Grupo Bimbo S.A.B. for $709 million, the food
maker said Monday.

Grupo Bimbo is the largest and Sara Lee the third-largest maker of sliced fresh
bread in the U.S.

Boeing 787 landing gear malfunctions; no injuries

NEW YORK -- Boeing's new 787 wide-body plane, which just started carrying paying
passengers, ran into its first technical glitch Sunday when the landing gear
failed to deploy.

The pilots of Japan's All Nippon Airways used "an alternate procedure that
worked," said Lori Gunter, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Boeing Co. The plane
landed safely, and there were no reported injuries.

Ford to patch touch-screen glitch

DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford, which has plunged in quality rankings this year, plans
to provide a software patch to more than 300,000 vehicle owners next year to fix
malfunctioning dashboard touch-screen controls.

Early next year, Ford will send owners of the Ford Explorer, Edge and Focus, as
well as the Lincoln MKX, a UBS flash drive loaded with new software aimed at
fixing problems with MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch audio, phone, climate and
navigation systems, the company said in a statement.

Consumer dissatisfaction with the touch screens was a leading reason Ford fell
to 20th from 10th last month in annual reliability rankings from Consumer
Reports.

Dish Network 3Q earnings climb 30%

NEW YORK -- Dish Network Corp. posted another loss of subscribers from its
slowly dwindling satellite-TV business, even as larger competitor DirecTV adds
to its base.

However, Dish's subscriber losses translated into higher net income for the
quarter, as profits climbed 30 percent to $319.1 million, or 71 cents per share,
in the three months that ended Sept. 30. That's up from $244.9 million, or 55
cents per share, a year ago.

Capital spending in U.S. nears 2008 level

Capital spending at U.S. companies is at the highest level since 2008 as
upgrades to plants, property and equipment show some executives embracing the
likelihood that the economy averts recession.

Expenditures rose 24 percent to $43.3 billion in the third quarter for 140
nonfinancial companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index that had released such
data as of Friday.

Pecan prices to rise again this year

NEW ORLEANS -- Expect to pay more for pecan pie this Thanksgiving thanks to
drought in parts of the South and big demand from China.

The average retail price for a pound of pecans rose from $7 in 2008 to $9 last
year, and it's expected to be about $11 this year, said Jeff Worn, vice
president of South Georgia Pecan Co., which processes 40 million to 50 million
pounds a year in Valdosta, Ga. The price increase has him and others in the
industry worried that people will stop buying the nuts.

Facebook founder returns to Harvard

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg returned to Harvard
University on Monday to enlist new talent for his social networking site.

It's the 27-year-old CEO's first official visit to the Ivy League school since
he left in 2004. Relations between the two have sometimes been prickly, but he
planned to meet with Harvard students and officials after a recruiting visit to
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology earlier in the day.

Harvard computing officials were working on their own universitywide online
directory when Zuckerberg created Facebook as a campus-only social network. An
earlier Zuckerberg creation, Facemash, almost led to his expulsion after he
hacked university computers for student photos.

From staff and wire reports

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Happy Feet Two' taps magical formula

BYLINE: DAVID GERMAIN, The Associated Press

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 697 words


BY DAVID GERMAIN

The Associated Press

The penguins are as adorable as ever in "Happy Feet Two." Yet a couple of
shrimp-like krill at the bottom of the food chain almost steal the show in this
animated sequel that sticks to the formula of the original while adding enough
variety to give it a life of its own.

It helps to have Brad Pitt and Matt Damon voicing the krill with great energy
and companionability as they join a vocal cast that includes returning stars
Elijah Wood and Robin Williams.

Director and co-writer George Miller, who handled the same chores on the 2006
Academy Award-winning first film, keeps the focus on penguins in peril while
adding an interesting nature-in-perspective angle with the side journey of those
tiny krill trying to find their place in a world of bigger, hungrier things.

The sequel delivers the key ingredients that made its predecessor such a hit:
lovable characters that audiences young and old will want to follow. A rich
blend of pop tunes employed in show-stopping song-and-dance numbers. Remarkable
photo-realistic Antarctic landscapes whose bleak beauty pops off the screen even
more than in the original, thanks to some of the finest use of 3-D animation
since the digital age brought an extra dimension to the screen.

With co-stars Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman out of the picture, "Happy Feet
Two" is a next-generation story that follows the misfits-finding-their-place
pattern of part one.

Once a freak for his tap-dancing skills in a colony where singing was the
supreme talent, emperor penguin Mumble (Wood) is part of the establishment now
that hoofing has joined crooning as a prized gift.

Mumble and his mate, Gloria (pop star Pink, subbing for the late Brittany
Murphy, who voiced the character in the original) have a tyke of their own,
whose identity issues seem too pat a repetition of those his dad once faced.

Young Erik (adorably voiced by Ava Acres) hasn't got rhythm, you see, an
embarrassment for the son of the local lord of the dance. Running away with a
couple of friends as they chase after Mumble's buddy Ramon (Williams) on the
return to his own penguin colony, Erik meets the amazing "flying penguin" Sven
(Hank Azaria), whose can-do attitude makes him the idol of the youngster, to
Mumble's detriment.

Miller again shovels on an eco message as a colossal iceberg cast adrift by
climate change endangers the entire colony of emperor penguins. Once the crisis
arrives, the action bogs down a bit, the movie lingering a long while on its
penguins-on-the-precipice menace without a whole lot happening.

But with its interspecies collaboration, as birds, elephant seals and even the
little krill contribute to a happy ending, the movie is a stirring, if kind of
sappy, endorsement for the good that can result when everyone rows together.

The best addition of "Happy Feet Two" are Pitt's Will the Krill and Damon's Bill
the Krill, who are so engaging they deserve their own buddy-comedy spinoff.

When Will decides to swim out on his own to see the world beyond the teaming
krill swarm, skittish Bill tags along. They discover to their horror that krill
are just munchies for other aquatic life, sending Will on a comic quest to move
up the food chain and become a predator himself.

The camaraderie of Pitt and Damon, co-stars in the "Ocean's Eleven" movies,
comes through loudly in their goofy banter, making them highlights of an already
stellar voice cast.

Williams again does double duty in two breathlessly manic roles, voicing both
Ramon and Lovelace, the colorful penguin who becomes a key disciple of Sven.
Azaria, one of the vocal masters behind "The Simpsons," extends his reputation
as one of Hollywood's top voice stars, giving Sven a gurgling Scandinavian
accent that's an absolute hoot.


'HAPPY FEET TWO'

Movie review

Stars: Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Elijah Wood, Robin Williams, Ava Acres, Pink

Info: Running time: 1:39.

Rated PG (for some rude humor and mild peril)

Photo credit: WARNER BROS. PICTURES

Photo: Gloria, voiced by Pink, center, gets the party started in a scene from
the animated feature "Happy Feet Two."

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
