
                              21 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

Turn down heat on climate debate

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 651 words



HIGHLIGHT: Climate change


Tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in New York and around
the world Sunday to demand action at the United Nations summit on climate change
this week.

Organizers in New York presented a petition with more than 2.1 million
signatures.

The harshest critics dismiss all this as hysteria. Climate change is a hoax,
they say, and activists are more concerned with advancing government control
than protecting the environment.

We wish both sides would take a deep breath and reflect on an article by Steven
E. Koonin that appeared in The Wall Street Journal last weekend. Koonin was
undersecretary for science in the Energy Department during President Barack
Obama's first term and is now at New York University.

He acknowledges, as do most scientists, that climate change is real and that
human activity has some influence. But he is no Chicken Little alarmist. He
points out that while human activity has an impact, it is small in comparison to
the climate system as a whole:

Human additions to carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by the middle of the 21st
century are expected to directly shift the atmosphere's natural greenhouse
effect by only 1 percent to 2 percent. Since the climate system is highly
variable on its own, that smallness sets a very high bar for confidently
projecting the consequences of human influences.

Demonstrators blame climate change for everything from Hurricane Sandy to
Midwest tornadoes, but things are unlikely to be that simple. Closing the fossil
fuel spigot, which could have catastrophic economic impacts, might have scant
effect on such weather events.

Skeptics point out there has been little increase in warming in the past 15
years, and scientists in the climate change camp point out increased heat is
being stored in the ocean.

We take the scientists at their word. But this doesn't mean catastrophe is
inevitable. As Koonin explains: The oceans, which change over decades and
centuries, hold most of the climate's heat and strongly influence the
atmosphere. Unfortunately, precise, comprehensive observations of the oceans are
available only for the past few decades; the reliable record is still far too
short to adequately understand how the oceans will change and how that will
affect the climate.

In essence, scientists don't know exactly what is happening with climate change,
and Koonin points out various computer programs do not shed much useful light on
what to expect. For instance, models correctly describe the shrinking Arctic sea
ice, but not the growth of Antarctic sea ice, which is at a record high.

All this does not mean that nations should ignore the possibility of climate
change, which could be playing a role in such things as dying coral reefs and
flooding coastal communities. But science is unclear about the extent of the
threat or the impact of what emissions reductions would achieve.

The issue is far more cloudy than simply stopping the Keystone pipeline.

Of course, one can't wait for absolute certainty until preparing for a serious
threat. Some responses make sense regardless of the climate change debate.

It is in our nation's long-term interest to pursue cleaner fuels and develop
diverse energy sources, including renewables. Businesses and individuals already
are discovering how solar power can reduce electricity bills. Cleaning up coal
plant emissions should be a priority. Development in coastal zones should be
minimized. Obviously, more research should be supported.

But the nation should respond with thoughtful concern for the economic impact
and scientific evidence, and not scramble blindly as though fleeing a tidal
wave.

We do not question the protesters' good intentions - or even the possibility
that they might be correct. But the evidence, as Koonin underscores, is hardly
conclusive. It should take more than placards and chants to justify too-sweeping
policies that could send our economy crashing into Earth.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday

What is

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2284 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chris on climate change


killing

our

reefs?

Earlier this month, my wife Amy and I took a trip to St. John, U.S. Virgin
Islands, for a week of rest and relaxation. It was our fourth visit to St. John
in the past 12 years.

St. John is unique, as it is mostly preserved thanks to the generosity of the
Rockefeller family, which donated 5,000 acres to the U.S. government in 1956.
Following subsequent purchases of land by the federal government, Virgin Islands
National Park now covers 60 percent of the island.

St. John and the park are famous for its coral reefs and picturesque beaches -
one of which is considered among the 10 best in the world. The park has miles of
trails for hiking through mountainous tropical rainforest, and the reefs are
favorites of snorkelers and scuba divers - though the latter is prohibited in
most reefs within the park's boundaries.

During our week in St. John, we visited a different beach or two each day,
selecting those with the best snorkeling. September is the beginning of what is
usually an active hurricane season in the Caribbean, so there are fewer
tourists, many restaurants and tourist-related businesses are closed and the
normally packed streets of Cruz Bay, the largest town in St. John, are nearly
bare.

The trade-off of having to potentially dodge hurricanes is an acceptable one
when you consider you can go to the most popular of St. John's beaches, Trunk
Bay in the park, and share it with no more than a half-dozen people on most any
day there isn't a cruise ship in port at nearby St. Thomas.

Although much of St. John will never be developed because of the national park,
that doesn't mean St. John's ecosystem is being adequately preserved and
protected - directly or indirectly.

The first time we went to St. John a dozen years ago, we snorkeled at Trunk Bay
and were dazzled by the plethora of fish, sea turtles and vibrant colored corals
just 75 or so yards off its sandy beaches. Every time we have been back since
that first visit, we have noticed the corals are in decline, and the overall
health of the reef appears worse.

Unfortunately, other reefs we snorkeled looked to be in similar deteriorating
condition.

The obvious question is: What is the cause of the rapid deterioration of St.
John's coral reefs?

Some suggest that global warming is to blame. The rise in ocean temperatures
believed to be caused by global warming certainly affects fragile corals, many
of which cannot survive for long periods of time if daily average temperatures
exceed the upper-80-degree range.

I happen to be one of those conservatives who believes global warming (or
climate change, as it is now more accurately called), is real and caused in part
by man. That said, global warming is also partly a natural phenomenon. Some
experts suggest man's contribution to the changes in climate are just 1 percent
to 2 percent. Global warming skeptics suggest the impact is practically
negligible and that efforts to slow it are unnecessary given the economic and
regulatory burdens those efforts create.

I'm guessing these people have never snorkeled a reef. Because if they had, they
would want to do whatever is reasonably necessary to preserve and protect them.

Thinking about it another way, if you had terminal cancer, and doing something
(or not) about it would give you a 1 percent to 2 percent chance of recovery,
wouldn't you do it?

Both sides of the global warming/climate change debate have something to learn.
Global warming skeptics need to recognize man has an impact on our climate and
other environments. Proponents (mostly the liberal left), need to throttle back
some of their overreaching calls for excessive and costly regulations.

Conservative opponents of global warming have good reason to question the left's
motives. Consider Al Gore. According to The Huffington Post, Gore's net worth
today is 50 times what it was his last year as vice president. Gore's wealth is
estimated at $400 million. He made that money by running around the world
telling us the sky is falling because of our carbon footprint, as he flew around
in a high carbon-emitting jet powered by fossil fuels while living in a house
with an electric bill 20 times that of the average American home.

That kind of hypocrisy lends itself to justifiable doubt, but at the same time,
conservatives need to pull their heads out of the sand as it relates to man's
impact on our climate.

Common ground can be found if both sides would use a little reason, logic and
common sense. The coral reefs of St. John and the rest of the world can't wait
for action. I've seen it first-hand, and these reefs are deteriorating.

But man's carbon footprint isn't the only culprit. The footprints of

careless tourists who aren't skilled enough swimmers or knowledgeable enough
about the fragility of corals are causing tremendous damage when they step on
them, pick them up or accidentally brush up against them.

Even those who are skilled and should be knowledgeable are contributing to the
damage. I went scuba diving at a reef outside the park one day. The reef was far
more beautiful than anything I saw snorkeling off St. John's beaches. At 65 feet
below the surface, the corals were more vibrant and abundant. Sea life ranged
from a reef shark, to sea turtles and sting rays, and countless colorful reef
fish and a wider range of hard and soft corals than the reefs just off St.
John's public-access beaches.

Unfortunately, the dive master on our trip carelessly allowed his emergency
breathing control device to drag half-way around the large mass of reef we
circled from the bottom of the sea floor. Preventable damage such as this isn't
healthy for the reefs. The dive master somewhat made up for any damage he caused
by spearing an invasive Lionfish, which has an insatiable appetite for native
fish, reproduce in mass and have no natural enemies in the waters of the
Caribbean. Not surprisingly, Lionfish are present around St. John because of the
carelessness of man.

As we were heading out to the dive site, the boat captain for our scuba
excursion made a poignant comment about the reefs of St. John and global
warming's impact:

Global warming is real. I've been diving these waters for 25 years, and it has
changed for the worse.

What you see down there on your dive will never look better than what it does
today.

He didn't have to add that tomorrow it will be worse than today. Or the day
after that, worse than tomorrow if nothing is done to stop the deterioration.

These fragile and precious reefs are dying, and although they may never be
restored to their once vibrant glory, we should not ignore how important they
are to a healthy marine ecosystem, or man's role in contributing to their
decline - and hopefully preservation.

Chris Ingram is a political consultant, opinion columnist and political analyst
for Bay News 9. Email him at: Chris@411Communications.com .

INGRAM, Page 3

Earlier this month, my wife Amy and I took a trip to St. John, U.S. Virgin
Islands, for a week of rest and relaxation. It was our fourth visit to St. John
in the past 12 years.

St. John is unique, as it is mostly preserved thanks to the generosity of the
Rockefeller family, which donated 5,000 acres to the U.S. government in 1956.
Following subsequent purchases of land by the federal government, Virgin Islands
National Park now covers 60 percent of the island.

St. John and the park are famous for its coral reefs and picturesque beaches -
one of which is considered among the 10 best in the world. The park has miles of
trails for hiking through mountainous tropical rainforest, and the reefs are
favorites of snorkelers and scuba divers - though the latter is prohibited in
most reefs within the park's boundaries.

During our week in St. John, we visited a different beach or two each day,
selecting those with the best snorkeling. September is the beginning of what is
usually an active hurricane season in the Caribbean, so there are fewer
tourists, many restaurants and tourist-related businesses are closed and the
normally packed streets of Cruz Bay, the largest town in St. John, are nearly
bare.

The trade-off of having to potentially dodge hurricanes is an acceptable one
when you consider you can go to the most popular of St. John's beaches, Trunk
Bay in the park, and share it with no more than a half-dozen people on most any
day there isn't a cruise ship in port at nearby St. Thomas.

Although much of St. John will never be developed because of the national park,
that doesn't mean St. John's ecosystem is being adequately preserved and
protected - directly or indirectly.

The first time we went to St. John a dozen years ago, we snorkeled at Trunk Bay
and were dazzled by the plethora of fish, sea turtles and vibrant colored corals
just 75 or so yards off its sandy beaches. Every time we have been back since
that first visit, we have noticed the corals are in decline, and the overall
health of the reef appears worse.

Unfortunately, other reefs we snorkeled looked to be in similar deteriorating
condition.

The obvious question is: What is the cause of the rapid deterioration of St.
John's coral reefs?

Some suggest that global warming is to blame. The rise in ocean temperatures
believed to be caused by global warming certainly affects fragile corals, many
of which cannot survive for long periods of time if daily average temperatures
exceed the upper-80-degree range.

I happen to be one of those conservatives who believes global warming (or
climate change, as it is now more accurately called), is real and caused in part
by man. That said, global warming is also partly a natural phenomenon. Some
experts suggest man's contribution to the changes in climate are just 1 percent
to 2 percent. Global warming skeptics suggest the impact is practically
negligible and that efforts to slow it are unnecessary given the economic and
regulatory burdens those efforts create.

I'm guessing these people have never snorkeled a reef. Because if they had, they
would want to do whatever is reasonably necessary to preserve and protect them.

Thinking about it another way, if you had terminal cancer, and doing something
(or not) about it would give you a 1 percent to 2 percent chance of recovery,
wouldn't you do it?

Both sides of the global warming/climate change debate have something to learn.
Global warming skeptics need to recognize man has an impact on our climate and
other environments. Proponents (mostly the liberal left), need to throttle back
some of their overreaching calls for excessive and costly regulations.

Conservative opponents of global warming have good reason to question the left's
motives. Consider Al Gore. According to The Huffington Post, Gore's net worth
today is 50 times what it was his last year as vice president. Gore's wealth is
estimated at $400 million. He made that money by running around the world
telling us the sky is falling because of our carbon footprint, as he flew around
in a high carbon-emitting jet powered by fossil fuels while living in a house
with an electric bill 20 times that of the average American home.

That kind of hypocrisy lends itself to justifiable doubt, but at the same time,
conservatives need to pull their heads out of the sand as it relates to man's
impact on our climate.

Common ground can be found if both sides would use a little reason, logic and
common sense. The coral reefs of St. John and the rest of the world can't wait
for action. I've seen it first-hand, and these reefs are deteriorating.

But man's carbon footprint isn't the only culprit. The footprints of

careless tourists who aren't skilled enough swimmers or knowledgeable enough
about the fragility of corals are causing tremendous damage when they step on
them, pick them up or accidentally brush up against them.

Even those who are skilled and should be knowledgeable are contributing to the
damage. I went scuba diving at a reef outside the park one day. The reef was far
more beautiful than anything I saw snorkeling off St. John's beaches. At 65 feet
below the surface, the corals were more vibrant and abundant. Sea life ranged
from a reef shark, to sea turtles and sting rays, and countless colorful reef
fish and a wider range of hard and soft corals than the reefs just off St.
John's public-access beaches.

Unfortunately, the dive master on our trip carelessly allowed his emergency
breathing control device to drag half-way around the large mass of reef we
circled from the bottom of the sea floor. Preventable damage such as this isn't
healthy for the reefs. The dive master somewhat made up for any damage he caused
by spearing an invasive Lionfish, which has an insatiable appetite for native
fish, reproduce in mass and have no natural enemies in the waters of the
Caribbean. Not surprisingly, Lionfish are present around St. John because of the
carelessness of man.

As we were heading out to the dive site, the boat captain for our scuba
excursion made a poignant comment about the reefs of St. John and global
warming's impact:

Global warming is real. I've been diving these waters for 25 years, and it has
changed for the worse.

What you see down there on your dive will never look better than what it does
today.

He didn't have to add that tomorrow it will be worse than today. Or the day
after that, worse than tomorrow if nothing is done to stop the deterioration.

These fragile and precious reefs are dying, and although they may never be
restored to their once vibrant glory, we should not ignore how important they
are to a healthy marine ecosystem, or man's role in contributing to their
decline - and hopefully preservation.

Chris Ingram is a political consultant, opinion columnist and political analyst
for Bay News 9. Email him at: Chris@411Communications.com .

Ingram

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 24, 2014 Sunday

Climate professors and Rick Scott's sphinxian agenda

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1652 words



HIGHLIGHT: 25 INCHES. Ripped from the headlines, the latest all-new episode of
The Right Stuff.


Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

Climate professors finally got their audience with Gov. Rick Scott the other
day, and even as such reliably evenhanded - cough, cough -  political sites as
the Daily Kos hailed the event as a school[ing] for Florida's chief executive,
the scientists themselves reported dismay that their pupil failed to acknowledge
the compelling genius of their presentations.

This is not complicated, David Hastings, professor of marine science and
chemistry at Eckerd College, told reporters ahead of the meeting. We teach this
to 18-year-olds every year, and I've been doing it for 25 years. It's not hard
science.

And yet, for two-thirds of those years - since 1997 - there's been no measurable
warming on planet Earth. None. Even former devotees within the U.N.'s
International Panel on Climate Change have conceded this wholly unanticipated
pause despite growing concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide, one of those
scary greenhouse gases, as increasingly industrialized China and India raise
their standards of living on cheap, abundant coal-fired energy.

Hmmm. What wouldn't you give to be in Professor Hastings' class when he squares
for those rapt 18-year-olds the not-hard science that can't account for the
divergence between what computer models predict and the factual flat-lining of
global temperatures? It would be unfair to suppose he gets around it by ignoring
inconvenient evidence, you know, sort of like what disciples of man-made climate
change accuse Scott of doing. Right?

Also meriting explanation: The maps of University of Miami atmospheric professor
Ben Kirtman, which show South Florida swamped by a 2-foot rise in sea level he
projects will happen by 2048 on our present course. Hey, who hasn't seen those
maps? Google Florida sea level rise and you'll wind up chest deep in maps that
show the state as it was when dinosaurs roamed the Appalachian ridge, like 70
million years ago.

One only wishes the governor's staff had introduced contrarian charts produced
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - NOAA - which indicate
something slightly less than a rise of 0.09 inches per year since 1913. Asked to
project through New Year's Eve 2099, NOAA based its worst-case scenario - a
whopping 6-foot rise - on flat, low-lying coast lands where the agency warns
against risk-taking. Still, all its short-term charts indicate rates of rising
will continue at their traditional unworrisome pace during the foreseeable
future.

In other words, NOAA wants us to at least mull a hockey-stick model of rising
sea levels. But that would require also accepting the fantastical, long-busted
global-warming hockey stick that emerged, guffaw-provoking, from Michael Mann's
Penn State University fable factory.

As noted above, global temperatures have stalled flatter than Rory McElroy's
putter - to broaden the sports-stick analogy - and there's evidence ice packs at
both poles have recovered from their recent shrinkage to the point that each is
well within historical norms.

Armed with such facts, someone sitting in on the schooling, perhaps even the
governor himself, could have asked why we'd want to risk Florida's economy on a
rush to unreliable and expensive energy alternatives that, in the grand scheme,
won't reduce global CO2 emissions (see: China and India, coal-burning
industrialization of) that don't seem to be affecting global temps as advertised
in the first place, all on the extreme and as-yet unproven threat that failing
to act will cause sea levels to spike at a pace eight times (0.71 inches vs.
0.09 inches annually) the rate forecast by NOAA that fits the best available
data.

Ah, but then the governor would have wound up inhospitably debating his guests,
and, anyway, he had a thing to get to. The professors, too, were eager to unload
their scripted dismay into the notebooks of press stenographers, whose dutiful
dispatches would hasten the moment Tom Steyer, the billionaire high priest of
the First Church of Climate Hysteria (hat tip, Larry Thornberry) could stroke
another check to his ad agency, which specializes in misrepresenting Scott and
other Republicans immune to Steyer's occasionally buffoonish proselytizing
against man's premeditated assault on the climate.

By the way: Don't come around slinging that yeah, well, 97 percent of scientists
nonsense. The Right Stuff documented the debunking of that weary appeal to
authority back in May, although that doesn't stop the smugly ill-informed from
thumping it like their personal tom-tom. Plainly, we skeptics still have work to
do.

Even so, sometimes it's just better all around if everybody stays on schedule.
Sort of like the microscopically incremental pace of sea-level change generally
anticipated, in spite of itself, by Washington's source authority on the topic.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Twitter: @tjacksonTBO

Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

JACKSON, Page 6

Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

Climate professors finally got their audience with Gov. Rick Scott the other
day, and even as such reliably evenhanded - cough, cough -  political sites as
the Daily Kos hailed the event as a school[ing] for Florida's chief executive,
the scientists themselves reported dismay that their pupil failed to acknowledge
the compelling genius of their presentations.

This is not complicated, David Hastings, professor of marine science and
chemistry at Eckerd College, told reporters ahead of the meeting. We teach this
to 18-year-olds every year, and I've been doing it for 25 years. It's not hard
science.

And yet, for two-thirds of those years - since 1997 - there's been no measurable
warming on planet Earth. None. Even former devotees within the U.N.'s
International Panel on Climate Change have conceded this wholly unanticipated
pause despite growing concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide, one of those
scary greenhouse gases, as increasingly industrialized China and India raise
their standards of living on cheap, abundant coal-fired energy.

Hmmm. What wouldn't you give to be in Professor Hastings' class when he squares
for those rapt 18-year-olds the not-hard science that can't account for the
divergence between what computer models predict and the factual flat-lining of
global temperatures? It would be unfair to suppose he gets around it by ignoring
inconvenient evidence, you know, sort of like what disciples of man-made climate
change accuse Scott of doing. Right?

Also meriting explanation: The maps of University of Miami atmospheric professor
Ben Kirtman, which show South Florida swamped by a 2-foot rise in sea level he
projects will happen by 2048 on our present course. Hey, who hasn't seen those
maps? Google Florida sea level rise and you'll wind up chest deep in maps that
show the state as it was when dinosaurs roamed the Appalachian ridge, like 70
million years ago.

One only wishes the governor's staff had introduced contrarian charts produced
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - NOAA - which indicate
something slightly less than a rise of 0.09 inches per year since 1913. Asked to
project through New Year's Eve 2099, NOAA based its worst-case scenario - a
whopping 6-foot rise - on flat, low-lying coast lands where the agency warns
against risk-taking. Still, all its short-term charts indicate rates of rising
will continue at their traditional unworrisome pace during the foreseeable
future.

In other words, NOAA wants us to at least mull a hockey-stick model of rising
sea levels. But that would require also accepting the fantastical, long-busted
global-warming hockey stick that emerged, guffaw-provoking, from Michael Mann's
Penn State University fable factory.

As noted above, global temperatures have stalled flatter than Rory McElroy's
putter - to broaden the sports-stick analogy - and there's evidence ice packs at
both poles have recovered from their recent shrinkage to the point that each is
well within historical norms.

Armed with such facts, someone sitting in on the schooling, perhaps even the
governor himself, could have asked why we'd want to risk Florida's economy on a
rush to unreliable and expensive energy alternatives that, in the grand scheme,
won't reduce global CO2 emissions (see: China and India, coal-burning
industrialization of) that don't seem to be affecting global temps as advertised
in the first place, all on the extreme and as-yet unproven threat that failing
to act will cause sea levels to spike at a pace eight times (0.71 inches vs.
0.09 inches annually) the rate forecast by NOAA that fits the best available
data.

Ah, but then the governor would have wound up inhospitably debating his guests,
and, anyway, he had a thing to get to. The professors, too, were eager to unload
their scripted dismay into the notebooks of press stenographers, whose dutiful
dispatches would hasten the moment Tom Steyer, the billionaire high priest of
the First Church of Climate Hysteria (hat tip, Larry Thornberry) could stroke
another check to his ad agency, which specializes in misrepresenting Scott and
other Republicans immune to Steyer's occasionally buffoonish proselytizing
against man's premeditated assault on the climate.

By the way: Don't come around slinging that yeah, well, 97 percent of scientists
nonsense. The Right Stuff documented the debunking of that weary appeal to
authority back in May, although that doesn't stop the smugly ill-informed from
thumping it like their personal tom-tom. Plainly, we skeptics still have work to
do.

Even so, sometimes it's just better all around if everybody stays on schedule.
Sort of like the microscopically incremental pace of sea-level change generally
anticipated, in spite of itself, by Washington's source authority on the topic.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Twitter: @tjacksonTBO

Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

Jackson

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Just the facts, please - climate change is real

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 548 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson FACEOFF column


Facts are neither liberal nor conservative. They don't come from the left, right
or the center. Facts are threads that hold our planet and futures together. When
we deny facts for political or personal gain, or just because we don't want to
believe, bad things often happen.

So it is with those who consider catastrophic global climate change to be some
liberal, tree-hugging myth. Although they offer no facts to support that view,
mind you, they can sure say real loud that all this science stuff is wrong.

Just 'cause.

History is replete with scientists who persevered through skepticism, though. If
that were not true, schools might still teach that the sun orbits the Earth. Or
that the Earth is flat. Or that continents are unmoving land masses.

Scientists have the means now to measure climate change in ways reasonable
people can't dispute. Last month in The New York Times, the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change warned of atmospheric carbon dioxide
levels rising almost twice as fast in the first decade of this century as they
did in the last decades of the 20th century.

Much of the nation just came through a frightful winter, with many locations
reporting record cold and snowfalls. Just last week the South was ripped apart
by a massive outbreak of tornadoes. Although early spring is tornado season in
many parts of the country, a report by Florida State University says there is
some evidence to suggest that tornadoes are, in fact, getting stronger.

If you think we're safe in Tampa because we don't live in tornado alley, guess
again. A report last year by the World Bank listed Tampa as No. 7 on a list of
10 cities worldwide at the highest risk for catastrophe from coastal flooding
brought on by climate change, rapid urbanization and subsiding land.

That's a tough sell to skeptics such as U.S. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. In the
aftermath of superstorm Sandy on the New Jersey shore in 2012, Paul responded,
What I would say is that someone is an ignoramus who would say that, 'Oh, we had
three hurricanes this year. This proves that somehow the climate is warming.'

Actually, senator, those someones you refer to point to melting ice caps, the
increasing acidity of the oceans, escalating greenhouse gases, rising sea levels
and, yes, the extreme swings in weather as proof something is whacked out in
Mother Nature.

There is the ever-entertaining former Gov. Sarah Palin, R-Andromeda. CBS News
reported she told attendees at a 2010 logging conference in California that
climate change theories were a bunch of snake oil science.

This is what passes for snake oil in Palin World: According to the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 97 percent of climate scientists concur
that human activity is causing climate-warming trends.

Those scientists come from 18 American organizations, including the American
Meteorological Society and the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. That's just in
our country. More than 200 scientific organizations worldwide are basically
saying the same thing.

You know how it is with those eggheads, though. Just because they went to school
for this stuff and studied the material for years, they think they're so much
smarter than everyone else.

Well, they are. There's a bad moon rising, and the world better pay attention.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 887 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wednesday letts


Conflict in St. Pete

Regarding St. Petersburg City Council member Karl Nurse's acquisition of Midtown
properties: This raises a conflict of interest question. Specifically, is it
appropriate for a sitting member of city council to initiate new policy, propose
modifications to existing policies and ultimately purchase and sell properties
in the designated redevelopment area where his policy reforms are enacted?

Media report that Nurse has quietly bought Midtown properties through
foreclosure and tax deeds, and initially voted for a program to erase liens and
assessments on vacated properties in order to facilitate sales. Nurse reportedly
abstained from the final vote on the program, and if memory serves me correctly,
his abstention followed an admonishment by former council member Leslie Curran.
Ironically, section 9-1, of the St. Petersburg Rules and Regulations clearly
states: City employees and officers must avoid ... even the appearance of a
conflict of interest ...

Nurse reported he sold two properties, still owns four, acts as his own real
estate agent to save money and has one property listed for nearly $90,000. Nurse
also acknowledges the special taxing district he supported will benefit him with
respect to his holdings.

Section 9-2(F) of the city rules and regulations prohibits city officers and
employees from having personal investments in enterprises which reasonably
creates conflict between one's private and public interests. As noble as Nurse's
stated intentions may be, his actions do not appear to pass the smell test and
when held up to the light of day raises even more questions.

Nurse says he did not pursue his purchases to make a profit, and it may take
years for him to recoup his investment given the current status of the housing
market. But let's not forget, the market is rebounding, and Nurse did not become
a millionaire by losing money or merely breaking even.

Goliath J. Davis, III

St. Petersburg

The writer, who holds a Ph.D., is a former St. Petersburg city official.

'Hillsborough Two-Step'

My heart goes out the residents of the Ruskin community. In Saturdays paper
(Ruskin's future development in question, Metro), it appears the comprehensive
plan for the area is missing a key document from the study group in Ruskin
outlining lot sizes and densities, etc. It was omitted from the final approved
plan! What makes matters worse is that a county attorney working on the matter
knows nothing about how or why it was left out. This sounds so familiar. The
Hillsborough Two-Step: No one is responsible; no one is held accountable. At
worse, perhaps transfer the person responsible if that can ever be determined.

I guess I look at things in a rather simple fashion. I see a group of interested
parties in  Ruskin meeting, intent on finding a solution to long-range plans for
the area. They come up with their list. They then present the list to the
planning department folks, who tell them this is all good and we will
incorporate it in the final plan. Time goes on, and wham - it's left out. At
some point there is a record of who had the list last and should show what
happened to it. Someone, somewhere knows the truth.

Frank Popeleski

Seffner

Poor examples

Let's give credit where credit is due. Russia and President Putin did everything
they said they would do to make a successful Olympics, so let's stop the
constant criticism. The only issue was the weather - too warm - but who can
control nature?

More important was the effort, or lack of, from the U.S. hockey team. After
beating what proved to be a less-than-stellar Russian squad in a historic
contest, they let their guard down against a stellar Canadian team and then
totally quit against Finland. They should be embarrassed for their inept effort.
There is no excuse except they lost the fire in their heart. What example does
that send to our young athletes who are not paid the dollars these professional
Olympians are paid?

Joe Voskerichian

Tampa

Switch  hitters

Regarding The myth of 'settled science'  (Charles Krauthammer, Other Views, Feb.
22): The observations of Krauthammer are right-on. Almost 40 years ago
international climate gurus predicted that by 2020 five meters of ice would
cover Western Europe. When the weather began to warm they switched to dire
predictions of global warming. Now, like their American soul mates, these
self-styled experts are (again) switch hitting to the euphemism climate change.
This substantiates Albert Einstein's remark: The difference between genius and
stupidity is that genius has its limits.

James J Harkins IV

Sun City Center

Wrong goal

Regarding The hype of drug legalization (Other Views, Feb. 21): The problem with
the drug war is not the hype; it's the goal: to limit demand for drugs, as
measured by annual surveys of drug use. The unstated assumption is that drug
addiction will decline in proportion to drug use. It won't. When penalties rise
and/or society frowns harder on drug use, large numbers of casual users quit,
allowing the surveys to report success. But addicts continue to get their drug
because they are, well, addicts. It is they - not the casual users - who damage
society. The goal should be to limit addiction to drugs, and the task  be
shifted from the Department of Justice to the Department of Health and Human
Services.

John G. Chase

Palm Harbor

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

U.N. selects former N.Y. mayor Bloomberg as top climate envoy;
Billionaire told to help cities fight global warming

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS



HIGHLIGHT: Ex-NY mayor Michael Bloomberg chosen to be UN envoy for cities and
climate change


- Former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg was appointed Friday to be the U.N.
special envoy for cities and climate change, a position that will give the
billionaire businessman and philanthropist an international stage to press for
action to combat global warming.

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon chose Bloomberg, who made  combating climate
change a major focus of his 12 years as mayor and was very outspoken on how
cities should be run to cope with ever increasing populations without harming
the environment.

U.N. deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said Bloomberg will assist the U.N. chief in
his consultations with mayors and other key parties to raise political will and
mobilize action among cities as part of his longer-term strategy to advance
efforts on climate change.

The secretary-general also wants Bloomberg to bring concrete solutions to the
climate summit he is hosting in New York on Sept. 23 to try to galvanize action
to combat climate change, Haq said.

Bloomberg, 71, tweeted that he was honored by the appointment.

Cities are taking measurable action to reduce emissions, emerging as leaders in
the battle against climate change, he tweeted. I look forward to working with
cities around the world and the UN to accelerate progress to combat global
warming.

Bloomberg served three terms as New York's mayor before handing the reins of
America's largest city to Bill de Blasio on Jan. 1.

Last year, Bloomberg boasted that New York city's air quality hit its highest
levels in 50 years and now has the cleanest air of any major American city.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            September 8, 2014 Monday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 937 words



HIGHLIGHT: letters


Bottom of the barrel

Trib readers knew Amendment 2 was winning even before they opened the Sept. 3
paper and found the front-page article (Pot proponent hurls obscenities on
video) about the video taken of John Morgan at the post-debate celebration with
a microphone in one hand and a drink in the other using language suitable to
that occasion. Then Trib readers found the letter reporting Amsterdam has a lost
generation of young people, that their IQ had dropped 10 to 15 points due to
marijuana, and they were dropping out of high school. I have been following the
Dutch cannabis situation for 16 years, and I know that neither statistic about
Amsterdam is true.

Meanwhile, millions of Floridians who benefit from medical marijuana, and their
families, continue to risk arrest as opponents scrape the bottom of the barrel
to find something - anything - to stop it. Amendment 2 needs 60 percent to pass,
so it's not a done deal yet, but if voters come out to vote, it will. Then
perhaps we will have a rational conversation about regulation.

John Chase

Palm Harbor

It stinks

Regarding Pot proponent hurls obscenities on video: What is For the People all
about? It is a total disgrace to show off not only for his law practice but in
front of impressible youths who have no clue as to the consequences down the
road.

Joe Voskerichian

Tampa

A son of Florida

The news media should gather together as they once did when Arizona Republic
reporter Don Bolles was blown up in his car in the 1970s. Reporters from around
the country organized their own group and relentlessly and intensely
investigated and reported until the guilty party was caught. It sent a very
strong message to not harm reporters.

Reporters from around the world should gather again with the same intense effort
to expose the location of every Islamic State member and bring them to justice.
This will again send a message not to engage in such a clear war crime against
reporters (or anyone else). If the world's reporters will not come together for
this effort, Florida should. Steven Sotloff was a son of Florida, and the
Florida media should step up and spearhead this action to say to the world, You
will not harm our children.

Duane Baker

Lakeland

Look in heart and minds

I am not a political pundit, nor am I any kind of expert in foreign affairs.
What I am is an Anglican clergyman who has something to get off his chest.

There is a lot of talk in the media about events involving the Islamic State,
and for good reason. This group has taken terrorism to a new level. However,
this type of terrorism is not political - it is religious. It is the outcome of
a religious ideology that teaches the time for the ultimate rise of radical
Islam has come - the final Caliphate; the great last battle for religious
supremacy. Anyone who does not convert to this brand of Islam will be destroyed
quickly and ruthlessly - no exceptions.

In light of these recent events, I think each of us ought to seriously ponder
whether  such an ideal could ever rise up and grow in the United States, Canada
or Europe. Over the past several years we have allowed our Judeo-Christian
teachings to be pushed aside, replaced by a secular humanism that has little to
no spiritual depth. In turn, we have allowed many unhealthy philosophies to come
in and fill the void left by this loss of Western spirituality without really
thinking about the long-term cost to our social consciousness.

So what, if anything, prevents something like IS from taking root in the Western
Hemisphere? Already, in the wake of this progressive cultural upheaval, we find
our own sons and daughters leaving North America and Europe to join with groups
such as IS in the Middle East. They feel joining these radical groups will
satisfy their natural human desire to be part of something that is spiritually
greater and spiritually more powerful than humanity itself.

We are living in very dangerous and confusing times, and if we are to ensure
that our way of life and our culture continue to thrive, then we need to
seriously look within our own hearts and minds. We need to decide - each of us -
what we want our future to be. Then, we need to look at what has happened over
the past 30, 40 and 50 years and ask: Was it all worth it?

Rev. Ed Steele

Seffner

They're terrorists

Regarding Extremists kill 2nd American (front page, Sept. 3): Who the heck
writes your headlines, one of President Obama's mouthpieces? For most of my
adult life I and others who think and act as I do, guided by conservative
principles, have been labeled right-wing extremists. I assure you I have never
killed anyone, yet we are extremists. No. The killers belonging to the Islamic
State are bloodthirsty, savage brutes with no regard for life. They are
terrorists - whether Obama shuns the word or not.

Jack Labus

New Port Richey

Climate change 'scam'

I never cease to be amazed at the number of so-called climate scientists who buy
into the global warming/climate change scam - not so much that it isn't
happening, because the climate is always changing, but that man is a significant
factor and that we must destroy our economy to do something about it. All of the
greenhouse gas put together make up way less than 1 percent of the Earth's land
area. On a recent miniseries about Bob Ballard (he found the Titanic) and
oceanography, he talked about super-hot air vents on the ocean floor near
Hawaii, and the ocean floor volcanoes that are creating new islands. He said
there were hundreds of such vents around the world. My first thought was: If the
Earth can do that all the time, it can warm itself just fine, thank you.

Ernest Lane

Trinity

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 18, 2014 Sunday

Hands Across the Sand protesters decry offshore drilling;
Waterside gathering aims to send message to oil companies

BYLINE: JOSH BOATWRIGHT; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; News; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: ST. PETE BEACH



HIGHLIGHT: Hands Across the Sand demontration to protest offshore oil
drilling...


Nearly 200 people clasped hands along the edge of the Gulf of Mexico on Saturday
as a visible sign to oil companies that offshore drilling and other fuel
prospecting efforts aren't welcome in Florida.

But the biggest thing local residents can do to turn the tide on fossil fuel use
and the quickening pace of climate change is to vote yes for Pinellas County's
public transit plan this fall, said several participants in the annual Hands
Across the Sand protest in St. Pete Beach.

We're more dependent on oil with our lack of transit options than any other
metropolitan area in the United States, said Phil Compton of the Sierra Club in
St. Petersburg.

Greenlight Pinellas is the most powerful thing that we can do to create that
system to give us freedom from the threat of oil, he said.

A 1-percent sales tax increase is on November's ballot. Approval of the
referendum would fund the county's long-range plan to vastly expand bus service
and add a light-rail line between major business centers.

Among posters Saturday with slogans such as Say No to Big Oil were many signs in
support of Greenlight Pinellas, as well as clean energy sources like solar
power.

At about noon, the chain of

activists, students and a few parents and children stretched across the beach
between the Alden Suites Beachfront Resort and the TradeWinds Resort, catching a
few stares from sunbathers stretched out to enjoy a breezy, warm afternoon on
the sand.

It was the fifth year for Hands Across the Sand, which began on Florida's Gulf
Coast a few months before the calamitous BP oil spill in 2010 and since has
grown into a nationwide event targeting a myriad of fossil fuel programs. Those
include the construction of a pipeline between the United States and Canada and
the rapid expansion of hydraulic fracking to extract natural gas and oil
underground.

Thousands of people signed up for Saturday's demonstration in places as varied
as the Sioux Indian reservation in South Dakota and in Chicago, Compton said.

While efforts to keep oil wells out of Florida waters largely have been
successful - bolstered by a federal law that has placed a moratorium on drilling
in the eastern Gulf until 2022 - that doesn't mean the industry has backed off,
said Cathy Harrelson, Florida organizer for the Gulf Restoration Network.

In December, the state's Department of Environmental Protection ordered a Texas
company to cease an unpermitted oil extraction technique similar to fracking in
Naples.

Fracking is a process of removing oil and gas in underground rock with high
pressure water and chemicals.

Such activities are a major threat to Florida's aquifer, Harrelson said.

What's more, continued reliance on fossil fuels only will continue to accelerate
climate change and a predicted rise in sea levels that could cripple coastal
communities, she said.

Climate change is very, very real; very much right now, and Florida is in the
crosshairs, said Harrelson, who organized Saturday's event.

jboatwright@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-1277

HANDS, Page 4

Nearly 200 people clasped hands along the edge of the Gulf of Mexico on Saturday
as a visible sign to oil companies that offshore drilling and other fuel
prospecting efforts aren't welcome in Florida.

But the biggest thing local residents can do to turn the tide on fossil fuel use
and the quickening pace of climate change is to vote yes for Pinellas County's
public transit plan this fall, said several participants in the annual Hands
Across the Sand protest in St. Pete Beach.

We're more dependent on oil with our lack of transit options than any other
metropolitan area in the United States, said Phil Compton of the Sierra Club in
St. Petersburg.

Greenlight Pinellas is the most powerful thing that we can do to create that
system to give us freedom from the threat of oil, he said.

A 1-percent sales tax increase is on November's ballot. Approval of the
referendum would fund the county's long-range plan to vastly expand bus service
and add a light-rail line between major business centers.

Among posters Saturday with slogans such as Say No to Big Oil were many signs in
support of Greenlight Pinellas, as well as clean energy sources like solar
power.

At about noon, the chain of

activists, students and a few parents and children stretched across the beach
between the Alden Suites Beachfront Resort and the TradeWinds Resort, catching a
few stares from sunbathers stretched out to enjoy a breezy, warm afternoon on
the sand.

It was the fifth year for Hands Across the Sand, which began on Florida's Gulf
Coast a few months before the calamitous BP oil spill in 2010 and since has
grown into a nationwide event targeting a myriad of fossil fuel programs. Those
include the construction of a pipeline between the United States and Canada and
the rapid expansion of hydraulic fracking to extract natural gas and oil
underground.

Thousands of people signed up for Saturday's demonstration in places as varied
as the Sioux Indian reservation in South Dakota and in Chicago, Compton said.

While efforts to keep oil wells out of Florida waters largely have been
successful - bolstered by a federal law that has placed a moratorium on drilling
in the eastern Gulf until 2022 - that doesn't mean the industry has backed off,
said Cathy Harrelson, Florida organizer for the Gulf Restoration Network.

In December, the state's Department of Environmental Protection ordered a Texas
company to cease an unpermitted oil extraction technique similar to fracking in
Naples.

Fracking is a process of removing oil and gas in underground rock with high
pressure water and chemicals.

Such activities are a major threat to Florida's aquifer, Harrelson said.

What's more, continued reliance on fossil fuels only will continue to accelerate
climate change and a predicted rise in sea levels that could cripple coastal
communities, she said.

Climate change is very, very real; very much right now, and Florida is in the
crosshairs, said Harrelson, who organized Saturday's event.

jboatwright@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-1277

Hands

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 8, 2014 Sunday

Democrats hope to win votes with global warming;
GOP considers state initiatives to be alarmist

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH



HIGHLIGHT: Wire story for page 2


On a recent afternoon, Scott McKenzie watched torrential rains and a murky tide
swallow the street outside his dog-grooming salon. Within minutes, much of this
stretch of chic South Beach was flooded ankle-deep in a fetid mix of rain and
seawater.

Welcome to the new Venice, McKenzie said as salt water surged from sewers.

There are few places in the nation more vulnerable to rising sea levels than
low-lying South Florida, a tourist and retirement mecca built largely on drained
swampland.

Yet as other coastal states and the Obama administration take aggressive
measures to battle the effects of global warming, Florida's top Republican
politicians are challenging the science and balking at government fixes.

Among the chief skeptics are U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush,
both possible presidential candidates in 2016. Gov. Rick Scott, who is running
for re-election, has worked with the Republican-controlled Legislature to
dismantle Florida's fledgling climate change initiatives. They were put in place
by his predecessor and current opponent, Democrat Charlie Crist.

I'm not a scientist, Scott said, after a federal report pinpointed Florida - and
Miami in particular - as among the country's most at-risk areas.

He and other Republicans warn against what they see as alarmist policies that
could derail the country's tenuous economic recovery.

Their positions could affect their political fortunes.

Democrats plan to place climate change, and the GOP's skepticism, front and
center in a state where the issue no longer is an abstraction.

Their hope is to win over independents and siphon some Republicans, who are
deeply divided over global warming. Tom Steyer, a billionaire environmental
activist, has pledged $100 million this year to influence seven critical
contests nationwide, including the Florida governor's race.

The battle in the country's largest swing state offers a preview of what could
be a pivotal fight in the next presidential election.

Crist is running for his old job as a Democrat, criticizing Scott and Florida
Republicans for reversing his efforts to curb global warming.

They don't believe in science. That's ridiculous, Crist said at a recent
campaign rally in Miami. This is ground zero for climate change in America.

Nationally, the issue could prove tricky for Democrats.

Polls show a bipartisan majority of Americans favor measures to reduce
planet-warming greenhouse gases, such as the new federal rule to limit carbon
emissions from power plants. But they routinely rank climate change far behind
the economy, the centerpiece of Scott's campaign, when prioritizing issues.

In Miami Beach the concern is palpable. On a recent afternoon, McKenzie pulled
out his iPad and flipped through photographs from a 2009 storm. In one, two
women kayak through knee-high water in the center of town.

This is not a future problem. It's a current problem, said Leonard Berry,
director of the Florida Center for Environmental Studies at Florida Atlantic
University and a contributing author of the National Climate Assessment, which
found sea levels have risen about 8 inches in the past century.

Miami Beach is expected to spend $400 million on an elaborate pumping system to
cope with routine flooding. To the north, Fort Lauderdale has shelled out
millions to restore beaches and a section of coastal highway after Hurricane
Sandy and other storms breached the city's concrete sea wall. Hallandale Beach,
which lies on the Atlantic Coast between the two cities, has abandoned six of
its eight drinking water wells because of encroaching seawater.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

The world's people will need to eat, so we'll need a bigger boat

BYLINE: JAMES W. JONES; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 914 words



HIGHLIGHT: food security


In a memorable scene from Jaws, a character who has finally glimpsed the immense
great white shark that he and his fellow crew members are trying to catch
famously declares, You're gonna need a bigger boat.

I'm a scientist - with a preference for data, not drama - but I think it's no
overstatement to say that humanity itself is now in a similar situation. To one
degree or another, all 7.2 billion of us on this Earth face an existential
problem.  And we need more resources to deal with it.

The problem is two-fold. On the one hand, demand for food is surging. With the
population set to soar to 9.6 billion by 2050, and affluence growing in portions
of the developing world, food demand is projected to rise 70 percent to 100
percent over the next 35 years.

But on the other hand, climate change will make feeding all of those people much
more difficult. As the recently issued National Climate Assessment Report noted,
climate disruptions to agricultural production have increased in the past 40
years and are projected to rise further over the next 25 years. And by 2050 and
after, the impacts are likely to be increasingly negative.

Florida, it should be noted, is in the bull's eye for the increasingly volatile
weather, with more intense storms, higher temperatures and rising sea levels -
especially affecting low-lying parts of Miami and other coastal areas. But the
whole world is at risk. We get new evidence all the time. Just a few days ago
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration released data showing that
this past August was the hottest the globe has experienced since record-keeping
began in 1881.

Under these circumstances, the Climate Summit being sponsored by the United
Nations next week in New York is certainly a welcome development. New ideas and
programs are vitally needed.

But here's something else that we know we need right now: agricultural research
to develop the technologies and information that will enable more food
production while also conserving natural resources.

Remarkably, public and private agriculture research spending in the United
States has barely changed in more than 15 years, and amounts to a combined total
of only about $11 billion. That's about half what American consumers spent last
year on pet food. And public spending on research is actually declining.

Given that significant increases in public spending are unlikely in the current
climate of fiscal restraint, it's incumbent on the private sector to step up.
That means spending more, for certain, but it also means contributing more in
the way of data, expertise and participation in research partnerships.

Too often today, we are seeing the opposite. For example, many companies keep to
themselves information that would greatly benefit public or nonprofit
researchers, for fear that by sharing the data they will sacrifice future
commercial opportunities. Yet ways can be found to protect the companies when
they share the information.

Within the past year, for example, the agricultural company Monsanto provided
vital information about corn yield studies in various countries to a nonprofit
global community of scientists, the Agricultural Model Intercomparison and
Improvement Project (AgMIP), where I'm a chief investigator. Without
compromising its own commercial interests, Monsanto provided information that we
are using to improve our models for describing how corn will respond to changes
in climate and water availability. The information has also helped us
demonstrate the potential for increasing production in many regions of the world
to help meet the increasing demand for food.

More companies should follow suit.

Awareness of the need for greater collaboration does seem to be rising. Both
nonprofits and government, for example, seem to be trying harder to bring the
public and private sectors together.

On the nonprofit side, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit, the International
Life Sciences Institute, recently established the Center for Integrated Modeling
of Sustainable Agriculture and Nutrition Security (CIMSANS).  This center is
bringing together top-notch public and private-sector scientists to make an
assessment of humanity's key options in addressing our environmental and
nutritional issues.

On the government side, the U.S. Department of Agriculture also has begun to
encourage such arrangements.  Just this spring, for example, it worked through a
Texas-based nonprofit to establish the Resilient Economic Agricultural Practices
(REAP) public-private partnership. REAP will continue vital research on soil
management strategies that USDA had previously financed.

Through the 2014 Farm Bill, USDA also is establishing the Foundation for Food
and Agriculture Research (FFAR), which will provide $200 million in federal
funding once the private sector ponies up $200 million of its own.

Considering the size and complexity of our challenges, however, these
initiatives should be considered only a start. There are many opportunities for
advancing agricultural science that will benefit the public as well as
businesses. In an era of limited government funding, the private sector needs to
be as resourceful and collaborative as possible with the public sector and
within itself. We definitely need a bigger boat. Let's begin building it
together.

Dr. James W. Jones is Emeritus Distinguished Professor of agricultural and
biological engineering at the University of Florida in Gainesville. He is also
director of the Florida Climate Institute.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 939 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesdayletters


Protect environment

Like the Tribune's Joe Henderson wrote a few weeks ago: Just the facts, please -
climate change is real. Whether it is believed or not, climate change is real,
and fracking plays a significant role.

While our legislators should be working to mitigate the effects of climate
change in one of the nation's most at-risk states, they decide to permit acid
fracking in the Big Cypress Swamp, which feeds into our Everglades. This will
increase pollution, from methane in particular, which will poison this national
treasure.

We need to encourage our legislators, from our senators to our county
commissioners, to deny the Dan A. Hughes company the ability to further
deteriorate the environment of our beautiful state.

Stephanie Strickland

St. Petersburg

Scott's getting closer

I am a Venezuelan-American citizen. I am involved with different nonprofit
organizations in the area, and I consider myself one of the important voices for
the Hispanic community in Hillsborough County. I write for a Hispanic newspaper,
and I try to be objective when I write about a politician. You do not know how
many times Gov. Rick Scott has been meeting with us. He signed the legislation
to keep tuition low to allow all students who grew up in Florida to have the
same access to affordable higher education.

Scott is on the side of Cubans and Venezuelans when it comes to democracy and
freedom, something they lost a long time ago, by supporting the 52-year-old
embargo on Cuba against two criminals who have kept our fellow Cuban brothers
and sisters as slaves, and the resolution for economic sanctions against some
corrupt public officials in Venezuela.

In the opinion of both myself and many Hispanics in my community, Gov. Scott has
been getting closer and closer to us, and we really appreciate it.

Norma Reno

Tampa

The writer is the vice president of the Hispanic Alliance of Tampa Bay.

Won't let it slide again

I let it slide on your D-Day edition when columnist Douglas MacKinnon's partisan
piece appeared on the front page (Ike's D-Day note holds lessons for White
House, June 6). As a veteran and patriot, I really felt it was poor judgment on
your part to put out his piece on the front page. On June 11, I saw another
partisan op-ed by MacKinnon on the front page. It concerns me that this may
become customary, and here's why:

The unlearned and uneducated reader may not be able to decipher fact from opine
and partisan balderdash. This could lead them (or perhaps, I should say, mislead
them) down MacKinnon's not-so-rosy path of intent. Might I suggest in the future
that MacKinnon's opine be placed on the back page of section one? One more
thing: As to MacKinnon's statement in Questioning the foundation of the Obama
narrative, there's a comment in there that William Manchester might take offense
to: ... most historians lean to the left.

Michael Harris

Safety Harbor

Nothing positive to report

In response to Stop picking on Democrats (Your Views, June 19): Perhaps Maxine
Brown should subscribe to a paper like the one across the bay. I am confused as
to her statement about the newspaper never printing anything positive about the
president or my party. Well, to have something positive to report, one must do
something positive. Negotiating with terrorists is not positive. Trying to buy
friends - giving financial aid to countries that have questionable allegiances -
is not positive. Poor judgment and political faux pas by appointed Cabinet
members is not positive. Making decisions that are not backed by Congress is not
positive. Telling our enemies that the U.S. will end its involvement in
Afghanistan by the end of the year is not positive. But I agree we should not
have gone there in the first place - the Russians did the same thing in the
mid-1980s  and lost.

This is what you get whether it is a Republican or Democratic president with
zero experience in foreign policy, the global economy or national issues. The
current administration, even after the first four years, does not see the big
picture and does not represent the people. By the way, Congress - Democrats and
Republicans - are not doing much better. They all need to remember: United we
stand; divided we fall.

Robert Clayton

Apollo Beach

Government accountability

If the roles were reversed and the IRS was investigating Congress for actions
possibly resulting in tax fraud, would the dog ate my homework excuse really
have a chance of being accepted? Would the IRS give the purported miscreant
low-level functionaries the blame, give them a slap on the wrist, and consider
it case closed?

Dig through the IRS muck (Our Views, June 20) eluded to holding government
accountable. That premise should hold true not only for the IRS issue but for
the VA issue, Benghazi, the forgotten Fast and Furious and for the everyday
operation of a government that is supposed to be of the people, by the people
and for the people.

Deflection, obfuscation and deception by this administration about its
responsibility to the American people for effective, cogent, fair and efficient
government should not be tolerated. Let's dig through all of the president's
scandals and see if there is a smidgen of administration culpability for what
appears to be one failure after another.

Jerrold Cheesbro

Sun City Center

Another offensive name

Regarding Trademark board rules against Redskins name (front page, June 19): I
hope and pray that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office rules some day that
Planned Parenthood is forced to do the right thing and change its offensive
name, too.  The new name, to be spot-on and truthful, should really be Planned
Baby Killing.

Dale Kimball

Lutz

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 25, 2014 Sunday

VA horrors: The Obama scandal even lefties recognize

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1697 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Right Stuff for Sunday.


Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

While there's plainly nothing new about hideous screw-ups in the Department of
Veterans Affairs - complaints about care in one form or another extend at least
to the administration of John //F.// Kennedy - the combination of critical,
cynical, systemic failure and the apparent indifference of a president who made
veterans' care central to winning the White House is such a disaster, even his
fiercest media allies on the left have noticed.

Noticed? They're even scolding him.

Under a headline describing Barack Obama as President Passive, Washington Post
columnist Dana Milbank, Gunga Din among administration water-bearers, huffs: It
doesn't inspire great confidence that President Obama, on the day he finally
decided to comment about excessive wait times for veterans' medical
appointments, showed up late to read his statement.

It's possible Milbank's disgust arose from a pique about being personally
inconvenienced, because Obama has been showing up late for job-related public
appearances - that is, those not involving campaign donors - since he first took
the oath of office in 2009. I'm just saying it was a funny moment for Milbank to
start noticing.

Still, he took some welcome swats, including this:

Obama said Wednesday that

he doesn't want the matter to become 'another political football,' and that's
understandable. But his response to the scandal has created an inherent
contradiction: He can't be 'madder than hell' about something if he won't
acknowledge that the thing actually occurred. This would be a good time for
Obama to knock heads and to get in front of the story. But, frustratingly, he's
playing President Passive, insisting on waiting for the VA's inspector general
to complete yet another investigation. ...

The mess even has the kids over at Ezra Klein's Vox.com  perplexed: What the
hell is happening at the VA? But the new journalism guys were sufficiently slow
to the party, and apologetic when they got there, to have snared the attention
of National Journal columnist Ron Fournier, an erstwhile Obama apologist who
absolutely tattooed Klein's commitment to magical thinking.

The inconvenient truth is that Klein's kind of thinking lets the president off
the hook, unaccountable for promises broken and opportunities lost. Rather than
change Washington's culture of polarization, zero-sum game politics, and spin,
Obama surrendered to it almost immediately.

On health insurance reform, government debt, and loosening immigration laws,
Obama shares blame with obstinate House Republicans for fumbling potential
compromise. On climate change and gun control, Obama knew (or should have known)
his rhetoric was setting up voters for disappointment. Rather than roll back
Bush-era terrorism programs that curb civil liberties, Obama deepened them.

The launch of the Affordable Care Act and the worsening of conditions at the
Veterans Affairs Department are emblematic of Obama's inattention to the hard
work of governing. He is slow to fire poor-serving Cabinet members and quick to
dismiss controversies as 'phony scandals.' To the Obama administration,
transparency is a mere talking point. The great irony of his progressive
presidency: Democrats privately admit that Obama has done as much to undermine
the public's faith in government as his GOP predecessor.

Still, it remains the duty of pundits on the right to describe for the awakening
class how Obama's reckless and ongoing unresponsiveness toward the VA fits a
pattern conservatives have been yelling themselves red in the face about for
most of six years. Commentary's Peter Wehner weighs in effectively with The New
Obama Narrative: Epic Incompetence, which is a nice primer for your newly
attentive lefty cousins, but then they should be directed to Jim Geraghty's
applause-worthy expansion, The Myth of Barack Obama, which includes this
concise, memorable, nightmarish paragraph:

Obama doesn't really respect anyone who disagrees with him; he prefers to adopt
an 'only adult in the room' pose, demagogue issues, and attack straw men. He'll
talk about the need for a 'new tone' and then stand by as his allies attack
opponents as 'not one of us' or accuse them of committing felonies without
evidence, and even of causing cancer. Far from the post-partisan healer he was
sold as in 2007-08, he's a ruthless demagogue who urges his followers to 'get in
their face' and 'punish our enemies.' 'Don't think we're not keeping score,
brother.'

Lefty journalists looked the other way when it seemed Obama was the culmination
of all those deep, meaningful, change-the-world discussions back in the student
union; of course he had to be pugilistic if the one they'd been waiting for was
going to Get Stuff Done. Now, with the blood of veterans on the hands of an
institution he promised to repair - and about which otherwise gave scant
thought, because his words alone heal - they're having another look.

Welcome aboard, y'all.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Twitter: @tjacksonTBO

Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

JACKSON, Page 5

Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

While there's plainly nothing new about hideous screw-ups in the Department of
Veterans Affairs - complaints about care in one form or another extend at least
to the administration of John //F.// Kennedy - the combination of critical,
cynical, systemic failure and the apparent indifference of a president who made
veterans' care central to winning the White House is such a disaster, even his
fiercest media allies on the left have noticed.

Noticed? They're even scolding him.

Under a headline describing Barack Obama as President Passive, Washington Post
columnist Dana Milbank, Gunga Din among administration water-bearers, huffs: It
doesn't inspire great confidence that President Obama, on the day he finally
decided to comment about excessive wait times for veterans' medical
appointments, showed up late to read his statement.

It's possible Milbank's disgust arose from a pique about being personally
inconvenienced, because Obama has been showing up late for job-related public
appearances - that is, those not involving campaign donors - since he first took
the oath of office in 2009. I'm just saying it was a funny moment for Milbank to
start noticing.

Still, he took some welcome swats, including this:

Obama said Wednesday that

he doesn't want the matter to become 'another political football,' and that's
understandable. But his response to the scandal has created an inherent
contradiction: He can't be 'madder than hell' about something if he won't
acknowledge that the thing actually occurred. This would be a good time for
Obama to knock heads and to get in front of the story. But, frustratingly, he's
playing President Passive, insisting on waiting for the VA's inspector general
to complete yet another investigation. ...

The mess even has the kids over at Ezra Klein's Vox.com  perplexed: What the
hell is happening at the VA? But the new journalism guys were sufficiently slow
to the party, and apologetic when they got there, to have snared the attention
of National Journal columnist Ron Fournier, an erstwhile Obama apologist who
absolutely tattooed Klein's commitment to magical thinking.

The inconvenient truth is that Klein's kind of thinking lets the president off
the hook, unaccountable for promises broken and opportunities lost. Rather than
change Washington's culture of polarization, zero-sum game politics, and spin,
Obama surrendered to it almost immediately.

On health insurance reform, government debt, and loosening immigration laws,
Obama shares blame with obstinate House Republicans for fumbling potential
compromise. On climate change and gun control, Obama knew (or should have known)
his rhetoric was setting up voters for disappointment. Rather than roll back
Bush-era terrorism programs that curb civil liberties, Obama deepened them.

The launch of the Affordable Care Act and the worsening of conditions at the
Veterans Affairs Department are emblematic of Obama's inattention to the hard
work of governing. He is slow to fire poor-serving Cabinet members and quick to
dismiss controversies as 'phony scandals.' To the Obama administration,
transparency is a mere talking point. The great irony of his progressive
presidency: Democrats privately admit that Obama has done as much to undermine
the public's faith in government as his GOP predecessor.

Still, it remains the duty of pundits on the right to describe for the awakening
class how Obama's reckless and ongoing unresponsiveness toward the VA fits a
pattern conservatives have been yelling themselves red in the face about for
most of six years. Commentary's Peter Wehner weighs in effectively with The New
Obama Narrative: Epic Incompetence, which is a nice primer for your newly
attentive lefty cousins, but then they should be directed to Jim Geraghty's
applause-worthy expansion, The Myth of Barack Obama, which includes this
concise, memorable, nightmarish paragraph:

Obama doesn't really respect anyone who disagrees with him; he prefers to adopt
an 'only adult in the room' pose, demagogue issues, and attack straw men. He'll
talk about the need for a 'new tone' and then stand by as his allies attack
opponents as 'not one of us' or accuse them of committing felonies without
evidence, and even of causing cancer. Far from the post-partisan healer he was
sold as in 2007-08, he's a ruthless demagogue who urges his followers to 'get in
their face' and 'punish our enemies.' 'Don't think we're not keeping score,
brother.'

Lefty journalists looked the other way when it seemed Obama was the culmination
of all those deep, meaningful, change-the-world discussions back in the student
union; of course he had to be pugilistic if the one they'd been waiting for was
going to Get Stuff Done. Now, with the blood of veterans on the hands of an
institution he promised to repair - and about which otherwise gave scant
thought, because his words alone heal - they're having another look.

Welcome aboard, y'all.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Twitter: @tjacksonTBO

Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

Jackson

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

Panel: Rising seas a threat to Fla. [JUMP]Leaders in Tampa Bay region must plan
for effects of climate change, experts say;
Leaders in Tampa Bay region must plan for effects of climate change, experts say

BYLINE: KATE BRADSHAW Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 717 words



HIGHLIGHT: Local leaders talk about sea level rise and its impacts on a panel as
part of the Blue Ocean Film Festival.


ST. PETERSBURG - Environmental scientists worry coastal areas will become
inundated as sea levels continue to gradually rise across the globe - especially
as few places have acknowledged sea-level rise as a serious threat

A panel assembled as part of this week's Blue Ocean Film Festival aimed to
explore the phenomenon's potential social, ecological and economic impacts in
Florida, a state with scant elevation and tons at stake along its hundreds of
miles of coast.

Mayor Rick Kriseman sat at the edge of Monday's panel, he said, with the aim of
launching a more serious approach to the issue the way cities such as Seattle
and Miami already have.

The city, prior to my administration, hadn't even really looked at this issue,
said Kriseman, who took office in January. So we're just now starting to do the
plans, put plans in place because we recognize we can't just sit back and not
take action. Despite skepticism over climate change and one of its symptoms,
sea-level rise, most scientists say agreement is strong among those who
understand the actual science behind it.

Frankly, the scientific community has reached consensus on this, said Gary
Mitchum, associate dean with the University of South Florida College of Marine
Science. There is not a debate. There's a lot of debate on the Internet, but not
in the scientific journals.

He told the audience of more than 200 that sea level rise results from an
increase in the volume of the world's oceans, either by adding water or by
heating it, which causes it to expand. With melting glaciers and global average
temperatures rising, both are occurring,

he said. Mitchum said sea levels are projected to go up two to three feet by
2100.

In Florida, where most people live on the coast, that could cause big problems,
other panelists said.

Alison Adams, chief technical officer at Tampa Bay Water, the agency that
supplies water to much of the region, said any longtime Floridian would notice
how the weather patterns in the state have shifted.

I'm a native Floridian, and when I was a kid you used to be able to set your
watch to the storms that happened every day, she said. If you've been paying
attention the last few summers, our rainfall is actually not arriving the same
way it used to when we were all kids.

That's problematic, she said, because much of the water supply comes from lakes,
rivers and streams, which are all fed by rainfall. Coupled with saltwater
intrusion into the state's aquifer - the porous underground rock that naturally
stores much of the state's freshwater - it means trouble for the water supply.

Then there's local infrastructure concerns.Probably the worst example we have of
long term planning in this area is Tampa General Hospital, said Mark Hafen,
assistant director of USF's School of Public Affairs. We have the region's major
trauma center located at sea level, on an island, accessible by one
bridge.Panelist Russell Meyer, executive director of the Florida Council of
Churches, said what concerns him most about sea-level rise is its impact on the
populations that don't have resources allowing them to protect themselves
against it.

What happens if we don't do mitigation in advance is our most vulnerable
populations get displaced, he said. And those are elderly populations, those are
communities of color, they are the richness, the depth of a community. What gets
lost is our social capital, is our social wealth.

Kriseman said he hopes the city will start adopting tangible policies to help
offset sea-level rise's hazards before they happen. The city council seems to be
on the same page - council members Karl Nurse and Darden Rice were in the
audience at Monday's panel.

While such policies have yet to materialize, Kriseman points to his inclusion of
Mitchum on the St. Petersburg Pier selection committee as a sign of how
seriously he takes the issue.

When we put together our selection committee, we wanted to make sure that this
is a factor that is going to be considered in what we do on the Pier because
we're obviously trying to build something for the next 50 years, so if we're not
looking at the impact of sea level rise, considering the hurricanes and those
impacts, then it doesn't make sense, he said.

kbradshaw@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-7999

Twitter: @kbradshawTBO

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

'Turnaround schools' struggling;
Behavior, reading skills among issues cited by report

BYLINE: ANASTASIA DAWSON; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1683 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



HIGHLIGHT: The Florida Department of Education has released it's analysis of how
Pinellas' D and F schools are progressing.


 Though five struggling schools in Pinellas County have made significant
improvements during the  year, recent reports from the state Department of
Education indicate student behavior and achievement, particularly in reading,
are not yet up to par.

The five schools - Maximo Elementary, Melrose Elementary, Fairmount Park
Elementary and Azalea Middle, all in St. Petersburg, and Pinellas Park Middle -
were dubbed turnaround schools by the state last school year after students
repeatedly performed poorly on standardized tests and the schools earned
multiple D and F grades. School district officials had to submit plans detailing
how they would change the culture at the schools, many teachers and staff were
replaced, and classrooms are being audited by the state throughout the year.

At Maximo, the state's Differentiated Accountability Team wrote that in many
classrooms there aren't clear expectations for acceptable behavior and
procedures, resulting in disruptive students who limit the teacher's ability to
carry out lessons. Melrose was cited for low FCAT scores and expectations for
students, of whom only 19 percent are considered proficient in reading, 13
percent in math and 41 percent in writing on the standardized test.

Students' reading performance and fourth-graders' FCAT scores were of particular
concern at Fairmount Park. Only 16 percent scored at a proficient level or
higher on the FCAT reading exam, 31 percent on writing tests and 8 percent on
the math test. Only 4 percent of fourth-grade students met proficiency standards
on the school district's expository writing assessments, and none are proficient
in narrative writing, the report states.

Those issues could be due, in part, to the many new teachers at the schools this
year, as well as the implementation of Common Core standards, new statewide
standards that will be more rigorous overall and emphasize writing.

Melrose had the largest staff change, with 13 returning instructional staff
members and 29 new faces. At Maximo there are 18 new hires, and there are 22 at
Azalea Middle, 25 at Fairmount Park and 24 at Pinellas Park Middle.

We're a lot better, but we're not all better, said Azalea Principal Connie
Kolosey. Last year our sixth-grade students started getting Common Core
instruction, and that group is already seeing huge gains, especially on the FCAT
because what they're learning in school is much harder than the FCAT. Overall,
the dip in grades could be because our kids are doing harder work.

Azalea was commended for students' good behavior, which can be largely
attributed to new extra-curricular activities started this school year, such as
the school district's only Cadet Corp mentors program with the JROTC at Boca
Ciega High School. The program not only promotes community involvement and
civics, but also mili

tary-style leadership and has been very popular with students, Kolosey said.

Some of the kids in the program were really great kids and leaders to begin
with, and then there were some kids that were kind of borderline in their
commitment to school and their behavior that have really tightened up because of
their involvement with Cadet Corp, she said. It's really neat to see them all
take that so seriously.

Pinellas Park Middle has seen an increase in attendance, with percentages in the
90s across grade levels, but the report noted that the number of students
receiving referrals or other disciplinary action also has increased to about 20
percent. However, the increase in student citations is also a sign that the
staff is holding them responsible, new principal Dave Rosenberger said.

Kids will be the first to point out if they're not being held to the same
standards as one of their classmates, so promoting good behavior has been huge
this year, Rosenberger said. We've really focused on showing that the rules are
the rules and no one is going to slide by, and that may mean more kids in
detention... I've talked with folks that say the campus is calmer and there's
more time spent actually teaching in class, because kids are learning that if
they avoid conflict they avoid discipline.

All schools were commended for the professional development the teachers went
through, as well as visible efforts to create a more positive school climate and
culture. Many schools were said to be noticeably cleaner from previous years,
and students are being expected and encouraged to journal in most classrooms.
And as the school district develops more academic programs for the schools,
improvement is sure to follow, Superintendent Michael Grego said. Already,
Azalea's new engineering academy has received more than 100 applications for
next school year, and Pinellas Park's Pre-Advanced International Certificate of
Education program has garnered more than 80 applications.

Many of the families applying to these programs are making them their first
choice, which is a real clear indicator that they believe in the success of
these schools, Grego said.

adawson@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-9851

Twitter: @adawsonTBO

EDUCATION, Page 7

Though five struggling schools in Pinellas County have made significant
improvements during the  year, recent reports from the state Department of
Education indicate student behavior and achievement, particularly in reading,
are not yet up to par.

The five schools - Maximo Elementary, Melrose Elementary, Fairmount Park
Elementary and Azalea Middle, all in St. Petersburg, and Pinellas Park Middle -
were dubbed turnaround schools by the state last school year after students
repeatedly performed poorly on standardized tests and the schools earned
multiple D and F grades. School district officials had to submit plans detailing
how they would change the culture at the schools, many teachers and staff were
replaced, and classrooms are being audited by the state throughout the year.

At Maximo, the state's Differentiated Accountability Team wrote that in many
classrooms there aren't clear expectations for acceptable behavior and
procedures, resulting in disruptive students who limit the teacher's ability to
carry out lessons. Melrose was cited for low FCAT scores and expectations for
students, of whom only 19 percent are considered proficient in reading, 13
percent in math and 41 percent in writing on the standardized test.

Students' reading performance and fourth-graders' FCAT scores were of particular
concern at Fairmount Park. Only 16 percent scored at a proficient level or
higher on the FCAT reading exam, 31 percent on writing tests and 8 percent on
the math test. Only 4 percent of fourth-grade students met proficiency standards
on the school district's expository writing assessments, and none are proficient
in narrative writing, the report states.

Those issues could be due, in part, to the many new teachers at the schools this
year, as well as the implementation of Common Core standards, new statewide
standards that will be more rigorous overall and emphasize writing.

Melrose had the largest staff change, with 13 returning instructional staff
members and 29 new faces. At Maximo there are 18 new hires, and there are 22 at
Azalea Middle, 25 at Fairmount Park and 24 at Pinellas Park Middle.

We're a lot better, but we're not all better, said Azalea Principal Connie
Kolosey. Last year our sixth-grade students started getting Common Core
instruction, and that group is already seeing huge gains, especially on the FCAT
because what they're learning in school is much harder than the FCAT. Overall,
the dip in grades could be because our kids are doing harder work.

Azalea was commended for students' good behavior, which can be largely
attributed to new extra-curricular activities started this school year, such as
the school district's only Cadet Corp mentors program with the JROTC at Boca
Ciega High School. The program not only promotes community involvement and
civics, but also mili

tary-style leadership and has been very popular with students, Kolosey said.

Some of the kids in the program were really great kids and leaders to begin
with, and then there were some kids that were kind of borderline in their
commitment to school and their behavior that have really tightened up because of
their involvement with Cadet Corp, she said. It's really neat to see them all
take that so seriously.

Pinellas Park Middle has seen an increase in attendance, with percentages in the
90s across grade levels, but the report noted that the number of students
receiving referrals or other disciplinary action also has increased to about 20
percent. However, the increase in student citations is also a sign that the
staff is holding them responsible, new principal Dave Rosenberger said.

Kids will be the first to point out if they're not being held to the same
standards as one of their classmates, so promoting good behavior has been huge
this year, Rosenberger said. We've really focused on showing that the rules are
the rules and no one is going to slide by, and that may mean more kids in
detention... I've talked with folks that say the campus is calmer and there's
more time spent actually teaching in class, because kids are learning that if
they avoid conflict they avoid discipline.

All schools were commended for the professional development the teachers went
through, as well as visible efforts to create a more positive school climate and
culture. Many schools were said to be noticeably cleaner from previous years,
and students are being expected and encouraged to journal in most classrooms.
And as the school district develops more academic programs for the schools,
improvement is sure to follow, Superintendent Michael Grego said. Already,
Azalea's new engineering academy has received more than 100 applications for
next school year, and Pinellas Park's Pre-Advanced International Certificate of
Education program has garnered more than 80 applications.

Many of the families applying to these programs are making them their first
choice, which is a real clear indicator that they believe in the success of
these schools, Grego said.

adawson@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-9851

Twitter: @adawsonTBO

Education

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 25, 2014 Saturday

SECTION: METRO; Business; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 582 words



HIGHLIGHT: Daily Business Briefs


The big accounting firm KPMG has agreed to pay $8.2 million to settle federal
regulators' charges that it compromised its independence by providing nonaudit
services to companies whose books it audited. The Securities and Exchange
Commission announced the settlement Friday with New York-based KPMG, one of the
so-called Big Four accounting firms. The SEC said KPMG violated auditor
independence rules by providing prohibited nonaudit services such as bookkeeping
to the companies involved. The companies weren't named. In addition, the SEC
said some KPMG employees owned stock in companies that were KPMG audit clients.
KPMG neither admitted nor denied the allegations. The company is paying about
$6.5 million in restitution and interest and a $1.77 million penalty. KPMG also
agreed to hire an independent consultant to monitor its compliance with rules.

° Tempers flared at airline offices in Caracas on Friday as Venezuelans reacted
angrily to international carriers' refusal to sell tickets after the government
devalued the bolivar for flights abroad. The offices of American Airlines,
Delta, United and Panama's Copa were all either closed or halted sales for
several hours Friday as the higher exchange rate took effect, adding to
uncertainty as carriers try to collect $3.3 billion they say they are owed by
the socialist government. The situation worsened this week when the government
said revenue from ticket sales in bolivars would be converted at a new exchange
rate almost twice as high as the official 6.3 bolivar per dollar exchange rate.
That makes flying costlier for the majority of Venezuelans.

° As the Denver Broncos and Seattle Seahawks prep for their showdown in the
Super Bowl, a legal fight is playing out over the turf installed last summer at
the NFL title game's venue. Missouri-based Taylor Turf Installation Inc. is
suing MetLife Stadium's operators over $292,000 the St. Louis-area company says
it is owed for installing the stadium's playing surface.

° Global leaders argued Friday that efforts to eradicate poverty must be linked
to climate change, saying that rising temperatures will have widespread effects
on everything from food supplies to education. Panelists at two separate
sessions at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland - among them Bill
Gates, Al Gore and U2 frontman Bono - underlined the importance of the issue.
The United Nations also is making climate change a priority at Davos this year,
pushing for a U.N.-brokered internationally binding climate treaty in Paris in
2015.

° JPMorgan Chase almost doubled Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon's pay for 2013,
rewarding him for settling probes against the bank. Dimon will receive total
compensation of $20 million in 2013, consisting of $18.5 million in stock
options and a base salary of $1.5 million.

° Viacom Inc.'s nonagenarian founder, Sumner Redstone, saw his pay jump 77
percent to $36.2 million last year, reflecting a surge in the value of his
special stock options. The executive chairman's special options rose in value by
$26 million. They gained $12.9 million in the previous year. Stock options rise
in value when the stock price rises. Viacom's widely traded Class B shares rose
56 percent over its fiscal year to close at $83.58 at the end of September.
Redstone, 90, bought the options in September 2006 using cash from salary he had
deferred. The AP's calculation counts salary, bonuses, perks and stock and
options awarded to the executive during the year.

From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 13, 2014 Thursday

Study links stroke risk, extreme weather;
And in light of climate change, findings may 'be increasingly important'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 338 words



HIGHLIGHT: Study ties weather to stroke rates; risk may rise with high humidity,
cold, temperature swings


There may be a link between weather and the risk of having a stroke, say
researchers who analyzed climate trends and hospital records on millions of
Americans.

Cold weather, high humidity and big daily temperature swings seem to land more
people in the hospital with strokes. As it got warmer, risk fell - 3 percent for
every 5 degrees, the study found.

Maybe some of these meteorological factors serve as a trigger, said Judith
Lichtman, a Yale University stroke researcher who led the study. With global
climate change and extreme weather such as this week's storm in the South, this
could be increasingly important, she said.

Lichtman and colleagues from Harvard and Duke universities presented results of
their study Wednesday at the American Heart Association's International Stroke
Conference in San Diego. It is the largest and most detailed research on this
issue.

Some earlier studies found a seasonal trend to stroke rates, and there are
biological reasons to think they are related, said one independent expert,
Andrew Stemer, a neurologist at Georgetown University.

Blood vessels constrict in cold weather, which can raise blood pressure, he
said. Extreme weather can trigger a stress reaction by the body, causing it to
release substances that not only increase the work of the heart but make blood
stickier and more likely to clot, Stemer said.

In cold weather your body clamps down, there's cardiovascular stress, said Larry
Goldstein, a Duke stroke specialist who worked on the study.

Conversely, high humidity may cause dehydration, which also can raise the risk
for clots and raise stress on the body, he said. You know how you feel when
you're out in hot, humid weather - you don't feel so hot.

The results mean that during extreme weather, friends and relatives should keep
an eye on people that are at high risk, those who are older, Lichtman said.

Goldstein added this advice for people already at cardiovascular risk: Stay in
air conditioning in the summer and stay heated in the winter so the weather
affects you less.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 12, 2014 Monday

BYLINE: LYNN EDWARD WEAVER; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 594 words



HIGHLIGHT: nukes in Florida


With the need for clean air, nothing is more important to Florida's energy
future than increasing the use of nuclear power.

Florida has made great strides with the increased use of zero-carbon energy
sources to curb its need for coal in electricity production. Nuclear power is
continuing to play a key role in that development. Florida's nuclear plants have
prevented the airborne emission of 13.1 million metric tons of carbon dioxide,
along with thousands of tons of smog-producing nitrogen oxide, mercury and other
pollutants. But nuclear power's best days may lie ahead.

Florida Power & Light is planning to build two additional reactors at its Turkey
Point nuclear plant in Miami-Dade County. Designs for the new plants call for
the use of Westinghouse AP1000 reactors, the world's most technologically
advanced light-water reactor. Four of the AP1000 reactors are under construction
in the United States, two each in Georgia and South Carolina, and many more are
being built or planned in other countries.

For construction of AP1000s, electric utilities have chosen a system in which
large sections of a plant are prefabricated in multi-ton sections, shipped to
the site and welded together into huge modules, then loaded into place by large
cranes. Older plants, by contrast, were built on site, and construction in the
1980s was slowed due to constantly changing regulatory requirements.
Fortunately, now there are fewer regulatory changes and less room for delay.

The AP1000 design has received preconstruction licensing from the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission. No longer faced with regulatory uncertainty, reactor
builders today can plan ahead. What's more, they've been able to introduce a
number of innovative construction and quality control procedures to expedite
construction. Because large components are built in a factory, sidestepping the
problems of assuring high-quality fabrication in the field, builders are now
completing major sections of new nuclear plants on time and on budget.

The big advantage of nuclear power is its ability to produce an enormous amount
of energy from a small amount of fuel. Although electricity demand is
essentially flat in some parts of the United States, Florida's need for power is
projected to grow through 2040. The production cost of nuclear electricity
generated at the St. Lucie and Turkey Point plants is fully competitive with
electricity from fossil fuels, although new nuclear power is somewhat more
expensive than natural gas.

However, with natural gas supplying 70 percent of Florida's electricity and its
history of price volatility, nuclear power is needed to provide a hedge against
gas price increases.  Without the availability of nuclear power, homeowners and
businesses would be vulnerable to electricity price shocks.

Significantly, some prominent climate scientists are saying that greater use of
nuclear power is necessary to combat climate change. Although natural gas is
cleaner than coal or oil, it nevertheless accounts for a quarter of the carbon
emissions from electricity production. Improvements in efficiency and renewable
energy sources such as solar cells and wind turbines, though important, won't be
able to reduce carbon emissions enough to make a difference to climate.

More nuclear-generating capacity is essential to get the job done. Nuclear power
meets environmental requirements and provides the fuel and technological
diversity that is one of the bedrock features of a dependable electric system.

Lynn Edward Weaver is president emeritus of the Florida Institute of Technology.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 858 words



HIGHLIGHT: Letters


Prepare for warming

Climate change is a real problem that has already caused devastation in many
communities due to rising sea levels and fiercer storms. We must act to reduce
carbon pollution and increase clean-energy production. Only then do we have a
chance to lessen our future negative impact on the environment and therefore
avoid even fiercer storms and flooding. If we don't act now, these will likely
destroy many cities in the United States and hurt our economy. This must be a
global effort, with the United States at the forefront. We also need to be
better prepared to deal with the impacts of climate change that have already
occurred.

Nancy Kettle

Tampa

Socialist causes

Regarding the letter Make U.S. the envy of the world again (Views, March 13):
This letter demonstrates a trend with Republicans to call any and all policies
left of center to be evidence of some extreme but vague form of
socialism-communism. However, socialism isn't as far left as right-wingers make
it out to be. The most pressing demands of modern-day socialists are simply a
reasonable minimum wage, a more progressive income tax, and a reduction in
military spending. None of these are particularly extreme, and all of these are
justifiable. It's worth raising the minimum wage and creating a more progressive
income tax to reduce income inequality in the U.S. It's also prudent to reduce
our military spending, especially when you consider the fact that the U.S.
spends more on its military than the next 15 countries combined, most of which
are formally allied with us. Ultimately, real socialism is not about becoming
like some South American dictatorship. It's about making justifiable economic
choices to ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to succeed in our
great nation.

Samuel Russell

Tampa

Dividing Buddhists

Most Americans know very little about Buddhism but view the Dalai Lama as the
religion's gentle, loving face devoted to peace and reconciliation. The sight of
the protests that followed him on his tour of the U.S. probably mystified and
confused them. The bone of contention, as reported in the news, is a figure in
the pantheon of Tibetan Buddhas and deities named Dorje Shugden, whom they call
the dharma protector. Dorje Shugden images had an honored place on thousands of
Buddhist shrines around the world and prayers to him have been repeated by
dedicated Buddhists for centuries. When the Dalai Lama declared Dorje Shugden
persona non grata, Tibetan communities had to choose between loyalty to their
political leader and Dorje Shugden, who had played an important role in their
religious lives. Think how Catholics would react if the pope suddenly decided to
remove statues of the Virgin Mary from Catholic churches and ban any mention of
her. The political leadership of this nation should not honor or support any
leader who has punished and divided his people the way the Dalai Lama has done,
even if he has won a Nobel Peace Prize.

Charles Arnold

St. Petersburg

Sharpton off mark

Al Sharpton and others act like no one in Florida would get shot if it wasn't
for the stand your ground law. Going back to the night George Zimmerman shot
Trayvon Martin: If someone is on top of you beating your head on the concrete
and you shoot them, it would be self-defense, not stand your ground. Everybody
has a opinion, but George Zimmerman is the only person who knows what happened
that night. Al Sharpton said, It isn't about race. When has he done anything
that wasn't about race? Reading the news coverage of the threatened boycott, it
looks like it is about nothing but race. I also don't think Disney World or
Tropicana have anything to do with the stand your ground law.

Scotty McLendon

Lutz

Selective privacy

Sen. Dianne Feinstein is enraged that the CIA may seek prosecution of Senate
aides for breaking into confidential CIA files and characterized the move as a
potential effort to intimidate her staff, and she is not going to take it
lightly. How ironic; it is OK for the IRS to intimidate over 600 conservative
groups, and less than six liberal groups for show, and the person who
orchestrated this can plead the Fifth, and the White House can cover up the
deaths of four civil servants in the Benghazi disaster, but no one had better
try to intimidate her or her staff. With Feinstein and Pelosi representing
California, who needs a Constitution, laws or just plain honesty.

Jeanene Mallmann

Odessa

Down on oaks

I personally think that all the good people derive from the scrub oak trees here
in Florida, as in shade, is drastically outweighed by all the bad. So many
people suffer from pollen allergies. The tree roots destroy sidewalks and
driveways, not to mention what they do to underground water pipes. The leaves
are never-ending, and one usually ends up with leaves from surrounding
properties even when they don't have a single tree in their own yard. The acorns
and pollen stain driveways. I think it is time to start a grass-roots movement
and pass a law to remove all the oak trees and start planting more palm trees
and pine trees. Anything but those small-leaf oak trees. OK, my rant has come to
an end.

Ray Gibson

Palm Harbor

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday letters


Going retro

Good to see Tennessee and Utah bring back Ol' Sparky, the electric chair, even
when the lethal poison injection is almost just as good, as well as the firing
squad. When a rabid dog attacks and kills grandma and eats two of her
grandchildren, you don't coddle the dog and see to it that she lives out her
life in the dog pound jail in luxury, getting three good meals a day, air
conditioning, rec room activities and Frisbee-chasing in the park, etc. You put
her to death.

If Utah and Tennessee can't find someone to pull the switches, all they have to
do is let me know. I'll even pay my own way as long as I get the discounted
airline tickets and frequent mileage programs. I will insist on at least 10
switches to pull, with only one of the switches being the hot one.

John Lallemand

Dade City

D-Day's significance

Unfortunately, generations born post D-Day, especially the latest, fail to grasp
the significance of this great military sacrifice, in blood and treasure.
Failure was not an option since it would have triggered a positive consideration
for using the atomic bomb in Western Europe to end the long dark night of
national socialism, and thus irrevocably changing the world - forever.

James J. Harkins IV

Sun City Center

Florida needs to be heard

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recently announced its climate change
strategy to cut carbon emissions from power plants by 30 percent from 2005
levels by the year 2030 pursuant to a seldom-used provision in the Clean Air Act
Section 111(d). This section allows the states to implement their own plan to
reduce emissions. States can provide less stringent standards and longer
compliance time lines, thereby creating a blurred line - where the federal
jurisdiction ends and the state's jurisdiction begins.

The success of the Clean Air Act rests on cooperative federalism - the
distribution of power between the federal government and the states whereby each
recognizes the powers of the other. In the next year, the public, states and
interested entities can provide comment on these blurred jurisdictional lines.
This discourse will raise interesting debates over legal and policy issues
related to the EPA's ability to regulate emissions inside the fence versus
beyond the fence - the fence separating the public from the actual site of the
power plants.

Florida must participate in this debate.

Florida is the third-largest energy-consuming state in the nation, and soon to
become the third most populous state, further driving more energy consumption to
meet our air-conditioning needs. Florida is almost 90 percent reliant on fossil
fuels for low-cost electricity, and will be impacted by the consequences of
emission reduction strategies. Because Florida is almost entirely surrounded by
water, sea level rise is a critical part of our environmental concern. Thus,
Florida cannot be a passive participant in the climate change debate. Rather, we
must vigorously use all the tools in the toolbox to provide electricity in the
most environmentally sensible manner, and at the same time at the lowest
possible cost.

To balance its objectives, the EPA will hold a 120-day comment period that will
include public hearings beginning the week of July 28 in Denver, Atlanta,
Washington, D.C., and Pittsburgh. I hope to see Florida officials and many of
you there.

Jeremy Lawton Susac

Tallahassee

The writer is an environmental attorney with Berger Singerman.

Cold, hard facts

A writer recently claimed that President Obama's executive decision to exchange
Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl for five high-level terrorists compares favorably to
President Bush's executive decision to go to war in Iraq. He wonders why the
country goes nuts.

Let's examine the facts. Obama acted by executive decision in secrecy without
notifying Congress as required by law. Bush acted lawfully. He obtained the
Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002, a joint
resolution passed by Congress in October 2002 as Public Law No. 107-243.

Obama acted unilaterally without support of Congress or the defense or
intelligence communities. Bush assembled an Iraq war coalition of 49 nations
participating in the use of force against the tyrannical Saddam Hussein regime.

These are the cold, hard facts. But the real reason the country is going nuts is
because of the dubious value of exchanging five senior terrorists dedicated to
doing harm to the U.S. for one soldier of questionable character.

Andrew Schultz

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

We need to discuss global overpopulation, not run from it

BYLINE: HOLLY MOELLER; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 889 words



HIGHLIGHT: oped on population growth


Earlier this month, a high-profile study using the latest United Nations data
revisited predictions of global population size. The news wasn't good: Updated
estimates using new statistical analyses suggest the world's population will hit
nearly 11 billion by 2100.

There's some uncertainty in this measure because birth and death rates may be
changed by political and social dynamics. Still, the study's authors wrote that
there's a four in five chance the world's population will be between 9.6 and
12.3 billion by the end of the century.

I was glad to see several media outlets pick up the story. But although  most of
the reports alluded to the challenges of feeding and employing additional
billions of humans, almost none acknowledged the fundamental issue with human
population size.

There are already too many people on the planet, and this overpopulation drives
the ongoing environmental crisis.

It's no wonder we shy away from open discussion of this issue. First,
overpopulation is hard to quantify. It's obvious that the present-day human
population is too large to sustainably support on the planet. For example,
modern agriculture relies on the chemical fixation of nitrogen for fertilizers,
which experts believe allowed Earth's population to grow beyond 4 billion. Yet
this fertilizer production requires energy from fossil fuels, a non-renewable
resource. In other words, more than 3 billion people on the planet survive
because of an unsustainable energy subsidy.

But how many is too many? Experts struggle to quantify the maximum sustainable
human population size (called the carrying capacity) of the planet. Their
calculations are limited both by uncertainty about Earth's capacity to maintain
its human life support systems (e.g., freshwater, breathable air and so on) and
by the lifestyle each person chooses to maintain. For example, Americans have
relatively high-impact habits that consume more natural resources than
sub-Saharan Africans living below the poverty line. Ethically, we can agree that
every human deserves a certain standard of living. But the higher that that
standard rises in terms of energy and other resource consumption, the fewer
people Earth can support indefinitely.

Meanwhile, our global population continues to swell, as do our environmental
impacts. Each individual requires sustaining resources including food, housing
and energy. No matter how small the average person's resource demands are, each
additional person adds to the human burden on the Earth. In the past 40 years,
the human population has increased by 40 percent, while, as a consequence, the
world's wildlife population has been cut in half.

Indeed, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change notes that population
growth and economic development are the two most important drivers of increasing
carbon dioxide emissions. In the United States, every child born increases a
mother's carbon legacy more than sixfold. Worse, present day population growth
is occurring in impoverished areas where large families, though themselves
contributing relatively little per person to global emissions and climate
change, are more likely to be vulnerable to its impacts as well as the usual
suite of natural disasters.

Why, then, do we fixate on technological fixes like solar power and carbon
capture, rather than addressing global population growth?

According to former United Nations Population Division officials, the reasons
stem primarily from political fear. Talking about population control necessarily
brings up contentious moral issues such as birth control and reproductive
rights. Policymakers and government officials shy away from these thorny topics:
Even the U.N. has spent the past 20 years focusing on women's reproductive
health and rights while ducking larger questions about population size.

Still, sociology tells us this is not a bad strategy. Educating women, and
providing them with access to reliable birth control methods, is perhaps the
most reliable way to reduce population growth. Educated women add value to
families as breadwinners: The cost of having children now includes not only the
infant's direct expenses, but also the mother's lost wages. As a result, these
women are choosing to have fewer children.

The U.N., which is about to miss its 2015 Millennium Development Goal of
universal access to reproductive health, notes that 25 percent of sub-Saharan
African women of reproductive age want to delay or avoid pregnancy but still
have no access to reliable birth control.

This statistic should tell us something: Here is a need that we can fill, with a
big impact on human population growth. The greatest uncertainties in population
projection estimates center around sub-Saharan Africa, where investments in
female education and family planning can make the biggest difference in the
lives of the individual women and in the sustainability of the global human
population. Additionally, economic analyses show that these investments are more
cost-effective at reducing carbon emissions than technological fixes like
cleaner, greener power plants. So many birds can be killed with the same stone.

Rather than fearing discussion of human overpopulation, we should embrace it.
That's a lot less scary than rocketing blindly toward 10 billion with no plan
for the environmental consequences when we get there.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 15, 2014 Saturday

Keystone pipeline bill goes to Senate [JUMP]Obama veto could doom incumbent
Democrat's campaign;
Obama veto could doom incumbent Democrat's campaign

BYLINE: DINA CAPPIELLO The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 836 words


WASHINGTON - Congress inched closer Friday to a possible showdown with President
Barack Obama over the Keystone XL oil pipeline as the Republican-controlled
House approved the project. Supporters in the Democratic-run Senate predicted
they will get the 60 votes needed to pass it next week.

The House vote was 252-161 in favor of the bill, which was sponsored by Rep.
Bill Cassidy, R-La., in an effort to boost his chances to take a Louisiana
Senate seat away from Democrat Mary Landrieu. The two are headed for a Dec. 6
runoff and have been touting their energy credentials in the oil- and
gas-producing state.

Should the Senate send the bill to Obama for his signature, he would face a
decision that

pits some of his environmental concerns about the pipeline, mainly its
consequences for global warming, against potentially helping a fellow Democrat
making a long shot bid to retain her Senate seat.

The House bill was supported by 221 Republicans, with not a single GOP lawmaker
voting against it. Thirty-one Democrats backed the bill, while 161 rejected it.

This will make it easier for the Senate to do right by the American people and
finally vote on building the pipeline, Cassidy said in a statement after the
vote.

The bill's passage marked the ninth time the House had passed a bill to speed up
the pipeline's construction.

Landrieu pushed the Senate to hold its upcoming vote on the measure. In a call
with reporters from Louisiana, where she was campaigning, Landrieu called
herself the spark plug to get the Keystone bill through Congress. The House bill
is identical to one introduced by Sen. John Hoeven, R-N.D., and Landrieu in May.

This bill was drafted to go the distance, said Landrieu.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

As of Friday, supporters of the measure appeared to have at least 59 of the 60
Senate votes they would need for approval next week. That included all 45
Republicans and 14 Democrats.

Landrieu conceded, though, that it is unlikely the Senate or House will have the
two-thirds majorities that would be needed to override an Obama veto of the
bill. She said she did not know Obama's plans.

He most certainly understands my position, Landrieu said. He understands that
there are 15-plus Democrats in the Senate that really want to build the Keystone
pipeline.

If the bill fails to pass the Senate next week, Hoeven said he would reintroduce
it next year when Republicans will control the chamber. That would make it one
of many showdowns expected with Obama over energy and environmental policy after
Republicans take full control of Congress in January.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The $8 billion pipeline has become a symbol for the divisions on the country's
energy and environmental policy. Environmentalists have framed the issue as a
significant test of Obama's commitment to address climate change. Republicans
and other supporters say it is necessary for jobs and energy security, because
the U.S. would be importing oil from its neighbor, Canada, not the Middle East.
Still others have criticized the project because some of the product refined
from the oil could be exported to other countries, instead of used here.

The project has been stalled by environmental reviews, by objections to the
route it would take and by politics for six years. While the White House has
issued veto threats on similar legislation before, it had yet to formally do so
Friday.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said it was time for Obama to listen to the
American people, especially after Republican gains in last week's midterm
elections, and sign the bill.

The president doesn't have any more elections to win, and he has no other excuse
for standing in the way, Boehner said.

Obama, questioned about the issue while traveling on the other side of the
globe, said the administration's long-stalled review of the project cannot be
completed before knowing the outcome of a legal challenge to the pipeline's
route through Nebraska. He also reiterated that he will ultimately judge the
project on its impact on climate change and energy prices.

I have to constantly push back against this idea that somehow the Keystone
pipeline is either this massive jobs bill for the United States or is somehow
lowering gas prices, Obama said. Understand what this project is. It is
providing the ability of Canada to pump their oil, send it through our land,
down to the Gulf, where it will be sold everywhere else. That doesn't have an
impact on U.S. gas prices.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The State Department said in a Jan. 31 report that the project would not
significantly boost carbon emissions because the oil was likely to find its way
to market by other means. It added that transporting it by rail or truck would
cause greater environmental problems than if the Keystone XL pipeline were
built.

The 1,179-mile project is proposed to go from Canada through Montana and South
Dakota to Nebraska, where it would connect with existing pipelines to carry more
than 800,000 barrels of crude oil a day to refineries along the Texas Gulf
Coast.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 27, 2014 Saturday

Shining a little more light on solar energy in Florida

BYLINE: ROBERT P. ROTH; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1035 words



HIGHLIGHT: solar piece


Recently in these pages there have been a number of op-ed pieces opining that
the state of Florida's Public Service Commission and utilities need to pursue
more activist programs to increase the use of solar power in the Sunshine State.

It has been suggested that the utility industry is solely acting in its own
economic interest in thwarting solar power development as opposed to
conventional central-station power dispatch. Indeed, the so-called Conservatives
for Energy Freedom (in name only) suggest that government should do more to
ensure that solar power production expands. This is a code word for mandated
solar purchases, or state renewable portfolio standards, which stem from more
abundant subsidies, tax incentives and so on, hardly the hallmark of true free
enterprise and limited government.

In reality, the PSC and state utilities are acting in our interest. According to
the Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), rooftop
solar power has an effective capacity factor (CF) of only 14 percent. Utility
scale solar facilities can reach slightly higher CFs of roughly 21 percent.
Capacity factor is a term used to represent the share of hours in a given period
(year in this case) that a generation facility is available at its fully rated
capacity.

Consider that only 50 percent of hours reflect daylight (again, on an annual
basis), that the true peak hours of sun intensity are between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.
(five hours out of 24, or 20.8 percent of the time), and that cloudy days occur
even in Florida, and perhaps PSC Chairman Art Graham isn't so far off the mark.
Think of a traditional summer afternoon when the thunderstorms roll in, removing
the sunshine and injecting additional humidity into the system. I think most
consumers appreciate that their air conditioning and heating systems are not
reliant on the sun and/or wind for operation at that point in time.

In addition, Florida reaches its annual electrical peak demand traditionally in
the winter, either in the early morning or early evening, when solar activity is
de minimis. In other words, solar, like wind, is an intermittent source of
energy, not a dispatch-able one ala fossil or nuclear station dispatch. Indeed,
the experience in Germany suggests that up to 50 percent of the so-called carbon
benefit of wind and solar energy is lost due to the fact that utilities are
required to provide back-up power - spinning reserve, or literally gas turbines
idling - in order to account for this intermittency. This is actually an added
inefficiency from a power dispatch perspective with respect to renewable energy,
and adds to the underlying cost of power provision.

Advocates of renewable - read: subsidized, for it is the subsidies that have to
be constantly renewed in order to make this sources economic with functional
alternatives - energy suggest its cost has come down and it is (nearly)
break-even with conventional energy sources (fossil). Has it? The latest data
suggests that solar facilities may have an installed cost of $2.60/watt. Utility
analysts typically quote power plant installed costs in dollars per kilowatt (or
one thousand watts). That would be $2,600/kW versus roughly $1,200/kW for a
state of the art natural gas combined-cycle facility, or over twice the cost.

Yes, the gas plant has a fuel cost, but it is available when needed, as opposed
to certain hours of the day.

Solar City is quoting installed roof-top solar installations for a contract
price of 14 cents/kWh. Not a bad deal in California or New Jersey, where the
residential electric cost is roughly 16 to 16.5 cents/kWh, according to the
Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration. However, the average
residential price of electricity in Florida is on the order of 12 cents/kWh,
hence the clamoring of solar advocates for more government activism (read
subsidies) to make solar economic.

In North Carolina and Georgia, residential rates are slightly lower, at 11.2 and
11.8 cents/kWh, respectively. That is not due to the impact of renewable energy.
Rather, it is due to the fact that fuel transport costs (both coal and natural
gas) are lower in those states given their location. The U.S. average cost of
electricity for residential consumers is some 12.5 cents/kWh above the cost in
Florida. Outside of the hydro-rich Pacific Northwest, California and the
Northeast have residential electric rates in the 16 to 18 cent/kWh range. This
underscores their clamoring for regulation of carbon dioxide in order to share
those rich costs with the rest of the nation.

Germany, the poster child among green zealots of renewable wind and solar, has
residential electricity rates on the order of 37 cents/kWh, more than triple
those in Florida. About half of that cost reflects subsidies added to consumers'
bills to cover the cost of mandated wind and solar facilities. No wonder the
European economies are stuck in neutral; it is not solely due to their labor
laws.

So although renewable energy is not free, it is clean, right? Not exactly.

In order to manufacture the metallurgy used in wind turbines and the film in
solar panels, we require rare earth metals. The vast majority of these supplies
come from China. What do you think the state of mining reclamation laws are in
that nation? Wind facilities in the U.S. routinely slaughter about
half-a-million birds and raptors, including numerous endangered species.

Finally, let me address the fantasy that we need to lower our CO2 emissions in
order to prevent climate change.

The EPA has argued that a CO2 concentration of 400 parts-per-million (PPM), or
0.04 percent of the atmosphere, presents an endangerment to human health and a
danger to the environment, causing climate change since the Earth has not warmed
materially over the past 18 years. While you are reading this, your normal state
of respiration entails your lungs exhaling a CO2 concentration of 4 to 5 percent
- that's 40,000 to 50,000 PPM, or 100 times the level that of the air we breathe
in. And you will do this every day of your life as human life span continues to
increase in spite of our emitting this pseudo-pollutant.

Why the hysteria then? Well, that is a column for another day.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1053 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mondy letters


The jobs we didn't get

Gov. Rick Scott's hypocrisy is obvious. He is spending a fortune trying to
convince voters of his humble upbringing, his concern for the unemployed in
Florida and the homeless. How many jobs did Scott cost Florida when he torpedoed
the federal money for high-speed rail? Construction workers, service persons,
new businesses, support and repair businesses -  the list goes on and on.

Why would anyone believe him or vote for him? There are 50 governors in this
country, and Scott has to be the worst. It would be senseless to give Scott any
chance to hurt the good people of this state again.

John Mannone

Tampa

Constitution and religion

Regarding Obamacare's attack on faith (Our Views, April 1):

If the Tribune's opinion writers had taken a quick look at the all-important
supremacy clause in Article VI, perhaps the piece on the ACA vs. religious
freedom wouldn't have been so obtusely errant.

It is worth quoting: This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States ...
shall be the supreme Law of the Land. This was in large part a pointed reference
to the new government's supreme authority over religious usurpations since the
4th century, of which Madison and his compatriots were acutely aware. Article VI
ends with the famous ban on any religious oath or test for any office or public
trust under the United States, which powerfully punctuates the secular nature of
our government.

The supremacy clause is also important because it delimits the prohibition
against the free exercise of religious practice held forth in the First
Amendment - any religious practice that involves a violation of a civil or
criminal statute is excluded from this prohibition. In other words, the freedom
to practice religion is not absolute. Santerians can't go around cutting open
chickens on the town square to read their entrails for advice. An ardent
Christian Scientist can't rely solely on prayer to heal his ailing child without
running afoul of child welfare laws. Mormons so inclined can't take more than
one spouse, and a Baptist public school student can't be allowed to yell out
Praise Jesus! or Hallelujah! in the middle of classes.

The Tribune's position implies an even more perilous implication. If some are
serious about their faith to the extent that they absolutely refuse to become
complicit in what they consider to be immoral acts, then why not allow them to
refuse to hire people who think otherwise, or perhaps refuse to offer them the
same business services as would be offered to those who shared their religious
beliefs?

The Tribune claims that the administration ignores the reality that individuals
make corporate decisions, but the Tribune ignores the reality those same
individuals must make their decisions within the purview of the Constitution.

Tommy Moore

Riverview

A first-class operation

On behalf of the Charles Fendig Book Club, I am writing to acknowledge the
much-appreciated effort that the Charles J. Fendig Public Library staff in Tampa
put forth for a meeting of our club March 13.

The book club had the unusual opportunity to interview two people who were
featured in The New York Times best-seller,The Girls of Atomic City, the Untold
Story of the Women who Helped Win World War II by Denise Kiernan.

Since these two elderly women were unable to travel from Oak Ridge, Tenn., our
club could only interview them via Skype. It is because of the technical support
provided by Taras Harrington and the staff support of Librarian Ann Delaney and
Fendig Branch Manager Brian Mahoney that we were successful in conducting our
interview from Tampa.

Staff such as Taras, Ann and Brian make Hillsborough County's library system a
first-class operation in not only meeting but exceeding our community's needs
and interests.

Thank you for the support that Hillsborough County government extends to our
library facilities and library staff. They are worth their weight in gold!

Jacqueline Marie Dolphin

Tampa

Trash early start time

I woke out of a sound sleep. It was a Saturday morning. I looked at my clock,
and it was 5:45.

What woke me was the Waste Management trucks picking up our trash. Could you
imagine a company having their customer service representatives calling
customers at 6 a.m. on Saturdays?

Monday through Friday, starting at 6 a.m. is still extreme, but starting at 6
a.m. on a weekend is the epitome of terrible customer service.

I've learned some Hillsborough County officials signed a contract allowing this
to happen. This contract needs amended immediately - or maybe the Saturday
pickup can start in those county officials' neighborhoods!

Scott Ranck

Valrico

Is Microwave 101 next?

Regarding Helping students navigate the wilderness by Brett Burkey of Hernando
(Letter of the Day, March 23): How can a 30-year veteran of the Florida public
school system, a leading educator in his district and a trainer of teachers from
Pensacola to Miami make such remarks? Would the writer next mandate the
following topics and dumb down the education system some more? One-half credit
course on cooking, microwave use and food preparation; one-half credit course on
how to dress for the real world; one-half credit course on how to be honest, not
lie and cheat in real life; and one-half credit course on drug and alcohol use,
and responsibility. The list goes on and on.

Be real - no more mandates. A professional educator and trainer of teachers
should know personal finance is taught in numerous math classes.

I am a retired educator with 48 years of experience, with a master's degree in
education administration.

The complicated world of personal finance is quite simple: If you can't pay for
it, don't buy it. This should be a basic rule in the home of these most talented
students.

Eugene Baker

Port Richey

Don't snow us, Steve

Regarding Steve Otto's column on climate change (I won't be snowed on climate
change, Metro, April 2):

I was shocked and surprised to know he is an expert on climatology. I want to
thank him for his keen insight on the future of our fragile planet. You see, I
thought he was an expert on Cuban sandwiches and chili, never realizing he was a
scientist as well.

I think he ought to stick to judging chili contests and comparing recipes for
the best Cuban sandwiches in Tampa. Let's leave the science stuff to the
professionals.

Danielle A. Stutts

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 27, 2014 Sunday

A guide to life in the place we call home

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS; Tribune staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2114 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tampa pr entrepreneur Mary Lou Jansonis publishing a guide book for
people moving to the Tampa Bay area (not tourists) with practical information in
series by Floridea publisher Voyager Media Inc., which calls them"Moving to XXX
- The Untourist Guide."


Two Bay area women offer their insights on surviving and thriving a move to this
region

While the Tampa Bay area overall is appealing for its cost of living and
comfortable climate,  the trick for newcomers is deciding just which community
and neighborhood fits their interests and lifestyles.

Tampa author Mary Lou Janson hopes sharing her experience here will help.

When you get to really know a place for a long time, because you spent a lot of
time there and made a lot of friends there, there's a special sense of
satisfaction that comes from sharing what you can and what you know with others,
said Janson, who has penned a newly published guide to the area.

People interested in relocating to the Tampa Bay region have a pair of new
references for learning what it's like to live, work and play in the Tampa and
St. Petersburg areas, volumes intended for potential and recently arrived
newcomers that are gaining attention among local economic development officials.

Janson's Moving to Tampa: The Un-Tourist Guide and Moving to St. Petersburg: The
Un-Tourist Guide by Cindy Dobyns are available in Amazon Kindle, Nook and iBooks
e-book editions for $9.95.

The authors are working with local book outlets that might distribute 136-page
print copies that sell for $24.95 and are available online at
http://www.movingtotampaguide .com /buy-the-book-now/ and
http://www.movingtostpeteguide .com /buy-book-now/.

The premise for the guides by authors well versed in their areas is that
prospective or new residents could use a resource to evaluate a potential
relocation and better prepare for the myriad issues involved in a move.

The first volume in the series launched by Florida-based Voyager Media Inc.
covered Naples in 2013, followed by guides to Sarasota and Charlotte, N.C., then
the local re

leases in the past month. A guide to Austin, Texas, is due in July.

As frequent movers in years past, we always wished for a book that made it easy
to feel at home in a new town, said Newt Barrett, president and publisher of
Voyager Media.

The books provide insights and information including leading industries, cost of
living, history, annual events, places to shop and transportation options.

Janson is a University of Florida journalism graduate who has spent most of her
life in the Tampa Bay area.

The independent public relations specialist and writer who has assignments with
the Hillsborough County Hotel Motel Association, the Renaissance Tampa
International Plaza hotel and Pelagia Trattoria restaurant spent five years in
the late 1990s living and working in the San Francisco Bay Area.

When she returned from Berkeley, Calif., to Tampa, she found so much change that
familiar haunts were nearly beyond recognition.

It was a pivotal time for growth and development in Tampa, Janson said. The
Channel District was up and coming, roads and travel were changing. I'd walk to
the grocery and post office and in every way I'd see unfamiliar faces and
things.

That experience provided the basis for Janson to understand what it took to
acclimate one's self into a new community, the foundation for writing the book.

Dobyns, the St. Petersburg guide's author, founded AboveWater Public Relations
and Marketing in Naples, which serves  hospitality and travel industry clients
nationwide from offices in Naples, St. Petersburg and New Smyrna Beach.

The University of South Florida graduate grew up on Treasure Island and is
moving back with her husband, fulfilling long held plans after living in New
York, New Jersey, Washington, D.C., and Naples, where she promoted Voyager
Media's first volume.

It took her about four months to write the St. Petersburg guide. She found a
receptive audience for her book in the business community with Chris Steinocher,
president and chief executive officer of the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of
Commerce.

Chris told us many of the businesses that relocate to the area come because
owners vacation here and found they like it, Dobyns said. That dynamic
re-enforces the demand for the kinds of guides she and Janson have written.

Rick Homans, president and chief executive officer of the Tampa Hillsborough
Economic Development Corp., and Richard Gonzmart, president of the Columbia
Restaurant Group, are among contributors to the Tampa volume.

Collaboration between government and industry has resulted in effective
development practices, expedited permitting and a streamlined regulatory
process, Homans wrote. In the past two years alone, more than 50 companies have
selected Hillsborough County as the site of their relocation and expansion
activities, generating over 8,700 new jobs and $688 million in capital
investment.

Global market leaders, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Morgan Stanley, The
Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, Time Warner Business Services, USAA and
Amazon have expressed their confidence in our community by announcing plans for
significant, strategic growth.

The books show what it  takes to get around for work and recreation and how the
area compares in crime, medical access and other elements affecting everyday
life.

Their contents are heavier on positive attributes than challenges, but the Tampa
review includes comparisons on crime rates and notes current trends with serious
crime in decline as a favorable trend.

On the other hand, those who are accustomed to getting around without a car,
such as someone from Boston or Seattle, will find the area more difficult than
those places for mobility, although some hope transit could soon be in for a
transformation in Pinellas and Hillsborough counties.

Among the attributes Janson focused on in the Tampa area is what she believes is
a relatively underplayed asset - waterfront access and activities.

We don't have the beaches of Pinellas County, but one of the great things Tampa
has that's not realized is that more people are engaging in all sorts of
waterfront and water activity, she said.

Those range from paddle boarding to fishing to watching birds, she said.

Janson recalls years ago her father took her on an inflatable boat for a cruise
off Bayshore Boulevard, an adventure that remains fresh in her mind because
their craft sprung a leak, forcing them to paddle swiftly back to shore.

Nobody did that back then, she said. Now you see sailboats, all sorts of
activity. It's been a really great evolution in Tampa.

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7817

GUIDES, Page 8

While the Tampa Bay area overall is appealing for its cost of living and
comfortable climate,  the trick for newcomers is deciding just which community
and neighborhood fits their interests and lifestyles.

Tampa author Mary Lou Janson hopes sharing her experience here will help.

When you get to really know a place for a long time, because you spent a lot of
time there and made a lot of friends there, there's a special sense of
satisfaction that comes from sharing what you can and what you know with others,
said Janson, who has penned a newly published guide to the area.

People interested in relocating to the Tampa Bay region have a pair of new
references for learning what it's like to live, work and play in the Tampa and
St. Petersburg areas, volumes intended for potential and recently arrived
newcomers that are gaining attention among local economic development officials.

Janson's Moving to Tampa: The Un-Tourist Guide and Moving to St. Petersburg: The
Un-Tourist Guide by Cindy Dobyns are available in Amazon Kindle, Nook and iBooks
e-book editions for $9.95.

The authors are working with local book outlets that might distribute 136-page
print copies that sell for $24.95 and are available online at
http://www.movingtotampaguide .com /buy-the-book-now/ and
http://www.movingtostpeteguide .com /buy-book-now/.

The premise for the guides by authors well versed in their areas is that
prospective or new residents could use a resource to evaluate a potential
relocation and better prepare for the myriad issues involved in a move.

The first volume in the series launched by Florida-based Voyager Media Inc.
covered Naples in 2013, followed by guides to Sarasota and Charlotte, N.C., then
the local re

leases in the past month. A guide to Austin, Texas, is due in July.

As frequent movers in years past, we always wished for a book that made it easy
to feel at home in a new town, said Newt Barrett, president and publisher of
Voyager Media.

The books provide insights and information including leading industries, cost of
living, history, annual events, places to shop and transportation options.

Janson is a University of Florida journalism graduate who has spent most of her
life in the Tampa Bay area.

The independent public relations specialist and writer who has assignments with
the Hillsborough County Hotel Motel Association, the Renaissance Tampa
International Plaza hotel and Pelagia Trattoria restaurant spent five years in
the late 1990s living and working in the San Francisco Bay Area.

When she returned from Berkeley, Calif., to Tampa, she found so much change that
familiar haunts were nearly beyond recognition.

It was a pivotal time for growth and development in Tampa, Janson said. The
Channel District was up and coming, roads and travel were changing. I'd walk to
the grocery and post office and in every way I'd see unfamiliar faces and
things.

That experience provided the basis for Janson to understand what it took to
acclimate one's self into a new community, the foundation for writing the book.

Dobyns, the St. Petersburg guide's author, founded AboveWater Public Relations
and Marketing in Naples, which serves  hospitality and travel industry clients
nationwide from offices in Naples, St. Petersburg and New Smyrna Beach.

The University of South Florida graduate grew up on Treasure Island and is
moving back with her husband, fulfilling long held plans after living in New
York, New Jersey, Washington, D.C., and Naples, where she promoted Voyager
Media's first volume.

It took her about four months to write the St. Petersburg guide. She found a
receptive audience for her book in the business community with Chris Steinocher,
president and chief executive officer of the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of
Commerce.

Chris told us many of the businesses that relocate to the area come because
owners vacation here and found they like it, Dobyns said. That dynamic
re-enforces the demand for the kinds of guides she and Janson have written.

Rick Homans, president and chief executive officer of the Tampa Hillsborough
Economic Development Corp., and Richard Gonzmart, president of the Columbia
Restaurant Group, are among contributors to the Tampa volume.

Collaboration between government and industry has resulted in effective
development practices, expedited permitting and a streamlined regulatory
process, Homans wrote. In the past two years alone, more than 50 companies have
selected Hillsborough County as the site of their relocation and expansion
activities, generating over 8,700 new jobs and $688 million in capital
investment.

Global market leaders, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Morgan Stanley, The
Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, Time Warner Business Services, USAA and
Amazon have expressed their confidence in our community by announcing plans for
significant, strategic growth.

The books show what it  takes to get around for work and recreation and how the
area compares in crime, medical access and other elements affecting everyday
life.

Their contents are heavier on positive attributes than challenges, but the Tampa
review includes comparisons on crime rates and notes current trends with serious
crime in decline as a favorable trend.

On the other hand, those who are accustomed to getting around without a car,
such as someone from Boston or Seattle, will find the area more difficult than
those places for mobility, although some hope transit could soon be in for a
transformation in Pinellas and Hillsborough counties.

Among the attributes Janson focused on in the Tampa area is what she believes is
a relatively underplayed asset - waterfront access and activities.

We don't have the beaches of Pinellas County, but one of the great things Tampa
has that's not realized is that more people are engaging in all sorts of
waterfront and water activity, she said.

Those range from paddle boarding to fishing to watching birds, she said.

Janson recalls years ago her father took her on an inflatable boat for a cruise
off Bayshore Boulevard, an adventure that remains fresh in her mind because
their craft sprung a leak, forcing them to paddle swiftly back to shore.

Nobody did that back then, she said. Now you see sailboats, all sorts of
activity. It's been a really great evolution in Tampa.

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7817

Guides

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Scientists take Street View under the sea;
Images will go online to promote research, preservation

BYLINE: JENNIFER KAY; The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Business; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1253 words

DATELINE: ISLAMORADA, Fla.



HIGHLIGHT: Coral mapping


 - It's easy to go online and get a 360-degree, ground-level view of almost any
street in the United States and throughout the world. Soon, scientists hope
people will be able to do the same with coral reefs and other underwater
wonders.

U.S. government scientists were learning to use specialized fisheye lenses
underwater in the Florida Keys recently in hopes of applying street view mapping
to research and management plans in marine sanctuaries nationwide. Some of the
rotating and panoramic images were available online last week, including a
selection on Google Maps, giving the public a window into ecosystems still
difficult and costly to explore for long stretches of time.

It will be like scuba diving from your computer.

About 400,000 images have been produced so far of reefs off Australia and in the
Caribbean, but this is the first time the technology is being used in U.S.
waters.

The images in the U.S. will add scale and details to data that has already been
collected, and illustrate the successes and failures of coral restoration. They
will also help scientists study the effects of warming ocean temperatures,
pollution and hurricanes on reefs, officials said.

This allows people who can't get underwater to understand what we mean by
putting up a special preservation area around this particular spot, said
Mitchell Tartt, chief of the conservation science division at the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of National Marine Sanctuaries.

The basketball-shaped, triple-lens SVII cameras use the same technology that's
used to produce Google Street View images of neighborhoods

on land. Instead of being placed on top of a car, the 143-pound riggings are
tethered to scuba divers and powered through the water by small motors. Smaller
versions mounted on tripods also are being tested in the Keys this week.

In images previewed last Monday by project director Richard Vevers, endangered
elkhorn coral, bleached fields of dead coral and coral nurseries suspended like
hanging plants in the Keys' blue waters were in sharp focus as they rotated on
screen.

In an hourlong dive, each camera can capture images over an area up to 20 times
larger than what's available with traditional underwater photography equipment,
Vevers said. The technology also records GPS data and quickly stitches the
images together into panoramic views or 360-degree views.

The cameras and training in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary for six
NOAA officials are being paid for as part of a partnership with the Catlin
Seaview Survey, funded by the global insurance company Catlin. Google also is a
sponsor.

The images that have been produced so far from other Catlin surveys are being
uploaded online to the Catlin Global Reef Record. The project also moves next
into Southeast Asia, Vevers said.

While the main survey continues worldwide, the smaller cameras will be available
for targeted projects within NOAA sanctuaries, such as gauging the effectiveness
of preservation zones in California's Monterey Bay sanctuary, or they could help
measure the impacts of landslides that fall into the water.

The corporate sponsorship offers consistency in equipment, training and data,
Vevers said.

Catlin's sustainability director, John Carroll, would only say the cost was
fairly substantial.

The benefit to the Bermuda-based company also would be substantial, he said,
because there are a lot of insurable assets that depend on climate change.

Clearly as an insurance company, we're keen to help manage this risk because,
you know, that's our business, Carroll said.

You can view some of the images online at maps.google.com /oceans or via the
Catlin Seaview Survey, at http://catlinseaview survey.com / or
http://globalreefrecord.org/.

REEFS, Page 4

- It's easy to go online and get a 360-degree, ground-level view of almost any
street in the United States and throughout the world. Soon, scientists hope
people will be able to do the same with coral reefs and other underwater
wonders.

U.S. government scientists were learning to use specialized fisheye lenses
underwater in the Florida Keys recently in hopes of applying street view mapping
to research and management plans in marine sanctuaries nationwide. Some of the
rotating and panoramic images were available online last week, including a
selection on Google Maps, giving the public a window into ecosystems still
difficult and costly to explore for long stretches of time.

It will be like scuba diving from your computer.

About 400,000 images have been produced so far of reefs off Australia and in the
Caribbean, but this is the first time the technology is being used in U.S.
waters.

The images in the U.S. will add scale and details to data that has already been
collected, and illustrate the successes and failures of coral restoration. They
will also help scientists study the effects of warming ocean temperatures,
pollution and hurricanes on reefs, officials said.

This allows people who can't get underwater to understand what we mean by
putting up a special preservation area around this particular spot, said
Mitchell Tartt, chief of the conservation science division at the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of National Marine Sanctuaries.

The basketball-shaped, triple-lens SVII cameras use the same technology that's
used to produce Google Street View images of neighborhoods

on land. Instead of being placed on top of a car, the 143-pound riggings are
tethered to scuba divers and powered through the water by small motors. Smaller
versions mounted on tripods also are being tested in the Keys this week.

In images previewed last Monday by project director Richard Vevers, endangered
elkhorn coral, bleached fields of dead coral and coral nurseries suspended like
hanging plants in the Keys' blue waters were in sharp focus as they rotated on
screen.

In an hourlong dive, each camera can capture images over an area up to 20 times
larger than what's available with traditional underwater photography equipment,
Vevers said. The technology also records GPS data and quickly stitches the
images together into panoramic views or 360-degree views.

The cameras and training in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary for six
NOAA officials are being paid for as part of a partnership with the Catlin
Seaview Survey, funded by the global insurance company Catlin. Google also is a
sponsor.

The images that have been produced so far from other Catlin surveys are being
uploaded online to the Catlin Global Reef Record. The project also moves next
into Southeast Asia, Vevers said.

While the main survey continues worldwide, the smaller cameras will be available
for targeted projects within NOAA sanctuaries, such as gauging the effectiveness
of preservation zones in California's Monterey Bay sanctuary, or they could help
measure the impacts of landslides that fall into the water.

The corporate sponsorship offers consistency in equipment, training and data,
Vevers said.

Catlin's sustainability director, John Carroll, would only say the cost was
fairly substantial.

The benefit to the Bermuda-based company also would be substantial, he said,
because there are a lot of insurable assets that depend on climate change.

Clearly as an insurance company, we're keen to help manage this risk because,
you know, that's our business, Carroll said.

You can view some of the images online at maps.google.com /oceans or via the
Catlin Seaview Survey, at http://catlinseaview survey.com / or
http://globalreefrecord.org/.

Reefs

From Page 3

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Billionaire's spin can't fool Americans

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1310 words



HIGHLIGHT: Douglas MacKinnon column for Thursday


For the last few years, the blood sport for the leadership of the Democrat
Party, much of the mainstream media and a never-ending procession of wealthy
liberal activists has been the character assassination of the Koch brothers.
They have beaten that drum for so long and with such irrational anger that its
sound has become nothing more than white noise for most of the voting public.

Ironically, one of those who has joined in this symphony of vilification against
the billionaire Koch brothers is a fellow billionaire from California who made
his massive wealth as the head of a hedge fund. Tom Steyer was the founder and
managing partner of Farallon Capital Management and took about $1.8 billion with
him when he left the company to become a warrior against global warming. Not
surprisingly, Steyer's company made a great deal of its money from coal mines
and fossil fuels he now rages against.

No matter. Like many on the left, Steyer is happy to tell the unwashed masses to
do as I say and not as I do. In fact, the billionaire who grew up in wealth and
went to elite boarding schools recently proclaimed that 99.5 percent of the
American people were not sophisticated enough to understand the issue of climate
change. How regal and condescending of him.

Now armed with massive wealth, Steyer has made it his mission to punish those
who dare believe that science is never closed and who dare to use common sense
when evaluating the ever-escalating and demonstrably false warnings of global
warming. In this quest, he has convinced a gullible and compliant media that he
is going to spend $100 million of his own money attacking politicians and people
who disagree with him and his other mansion-dwelling, jet-setting green
plutocrats.

When all is said and done, he will spend much less than that to become the
darling of those on the left and in the media who fail to do their own homework
on him or his campaigns. One of which,

of course, is taking place right here in Florida.

Steyer likes to play six degrees of Kevin Bacon when attacking politicians,
whether it's Gov. Rick Scott in Florida or Republicans in other states. He takes
tenuous and innocent connections or friendships and then invents the needed
series of sinister dots to create something controversial. His habit of doing
this all around the nation has caused even liberal media outlets like The
Washington Post, Politico and NBC to call his tactics bizarre, weird and
outright false and to even reject the ads and the revenue they would have
brought.

Sadly for Steyer, not only are some of his admirers in the media not buying it,
but the hardworking Americans who find the time to focus on his green hysterics
are not buying it either. While, as one of the leading liberal elites in the
country, he may think little of the intelligence of those not in his circle of
wealth, the American people - be they in Florida or elsewhere - are plenty smart
enough to understand when they are being spun like a top.

As mentioned, aside from going after Scott in Florida, he also has gone after
the Koch brothers for daring to question the religion of global warming.
Steyer's strong-arm tactics aside, if actually giving back to the country and
truly contributing as a corporate neighbor is a yardstick, then he comes up
embarrassingly short next to the Koch brothers. For instance, his former hedge
fund employs less than 200 people. The Koch companies employ more than 60,000
Americans while supporting more than 140,000 other jobs and generating $11
billion in compensation and benefits. Beyond that, Steyer has pledged to spend
that $100 million while the Koch brothers have actually donated hundreds of
millions to education and charity. The liberal sizzle versus creating real
value.

Hopefully, after November when more and more of his chosen candidates lose,
Steyer will go back to San Francisco and let Floridians and others run their own
states.

MACKINNON, Page 6

For the last few years, the blood sport for the leadership of the Democrat
Party, much of the mainstream media and a never-ending procession of wealthy
liberal activists has been the character assassination of the Koch brothers.
They have beaten that drum for so long and with such irrational anger that its
sound has become nothing more than white noise for most of the voting public.

Ironically, one of those who has joined in this symphony of vilification against
the billionaire Koch brothers is a fellow billionaire from California who made
his massive wealth as the head of a hedge fund. Tom Steyer was the founder and
managing partner of Farallon Capital Management and took about $1.8 billion with
him when he left the company to become a warrior against global warming. Not
surprisingly, Steyer's company made a great deal of its money from coal mines
and fossil fuels he now rages against.

No matter. Like many on the left, Steyer is happy to tell the unwashed masses to
do as I say and not as I do. In fact, the billionaire who grew up in wealth and
went to elite boarding schools recently proclaimed that 99.5 percent of the
American people were not sophisticated enough to understand the issue of climate
change. How regal and condescending of him.

Now armed with massive wealth, Steyer has made it his mission to punish those
who dare believe that science is never closed and who dare to use common sense
when evaluating the ever-escalating and demonstrably false warnings of global
warming. In this quest, he has convinced a gullible and compliant media that he
is going to spend $100 million of his own money attacking politicians and people
who disagree with him and his other mansion-dwelling, jet-setting green
plutocrats.

When all is said and done, he will spend much less than that to become the
darling of those on the left and in the media who fail to do their own homework
on him or his campaigns. One of which,

of course, is taking place right here in Florida.

Steyer likes to play six degrees of Kevin Bacon when attacking politicians,
whether it's Gov. Rick Scott in Florida or Republicans in other states. He takes
tenuous and innocent connections or friendships and then invents the needed
series of sinister dots to create something controversial. His habit of doing
this all around the nation has caused even liberal media outlets like The
Washington Post, Politico and NBC to call his tactics bizarre, weird and
outright false and to even reject the ads and the revenue they would have
brought.

Sadly for Steyer, not only are some of his admirers in the media not buying it,
but the hardworking Americans who find the time to focus on his green hysterics
are not buying it either. While, as one of the leading liberal elites in the
country, he may think little of the intelligence of those not in his circle of
wealth, the American people - be they in Florida or elsewhere - are plenty smart
enough to understand when they are being spun like a top.

As mentioned, aside from going after Scott in Florida, he also has gone after
the Koch brothers for daring to question the religion of global warming.
Steyer's strong-arm tactics aside, if actually giving back to the country and
truly contributing as a corporate neighbor is a yardstick, then he comes up
embarrassingly short next to the Koch brothers. For instance, his former hedge
fund employs less than 200 people. The Koch companies employ more than 60,000
Americans while supporting more than 140,000 other jobs and generating $11
billion in compensation and benefits. Beyond that, Steyer has pledged to spend
that $100 million while the Koch brothers have actually donated hundreds of
millions to education and charity. The liberal sizzle versus creating real
value.

Hopefully, after November when more and more of his chosen candidates lose,
Steyer will go back to San Francisco and let Floridians and others run their own
states.

MacKinnon

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 5, 2014 Sunday

Crist proved he's willing to make tough choices

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1565 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson column on Charlie Crist's accomplishments during his term
as governor


The worldwide economy was in free fall in early 2009, and Florida was among the
places hardest hit.

Jobs were disappearing. The housing market had collapsed, eroding property
values throughout the state. That led to much lower revenue from property taxes,
forcing government to slash services. The Sunshine State's future looked dark.

That's when Gov. Charlie Crist bucked his Republican colleagues and joined 18
other governors signing a letter of support for the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act, better known as the $787 billion stimulus package championed
by President Barack Obama.

Crist put an exclamation mark on his support by hugging Obama at a rally in Fort
Myers. Republicans have never let him live it down, especially now that he is
running for governor again, as a Democrat.

For all the ideological controversy it caused, Crist insists accepting stimulus
money helped save or create about 87,000 jobs in Florida and contributed to the

rebounding economy we see now.

It's not about being ideological to me. It's about making sure we get through a
rough patch, Crist said during a recent meeting with The Tampa Tribune editorial
board.

You can make the argument that accepting stimulus money was both Crist's finest
and worst hour during his one term as governor - finest, because of the effect
it had on the state; worst, because instead of embracing his action during an
ill-fated campaign for the U.S. Senate, he tried to distance himself from the
move.

That's the conundrum of Charlie Crist, his tendency to have to eat his words.
Opponents say he flip-flops; he says his positions evolve.

The record shows that as governor, he was willing to break from the ideological
pack when necessary - sometimes to the great consternation of his party. He said
he made tough choices because he thought they were right for the majority of
Florida residents.

For our purposes here, we'll focus on his accomplishments as voters consider
whether to return him to Tallahassee.

PUBLIC SCHOOL FUNDING: In 2006, Crist's first budget as governor included large
increases in public school funding. He later had to make cuts there when the
economy tanked, but Crist favored smaller class sizes and vetoed merit-based pay
for teachers based on standardized tests.

He has supported school choice and charter schools and long has advocated for
higher pay for teachers.

RACE RELATIONS: Crist was once called Florida's first black governor by
Jacksonville Democrat Terry Fields, and Crist showed his support for
African-Americans again during the contentious 2008 presidential election.

After seeing long lines at polling precincts in many minority precincts, Crist
signed an executive order extending early voting hours. It infuriated many in
his party and may have helped deliver Florida to Obama.

CRIME: As Florida's attorney general, Crist launched the cybercrime unit in 2005
as a strike against predators who target children. He consistently favored
tougher sentencing for violent criminals, including measures that required them
to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.

He also led the move to restore the rights of nonviolent felons after they had
completed their sentences and made restitution.

ENVIRONMENT: Crist long has been a champion of the environment. In 2007, he
budgeted $100 million for Everglades restoration and millions more for cleanup
of the St. Lucie and Caloosahatchee rivers, plus $50 million for Lake
Okeechobee.

A year later, he fashioned a $200 million energy package for solar, wind and
biofuel. He also was one of the earliest proponents of measures to combat
climate change.

GUN CONTROL: Crist consistently has supported Second Amendment rights and
resisted any effort to curb legal gun ownership.

CIVIL RIGHTS: In 2006, he announced support for civil unions, although he was
opposed to same-sex marriage as governor. He has changed that position and
favors repealing prohibitions on gay marriage.

TRANSPARENCY: Shortly before he took office in 2006, Crist established the
office of open government and ordered that state workers be trained in how to
better and more quickly respond to open records requests and the Florida
Government-in-the-Sunshine Law.

Respecting the public trust that is bestowed upon all of us who serve the people
of Florida is a top priority for me and for my administration, Crist said.

He said he will take the same approach if elected this time.

So add it up. His record shows a willingness to break from the herd when
necessary and make decisions that rankle hard-line supporters. He is
conservative on some things, liberal on others, and critics call that
inconsistent. It's actually more moderate.

How has that come to be a bad thing?

HENDERSON, Page 14

The worldwide economy was in free fall in early 2009, and Florida was among the
places hardest hit.

Jobs were disappearing. The housing market had collapsed, eroding property
values throughout the state. That led to much lower revenue from property taxes,
forcing government to slash services. The Sunshine State's future looked dark.

That's when Gov. Charlie Crist bucked his Republican colleagues and joined 18
other governors signing a letter of support for the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act, better known as the $787 billion stimulus package championed
by President Barack Obama.

Crist put an exclamation mark on his support by hugging Obama at a rally in Fort
Myers. Republicans have never let him live it down, especially now that he is
running for governor again, as a Democrat.

For all the ideological controversy it caused, Crist insists accepting stimulus
money helped save or create about 87,000 jobs in Florida and contributed to the

rebounding economy we see now.

It's not about being ideological to me. It's about making sure we get through a
rough patch, Crist said during a recent meeting with The Tampa Tribune editorial
board.

You can make the argument that accepting stimulus money was both Crist's finest
and worst hour during his one term as governor - finest, because of the effect
it had on the state; worst, because instead of embracing his action during an
ill-fated campaign for the U.S. Senate, he tried to distance himself from the
move.

That's the conundrum of Charlie Crist, his tendency to have to eat his words.
Opponents say he flip-flops; he says his positions evolve.

The record shows that as governor, he was willing to break from the ideological
pack when necessary - sometimes to the great consternation of his party. He said
he made tough choices because he thought they were right for the majority of
Florida residents.

For our purposes here, we'll focus on his accomplishments as voters consider
whether to return him to Tallahassee.

PUBLIC SCHOOL FUNDING: In 2006, Crist's first budget as governor included large
increases in public school funding. He later had to make cuts there when the
economy tanked, but Crist favored smaller class sizes and vetoed merit-based pay
for teachers based on standardized tests.

He has supported school choice and charter schools and long has advocated for
higher pay for teachers.

RACE RELATIONS: Crist was once called Florida's first black governor by
Jacksonville Democrat Terry Fields, and Crist showed his support for
African-Americans again during the contentious 2008 presidential election.

After seeing long lines at polling precincts in many minority precincts, Crist
signed an executive order extending early voting hours. It infuriated many in
his party and may have helped deliver Florida to Obama.

CRIME: As Florida's attorney general, Crist launched the cybercrime unit in 2005
as a strike against predators who target children. He consistently favored
tougher sentencing for violent criminals, including measures that required them
to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.

He also led the move to restore the rights of nonviolent felons after they had
completed their sentences and made restitution.

ENVIRONMENT: Crist long has been a champion of the environment. In 2007, he
budgeted $100 million for Everglades restoration and millions more for cleanup
of the St. Lucie and Caloosahatchee rivers, plus $50 million for Lake
Okeechobee.

A year later, he fashioned a $200 million energy package for solar, wind and
biofuel. He also was one of the earliest proponents of measures to combat
climate change.

GUN CONTROL: Crist consistently has supported Second Amendment rights and
resisted any effort to curb legal gun ownership.

CIVIL RIGHTS: In 2006, he announced support for civil unions, although he was
opposed to same-sex marriage as governor. He has changed that position and
favors repealing prohibitions on gay marriage.

TRANSPARENCY: Shortly before he took office in 2006, Crist established the
office of open government and ordered that state workers be trained in how to
better and more quickly respond to open records requests and the Florida
Government-in-the-Sunshine Law.

Respecting the public trust that is bestowed upon all of us who serve the people
of Florida is a top priority for me and for my administration, Crist said.

He said he will take the same approach if elected this time.

So add it up. His record shows a willingness to break from the herd when
necessary and make decisions that rankle hard-line supporters. He is
conservative on some things, liberal on others, and critics call that
inconsistent. It's actually more moderate.

How has that come to be a bad thing?

Henderson

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 189 words



HIGHLIGHT: emissions check


Some of President Obama's unilateral actions may raise legitimate concerns, even
for those who believe this Congress is noxiously unproductive. But his demand
that cars and trucks use less fuel raises no such question. The president's plan
rests on a rock-solid legal foundation. It's also the right thing to do while
lawmakers dither on climate change.

Last week Obama said his administration would use the powers it has under
various laws to press for tougher efficiency standards for heavy trucks. A
relatively small number of these massive vehicles produce about a quarter of the
transportation sector's greenhouse gas emissions, according to the White House.
That doesn't mean truckers are particular climate villains; the country depends
on them to bring 70 percent of the nation's freight tonnage to market, and big
trailers use a lot of fuel. But if they can reduce fuel consumption and
emissions at little or no cost, they should.

That's where the Obama administration is stepping in. Many truck upgrades will
pay for themselves over time in saved fuel. As the administration hashes out its
regulations, flexibility will be needed.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

U.S. ready for any weather

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: SAO PAULO



HIGHLIGHT: Wire copy


- While some World Cup teams whine about withering weather and troublesome
travel, American players say: Bring it on!

European teams worry they will wilt. The United States considers cauldron-like
climates a regular finishing touch, as if the Americans were a Baked Alaska
flambé.

And if FIFA added a Road Warrior prize to the Golden Ball, Golden Boot and
Golden Glove, the U.S. would be assured of an award.

When you talk about playing in the heat, the travel, it doesn't bother us,
midfielder Michael Bradley said Tuesday. And not only does it not bother us, it
excites us to see that now the other teams are so worried about it.

The Americans have the lengthiest first-round trek among the 32 teams at 8,800
air miles, chartering round-trip flights from Sao Paulo to Natal (1,420 each
way), Manaus (1,680) and Recife (1,300).

That's quite a contrast to four years ago, where the U.S. had the shortest
group-stage travel in South Africa. To reach their games, the Americans took bus
rides from Irene to Rustenburg (62 miles each way), Johannesburg (24) and
Pretoria (11) for a total of 194 miles.

This year they'll change cities and climates repeatedly. Tuesday's training
session at Sao Paulo Futebol Club started in a 62-degree temperature with a
cooling drizzle, but the Americans' games up north figure to be played in the
mid-80s or higher. And extreme humidity could make each stadium feel like a
sauna.

It's going to be incredibly humid and hot, Germany coach Joachim Loew said. We
must get used to it, in training and preparing.

While the heat might be unfamiliar for natives of Munich and Mannheim, it's
rather routine for the red, white and blue.

I lived 41/2 years in Houston, and that's 100 degrees every single day with
humidity plus, defender Geoff Cameron said, so if you can survive that, you can
survive anything.

You want to make sure that you're hydrated, U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann said.
You want to make sure that you're not cramping up.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Carbon tax can appeal to both sides

BYLINE: Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 679 words



HIGHLIGHT: carbon tax


The best way to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases is to put a tax on carbon.
Almost all economists would agree. Yet there's even wider agreement, and not
just among economists, that a carbon tax can't happen. In the United States,
it's assumed, the idea will always be unpopular.

In case you're wondering, why would a carbon tax be so much better than
quantitative emissions controls like the ones just proposed by the Environmental
Protection Agency? Because it allows the greatest possible flexibility in
meeting any given target for lower emissions.

Unlike caps on emissions from cars or power plants, say, or subsidies for this
or that form of clean energy, a tax lets market forces organize the economy's
response. This ensures that emissions are cut where it's easiest and cheapest to
cut them.

To be fair, the EPA's recent proposals follow this thinking as far as possible.
The target of cutting power-plant emissions of carbon dioxide by 20 percent
between 2005 and 2020, and 30 percent between 2005 and 2030, allows for a
variety of approaches. Within a single sector of the economy - electrical power
- the aim is to mimic the advantages of a carbon tax. State and regional
cap-and-trade systems, operating across the economy as a whole, move closer
still to the carbon-tax model. But why struggle to mimic the desirable
properties of a carbon tax, with all the complications this entails, if you can
simply have a carbon tax?

The standard answer is politics.

The EPA can regulate power-plant emissions without new legislation, whereas a
carbon tax requires Congress to act. The need to build political support is a
formidable obstacle but not an insuperable one.

Granted, some Republicans oppose a carbon tax merely because it recognizes
climate change as a problem requiring action. There's nothing one can do to
persuade that group. Many more Republicans oppose a carbon tax - even one offset
by tax cuts elsewhere - simply because it is a new tax.

Among this latter group, at least, the argument can be recast: The idea is not
so much to impose a new tax as it is to reduce government intervention in the
economy.

Instead of listing all the fine things a carbon tax could buy - some tax cuts
here, a bit of budget-deficit reduction there, and plenty left over for
additional spending on infrastructure and other good things - advocates of such
a tax should simply offer to give back all the revenue in the form of tax cuts
elsewhere.

It's a worthwhile trade because a tax is by far the best way to reduce carbon
emissions, which again is the whole point of this exercise. Consider a modest
tax of $16 a ton of carbon dioxide, rising at 4 percent a year above inflation.
It would reduce power-sector emissions by more than the EPA proposals for the
energy sector would and curb emissions across the rest of the economy as well.

A $16-a-ton tax would also add about 16 cents to the price of a gallon of
gasoline and raise household energy costs by 5 percent to 20 percent, depending
on the source. Such costs - to families and businesses, of course, because what
politician in his right mind wants to impose a new tax on families and
businesses? - are most often cited by opponents of the tax.

The answer is twofold. Yes, families and businesses would be paying a new tax.
But no, families and businesses would not be paying more tax.

The new carbon tax would raise about $1 trillion over 10 years and almost $3
trillion over 20 - a handy sum. That would be enough to send every U.S. resident
a check for about $300 in the first year (with bigger checks to follow) or
$1,200 for a family of four.

It would be more than enough to cut the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35
percent, for instance, or take a bite out of payroll taxes, or some of both.

This would inevitably lead to an argument over which taxes to cut. At which
point, admittedly, the debate could bog down all over again. But at least it
would be framed by a shared assumption: that a carbon tax is good policy. It
gets liberals a more effective climate policy, and Republicans a less intrusive
government.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Obama to expand Pacific marine park;
Move protects millions of sea life near remote isles

BYLINE: JOSH LEDERMAN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


- President Barack Obama is carving out a wide swath of the Pacific Ocean for an
expanded marine preserve, putting the waters off-limits to drilling and most
fishing in a bid to protect fragile underwater life.

The revamped expanded Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument will cover
490,000 square miles, an area roughly three times the size of California, and
will become the largest marine preserve in the world. The boundaries now extend
50 nautical miles from Howland, Baker, and Jarvis islands; Johnston, Wake, and
Palmyra atolls; and Kingman Reef.

Millions of seabirds, sea turtles and marine mammals live in the expanse
included by the new monument, which will also add new protections for more than
130 seamounts, underwater mountains where rare or undiscovered species are
frequently found.

The move to broaden the preserve created by President George W. Bush comes as
Obama seeks to show concrete presidential action to protect the environment,
despite firm opposition in Congress to new environmental legislation. At the
United Nations this week, Obama announced new U.S. commitments to help other
nations deal with the effects of climate change, as world leaders seek to
galvanize support for a major global climate treaty to be finalized next year in
Paris.

Obama will sign a memorandum expanding the ocean preserve today, said White
House officials, who requested anonymity. The memorandum bans commercial
fishing, deep-sea mining and other extraction of underwater resources,  but
recreational fishing  is allowed.

Although a major symbolic victory for environmentalists, who long urged Obama to
take this step, the designation will have limited practical implications because
little fishing or drilling are taking place in the region even without the new
protections.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

U.S.' fastest-warming spots are Northeast, Southwest;
Data show varying temperature shifts since 1984

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Where has global warming baked the most in US since 1984? Maine,
Vermont, New Mexico, Texas


The United States is warming fastest at two of its corners, in the Northeast and
the Southwest, an analysis of federal temperature records shows.

Northeastern states - led by Maine and Vermont - have gotten the hottest in the
past 30 years in annual temperature, gaining 2.5 degrees on average. But
Southwestern states have heated up the most in the hottest months: The average
New Mexico summer is 3.4 degrees warmer now than in 1984; in Texas, the dog days
are 2.8 degrees hotter.

The contiguous United States' annual average temperature has warmed by 1.2
degrees since 1984, with summers getting 1.6 degrees hotter. But that doesn't
really tell you how hot it's gotten for most Americans. Though man-made
greenhouse gases warm the world as a whole, weather is supremely local. Some
areas have gotten hotter than others because of atmospheric factors and
randomness, climate scientists say.

In the United States, it isn't warming equally, said Kelly Redmond,
climatologist at the Western Regional Climate Center in Reno, Nevada. Be careful
about extrapolating from your own backyard to the globe.

For example, while people in the East and Midwest were complaining about a cold
winter this year, Redmond's Nevada and neighboring California were having some
of their warmest winter months ever.

To determine what parts of the country have warmed the most, The Associated
Press analyzed National Climatic Data Center temperature trends in the lower 48
states, 192 cities and 344 smaller regions within the states. Climate scientists
suggested 1984 as a starting date because 30 years is a commonly used time
period and 1984, which had an average temperature, is not a year cherry-picked
to skew a trend either way. The trend was calculated by the NCDC using the least
squares regression method, which is a standard statistical tool.

All but one of the lower 48 states have warmed since 1984. North Dakota is the
lone outlier; it cooled slightly. Ten states - Maine, Vermont, New Jersey,
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Delaware, New Mexico, Connecticut
and New York - have gotten at least 2 degrees warmer in the past 30 years.

Since 1984, 92 percent of the more than 500 cities and smaller regions within
states have warmed and nearly two-thirds of them have warmed by at least a
degree. The regions that have warmed the most have been New York's St. Lawrence
Valley, northeastern Vermont, northern Maine, the northeastern plains of New
Mexico and western Vermont, all of which have warmed by more than 2.5 degrees.

Cities - where data is a tad more suspect because they are based on a single
weather station and readings can be affected by urban heating and development -
see the greatest variation. Carson City, Nevada, and Boise, Idaho, are the
cities that have seen the most warming - both year-round and in summer - since
1984. Both cities' average annual temperatures have jumped more than 4 degrees
in just 30 years, while Dickinson, North Dakota, has dropped the most, a bit
more than 2 degrees.

The Southeast and Northwest were among places that warmed the least.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

U.S. business leaders assess Cuba climate;
Chamber of Commerce delegation talks to island's new entrepreneurs

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: HAVANA



HIGHLIGHT: US business leaders tour auto co-op, chat with small business owners
on rare Cuba mission


 - The head of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce toured an auto repair cooperative
and talked with newly minted private entrepreneurs Wednesday as part of the
first American trade mission of its kind to Cuba in 15 years.

Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue led a baker's dozen of U.S. business
figures to assess the island's changed business climate under economic reforms
that have included an expansion of the tiny private sector, the decentralization
of state-run enterprises and a drive to lure badly needed foreign investment.

We're very pleased to be here, Donohue said. We're learning a lot about the
changes taking place in Cuba.

Washington and Havana have not had formal diplomatic relations since the early
1960s, and the United States maintains a 52-year-old trade embargo against the
Communist-run country.

Cuba buys some U.S. food and agricultural goods under an exception to the
sanctions but in recent years has turned to other countries that don't require
cash up front.

From a high of $962 million in 2008, U.S. sales to the island fell to $509
million in 2012.

Cuba's calculation is believed to be higher than the simple dollar value of the
imports, apparently factoring in embargo-related losses due to unfavorable
credit terms, currency exchanges and shipping complications.

Chamber officials said the goal of the trip was to explore not only trade
possibilities allowed under the current rules but also opportunities in a
post-embargo future.

At the Havana auto body shop, which 10 months ago was converted from a state-run
business to an autonomous cooperative, masked workers sanded cars to prepare
them for paint jobs as the visitors got a guided tour.

This new model of association gives you the freedom of self-management, which
allows us to do more and make decisions about our resources, co-op President
Marcelo Gonzalez said. Productivity has greatly increased.

Cuban officials say cooperatives are a key element of their drive to boost
efficiency without abandoning the socialist principles that have guided the
economy for more than a half-century.

About 450 nonagricultural cooperatives are currently in operation and some
455,000 Cubans own or are employed by private small businesses, according to
government figures.

Donohue, who has been president of the chamber since 1997 and last visited the
island in 1999, said today's Cuba is fundamentally different in terms of the
number of people that are operating under the private system ... not working for
the government.

The trip was criticized by some back home including Sen. Robert Menendez, a
Cuban-American Democrat from New Jersey who sent a letter to the chamber
expressing concerns about strengthening trade ties to Cuba.

He alleged that several foreign businesspeople jailed alongside dozens of
islanders as part of a crackdown on corruption were imprisoned without
justification, and accused Havana of violating international labor standards and
oppressing fundamental human rights.

Such conditions hardly seem an attractive opportunity for any responsible
business leader, Menendez said.

The delegation includes executives from Minnesota agribusiness giant Cargill and
Alticor, the Michigan-based parent of the direct-sales business Amway.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Cuba's Raul Castro calls for integration free of U.S.;
Summit seeks to unite Latin America, islands

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


- Cuban President Raul Castro called on Latin American and Caribbean leaders
Tuesday to work together on pressing regional problems at a gathering of all
Western Hemisphere nations except the United States and Canada.

In his keynote speech as head of the host nation for the summit of the Community
of Latin American and Caribbean States, or CELAC for its initials in Spanish,
Castro argued that the bloc should aspire to unity despite diversity, describing
it as the legitimate representative of the interests of Latin America and the
Caribbean.

We should establish a new regional and international cooperation paradigm,
Castro said. In the context of CELAC, we have the possibility to create a model
of our own making, adapted to our realities, based on the principles of mutual
benefit.

The summit's main theme is fighting poverty, inequality and hunger. According to
the United Nation's Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, 28
percent of the region's inhabitants live in poverty and 11 percent in extreme
poverty.

While it is true that some progress has been made during the last few years,
this has been slow, fragmented and unstable, Castro said.

Tuesday's session of heads of CELAC states began with one minute of silence to
remember the late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who succumbed to cancer last
March.

Chavez, an outspoken U.S. foe, was a driving force behind CELAC's creation in
2011. It was conceived as an alternative to the Washington-based Organization of
American States, which suspended Cuba's membership in 1962 shortly after Fidel
Castro's revolution.

Proponents argued that the OAS has historically served Washington's interests
rather than those of the region, and even Latin American allies of the United
States have participated enthusiastically in CELAC.

OAS Secretary-General Jose Miguel Insulza attended the summit Tuesday as an
observer, believed to be the first visit by a secretary-general to Cuba since
its founding in 1948.

In his wide-ranging speech, Castro touched on the risk that global climate
change poses to the region, especially low-lying Caribbean islands. He expressed
solidarity for Argentina's claim to the British-controlled Falkland Islands; for
Puerto Rican independence; and for Ecuador in its legal battle with U.S. oil
company Chevron.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 795 words



HIGHLIGHT: thurs letters


'Heavenly judge'

Regarding Welden gets 13 years in abortion pill case (front page, Jan. 28): What
John Andrew Welden did was wrong, but we must remember this: Our government
allows these types of drugs to be offered to most women over the counter for
them to lose their embryo.

The scene that happened in this federal courtroom is going to be repeated,
unfortunately many times, in front of our heavenly judge, but it will involve
all who are involved in or who allowed these attacks on God's little ones.

Dale Kimball

Lutz

Goodbye, AARP

Regarding Doctors tossed from Medicare Advantage plans (front page, Jan. 27):
It's interesting that UnitedHealthcare is dropping thousands of doctors from its
networks due to Obamacare. This is the company that is endorsed by AARP, the
organization that pushed very hard to get Obamacare passed and that told us
seniors we would be better off with Obamacare enacted into law.

Sure glad I dropped AARP back in 2010.

Alan Kent

Sebring

Don't glorify money

It grieves me to see the Tribune continue to reinforce the money-equals-election
formula that has so unfortunately come to dominate our political landscape
(Shimberg tops in contributions, Metro, Jan. 26). By focusing on the big
money-raisers, the Tribune provides them free advertising, enhancing their
chance for election. This is most obvious in District 2, where Michael Weston
and Sally Harris each rate one sentence (neither of their own comment), while
the wealthy Shimberg earns eight paragraphs (several of her own electioneering
content).

Forget that Weston and Harris each have real education backgrounds. They are not
in front of the money, so the Tribune is not interested. Forget that Weston and
Harris will be funding campaigns with small contributions from real people while
a great portion of Shimberg's treasure chest comes from corporations.

The Tribune does this community a great disservice by providing free campaign
advertising to the richest candidates. You should cover campaigns first by
candidate positions; money raised should be a distant last. Stop helping that it
be about the money.

Elections should not be purchased.

Don Lamison

Tampa

Judge by character

I was disappointed to see the article in Sunday's Tribune once again erroneously
equate the candidate who collected the most money to the candidate who is best
qualified to serve the people of Hillsborough County. I know for a fact that I
am more dimensional than funds raised, and I am thinking the other candidates
feel the same way.

Your article seems to give greater value to one's ability to raise funds from
their political and business connections rather than actually covering what the
candidates will bring to the position to best serve and lead the people of
Hillsborough County. I would hope that the Tribune would better judge the
candidates by the content of their character, experiences and work ethic rather
than the content of their campaign bank account.

First, it pains me to ask people for money. I know there are a lot of people
working hard to cover the cost of raising a family in these difficult times.
Second, I am a grassroots candidate.

Who here is satisfied with the political climate locally and nationally? Maybe
it is time we judge our candidates by the content of their character and
experiences and not by how much money they can raise. For example, according to
your logic Charles Brink is going to best serve our students, teachers, and
parents, because he has loaned himself $65,000. He has the most money. He wins.
The voters need not show up and vote.

I was taught that our government is by the people, for the people and not who
has the most money wins. Good government starts in our own backyards with
well-informed voters, so let us work on well-informing the voters.

It is important to not short-change the other candidates who are working hard
and sacrificing their personal time and finances to create the Hillsborough
County we will all be proud of.

Dee Prether

Valrico

The writer is a candidate for the Hillsborough County School Board, District 4.

Shot for being rude?

I had to read Sandra Lowe's letter in Monday's Tribune four times to convince
myself I wasn't imagining things (Movie missiles and rudeness, Your Views).

Is she really trying to justify the gunning down of a Gulf War vet because he
was rude? Lowe says people are tired of dealing with people who have no manners.
She goes as far as to imply the Gulf War vet deserved to be shot, and that if
this causes people to stop being rude, it is somehow a good thing.

I wonder if Lowe would think the same thing if one of her children or other
family members were gunned down for texting.

Would she have the nerve to look at a young widow and 3-year-old child and say,
Well, he asked for it?

John Mcgourty

Seffner

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Kerry asked to help raze Chinese firewall;
Internet censorship is effort to squash freedom of expression, bloggers say

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


Leading Chinese bloggers asked Secretary of State John F. Kerry on Saturday to
put more pressure on their government to ease mounting restrictions on freedom
of expression and Internet use and to help tear down the Great Firewall of
China, as the system of censorship here is known.

Reporter and blogger Zhang Jialong complained that U.S. companies were complicit
in maintaining Internet restrictions in China and asked Kerry to do more for
Chinese dissidents who have been jailed for peacefully expressing their views.

Kerry met with four leading bloggers during a short trip to China, a visit
otherwise dominated by official discussions on the thorny issues of North
Korea's nuclear weapons program and climate change.

Although Kerry's morning meeting with the bloggers was supposed to show U.S.
support for freedom of expression in China, the secretary seemed to be put on
the defensive by their questions and appeals for help, insisting that he had
urged Chinese leaders to support expanded press and Internet freedoms.

Obviously, we think that the Chinese economy will be stronger with greater
freedom of the Internet, he said.

But Kerry sidestepped a question about his view of the path China is on, after
investigative reporter Wang Keqin said intellectuals were worried about growing
restrictions since Xi Jinping took over as president last March.

Wang said later that he had been called in for a chat with state security
officials before the meeting with Kerry but had declined to attend.

Zhang asked whether the United States would get together with the Chinese who
aspire for freedom and help tear down the great Internet firewall, noting that
U.S. companies were helping the Chinese government block access to Twitter and
other websites. Kerry said that it was the first time he had heard this
complaint and that he would look into it.

China devotes enormous resources and manpower to Internet censorship in an
effort to prevent dissent and social unrest from threatening communist rule.
Facebook and Twitter are banned, and Internet search-engine results are heavily
censored to remove websites or terms deemed sensitive.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday

Banged-up Bolts get back to work;
Stamkos hoping to be ready to play vs. Nashville

BYLINE: Erik Erlendsson; Tribune staff

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: BRANDON



HIGHLIGHT: Bolts for Thursday


- After a week spent sloshing through the snow or sipping something cold while
lounging on a sandy beach, Lightning players and staff returned to practice
Wednesday following a 10-day respite.

With the Olympics taking place in Sochi, Russia, those not representing their
country took advantage of the time for a brief vacation, whether that was up
north to visit family and friends or heading south to tropical climates. For a
team that was banged up with injuries, particularly to some of its top players,
the break was needed.

Tampa Bay reconvened at the Ice Sports Forum for a 60-minute practice to gear up
for the final 24-game stretch of the season, which begins for the Lightning on
Feb. 27 in Nashville.

For us to get 21/2 weeks off (between games), not only for the healthy guys is
it invigorating, but for the hurt guys it gives us as an organization time for
them to heal,'' Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper said. That way, when we do come back
against Nashville next week, they're ready to go, or really close to ready to
go.

Top center Steven Stamkos is included in that group after missing three months
with a broken leg. The two-time Rocket Richard Trophy winner passed the 14-week
mark since having surgery to insert a titanium rod and continues to skate with
the team. His next scheduled X-ray will take place early next week to determine
whether or not he will be cleared to return in time for Tampa Bay's next game.

It feels good now, and it's getting better, that's important,'' said Stamkos,
who took a mini-vacation from training before returning to the ice Tuesday. I'm
definitely very close, but the kind of thing I'm putting into my head is that if
I'm not back for that (four-game) road trip (that starts in Nashville), then
worst-case scenario is when we get back home (March 6). The best case is I'm
ready for Nashville.''

Beyond Stamkos, the Lightning played their last game before the break without
Valtteri Filppula (ankle) and backup goaltender Anders Lindback (ankle) while
starting goaltender Ben Bishop (wrist) played through pain, as did center Tyler
Johnson (ankle) and defenseman Matt Carle (foot). Bishop and Lindback were on
the ice for practice Wednesday, and both anticipate being ready to play when the
season resumes.

I'm ready to go, it felt good today, it's just about staying healthy and getting
rest,'' Bishop said. (The wrist) hasn't been great, but I just want to give the
team a chance to win every night, even if I'm not 100 percent.''

Filppula, who was expected to miss three weeks with a non-displaced fracture
suffered on Feb. 6, plans to get on skates by the end of this week with the
intent of returning to practice next week and hopes to play in Nashville.

Johnson played the final two games before the break with an injured left foot,
and he was still wearing a walking boot after not practicing Wednesday.

Mini Camp

The Lightning will practice in Orlando for three days at RDV Ice Den, located at
8701 Maitland Summit Blvd. The team is scheduled to take the ice at 10:30 a.m.
on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. All practices are open to the public. Times
are subject to change.

eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7835

Twitter: @erlendssonTBO

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

What world needs now is our tolerance of different religions

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 731 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hutch column


In Iraq and Syria, it is one branch of Muslim fighting another.

In the Central African Republic, it is Christian against Muslim (and vice versa)
in a struggle to the death.

In Myanmar, the former Burma, it is Buddhist against Muslim, and elsewhere it is
Muslim against Hindu.

And, of course, there's always the struggle between Israel and its Arab
neighbors, and deeply held religious beliefs figure largely in that never-ending
struggle, too.

In short, although the Christian Crusades may be ancient history, around the
world religious faith - zealotry, actually - is very much responsible for a
great deal of spilled blood.

In Europe, religious faith has lost a lot of ground to secularism. In the United
Kingdom, for example, church attendance has been dwindling for years, and
atheism and agnosticism are commonplace.

In the United States, mainstream religion remains the cultural norm, and
although there are examples of religious intolerance and extremism, they're
relatively minor aspects of the American attitudes toward faith.

There's the Westboro Baptist Church in Tulsa, Okla., which is notorious for
picketing the funerals of American soldiers. Also, there are the occasional
fanatics who kill doctors who perform abortions, or bomb their clinics. Close to
home, we've seen anti-Muslim prejudice in the burning of the Koran and the
all-too-common, if patently ignorant, resentment.

And there are politicians who wrap themselves in religion as they promote
particular policies and programs.

For the most part, however, Americans can be gratified that the differences
among the various religious faiths in this country are far less likely to
provoke violence. And that debate is far more elevated today than it was just
half a century ago.

The climate began to change after American voters elected John F. Kennedy
president in 1960, putting a Catholic in the White House for the first time. But
for this country, Kennedy's political quest was a real test, and most of us
would argue that the country passed that test, although it wasn't easy.

For example, the Fair Campaign Practices Committee reported that during his
campaign 392 anti-Catholic publications were distributed to voters, with an
estimated circulation as high as 25 million.

Kennedy's most ardently religious foes argued that a Catholic's first allegiance
is to the pope, that the church's hierarchy controls the lives of the faithful
and that a Catholic president would establish a Catholic state.

They also argued that Kennedy would force the American people to embrace
Catholic beliefs.

A group of 150 Protestants led by Dr. Norman Vincent Peale accused the Catholic
Church of being a political as well as religious organization and declared it
had frequently repudiated the principle that every man shall be free to follow
the dictates of his conscience in religious matters.

Facing that kind of attack from prominent Protestants, Kennedy decided to tackle
the issue head-on in September 1960 at a meeting of the Greater Houston
Ministerial Association.

I believe in an America where the separation of church and state is absolute -
where no Catholic prelate would tell the president (should he be Catholic) how
to act, and no Protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote
- where no church or church school is granted any public funds or political
preference - and where no man is denied public office merely because his
religion differs from the President who might appoint him or the people who
might elect him, he said.

I believe in a president whose views on religion are his own private affair,
neither imposed upon him by the nation or imposed by the nation upon him as a
condition to holding that office.

It was a landmark speech, well remembered in political circles, although it
wasn't necessarily well received by the nation's Catholics. They expressed - and
still do - various degrees of resentment that one of their own would express
such a strong sense of independence from the church's teachings.

But the debate was, and remains, a polite one. It did not threaten then, nor
does it threaten now, to become a source of violence such as we see too often in
other countries.

If only the United States could export its embrace of religious tolerance the
way it exports its movies and its music ... and its fast-food fashions.

Al Hutchison is a retired newspaper executive living in Citrus County.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 14, 2014 Monday

First branch of food forest takes root;
Small community orchards planted in three parks

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: A Tampa woman has gotten the go-ahead from the City of Tampa to plant
edible fruit trees in three city parks as part of her hope to build a "food
forest" where people can freely pick and eat food from the trees. We get photos
of the planting Saturday, then go visit her at house house on Sunday, where she
has more than 300 edible plants. Seattle is also doing this, so I'll see if I
can get some info on the broader movement.


 - Tanja and Jared Vidovic's recent out-of-town guests wondered where all the
fruit trees were, the ones for which Florida is famous.

The couple who transformed their half-acre yard near Busch Gardens into a food
forest filled with about 300 edible plants found inspiration in that
conversation.

They had heard about public orchards and food forests, but not around here. They
did recall riding the Pinellas Trail and seeing banana and orange trees along
the way, with the fruit ripe for public picking.

After a year or so of proposing and planning, and with help from dozens of
fellow gardeners, city council members, Keep Tampa Bay Beautiful and Tampa's
parks staff, area visitors will soon enjoy the fruits of that inspiration. As
many as 90 volunteers gathered at three city parks over the weekend to plant
fruit trees that the public can enjoy.

We originally pitched it as getting fruit trees downtown, since the mayor is
always looking for ways to draw more people there, Jared Vidovic said. There is
a huge green community in Tampa, and that would be one way to get them involved.

Tanja Vidovic thought it could be linked to a tour of city art.

We thought it would be wonderful if people could drive the Green ARTery around
the city of Tampa, see the sights and stop along the way to enjoy some fruit,
she said. The Green ARTery connects the assets in 20 neighborhoods in Central
Tampa, the Hillsborough River and green spaces with a bike trail.

Although the city wasn't ready to agree to a large-scale project, it did agree
to allow plantings at Rowlett, Al Lopez and Gadsden parks.

Fruits from the donated sunburst tangerine, Meyer lemon, star fruit, loquat and
Chickasaw plum trees planted at the three parks will be available for public
consumption. Volunteers will maintain them.

If the concept catches on, and Tanja Vidovic gets her way, it will expand.

The biggest thing for me, right now, is to get the word out so people know the
trees are out there.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The concept of community orchards dates to 1992 in England, when the community
stepped forward to save an abandoned orchard. In that instance, it was an
attempt to preserve green space, old varieties of fruit, local history and a
beautiful landscape, according to the National Sustainable Agriculture Service.

From that first effort, hundreds of community orchards popped up throughout
England, then spread to other parts of Europe. The grounds not only provide
fresh, organic produce to the public, but also can be used as an educational
tool and a way to share knowledge about local food-growing efforts.

In the face of climate change, the need to reduce food miles makes the provision
of locally grown food ever more urgent, according to the National Sustainable
Agrigculture Service.

Seattle is planning the Beacon Food Forest, which will be a 7-acre edible garden
open to the public. In Bloomington, Ill., there is a community orchard where
teams select work days, conduct education programs and distribute fruits and
nuts. And in Portland, there is the Fruit Tree Project, where volunteers pitch
in, harvest and distribute to those in need.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

One task the Vidovics hope to accomplish with this project is to bring more
attention to the idea of growing edible plants and trees in every neighborhood.
They never gardened until moving to their house with an overgrown lawn. They
have learned it all over the past 4½ years.

There are many days when the couple - she's a firefighter and he's a nurse -
spend lunchtime munching on edible flowers, radish seed pods, asparagus, native
Everglades tomatoes and spinach from their backyard.

Through the Facebook group Tampa Gardening Swap, the couple offer seed and
seedling swaps, and members meet to discuss what works and what doesn't in the
garden.

Cities all over the world are doing this, so why not us? Tanja Vidovic said. She
is hoping the concept will take off in Hillsborough County schools so students
can become more connected with where food originates. Community orchards, she
said, also provide habitat for wildlife and are considered carbon sinks, or a
place that can absorb polluting carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.

Jared Vidovic calls it public produce or public fruit for public health.

Tanja Vidovic said she looks forward to the day there is a community orchard in
every neighborhood.

yhammett@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7127

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 1, 2014 Thursday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 565 words



HIGHLIGHT: Thursday letts


Bury the horse

Just about everything stated by Tom Peterson (Still stuck with the bill, Your
Views, April 26) in his rebuttal to the Letter of the Day on April 23 (A GOP
mandate everyone should help pay for) is inaccurate or downright wrong. He
trotted out all the misinformation and falsities the right has been using for
the past five years, and they all have been debunked.

All research shows that the Affordable Care Act will create jobs, cut costs for
health care overall and provide care to those who either could never qualify,
afford it or be accepted due to pre-existing conditions. Almost 9 million have
signed up.

Oregon, for example, was attempting to use its own state exchange to provide
health-care options for its citizens. That state spent over $200 million setting
up its exchange and was never able to get even one private insurance company to
sign up. It has now canceled its program and will begin using the federal
exchange. Over 170,000 Oregonians signed up for health care under the Affordable
Care Act, and 130,000 signed up for expanded Medicaid. Beginning in November
they will be using the federal exchange for everyone.

The horse that conservatives have been riding against the Affordable Care Act
has been ridden to death. Please climb off and bury the poor thing. Please get
on a healthy horse and try working with liberals to make health care better for
all Americans. No plan is perfect from day one.

Everett and Patricia Houghtalen

New Port Richey

Beware government

Regarding Mike Tedesco's Letter of the Day April 27 (Set us free from government
fetters, Other Views), I couldn't agree more. Take a real look at what has
stifled our economy and left so many without jobs or job prospects. Take a real
look at what has driven jobs and capital offshore. I know a lot of people don't
want to admit it since they are beholden to the government in one way or
another, but every problem this country has had, and is having, can be traced
back to bad government policies. What the government gives, it can take away any
time. The government is not a producer of anything - productive tax-paying
citizens are. The government is only a non-producer and taker. Wise up, folks.
Big Brother is out there, and it's coming to a theater near you.

Samuel DuLaney

Tarpon Springs

Don't be taken in

Regarding Climate change expert finds ready audience at USF (Metro, April 25):
To those students and faculty who attended the lecture by Rajendra Pachauri and
agreed with enthusiasm about how right he is, and to all the students, faculty,
green groups and everyday environmentalists who agree with the limitation or the
elimination of greenhouse gases, I offer this advice:

When and if the Rajendra Pachauris of the world get their way, they will not be
affected or have to pay for the regulations, restrictions and rationing that
will be imposed in the name of preventing rising sea levels, melting polar ice
and heavy rains. You will!  Neither will the other elites who are too rich, too
influential or too important to shoulder the burdens that the common folk should
endure in the name of preventing the dour consequences of driving their cars,
heating their homes, feeding their families and pursuing life, liberty and
happiness.

Don't be taken in by phrases such as someone will pay for the noble cause of
greenness, and it won't be Rajendra Pachauri.

Jerrold Cheesbro

Sun City Center

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 10, 2014 Saturday

Why I don't tell reporters everything

BYLINE: CASS R. SUNSTEIN; Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 828 words



HIGHLIGHT: reporters' intereset v. the public


The White House Correspondents' Association dinner, which I attended last
Saturday night, is an astonishing spectacle - a unique combination of
journalists, government officials and celebrities. Amid the laughter and the
conviviality, however, there is an uneasy undercurrent: Many journalists are
disturbed that outside of an annual dinner, they cannot get a lot of access to
those same officials.

Everyone should agree that in reporting on the workings of government,
journalists are engaging in indispensable work. Because their job is to inform
the public - and hold officials accountable - it's more than understandable if
they object when their questions are met with silence, bureaucratic abstractions
or unresponsive talking points. The Constitution itself recognizes not merely
the freedom of speech, but also and separately the freedom of the press.

But when they are able to pose questions, what do Washington journalists want to
know?

Here is a guide to four common requests, based in large part on my experience in
government, that can make public officials reluctant to engage with reporters or
provide helpful answers to them. (I do not deal here with the Freedom of
Information Act and related transparency questions, which are obviously
important but would require a separate discussion.)

1. Please disclose an important policy decision before it is finalized or
announced.

Needless to say, it takes a long time to figure out how to handle a complicated
problem, whether it involves the environment, housing, homeland security or
something else. Journalists often want a hint in advance. Officials usually have
to dodge the question. They might not yet know the ultimate decision; often,
things are in flux. If they do know where things are headed, it's almost never
their place to make the announcement ahead of time.

2. Please tell us what happened in internal conversations, including conflicts
among high-level advisers.

Washington reporters often want to know the internal details. Who is in what
camp? Who favors a strong approach on same-sex marriage or climate change, and
who wants to proceed more cautiously? What is the spectrum of opinion within the
administration? Are there good guys and bad guys? Who said what to whom, and
when, and how?

Most officials don't want to answer those questions, because they prefer - and
are expected - to treat their colleagues' confidential remarks as confidential.
It's not exactly collegial, or even honorable, to do otherwise, certainly not
until a lot of time has passed.

3. Please say something spicy about the president, or at least a high-level
adviser.

Washington reporters sometimes try to get officials, on or off the record, to
badmouth their bosses or their colleagues - or at least to say something
intriguing or controversial, which will make news. On this count, reporters are
usually quite subtle. They ask about particular issues and trends.

Most officials dislike these questions for one reason: They are loyal. If they
have disagreements or concerns, they prefer to express them internally. (It is
true that some officials like to leak, sometimes in order to advance their own
personal agendas, and they do not need much coaxing from reporters. But that's
not exactly honorable, either.)

4. Please respond to some recent allegation so we can highlight it and explore
who is right or who is telling the truth.

This is a frequent request, made when critics or members of the opposing
political party allege that the administration has made mistakes or engaged in
misdeeds. It is perfectly legitimate, and possibly even necessary, for
Washington reporters to seek an official response to such allegations. In some
cases, a response is appropriate. But if the allegation is baseless, officials
may have no interest in responding to it, because any response - even a denial -
might well spark more discussion and serve to ensure that the allegation will
get greater attention.

Most of the time, public officials are likely to be reluctant to respond to any
of these requests - above all the first three. Journalists are sometimes
exasperated by that reluctance. But they shouldn't be, because silence can be
reasonable or even mandatory. A lack of transparency is one thing; a refusal to
breach confidentiality is quite another.

It is also important to see that administration officials are members of a team.
Outside of special circumstances, it's not appropriate for them to go rogue by
speaking without some kind of authorization.

Washington's correspondents do not, of course, want merely to make news; they
are doing democracy's work. When they are stymied, they get frustrated. Fair
enough. But the interests of those correspondents are not always identical to
the interests of the American public.

Cass R. Sunstein, the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, is the Robert Walmsley university professor
at Harvard Law School and a Bloomberg View columnist.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 944 words



HIGHLIGHT: wed letts


Drawing a line

A key issue that society needs to acknowledge is how the U.S. government is not
taking into account the harm that offshore drilling is going to do to Atlantic
Coast marine life. Being born and raised in a coastal area of Florida, this is
particularly alarming to me. The pristine oceans, gulfs and bays that surround
my hometown will drastically be affected if our government begins offshore oil
drilling on the Atlantic Coast. Even when faced with proof that marine life will
be critically affected they are still more than willing to look past it. Seismic
air guns are towed behind ships and release loud blasts of compressed air
through the water and miles into seabeds. This reflects back information about
buried oil and gas deposits. Flourishing underwater habitats are abandoned, and
natural living cycles are disrupted from these violent blasts. It is clear that
society is disturbing nature in a big way, and I feel it is not right. It all
comes down to a vital question our government must ask: Where do we draw the
line between the want for more but the need for conservation?

Sophia Passerni

Tarpon Springs

Fair VA probe

As a veteran I find it interesting the Congress is investigating the Veterans
Administration for lack of efficiency and effectiveness. The Congress is hardly
an example of efficiency and effectiveness and is in no position to judge any
other agency. A more effective way would be to have a blue-ribbon task force
made up of organizational and hospital executives, caregivers and, please, no
politicians.

Ross P. Alander

Tampa

Earth no hotter

Regarding your May 14 editorial, Parties fail on climate change report:  It has
been reported in the Trib that the Met Office in Britain has reported that after
studying over 3,000 reporting stations on land and sea, it has not gotten hotter
since 1992 on Earth. Last year there was not a named hurricane in the Atlantic
until they named one out in the Atlantic on Oct. 16. Why? The Atlantic is just
too cold to produce hurricanes. Also, extreme weather is not just a factor of
global warming. Extreme weather needs cold temperatures as well.

Bill Daniel

Plant City

Net neutrality

There is a lot of buzz about the Internet going on at the FCC these days. As
always, there is a battle raging about who controls this influential giant. This
battle pits those with a lot of money against the rest of us. The issue is net
neutrality and the proposal to define the Internet as a public utility similar
to electricity, available to everyone on an equal basis. I was an early Internet
entrepreneur, starting a Web design and hosting company in 1995. The argument
proffered by the big corporations is to create a fast lane for those who can
afford it. But the talk muddles the fact that for a fast lane to exist there
must be its opposite, a slow lane. This is where small Web companies would be
relegated. Anyone familiar with the habits of most Web surfers knows that most
people are impatient and will click to another site if their first choice takes
more than a few seconds to load. Small businesses on the slow lane will see
their business slow or vanish. The slow lane then becomes a fast lane to the end
of an open Internet and the collapse of small Internet startups. The FCC has set
up a special email for your comments, openinternet@fcc.gov You can also post to
public comments on their website. http://bit.ly/RIccW8. Demand they fully
protect net neutrality and define the Internet as a public utility.

Paul Kruger

Interlachen

Bitter pills

Regarding the editorial NIH funding a smart investment (Our Views, May 19):
Although on the surface this is completely an understandable concept, there is a
darker, less prudent side to the National Institutes of Health. Many of the
drugs derived as a result of NIH research are passed on to favored
pharmaceutical companies to design, test and produce. As a result, a
pharmaceutical company is given carte blanche to charge whatever ridiculous
price it wants and the exclusive rights to the drug for years, thereby pricing
the average person out of the potential benefit from medication that their tax
dollars have partially paid for through NIH research. The profits you quote and
the jobs gained are impressive numbers; however, if you research further you
will see the economic impact was primarily directed at the pharmaceutical
companies and their top executives. Of course, Republican Reps. Dennis Ross and
David Jolly, and Rep. Kathy Castor, a Democrat, are in favor of protecting NIH
funding. If not, how else could the pharmaceutical companies have enough money
to contribute to their campaigns? This practice needs to be stopped or altered.
The pharmaceutical companies need to assist in funding the NIH based on a
percentage of profits made through sales of drugs given to them courtesy of the
NIH.

Shari Godfrey

Tampa

Clean energy

A recent commentary piece misrepresented wind energy's positive contribution to
the health of our wildlife and our ecosystem, and disregards the industry's
legacy of care.

The wind energy industry is proud to be the leading source of utility-scale
electricity with the lowest environmental impacts.

No energy source - or really any human activity - is completely free of impacts.
Generating electricity from wind does not create air or water pollution, CO2
emissions, use water, require mining or drilling for fuel, or generate hazardous
waste that requires permanent storage. Out of all mainstream energy sources,
wind has by far the lowest cradle-to-grave life-cycle impact on wildlife and
habitat.

John Anderson

Washington, D.C.

The writer is director of siting policy for the American Wind Energy
Association.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1005 words



HIGHLIGHT: letts to ed


'Liberal mentality'

The liberal courts have decided that marriage is no longer the union of a man
and a woman. We soon will see these same liberal courts expand that marriage can
be between anything. The liberal courts cannot deny the fact that they have
changed marriage forever. We have thrown out the legal and religious definitions
of marriage to expand the benefit of marriage outside the historical mores.

When the liberal mentality exceeds the bounds of common sense, it opens a
Pandora's box of changes.

Lou Christodoulou

Apollo Beach

Lay it to rest

Regarding Hillary and Jeb (Your Views, May 22): It seems the writer is
desperately attempting to convince himself and any others who may be brainwashed
into thinking Jeb Bush could even make it a decent race for the presidency
against a Democrat, let alone seal the Republican nomination. Taking into
account track records, one can truly see what the outcome would be if either
Hillary or Jeb were to win the vote of the people.

Take into consideration the issues the Republican Party obviously is leaning on
to defeat Hillary in 2016. Despite Obamacare being law - and the wrinkles being
ironed out - Republicans desperately continue to attempt to rid the nation of
this health care program.

Also, despite eight or so investigations by several committees regarding the
Benghazi attack, the Republican Party continues to cry foul on the actions taken
by the Obama administration immediately after the attack. This unfortunate and
tragic attack killed four Americans; the death of even one American is one too
many. Republicans seem to have a short memory of the senseless numbers of
American and allied forces who were killed in the war in Iraq. The American
people were lied to and told an invasion was needed because Iraq had weapons of
mass destruction.

It's time to put it all to rest and work on bipartisan strategies to prevent any
more of these oversights and mistakes from happening in the future.

The American public needs to educate itself on matters that can be changed and
elect a president who can run this country on his or her past political
accomplishments. America needs to push forward and learn from its mistakes and
misfortunes and elect the best candidate on their accomplishments and ability to
lead.

So let us lay to rest the losses in the attacks against Americans on 9/11 and in
Benghazi, as well as the American and allied forces killed in Afghanistan and
Iraq. And back off the attempts to derail the Affordable Care Act. It is law,
and, more important, it is working.

Don Carman

Plant City

Superb opportunity

Folks breaking out their outdoor grills could inflict food poisoning or cancer
on their family and friends if they're not careful. Food poisoning by E. coli
and Salmonella bacteria - if they under cook their meat. Cancer - if they heat
their meat to the point of creating cancer-causing compounds.

Luckily, a bunch of enterprising U.S. food manufacturers and processors have met
this challenge head on by developing a great variety of healthy, delicious and
convenient veggie burgers and soy dogs. These delicious plant-based foods don't
harbor nasty pathogens or cancer-causing compounds. They don't even carry
cholesterol, saturated fats, drugs or pesticides. And they are waiting for us in
the frozen food section of our supermarket.

This summer offers a superb opportunity to consign meat to a bad memory and to
share wholesome veggie burgers and soy dogs, covered in barbecue sauce, with our
family and friends.

Todd Tate

Tampa

GOP 'on notice'

Early results of the primary elections announce the defeat of the tea party. The
tea party, as well as Libertarians, wants a smaller government and lower taxes.
This, I hope, is what Republicans strive for, so why title it a defeat? Let me
remind you that conservative voters want a smaller government and a free-market
economy.

If the Republican Party wants our support, then our direction to you is to
immediately merge with the Libertarians, the tea party and others who agree that
America is in decline. Begin a debate among yourselves about how best to rescue
America from communists and socialists who hide under the name of progressives.
Once you have merged, make public the disaster that is growing under President
Obama. Announce specific plans that will restore America. Promise to begin the
process of establishing term limits in both houses. Stop the religious
oppression in America and remind all that the Christian-Judeo heritage and
religious holidays will be unrestricted. Other religions are welcome only as
long as their teachings do not conflict with the principles of our Constitution
and the oath of allegiance.

The Republican Party is now on notice that the next two elections must be won by
reinvigorated and goal-oriented patriots. We conservatives will no longer
tolerate a party that cannot articulate winning policies. If you fail us again,
pack your bags.

Dick Artz

Apollo Beach

'Elder-friendly state'

Florida is far ahead of many states in fiscal responsibility with high ratings.
The economic climate is outstanding. The tourism industry is thriving. There is
no state income tax, and the tax structure is attractive to business. Of course,
there are issues, and the Legislature must address those in future sessions.
However, one must admit that Rick Scott, as chief executive of the state, has
Florida in good shape for growth and increasing economic benefit for the future.
Elder Care Advocacy of Florida has worked diligently with the governor and the
Legislature in presenting factual data and real-life testimony that has resulted
in historic levels of funding for elder causes for those most needy individuals.

Florida has become an elder-friendly state in meeting many of the needs of our
deserving seniors.

The associates of Elder Care Advocacy of Florida greatly appreciate the
willingness of Gov. Scott and our legislators to work with us to make Florida a
better state for everyone.

Austin R. Curry

Tampa

The writer is executive director of Elder Care Advocacy of Florida.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday

Debate first in state in Spanish [JUMP]Candidates for governor each attack the
other;
Candidates for governor each attack the other

BYLINE: MATT DIXON Tribune/Scripps Capital Bureau

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 627 words



HIGHLIGHT: The first one.


MIRAMAR - A testy back-and-forth between Gov. Rick Scott and Democrat Charlie
Crist kicked off the first of three debates with voters already casting ballots
by mail and Election Day less than a month away.

Throughout the nearly one-hour debate, both candidates attempted to solidify
narratives they have been developing for months. For Scott, it was casting Crist
as a flip-flopper, while Crist tried to align Scott with special interests.

Scott tried to make the case that Crist never lifted a finger as governor for
things he now supports - an attempt to cast the
Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat as inconsistent on policy issues.

He voted against raising the minimum wage, he did not raise a finger to lift the
minimum wage, Scott said.

Scott opposes increasing the minimum wage, pointing to a federal study that says
it would cost jobs.

Crist says, if elected, he would push for a higher state minimum wage and would
sign an executive order increasing the minimum wage to $10.10 for companies with
state contracts.

Crist criticized Scott for accepting millions of dollars in campaign
contributions from insurance companies, some of whom supported Crist's past
campaigns.

He actually signed a bill this year that says the Office of Insurance Regulation
can't regulate insurance. That makes no sense, well, only if you follow the
money, Crist said. They have

given him a lot of money for his campaign.

The debate was held at the Miramar studios of NBC 6/Telemundo 51. It was
broadcast at 7 p.m. in Spanish on Telemundo stations in the Tampa, Miami and
Orlando markets and live online in English.

It was the first Spanish-language gubernatorial debate in state history.

Libertarian candidate Adrian Wyllie was denied a spot on the debate stage, which
drew protests from a group of his sign-waving supporters outside the building.

Issues directly affecting the state's Hispanics played a prominent role in the
debate, including whether to give undocumented immigrants a driver license.
Scott says a 2012 federal directive already allows children brought to the
United States illegally as children to get licenses, while Crist says he wants
to legalize the practice for all undocumented immigrations.

The debate offered a forum for the candidates to define themselves.

Scott, as he did during the 2010 campaign, went back to the story of his rise
from humble beginnings in a poor family to become a multimillionaire health care
executive.

They didn't have a lot of money in the bank, Scott said.

Crist has tried to portray himself as the more empathetic candidate while at the
same time casting Scott as uncaring.

I think the biggest distinction is you've got somebody who rattles off
statistics versus somebody who really cares about people and what their
challenges are, Crist said.

On key issues, the first debate helped hammer home the distinction between the
two. Some examples:[diams] Crist says Florida is ground zero for climate change,
while Scott remains skeptical that global warming is occurring. When asked about
the environment, he pointed to his administration's record funding for the
Everglades.[diams] Scott opposes a proposed constitutional amendment that would
legalize medical marijuana, but signed legislation this spring legalizing a
strain of marijuana that helps children with seizures. Crist supports the
proposed amendment, which is bankrolled by attorney John Morgan. Crist works for
Morgan's law firm.[diams] Crist supports expanding Medicaid under the Affordable
Care Act, while Scott opposes it and points to reforms under his administration
that helped rein in state-level costs.

The two candidates will square off two more times, with the next debate Oct. 15
at Broward College.

Matt.Dixon@naplesnews.com

(352) 233-0777

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Under Gov. Scott, it's 'Utilities Gone Wild' in Tallahassee

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 605 words



HIGHLIGHT: fasano oped


Elections matter. The outcome of the governor's race will determine who's on
your side when it comes to keeping your electric bill low, advancing clean
energy - such as solar power - and tackling the climate change challenge.

The distinction is clear. Charlie Crist has a history of fighting rate increases
and leading on clean energy. He hasn't taken a dime in contributions from
monopoly utilities such as Duke Energy.

Rick Scott, on the other hand, has let the monopoly utilities run wild in
Tallahassee and, in return, they've poured millions into his campaign.

Let's get the facts straight.

Though he claims otherwise, it's a fact that under Scott's watch every monopoly
utility has gotten an increase in base rates. As attorney general and as
governor, Crist fought rate increases - which is why the power companies are
spending so much money to defeat him.

In 2009, Crist pressed the Florida Public Service Commission - the state agency
charged with regulating the state's monopoly utilities - to look out for
customers, and they denied rate increases to the state's two biggest power
companies. In return, state legislators blocked four of five of those PSC
commissioners from returning to their regulatory positions.

This should come as no surprise since monopoly utilities have given $18 million
to legislators and another $12 million to lobbyists in the past five years in
Tallahassee. In fact, Florida Power & Light and Duke Energy have contributed
over $1 million to Scott's campaign.

It's a fact that Scott supported slashing energy efficiency opportunities for
Florida Power & Light and Duke Energy customers in 2011. It's well known that
energy efficiency programs help customers reduce energy use, save money on their
bills, and is the cheapest, quickest and cleanest way to reduce carbon pollution
from the electricity sector. But that didn't matter to the governor. Three years
later, those same monopoly utilities are proposing huge reductions in their
already anemic conservation goals this year - effectively ending meaningful
energy efficiency programs for their customers - including Duke's 1.6 million
customers. By gutting customer conservation goals, the monopoly utilities hope
to build additional power plants and generate hefty returns for their
shareholders.

During the past eight years, Duke Energy has experienced what can only be called
nuclear debacles. A law passed in 2006 allows power companies to shift all the
risk of building nuclear reactors from shareholders to customers. Although Scott
desperately tries to shift the blame to Crist, Scott oversaw the cancellation
and retirement of Duke Energy nuclear reactors that have left Duke customers on
the hook for billions of dollars.

Under Scott's watch, the Sunshine State is on the sidelines in developing solar
power. Florida ranks third nationally for solar potential but is 18th in solar
production.

During his tenure, Crist signed executive orders that included putting the PSC
to work on a rule to ensure that Florida would get 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy by 2020. The legislative authority for that initiative was
eliminated by the Legislature and signed by Scott.

It is Utilities Gone Wild in Tallahassee under Scott's watch. We can do much
better. We have a moral obligation to our kids to have leadership in Tallahassee
that will make thoughtful energy choices. We must get past pay to play politics
that maintains the status quo that hurts customers' pocketbooks and doesn't
consider the future we are leaving to our children.

The distinctions on clean energy are clear. Voters will decide on Nov. 4 which
vision prevails.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

If South Florida secedes, will the north be called Floritucky ?

BYLINE: FRANK CERABINO; Cox Newspapers

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: W EST PALM BEACH



HIGHLIGHT: secession!


 - Should South Florida become America's 51st state? The City Commission of
South Miami thinks so. Commissioners there recently approved a resolution
calling for the southern half of the state to break away from Florida and become
a new state called South Florida.

The resolution didn't say what the northern half of Florida would be called.
Floritucky, maybe?

The largely symbolic gesture from South Miami isn't the first time disgruntled
public officials from South Florida got the notion to make a clean break with
the rest of Florida. In fact, it's a very old idea. As in 1928 old.

That's when a state representative from West Palm Beach named R.E. Oliver
proposed creating a new state called South Florida. Oliver's complaint was that
the political leaders from northern Florida and the Panhandle had shortchanged
the south from its fair share of resources and influence.

Apparently, nothing much has changed during the intervening 86 years.

Often South Florida issues do not receive the support of Tallahassee, the South
Miami resolution says. This is despite the fact that South Florida generates
more than 69 percent of the state's revenue and contains 67 percent of the
state's population.

OK, for starters, it's worth pointing out that the resolution's definition of
South Florida starts with a northern border stretching from Brevard, Orange,
Polk, Hillsborough and Pinellas counties, and then includes the 19 counties to
the south.

So we get Orlando, Tampa, Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach.

And Floritucky gets Palatka, Waldo, Two Egg, Howey-in-the-Hills and the
Okahumpka service plaza on Florida's Turnpike.

Even when we throw in Jacksonville, Daytona Beach and Pensacola, and offer state
resident discount admission to Disney on weekends, we're still making out like
bandits here.

But I think of it as a win-win proposition.

That's because there's an opportunity for liberation here. Florida's politically
polar halves can finally seek the sort of place they'd like to live in, if only
it weren't for the other part of the state holding them down.

Guns would become the official fashion accessory in the north, while Spanish
would become the official language of the south.

Gay marriage, school prayer, reproductive rights, marijuana legalization, the
death penalty, and a host of other contentious social issues would become moot
as the former Florida divides into neighboring states that provide a safe haven
for one ideology or the other.

Sure, it might be a slight inconvenience for some people. U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio
would have to move to Jacksonville. And there would be a mass exodus of faculty
at the University of Florida in Gainesville for jobs at Florida Atlantic
University in Boca Raton. But carving up the state like this won't happen.
Partitioning Florida would require the approval of the state Legislature and
U.S. Congress. And that's not going to happen.

The South Miami resolution is just a way to point out how climate changes might
affect the southern part of the state, and why elected officials to the north
need to start paying attention. The resolution cites estimates of a sea level
rise, and the effect it could have on Lake Okeechobee and the low-lying South
Florida landscape.

South Florida has a very porous rock and, as the level of the sea rises, the
pressure will cause water to rise up through he ground and flood the inland
areas, the resolution reads. South Florida's situation is very precarious and in
need of immediate attention. Many of the issues facing South Florida are not
political, but are now significant safety issues. So the resolution's signers
are really just looking for a way to alarm Florida's leaders 488 miles away in
Tallahassee.

Maybe they should have called this new South Florida state Floodsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Voters unhappy with Obama, GOP, exit poll finds;
Economy still No. 1 issue for half of Americans

BYLINE: CONNIE CASS and EMILY SWANSON; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: LEIGH//


 - Most Americans voting Tuesday were unhappy or even angry with the Obama
administration, exit polls show. But most were upset with Republican leaders,
too.

The biggest concern is still the economy, the surveys of people leaving polling
places showed, six years after the 2008 financial crisis helped propel President
Barack Obama into his first term in office.

Most voters say the economy is stagnating or getting worse. Just 1 in 5 say they
trust the government to do what is right most or all of the time, slightly fewer
than in the 1994 midterms, when Republicans seized control of the House and
Senate, and the last time the exit poll asked that question.

Most midterm voters were pessimistic. They were more than twice as likely to say
that life will be worse for the next generation than to say things will get
better.

Republicans were getting some of the blame, however.

About a quarter of voters say they are dissatisfied or angry with both GOP
leaders in Congress and Obama, whose name isn't on the ballot.

And 6 in 10 are unhappy with one or the other of them.

A look at what's on voters' minds:Issues cut both ways: The preliminary exit
poll shows voters embracing some Republican ideas. Most think the government is
doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals. They feel the
nation is seriously off on the wrong track.

At the same time, on many issues, voters take positions that seem to align more
with the Democratic Party.

Majorities favor a way for those who are in the country illegally to stay. Most
also approve of Obama's military action against the Islamic State group. They
think abortion ought to be legal in most cases, consider climate change a
serious problem, and say the economic system favors the wealthy.

People who said health care is their top issue were about as likely to say
Obama's health care overhaul didn't go far enough as to say it went too far.

Dissatisfied customers: A whopping 8 in 10 disapprove of the way Congress,
currently divided between Republicans and Democrats, is doing its job, according
to preliminary exit polls.

Half disapprove of Obama's job performance.

It's the economy, still: An economy that's yet to recover its moxie since the
2008 financial crisis remains the big issue for nearly half of voters.

Health care, in contrast, was the top issue for a fourth of those surveyed.

Despite the stock market's recovery and improvements in hiring, half say their
own family's financial situation hasn't improved over the past two years, and a
fourth say it's gotten worse.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 16, 2014 Sunday

Our gathering storm

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Gerson column


 - When Abraham Lincoln first presented a version of the Emancipation
Proclamation to his Cabinet, Secretary of State William Seward warned that
issuing it after a defeat would look desperate. Better to wait until the eagle
of victory takes his flight and then hang your proclamation about his neck.

Lincoln postponed action until after the Union victory (such as it was) at
Antietam.

Our president today apparently regards an executive order on immigration - which
might grant legal status to millions of undocumented adults - in the same
historical category. But he seems intent on hanging his proclamation about the
neck of an electoral defeat - more a lame duck than an eagle. And there would be
serious political and social consequences to such a strategy.

As someone who supports the goal of providing legal status and a realistic path
to citizenship for law-abiding undocumented workers - as part of comprehensive
immigration reform - I sympathize with President Obama's frustration.
Republicans in Congress could have, should have, agreed to comprehensive
legislation in 2007 when President George W. Bush pushed for it, and in 2013
when the Senate approved it.

At some point, the GOP must put this issue behind it and begin serious outreach
to Latinos. But politics (in a democracy at least) is not only about outcomes
but about methods. And the manner in which a great policy matter is resolved can
leave it unresolved.

The passage of the Affordable Care Act on a party-line march - which could not
even attract the support of moderate Republicans such as Sen. Susan Collins -
helped turn health care into a divisive, highly ideological debate. No elected
Republican had a political or emotional investment in the legislative outcome.
And the advocates of a conservative approach to health care reform were placed
on the defensive. Supporting an alternative to Obamacare (at least for a time)
was viewed by some conservative activists as ideological softness.

The aggressive use of executive orders to limit greenhouse gas emissions (also
promised by the Obama administration) would probably reinforce similar
attitudes. Confronting climate change - which drew bipartisan attention a decade
ago - would be confirmed in the minds of many Republicans as a radical,
progressive project. Conservatives concerned about the issue would be (further)
marginalized and discredited.

An ambitious executive order by Obama on immigration would result in an even
greater ideological storm. Nearly all Republicans would have deep legal and
procedural objections. Many would be convinced that Obama is playing a ruthless
form of politics with serious constitutional matters. Some, surely and sadly,
would be driven into discrediting fits of anti-immigrant rage. (If this reaction
figures anywhere in Obama's calculation as a political upside, it would be a
particularly sickening form of cynicism.) And those conservatives who advocate
for comprehensive reform would be (further) marginalized and discredited.

Some progressive commentators have argued that since Republicans are hopeless on
these issues anyway, they might as well be steamrolled. This implies a profound
disdain for democratic procedures. It also involves a belief that Republican
legislators will never be part of a broadly accepted legislative outcome on
immigration; that they will never join a legitimate and respected democratic
consensus. And just because Obama could not achieve this - with an off-putting
manner and one of the weakest legislative operations of modern times - does not
mean it is unachievable.

This is not the Civil War. Obama's recourse to an executive order would be a
form of confession that he could not make the legislative process work on one of
the most important policy matters facing our nation. But another president
might.

If Obama takes this path, congressional Republicans will have flawed and limited
options. Talk of impeachment would be politically suicidal. Attempting to shut
down the government has been disastrously tried before. Legal challenges will be
attempted. But the real problem for Republicans is that they lost the presidency
in 2012 - an office with considerable powers even after a midterm presidential
repudiation. And whatever strategy Republicans select should be designed to
increase their chances of securing the presidency in 2016, instead of merely
venting understandable but self-destructive outrage.

After a series of national elections that empowered two parties on an
ideological collision course, Americans are about to be treated to a magnified
version of everything they hate: overreach, backlash, deadlock, threats and
lasting bitterness. It is like a Shakespearian drama - without the interesting
characters and quality dialogue. Everyone seems driven by their own angels and
demons toward predictable tragedy. Something senseless this way comes.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 895 words



HIGHLIGHT: letters


A failure to serve

The well-written article Accounts open school options by Erin Kourkounis last
week vividly tells the tale of two cities - special-needs students and parents,
and the general population. The Tax Credit Scholarship Program allows students
unable to attend public schools other options for advancement. It also begs the
questions of why school systems such as Hillsborough County are unable to
provide services for this population.

Sunshine State education programs are in chaos, and the industrial testing
complex is like a black hole, wasting taxpayer money and exploding like a giant
supernova while special-needs students and parents are treated like second-class
citizens, as I can attest as a local politician and father of a profoundly
autistic 6-year-old son.

Special needs parents are organizing and will be more vocal in the 2016
elections. Leadership on Hillsborough's divided and dysfunctional school board
and in the administration is impotent, and the anger of the public is white hot.
Stephanie Baxter-Jenkins, spokesperson for the Hillsborough County Classroom
Teachers Association, stokes the fire by saying in the article that the tax
credit program is simply a public funneling of public money outside of the
public school system.

The truth is, the Hillsborough County school system is incompetent in dealing
with special-needs students, as I found out. It's time for a change in 2016!

Randy Toler

Seffner

Democracy no more

If democracy means acting in the best interest of the majority, then what we
have in the United States is anything but. This country is now closer to an
oligarchy, plutocracy, corporatocracy, 1 percent rule or a Koch republic than a
democracy.

Theoretically, we are still a nation of one person, one vote. But thanks to the
combination of 30-plus years of trickle-down economics and Citizens United, a
few individuals and companies have reached unfathomable levels of wealth and can
use it without limits to pollute, distort and outright buy the political system.
They aren't just heavily influencing political races and policies; they are
dictating (or determining) them. And their motivations are often misguided,
self-serving and harmful to the populace.

Like the out-of state casino magnate with major investments in pharmaceuticals
who helped shoot down Florida's medical marijuana initiative - a threat to drug
company profits. Or the two uber-rich brothers with huge interests in fossil
fuels who funded the campaigns of climate-denying, Keystone Pipeline-supporting
candidates.

When a small number of multibillionaires and corporations are able to corrupt
the system - to their benefit - through unlimited funding with their seemingly
unlimited wealth, your one vote and our democracy become diluted beyond
recognition and effectiveness.

Chip Thomas

Tampa

Don't impede rights

Regarding Don't stifle FBI's terror effort (Our Views, Nov. 7):

I am shocked that The Tampa Tribune Editorial Board is advocating that any
member of the Tampa Bay community should waive their constitutional rights,
especially regarding legal counsel in light of FBI questioning. The piece goes
so far as to say that it is counterproductive for a civil liberties
organization, CAIR, to be educating and reminding the community it serves to
seek legal counsel before speaking to the FBI. Is it then also counterproductive
for the ACLU to be educating Americans about their constitutional rights,
especially regarding questioning by the FBI? No.

The editorial board has failed miserably in its irresponsible message to not
only Muslim-Americans living in the Tampa Bay area but to all Americans who are
protected by the U.S. Constitution and the rights it grants.

The piece also paints a very inaccurate image of Sami Osmakac and how his arrest
transpired. Osmakac, the 27-year-old who was just sentenced to 40 years in
prison, is mentally ill and broke. A member of Tampa's Muslim community reported
Osmakac to the FBI, and he had already been kicked out of two Tampa Bay mosques.
In September  2011, the FBI began investigating Osmakac. Rather than aiding
Osmakac in receiving proper mental care, the FBI spent months steering him
toward actualizing his radical views.

Yes, it is absolutely frightening that Tampa may have had its own Ground Zero,
but to what extent was the FBI responsible for this potential attack? If Osmakac
was identified as mentally ill and a potential threat to himself and the
community, why was he not given proper mental care immediately? Why did the FBI
essentially coerce him for so long that he became a serious potential threat to
those of us who live in Tampa?

The FBI has a very serious and heavy responsibility to investigate potential
threats to Americans, but does this mean that the FBI should be taking advantage
of society's mentally ill to create threats that could be prevented all
together?

Regardless of whether you are Muslim or not, it is your constitutional right to
have a lawyer present before engaging in any dialogue with the FBI. The FBI, and
even more importantly the Tribune, should be reminding us and upholding this
right, not trying to impede upon it.

Laila Abdelaziz

Tampa

Time for Tebow

Only one fate remains for the Bucs: Hire Tim Tebow! He can increase attendance,
take punishment, play nice and inspire. What more could you ask for? They've
tried everything else.

Pat Crow, M.D.

Sun City Center

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 352 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Storm surge to get better play in forecasts;
National Hurricane Center to stress risk along coast

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


If tropical weather approaches the U.S. next year, coastal residents will see
new, separate warnings about storm surge in addition to those about winds, the
National Hurricane Center said Thursday.

The separate storm-surge warnings will begin with the 2015 hurricane season and
should provide emergency managers and the public better information about
tropical weather hazards, officials said.

Historically, storm surge is the primary killer in a hurricane, said Jamie
Rhome, the center's storm-surge specialist. The largest loss of life in a
hurricane comes from water and flooding, not from wind as much.

Storm surge can strike at different times and in different places than a storm's
winds.

The center already releases warnings on tropical storm- and hurricane-force
winds, and it recently has focused on improving public awareness about storm
surge.

Color-coded maps debuted this year to show where and how high water could rise
as storms approach land, and an online tool launched last month shows coastal
vulnerability to storm surge during a variety of hurricane scenarios.

Rhome said both tools are meant to help coastal residents prepare for the
inevitable - storm surge is predicted to occur with more frequency as seas rise
because of climate change.

The maps help people learn whether they are in a location likely to flood during
hurricanes, and the new warnings will alert them to imminent danger.The map is
us indicating you're standing in the road, and the warning is us saying, 'You're
standing in the road, and you're going to get hit,'  Rhome said.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
