
                               2 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Insurance industry no climate-change skeptic

BYLINE: RICHARD SCHIFFMAN, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 728 words


BY RICHARD SCHIFFMAN

Special to The Tampa Tribune

When they woke up in the morning, my mom used to ask my dad what the weather was
going to be. "Stick your fool head out the window," he would reply.

I say the same thing to the Republican presidential candidates. If you want to
know if climate change is real, stick your heads out the window. You might
notice what the rest of us already have -- the weather is changing.

Take New York City, where I live. Nobody remembers a winter this warm. Daffodils
are already coming up in a community garden on my block -- more than a month
early.

In January, a cherry tree was in full bloom, fooled perhaps by the "spring
rains" we've been having all winter.

In the fall, a freak October storm took down thousands of still leafing trees in
Central Park with the weight of wet snow. And a year earlier, the five boroughs
were raked by several tornados, an almost unprecedented event.

New York is hardly alone. Last year more than a thousand tornadoes ripped across
the Midwest, killing 500 people; Mississippi River flooding inundated millions
of acres; Texas had its driest summer in memory; an estimated 15,000 people died
in a Russian heat wave; and there was a major drought in China and famine in
Somalia.

2010 was the hottest year on Earth since recordkeeping began, with 2011 not far
behind. Last year saw 14 billion-dollar weather disasters, almost double any
other year.

No single storm or spell of unseasonable weather can be laid categorically at
the feet of climate change. But the growing consensus among scientists is that
the rise we've been seeing in catastrophic weather is the inevitable result of a
warming trend that produces more water vapor in the atmosphere and an increase
in severe wind events such as hurricanes, monster thunderstorms and tornados.

Yet as the scientific evidence mounts, the deniers become more vocal in their
rejection of climate change. Even Mitt Romney, the ostensible moderate among the
Republican presidential hopefuls, asserts, "We don't know what's causing climate
change on this planet. And the idea of spending trillions and trillions of
dollars to try to reduce CO{-2} emissions is not the right course for us."

Never mind that in his 2010 book, "No Apology," Romney wrote, "I believe that
climate change is occurring. ... I also believe that human activity is a
contributing factor."

Others, including Rick Santorum, Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul, claim climate
change is a liberal hoax. But while these candidates have little faith in what
science is telling us, they usually believe the big corporations. So they would
do well to heed the leaders of the insurance industry, a group with no political
axes to grind and billions of dollars riding on their ability to accurately
prognosticate future risks. On March 1, Sens. Bernie Sanders and Sheldon
Whitehouse met with insurance industry officials on Capitol Hill to discuss
their concerns about climate change and the escalating costs of extreme weather.

The worldwide insurance industry is huge, three-times bigger than the oil
industry. And right now these companies are running scared. Some are threatening
to cancel coverage for homeowners within 200 miles of the coast, where
hurricanes are on the increase, and in drying areas of the West, where wildfires
have wreaked havoc.

Marsh & McLennan, one of the largest insurance brokers, called climate change
"one of the most significant emerging risks facing the world today," while
insurance giant AIG has established an Office of Environment and Climate Change
to assess the risks to insurers in the years ahead.

The industry's own scientists are predicting that things could get a lot worse
in the years ahead.

The Republicans say we can't afford to pay for cutting the carbon emissions that
climatologists assert are largely responsible for rising global temperatures and
the spike in violent weather. What we truly cannot afford, according to our
nation's leading insurers, is to continue to deny a problem whose price tag is
slated to go through the roof if we don't act quickly.

Richard Schiffman is a journalist whose work has appeared in The New York Times,
Salon, The Washington Post, The Christian Science Monitor and the Huffington
Post, where he is a regular blogger.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation must unite to tackle climate change crisis

BYLINE: FRANCES BEINECKE, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 765 words


BY FRANCES BEINECKE

Special To The Tampa Tribune

New York and New Jersey are inching toward recovery, but we have a long way to
go before we rebound from Hurricane Sandy. Many of our staff members had to
leave their homes for warmer, drier locations. All across the region last week,
people lined up for fuel for generators, buses for work and food for families.
Many senior citizens are stranded in their apartments without heat or critical
medicines, and many families are stuck in public-housing high-rises in Lower
Manhattan without access to safer alternatives.

Experts used to discuss climate change in terms of computer models and
scientific forecasts. Now Americans are talking about it in its most urgent
terms: people's lives. When climate change intensifies extreme weathersuch as
hurricanes and droughts, our families -- and our homes, jobs, neighborhoods, and
plans for our children -- feel the brunt.

The human toll of climate change is mounting, and we must act. America must wake
up and curb climate change. Whoever is elected has to make this a top priority,
and we at the Natural Resources Defense Council will do everything in our power
to make that happen.

Many leadersalready are pointing the way forward. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo
said last week, "I think part of learning from [Hurricane Sandy] is the
recognition that climate change is a reality. Extreme weather is a reality. It
is a reality that we are vulnerable." New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said
that Hurricane Sandy and other extreme storms reveal the need for local and
national leadership on climate change.

We applaud Cuomo and Bloomberg. They are talking about climate change because
they want to get our region back on its feet and make sure we are prepared for
the next extreme weather event. They aren't working some political angle. This
isn't about Democrats, independents or Republicans. It's about all New Yorkers.
And it's about all Americans.

Earlier this summer, the National Weather Service's Drought Monitor showed more
than half the country was in the grip of the worst drought in 50 years, and
nearly 1,300 counties had been designated disaster areas. As many as 131 million
people were under heat advisories during the hottest July since record keeping
began. And thousands of residents in Western states had to evacuate their homes
during one of the worst fire seasons in years.

Climate change is making its presence known no matter where we live. And that is
why we must tackle this crisis as a nation.

We can start by making sure local communities have the resources and the
blueprints they need to prepare for the effects of the changing climate. NRDC
recently assessed several cities and states for their preparedness and found
that many have started changing transportation, sewage and other infrastructure
to reflect rising seas, more frequent floods and prolonged droughts.

As we make our communities more resilient, wealso must address the problem at
its root. We must reduce the carbon pollution that is fueling climate change. We
do this by using energy more efficiently, cleaning uppower plants, rejecting
such dirty fuelsas the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline, and increasinguse of
renewable energy.

Wealready have made progress. Nearly 35 percent of all new power plant capacity
built in the United States in the past four years came from wind. And a new set
of energy efficiency standards NRDC helped develop for refrigerators,
dishwashers and other products will reduce carbon pollution by 100 million
metric tons a year by 2035 -- nearly equivalent to emissions from 25 coal-fired
power plants. Meanwhile, the Obama administration issued fuel economy standards
that will cut carbon pollution from new cars in half. It also proposed the first
limits on carbon pollution from coal-fired power plants.

This is a good start, but we must do more. We must set carbon limits on existing
power plants. We must extend incentives for wind energy and spur investment in
clean energy research. And we must promote energy efficiency by passing several
pieces of pending legislation that enjoy broad bipartisan support.

These are the kind of concrete steps we can take to protect our communities from
further ravages of climate change. No matter who is elected president, we must
raise our voices and demand our leaders take climate action. We owe it to the
people on the front lines of climate change: all of us.

Frances Beinecke is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 25, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 784 words


Regarding "Warming: Storm damage ahead" by The Baltimore Sun (Other Views, March
20): The editorial advises that insurance companies are greatly concerned over
their exposure to buildings built very close to the water's edge. No kidding.

In spite of the editorial's attempt to tie insurance concerns to fears of seas
rising, it has always been recognized that building near the sea is fraught with
risk. Traveling along the coasts, you'll find the overwhelming majority of
buildings immediately near the seaside have been built within the past 50 years,
as our society has ignored caution. Insurance companies are ever-more concerned
because, with or without impacts of moderate rises in ocean levels, we are
becoming more exposed to damage from storms.

Then the article repeats the nonsense that Rick Santorum denies climate change.
But taking his words in context, his argument is against those who claim that,
by starving ourselves of energy and giving more control to government, we can
control climate change:

"We know that climate changes over time, that the Earth warms and cools. This
debate is about whether human activity plays a role, and whether U.S. emissions
cuts can have any effect when China and India refuse to go along. The apostles
of this pseudo-religion believe that America and its people are the source of
the Earth's temperature. I do not." (Redstate.com, March 10.)

Clearly, Santorum is mocking those who offer the same phony solutions that
mystics of the past offered to prevent acts of nature, be they floods, famines,
volcanoes or earthquakes -- self-sacrifice. While the professed climate
-controllers of today shy away from encouraging outright human sacrifice, they
still teach that only by surrendering our standard of living, while refusing to
discuss the enormous cost in resultant human suffering, can we be "saved" from
climate change.

Walter Repak

Spring Hill

Thank heavens for Storms

Regarding "On abuse of the elderly, the House looks away" (Our Views, March 18):
I admire Sen. Ronda Storms for her hard work trying to get the Legislature to do
something about the abuse of the elderly, and assisted living homes. Storms has
been consistent in putting forth things that protect the elderly and, before
that, about people on welfare spending that money on chips and other junk food.
I totally agree with her, yet the Legislature does not comprehend. And that's a
shame, because she's right.

It seems the people making the laws in Tallahassee do not listen to the people.
I read the "losers and winners" of the recent legislation they passed and the
bills they did not. It puzzles me where their thoughts are. For example, the
bill that would have put a crimp on people texting on their cellphones while
driving did not pass.

I think it's time we elected officials who have a thought in their heads and
listen to the populace. Thank heavens for Storms. Ronda, do not give up.

Maxine Hammond

Land O' Lakes

Affordable Care Act works

With the second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, I remain surprised at
the lack of understanding about this landmark law.

In my medical practice I see tangible benefits from the law. My 71-year-old
asthmatic patient on Medicare was surprised when her branded asthma inhaler cost
her less than last year. I informed her that Medicare beneficiaries receive 50
percent off branded drugs once they reach the "doughnut hole." She had never
heard of this provision of the law.

I also have a 24-year-old severe asthmatic who now is insured because he was
able to be placed back on his parent's insurance plan. He had fallen through the
cracks for the past two years and was unable to afford doctor visits and
especially life-saving asthma medications. He, too, was surprised to learn that
he, along with 2.5 million other young adults, were now insured because of the
ACA.

Supporters of the ACA have done a poor job of clearly explaining how this law is
fundamentally improving our health care system. We've let opponents take over
the narrative and politicize something that really crosses party lines.

I welcome more open and honest discussions about the ACA. For my part, as a
member of Doctors for America, we've embarked on the One Million Campaign. We
are well on our way to educating 1million Americans about our health care system
and what health reform really means. I anxiously await a Supreme Court ruling in
favor of the constitutionality of the ACA so my 53-year-old neighbor with a
pre-existing condition can have the peace of mind that comes with having health
insurance.

Mona V. Mangat

St. Petersburg

The writer is a medical doctor.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

End silence on climate change

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words


With the final presidential debate scheduled in Boca Raton on Monday, young
people in Florida are wondering: What about climate change? On climate change
and clean energy, we've heard only silence from President Obama and Gov. Romney.
With new information just released on the threat of sea-level rise to Florida's
economy and communities -- with forecasts of billions of dollars in expenditures
just to mitigate its effects -- climate change is a top issue for Florida
voters.

I am a young voter. Over the past few weeks, thousands of young people from
Florida and across the country have been taking action to break the silence on
climate change this election season. Not only have we been engaging thousands of
young voters and will be getting them out to vote, we will continue to demand
that the candidates address climate change and promote clean energy solutions.

Young voters from the Student Environmental Association at USF will be at the
debate in Boca Raton to deliver our demands to Obama and Romney and demand
action on climate change now.

Shaza Hussein

Tampa

The writer is a senior at the University of South Florida majoring in
environmental policy and chemistry.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 17, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The president decides to stick with climatism

BYLINE: STEVE GOREHAM, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 838 words


BY STEVE GOREHAM

Special To The Tampa Tribune

In President Obama's remarks to the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte,
he stated, "... My plan will continue to reduce the carbon pollution that is
heating our planet -- because climate change is not a hoax. More droughts and
floods and wildfires are not a joke. They're a threat to our children's future.
And in this election you can do something about it."

The president's remarks support the ideology of climatism -- the belief that
manmade greenhouse gases are destroying Earth's climate.

Today, the world is in the grip of the madness of climatism. Our president and
191 other world leaders of the United Nations continue to pursue futile policies
to stop global warming. Universities preach "sustainable development." Companies
tout their "green" programs. Schools teach our children that if we change light
bulbs, we can save polar bears. But an increasing body of science shows that the
theory of catastrophic manmade warming is nonsense. Climate change is natural,
and car emissions are insignificant.

The president did not mention the Keystone Pipeline in his speech. In January
2012, he halted the $7 billion Keystone project on recommendation by the State
Department in order to assess potential environmental harm. During the last
months of 2011, thousands of protesters gathered in front of the White House to
protest the Keystone project. They claimed that the oil the pipeline would
transport from Canadian tar sands would cause irreversible global warming. Dr.
James Hansen of NASA was one of those arrested at the demonstrations. Media
pundits speculated that the president halted the pipeline to strengthen his
political support with environmental groups. But could it be that Mr. Obama
believes that halting the pipeline was the right policy to save the planet?

Who can blame the president for sticking with the theory of man-made global
warming? Most of his leading advisors, including Environmental Protection Agency
head Lisa Jackson, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, science guru John
Holdren and Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, warn that mankind is destroying the
climate. The EPA campaign to halt CO2 emissions from power plants, new vehicle
mileage standards, subsidies for wind turbines and electric cars, the Solyndra
solar cell debacle, the banning of incandescent light bulbs, the looming
California high-speed rail boondoggle and ethanol vehicle fuel mandates are all
policies driven by climatism.

The president's use of the term "carbon pollution" is disappointing.
Environmentalists inaccurately use this phrase to conjure up images of billowing
smoke stacks, and the president has picked this up. The theory of manmade global
warming claims that carbon dioxide, not carbon, causes climate change. Carbon
dioxide is an invisible gas, while carbon is a black solid. Referring to carbon
dioxide as "carbon" is as foolish as calling water "hydrogen" or salt
"chlorine." Compounds have totally different properties than their composing
elements. Neither is carbon dioxide pollution. It's an odorless, harmless gas
that green plants need for photosynthesis. Carbon dioxide is a foundation for
life on Earth along with oxygen and water.

Carbon dioxide is a trace gas. Only four of every 10,000 air molecules are CO2.
It's estimated that the amount of carbon dioxide that mankind added in all of
human history is only a fraction of one of these four molecules. The idea that
mankind's tiny contribution to a trace atmospheric gas can cause hurricanes,
tornadoes, droughts, floods and wildfires is not a joke, it's incredible.

Contrary to much of the recent press, a look at history shows that this summer's
drought was not unprecedented in these United States. The droughts of the 1930s
and 1950s lasted longer and experienced higher temperatures. According to the
State Climate Extremes Database of the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC), 37
of the 50 state high-temperature records dated prior to 1960, with 22 of these
from the decade of the 1930s. Only one state high-temperature record was
recorded during the last 16 years. Additional data on droughts and floods from
the NCDC show no increasing trend over the last 100 years. Nature drives
droughts and floods, not manmade emissions of carbon dioxide.

The president's statement is remarkable in another way. He implies that we
should vote for him because he can control droughts, floods and wildfires to
safeguard "our children's future."

During a speech in June 2008, he implied that he could slow the rise of the
seas. What's next, regulation of snowfall? If Mr. Obama is re-elected and with
bipartisan support in Congress and approval of the United Nations, look for the
Snowfall Abatement Act of 2014.

Steve Goreham is executive director of the Climate Science Coalition of America
and author of the new book "The Mad, Mad, Mad World of Climatism: Mankind and
Climate Change Mania."

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Spring heat won't trigger hurricanes

BYLINE: LEIGH SPANN, News Channel 8

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words


El Nino, La Nina affect storm development more

BY LEIGH SPANN

News Channel 8

TAMPA Another month of record heat and the Gulf of Mexico will feel like a hot
tub by the start of hurricane season in June.

The first four months of this year have been the hottest on record since 1895,
but that doesn't mean the tropics will be more active during hurricane season,
said Brian LaMarre, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.

"Warm temperatures in the winter really have no correlation with hurricane
frequency in the summertime," LaMarre said. "It doesn't really play a
significant role on hurricane forecasting because what we do look at is the
overall, large-scale weather pattern."

Record warm temperatures have made water in the Gulf of Mexico warmer, but they
don't have as much of an impact on deeper Atlantic Ocean water, LaMarre said.

El Nino and La Nina affect Atlantic hurricane development more, he said.

"We're looking at an El Nino developing later in the fall, which could limit the
number of hurricanes we get," LaMarre said.

An El Nino is associated with warmer-than-normal water-surface temperatures in
the tropical Pacific Ocean that affect global weather patterns.

But fewer hurricanes in a single season doesn't necessarily mean Florida is
safer from a disaster.

This year is the 20-year anniversary of Hurricane Andrew, one of the most
devastating storms to hit southern Florida. Only five other named storms formed
in 1992.

"Even if we're forecasting a below-normal season, one storm can have a serious
impact," LaMarre said.

lspann@wfla.com

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 778 words


Thank God it is all over. I get tired seeing so many candidates using this
letters to the editor page to promote themselves, as well as the endless
robocalls on the phone and ads on radio and TV. That said, it now appears that
the Legislature and the governor have lots of work to do concerning "early
voting." I was hoping that Florida would be out of the limelight this election
cycle, but no, the long lines and the reduction in early voting days made us
look Neanderthal at best.

How stupid can our elected officials be? Pretty stupid, it seems. First, this is
not a Republican versus Democrat thing; it is about the ability of residents to
cast a ballot. This right transcends both political parties. I watched late into
the night and saw that some areas, in particular South Florida, had folks in
line still waiting to nearly midnight and then some. How disrespectful this is
to the voting public.

This really needs to be changed in the next session of the Legislature. The
governor also needs tohear this. This is the people speaking by waiting
countless hours to vote. Have some respect here, please.

Frank Popeleski

Seffner

Revenge and vengeance

President Obama's advice for the election was "voting is the best revenge." It
seemed to work for him this election, but he must remember that the good book
taught us the eternal spiritual truth is that "Vengeance is mine, saith the
Lord."

Dale Kimball

Lutz

The scrap heap

For those Democrats and Republicans who continue to cling to political
philosophies that exhibit ignorance, bias and non-compromise, you have fully
rooted yourself in the scrap heap of irrelevance. Our great country was built on
the foundations of religious tolerance, respect for everyone and an abiding
interest in the welfare of our fellow man. If you cannot understand or accept
these tenants, you need to look into the mirror to see what you have become.

Dick Powers

Tampa

The last nail

You just witnessed the most historic moment in our country since the signing of
the Declaration of Independence. This was not just another win for Democrats and
another loss for Republicans. I believe it is much greater than that. If this
inept of an opponent cannot be defeated, then his party will remain in power
indefinitely.

The scales just tipped, and I believe it is now too late. Those who re-elected
this president are growing in number, and this was our last chance to turn our
country back to being what it once was.

The last nail was driven into the coffin of our once cherished republic form of
government. Our destiny now comes into focus. We are headed toward becoming a
socialist state. I will not live long enough to suffer the full impact.

The real tragedy is that those younger than me will no longer get to experience
the joy of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness that my generation and the
generations before me experienced.

John Kent

Tampa

Time to upgrade

Why are you folks tolerating such long lines and so much wasted time to vote? In
Oregon we have 100 percent vote by mail. We can examine the ballot at our
leisure and do any additional research needed to make an educated decision. We
do not have to deal with unreliable voting machines, and if there should ever be
a question, we have a complete paper trail to do a reliable recount. I invite
you to upgrade!

Don Schuman

Bend, Ore.

Climate change perspective

In his haste to paint Republicans negatively, Edward Racker ("Pay me now, or pay
me later," Letter of the Day, Nov. 2) makes classic sweeping statements that may
impress the uneducated but won't get far with thinking people.

For one, I don't know of many "Republicans" who deny climate change. What many
of us (from all political parties) do not blindly accept is that global climate
change is caused mostly by humans. We understand that there is solid scientific
evidence to show that global climate change is a natural occurrence most likely
resulting from cyclical solar flares and even changes in cloud cover. Some of us
will concede that mowing down acres and acres of forest may affect local climate
slightly.

But to suggest that Democrats will merely wave a legislative wand and "prevent
the damage resulting from freakish weather events" like Hurricane Sandy is just
silly. Weather damages. Weather kills. This has been a fact for thousands of
years, and no administration will change that. As for the tired jabs about God
and science, every one of us must believe in something that had no cause. For
me, it is a Creator. For you, it is matter and energy. Which one of us has the
true scientific dilemma?

B. Baylies

Tampa

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A sensible path toward energy self-sufficiency

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words


In news that should be reassuring for the economy, in five years the United
States is projected to produce more oil than Saudi Arabia. This country should
become a net oil exporter by 2030.

This increased production has the potential to lower business costs and also
reduce the chances of a global crisis disrupting supplies. It could even lessen
the need for international military commitments.

But the United States' new-found energy self-reliance, calculated by the
Paris-based nonpolitical International Energy Agency, could be good news for the
environment as well.

It should tamp down some of the industry's demands to drill every nook and
cranny -- including immediately off Florida's sugar-sand beaches -- regardless
of the risks. The nation's robust energy production, particularly the tapping of
natural gas through hydraulic fracturing, doesn't justify such recklessness.

The increased natural gas production should also reduce carbon emissions that
contribute to climate change.

It's true natural gas is a fossil fuel and when burned produces the carbon
dioxide that scientists blame for climate change. But it is far cleaner than
coal, the common alternative. So as the nation produces and exports more natural
gas, dependence on coal will be reduced; emissions will be cut.

University of California Professor Richard Muller and Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels
pointed out in a Wall Street Journal article this week that thanks to the
expanding use of natural gas, emissions in the United State are lower than they
have been in 20 years.

Muller was once a climate change skeptic, but his research made him a believer.
Daniels considers himself an "agnostic." But both believe a natural gas economy
would clean the atmosphere, a desirable outcome regardless of where one stands
on the climate-change debate.

Exporting natural gas would have an enormous impact on global emissions,
particularly in China, which now relies heavily on coal.

Environmentalists want a quick change to renewable energy sources such as solar
and wind, which produce no carbon. These technologies should be aggressively
pursued. But those energy sources now are simply not cost-effective for massive
use. An abrupt transition to renewables could crash the economy.

Natural gas provides an affordable, cleaner way to fuel the world's commerce
until renewable technologies become practical for widespread use.

Also critical is a strong emphasis on energy efficiency and conservation.

It is noteworthy that the International Energy Agency said its prediction of
America's energy self-sufficiency was based 55 percent on greater production and
45 percent on improving energy efficiency -- mostly from President Obama's
tougher fuel standards for vehicles.

Those standards came in for a lot of criticism, but they are contributing to the
nation's growing energy independence, which in turn brightens its economic
outlook.

Conservation is a quick and reliable way to bolster our fuel supply and should
be supported by both political parties, as should the responsible use of natural
gas.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Issues are heating up for election

BYLINE: Steve Otto, sotto@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words


Steve Otto

sotto@tampatrib.com

Funny the way things happen.

For roughly two years, we've watched, we've been force-fed and then we finally
tried to ignore a presidential campaign that only occasionally found its focus.

Going into the race, most of us probably figured it would center on three
issues: jobs, health care and the seemingly endless wars.

And for the most part, once we waded through the muck and the millions of
dollars worth of negative ads -- full of half-truths at best -- that's what we
got.

Not that it mattered. I wonder how many votes were affected by any of this? In
our polarized political climate, it didn't seem to make a difference. Neither
side ever delivered any knockdowns. In fact, the closest to a win was the first
debate, when former Gov. Mitt Romney proved he could actually hold his own --
which apparently came as something of a surprise to both sides.

But that was only a win on style points. On issues, both candidates and their
surrogates threw out numbers that nobody could agree on or add up. By last week
it was pretty much acknowledged that the race was nearly a dead heat, with the
critical swing states still up in the air.

Then along came Sandy. Mother Nature plays no favorites, although this one gave
President Barack Obama the chance to look presidential, while all Romney could
do was stay out of the way.

Suddenly the war, which has always been in the background during this campaign,
disappeared. Jobs and housing remained, but now climate change and the chaotic
weather patterns in the past couple of years moved to the forefront.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg wrote an article saying how the effects of
Superstorm Sandy had changed his mind, and that he was endorsing Obama because
he thought the president understood the looming prospects of rapidly changing
weather patterns.

Funny, isn't it, how events out of nowhere can change everything? I wonder if
Bloomberg was an early voter, long before Sandy, and now has some regrets about
his vote. I think that's one reason why I hold out until the last minute and
stand in line on Election Day.

I don't know that Sandy is going to influence voting, but if there was anything
good in all of this, it might be the timing of the storm that seems to be
finally bringing the issue of climate change to the surface.

Living on the Florida peninsula, which dangles out there as a target for
tropical storms, the fact that we are the most prepared among the states may not
matter that much if these so-called "superstorms" are in our future.

Look at what happened last week in places like the New Jersey shoreline or even
Staten Island, within shouting distance of America's biggest city and all of its
resources. For days these people were left without fuel for heating and little
fresh water. Thousands of homes were washed away or burned to the ground.

No matter who wins on Tuesday, the issues associated with climate change should
move up on our list of national priorities.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Citizen scientists can help track climate change

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 348 words


BY YVETTE C. HAMMETT

The Tampa Tribune

SEFFNER Are American robins traveling through your area at the same time every
year? What about monarch butterflies?

Information on when the purple cone flower produces, or when the saw palmetto
puts out berries can help scientists determine how climate change is affecting
Florida.

Those who want to help out can attend a free workshop on Feb. 11 to teach
volunteers exactly what to do and how to do it. The workshop will take place at
the Hillsborough County Extension Office, 5339 S. County Road 579, from 9 a.m.
to noon.

Nature's Notebook, a program of the National Phenology Network, is an innovative
partnership between scientists and citizens to train people how to recognize
changes in keystone plant and animal species. They can track when a tree
produces buds, when flowers bloom, or when monarch butterflies first appear each
year.

"I took this class last summer in Pinellas County, and now we are teaming up to
offer it in Hillsborough," said Nanette O'Hara, spokeswoman for the Tampa Bay
Estuary Program.

"We train you, and we're just begging for help in making these observations,"
O'Hara said.

Scientists throughout the United States will have access to the findings. The
information will be critical to farmers, resource managers and a host of other
groups, O'Hara said.

"This is a perfect thing for people who are gardeners, because they are so
observant, anyway," she said.

Volunteers fill out simple online data sheets noting their observations. The
information will be used to help scientists monitor changes in plant and animal
cycles and behavior associated with a changing climate.

Participants also can see where else in the country data is being collected on
the National Phenology Network, www.usanpn.org.

It's a commitment of about 15 minutes every week or so.

The U.S. Geological Survey is co-sponsoring the workshop with the estuary
program.

To sign up for the workshop, go to www.tbed.org.

yhammett@tampatrib.com

(813) 627-4763

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 816 words


The front page of the Tribune (March 8) proclaims "Justice" for slain informant
Rachel Hoffman. How about some justice for Florida's taxpayers?

Our legislators failed to consider that many of us worked hard to earn our
salaries and benefits that generated those tax dollars, some of us frequently
putting our lives on the line in dangerous urban areas of the country.

This taxpayer does not appreciate the munificence of the Florida Legislature, as
Hoffman was allegedly involved in felony criminal activity and chose to
cooperate with law enforcement, apparently to reduce her vulnerability to hard
time in prison.

This is to remind our generous legislators that we live in difficult economic
times. We have court clerks and educators wailing about budget cuts. The bloody
footprints leading from assassination scenes (of police officials and members of
the judiciary in many countries) lead straight to the doorsteps of dope dealers
and users.

I would like to take the members of the Tallahassee grand jury who admonished
the Tallahassee police officials to the high- and low-rise (apartment) areas of
Baltimore, where I worked in law enforcement in the'60s and'70s to see the
corrosive/destructive effects of illegal drug use and dealing.

Lane Bonner

Plant City

A hit piece

Regarding "Dog-lover Bondi new pit bull for extreme right" by Mary Jo Melone
(Other Views, March 9):

This vitriolic and rambling rant seems so misplaced and a waste of space in the
Trib by a columnist. As an everyday citizen who is not active in politics, one
has to wonder what's the writer's motivation or what agenda is being pushed by
this tirade from someone who is obviously not a Republican or conservative. Her
words would point to a fairly far-left viewpoint.

She assumes that any woman who doesn't support the extreme-left views to be a
traitor to the cause.

To Pam Bondi, I am sorry that you have to put up with such drivel. You have my
support, and I say "Keep it up."

Bob Tomas

Valrico

It's a contract

The Tribune editorial on March 9 is short on facts ("Faulty pension ruling
should be overturned," Our Views).

The editorial stated that state workers did not sign a contract that their
conditions of employment will never change. They didn't need to. Florida
statutes state: "As of July 1, 1974, the rights of members of the retirement
system established by this chapter are declared to be of a contractual nature,
entered into between the member and the state, and such rights shall be legally
enforceable as valid contract rights and shall not be abridged in any way."

To put it simply, Florida law in effect when the current Florida Retirement
System members were hired said the rights are contractual.

In addition, Article I, Section 10, of the Florida Constitution states that no
law impairing the obligation of contracts shall be passed.

State law says it is a contract, and the state constitution says the Legislature
can't pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts. Period.

The assertion that the 3 percent employee contribution is needed to keep the
pension plan solvent is invalid. The state reduced the amount they were paying
into the pension plan by the same 3 percent.

No one is arguing that the benefits for future employees can be changed, but to
change them for current members is clearly wrong.

It would be no different than if your boss told you he was overpaying you for
the past 10 years and asked for the money back.

D. B. Orr

Avon Park

Pollution test

Concerning the letter "Warming and cooling" (Views, March 9): I'm not sure if
the writer felt we had an impact on climate or not. For those who do not believe
we are polluting the Earth, just go into your garage and close the door, turn on
your car and sit down and try to enjoy breathing.

Now multiply that by millions of cars, and then tell me we aren't fouling up the
atmosphere.

John Hayes

Tampa

Denying science

In "Warming and cooling," Arthur Olsen states that the hottest weather occurred
in the'30s. It is true that 1934 was the hottest year on record in 133 years of
recordkeeping, but the other nine of the 10 hottest years on record have
occurred since 2000.

True atmospheric scientists -- not people who are cited by the likes of Glenn
Beck and Rush Limbaugh -- all agree that climate change is occurring.

A very small minority disagrees on the overall impact of human activity on
climate change. The vast majority agrees that global deforestation coupled with
the burning of fossil fuels has indeed altered the Earth's climate.

My finding is that the only people who deny that the climate is changing -- in
the face of irrefutable data -- are those who think that science is evil and get
their "facts" from talk radio and Fox News.

LeRoy Dennison

Riverview

The writer is a retired U.S. Coast Guard master chief marine science technician.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Coastal cities unready for Sandy's surge

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 523 words


We do not know if climate change had a thing to do with Hurricane Sandy's
bizarre and devastating track through the Northeast.

We do know that weather patterns appear to be changing and the nation needs to
seriously consider bolstering flood-protection systems in waterfront cities.

Sandy has killed at least38 people, flooded citiesalong the Eastern Seaboard and
left more than8 million without electricity.

Such a furious late-October storm would have been strange enough in Florida.
It's a shocker in the Northeast.

Craig Fugate, the veteran chief of the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
said, "I have not been around long enough to see a hurricane forecast with a
snow advisory in it."

With flood levels rising over 13 feet in parts of New York City, Gov. Andrew
Cuomo was understandably questioning whether levees or other storm surge
measures were needed in Lower Manhattan.

Cuomo said it seems like "we have a 100-year flood every two years now. ... The
construction of this city did not anticipate these kinds of situations. We are
only a few feet above sea level."

Much the same could be said of Tampa or any coastal city.

This isn't to say communities should begin a mad dash to rebuild waterfronts, an
impossible task. But flood-prevention planning should become a priority when
undertaking new projects.

Such precautions protect lives and property. But they also help businesses. Some
communities, particularly in the Pacific Northwest, are planning for the
possibility of sea level rise, not as a feel-good measure, but to ensure they
remain appealing to businesses. Commerce is going to continue regardless of
coastal fluctuations.

Planning for high water can be costly, but consider the costs of ignoring the
possibilities. It's estimated that Hurricane Sandy will cause more than $20
billion in damage. Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans cost $100 billion.

Costly levees and dikes are not necessarily the solution. In some cases, flood
prevention may require no more than minimizing shoreline development.

For all of Sandy's fury, things could have been far worse. Federal, state and
local officials did an impressive job of preparing for the storm, evacuating
vulnerable regions and closing subways and bridges.

Climate change advocates claim this crazy storm was the result of rising
temperatures in the ocean, and more such severe weather is inevitable. They
point to the increasing frequency of droughts, floods and wildfires. They warn
of rising sea levels.

Scientific evidence indicates warming is occurring and that human emissions are
a factor -- how big a factor is a subject of great debate. Many business leaders
fear rigid regulations would throw the economy into a tailspin while having
little or no impact on the climate.

We'd like to see a bipartisan, cool-headed analysis free of any political agenda
that would give the nation better guidance.

But one does not have to be a climate change activist to recognize flooding
risks are on the rise and that being prepared is superior to blindly hoping for
the best.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 12, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 943 words


I was sad about the week's political developments. Not sad about the outcome of
the presidential election -- in fact, I voted for the guy who won. I am sad
about the direction the Republican Party is taking.

In the aftermath of a beat-down that is really quite stunning given the state of
the economy, I'm hearing a cacophony of voices analyzing the results and coming
to the conclusion that the Republicans lost the election because they chose a
candidate who wasn't "conservative" enough. And the Yankees need to spend more
money. And Blue Oyster Cult needed more cowbell.

No, guys, Mitt Romney was plenty conservative enough for Wally and Martha up in
The Villages, especially given the fact that they believe the alternative is a
card-carrying communist. You lost the election because of me, dummies. The
50-year-old, upper-middle class, red-meat-eating white guy who's fed up with
social programs run amok and a government whose solution to every problem is to
create a new agency. And who, despite that, defected to the side that seems to
embrace those ideals.

The special-interest groups that have hijacked your party and redefined
"conservative" have driven me away. Being conservative now means bringing
Christian faith into the legislative process despite clear direction in the
Constitution that bars this from happening. Remember when you used to stand for
less government intrusion into people's lives? Being conservative now too means
rejecting science, and I don't remember that ever being part of the credo.
Carbon dating versus the Bible? Let the schools teach the science, and when your
kids get home you can tell them that their great, great, great Uncle Pete had a
pet Brontosaurus.

Whatever. The rejection of climate science, though, brings with it possible
consequences, ranging from summer discomfort to extinction of the species, and
I've got some issues with that. By the way, good luck explaining to your
grandchildren that you thought it entirely reasonable that an enormous, global
cabal of climate scientists got together to spread misinformation while the oil
industry gallantly tried to protect the world from the lies.

Look, I'm a conservative guy. I really am. And I'd love to hang with you again.
But right now, you've got some particularly rude houseguests who either need to
leave or sit quietly on the sofa. Call me when you get control of your party.

Mike Reilly

Lutz

Connecting with voters

An aircraft carrier steaming at flank speed requires many miles to come about
180 degrees. Notice I did not say reverse course; rather, I said come about 180
degrees. Attempting to immediately reverse course while operating at flank speed
could be disastrous and should only be attempted in emergencies. Changing course
gradually in order to proceed to a new and better destination takes time.

As I review the changes in our culture that I have witnessed in 75 years, I am
amazed at how we have changed. In my childhood there was no expectation for the
federal government to solve our problems. Expecting help from the federal
government was considered unpatriotic at best. Today we expect the federal
government to provide free condoms. This change has been accomplished gradually,
and we continue to gain speed in the new direction.

In a recent editorial you stated the obvious fact that the Republican Party must
change its message to appeal to the minorities. The unanswered question is: How?

The first requirement is to adopt a long-term view. It has taken us 75 years to
get where we are; it may take 75 years to come about 180 degrees again. "Rome
was not built in a day." A long-term view chooses priorities in terms of
probabilities and possibilities, not dreams.

Second, the basic question in selling anything is answering the question "What's
in it for me?" from the prospect's view. To preach smaller government is great
in the abstract, but why is that important to me? To preach individual liberty
is great, but why is that important to me? To preach "the land of opportunity"
is great, but why is that important to me? To preach lower taxes is great, but
why is that important to me?

The Republican Party must answer the question "What's in it for me?" about the
principles of the party and must express those answers in terms that are
meaningful to all.

Third, very few buying decisions are based solely on the facts. If that were so
we would be witnessing a change of command ceremony in January. The ultimate
basis of nearly all buying decisions is emotional. Gov. Romney had virtually all
the facts in his favor yet could not close the deal. David Axelrod understands
how to appeal to the emotions, so he was able to create a machine second to none
and deliver a second term for President Obama.

Fourth, tea party advocates must realize the necessity for the long-term view
and the need for consistency in the message.

At least two Senate seats, possibly four, and with it control of the Senate,
were lost by an inconsistent message. On the one hand, the tea party was talking
about individual freedoms, but on the other hand preaching the need for the
government to interfere in the matter of abortion control. What is the message?

A wise man once said, "Politics is the art of the possible." In today's world it
is not possible to address the emotional issue of abortion and win.

So the Republican Party must move on to the issues that it can answer and win
with. It must address the question of "Why is that important to me?" in
emotional terms meaningful to the various elements of the electorate.

James P. Whitaker

Lutz

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 30, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BYLINE: JEFF HOUCK, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words


We live in a world so amazing that it can be difficult to generate an adequate
sense of wide-eyed wonder when it comes to the astounding new facts revealed by
science each year.

In other words, it's easy to miss the big, fat, important stuff when you're
distracted by Honey Boo Boo Child.

Every year, we do our best to remind ourselves that incredible discoveries have
been made.

An example: Did you hear that scientists found the Earth's oldest and largest
meteorite crater in Greenland, a 62-mile-long dent in the planet's fender that
is believed to have formed 3 billion years ago?

Didn't think so. No doubt we were collectively obsessing about Snooki's baby or
guys jumping out of balloons from 24 miles up.

This time of year as we change calendars, it's good to remind ourselves to stay
at attention. Each year is full of new discoveries and revelations. They might
not be the same kind of eye candy as Angelina Jolie in a slit-up-to-there Oscars
dress, but they're still important. Here's a passel of fresh truths revealed
during 2012:

1 Ancient microbes were found in Antarctica, 65 feet beneath the icy surface of
a mostly frozen lake that has no oxygen. The findings increase the knowledge of
how life can sustain itself in extreme environments beyond our planets.

2 Swimmers who want to move faster through the water should spread their fingers
like a fork to give them more force.

3 A simple orange scent introduced into a shopping environment prompted 400
customers to spend an average of 20 percent more money at a store.

4 The 280-mile Grand Canyon is far older than previously thought. A new process
for measuring age says the canyon began forming 70 million years ago -- not 5 to
6 million years ago, as was widely thought. Also, the gorge was formed by an
earlier river flowing in the opposite direction, not by the Colorado River.

5 Sandy Island, which was assumed to be between Australia and New Caledonia,
does not actually exist. The 16-mile-wide island was placed incorrectly on maps
long ago through human error and was repeated without verification.

6 Rising amounts of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due to climate change could
lead to larger sweet potatoes.

7 People who get out of bed before 7 a.m. are more likely to die naturally at
about 11 a.m., while late risers are more likely to hold out until about6 p.m.

8 Like humans, apes also appear to experience a midlife dip in happiness.

9 Man began attaching stone tips to spears 500,000 years ago, or about 200,000
years earlier than previously thought.

10 Meteorites from Mars that fell to Earth show that water that once flowed
across the surface of Mars was warm enough for alien life to survive.

11 A rogue planet thought to be between 50 and 120 million years old was found
100 light years away from Earth. It is not associated with any nearby star.

12 Already the leggiest creature on Earth, a white millipede, illacme plenipes,
was discovered in northern California with 750 legs. It measures between 1 and 3
centimeters.

13 Unlike the receding sea ice in the Arctic, Antarctic sea ice cover has
increased under the effects of climate change.

14 The medial prefrontal cortex, a region near the front of the human brain,
makes snap judgments about physical attraction and whether the person is likely
to be a compatible match all within milliseconds of seeing a new face.

15 Watching a horror movie may burn nearly 200 calories in 90 minutes.

16 The sound of a knife scraping on a glass bottle is the most annoying sound
sensed by the brain's amygdala, which controls emotions and response to noises.
The sound of applause is least-annoying.

17 When female entrepreneurs pay themselves a salary, they earn $60,000. Male
founders pay themselves $78,000, on average.

18 A new species of sea snake that feeds on fish eggs was discovered in a
Denmark museum, where the specimens sat in mislabeled jars since the 1800s.

19 White whales, or Beluga whales, make voices uncannily close to human speech.
The rhythm of their sounds is similar, and fundamental frequencies are several
octaves lower than typical whale sounds.

20 Dolphins sleep with only half of their brains at a time. This allows them to
stay alert to predators for at least 15 days in a row. They likely developed
this pattern so they could surface to breathe.

21 Emperor penguins can double or even triple their swimming speed in short
bursts by releasing air from their feathers in the form of tiny bubbles.

22 People who lose their virginity after the age of 20 enjoy more satisfying
relationships later in life.

23 Relative to their size, bull sharks bite with more force than great white or
hammerhead sharks. The force is due in part to the width of their jaws, which
can cut sea turtles in half.

24 Honeybees can bite as well as sting. The bite contains a natural anesthetic
similar to Lidocaine and is used as a snakelike venom to paralyze pests invading
the hive.

25 Being in the company of annoying people slows the rate at which the mind
processes movement.

26 Enough water vapor to fill Earth's oceans more than 2,000 times was found in
a gas and dust cloud in the Taurus constellation, which is on the verge of
collapsing into a new sunlike star.

27 DNA has a half-life of 521 years, meaning that creatures millions of years
old, such as dinosaurs, could never be cloned.

28 People who find some vegetables, such as sprouts and broccoli, unbearably
bitter are better at fighting off bugs because of heightened chemical receptors
in their nose.

29 A fossil classified for more than 100 years as a lemur without a nose is
actually that of a fish.

30 A new class of antibody found in camels, dromedaries, llamas and alpacas may
be used to improve drug delivery to the brain in patients with Alzheimer's
disease.

31 Ten percent of people older than 60 do not have any gray hair.

32 The African spiny mouse shows the ability to re-grow damaged tissues such as
ears, much in the way amphibians can replicate lost body parts.

33 Horses that are too dependent on human interaction could have impaired
problem-solving abilities.

34 As many as 30 percent of teenagers send nude pictures of themselves in email
or text messages.

35 Sharks are colorblind.

36 Compressed barley husks, a byproduct of whiskey making, have the ability to
remove pollutants such as pesticides, benzene and heavy metals from polluted
water.

37 Female killer whales stop reproducing in their 30s and 40s but live into
their 90s -- the longest menopause of any nonhuman species -- so they can care
for their adult sons.

38 Crows are able to recognize faces and associate them with feelings.

39 A giant amount of magma is inflating under the Greek island of Santorini,
site of one of the largest volcanic eruptions in recorded history 3,600 years
ago.

40 The western scrub jay, a bird species native to western North America, often
flies in clusters to the body of dead birds and gathers around it funeral style,
warning others and using its presence as information to be shared among the
group.

41 Married patients with advanced lung cancer are likely to survive longer after
treatment than patients who are single.

42 Venom from the deadly Brazilian Wandering Spider can boost human sexual
performance by increasing the release of nitric oxide, a chemical that dilates
blood vessels and improves blood flow.

43 A fish just 2 centimeters long named phallostethus cuulong was discovered in
Vietnam's Mekong Delta. The male of the species displays reproductive organs on
its chin, and its anus is on its throat.

44 The sun is an almost perfect sphere with a far more constant shape than
previously thought.

45 For college-age women, appearance generally is more important than health.

46 Toddlers who snore persistently are more likely to have behavior problems
with hyperactivity, depression and attention issues than their nonsnoring peers.

47 Native Americans brewed a primitive form of tea almost 1,000 years ago using
toasted holly leaves and stems. The drink was six times more potent than coffee.

48 Couples can avoid heated arguments with a quick squirt of nasal spray
containing oxytocin, a hormone the body makes naturally that causes women to
become friendlier and men to become more sensitive.

49 Bottlenose dolphins like to hang out in cliques. Dolphins that wear sea
sponges on their beaks as hunting tools prefer to hang out with other dolphins
that do the same.

50 A rift the size of the Grand Canyon hidden under the Antarctic ice sheet is
contributing to ice melt and a consequent rise in the sea level.

Sources: SEN, Scientific American, Mother Nature Network, New York Times,
Reuters, New Scientist, TheSpec.com, University of Warwick, Journal of Science,
SkyMania.com, ABC Science, LiveScience.com, British Antarctic Survey, Digital
Journal, Medical Daily, Money Control, Washington Post, Forbes, National Marine
Mammal Foundation, National Geographic, Handbag.com, University of South
Florida, USA Today, European Space Agency, University of Perth, Daily Mail,
Huffington Post, ZeeNews, The Telegraph, Horse and Country, The Independent,
Discovery News, Scotsman.com, Huffington Post, University of Maryland, The Week,
Red Orbit, University of Missouri

jhouck@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7324

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 925 words


Here we are in the aftermath of yet another tragic mass shooting and the
senseless loss of many innocent lives. As always, there will be a cry by some to
ban guns and repeal the Second Amendment. But, that is truly not the answer.

Guns don't kill people; nut jobs kill people. If guns are outlawed, then only
outlaws will have guns. Though trite and overused, both of these statements are
factual.

Guns in the hands of God-fearing, law-abiding, permit-carrying Americans are one
of the best defenses we have against such atrocities.

Does any rational person truly believe that preventing decent citizens from
protecting themselves will deter criminals from stealing and using a gun to
commit a crime? Didn't Prohibition and its ultimate repeal teach us anything? By
definition, criminals don't obey laws.

Without fail, every time a mass shooting occurs, the investigation reveals that
there were obvious signs that the shooter was disturbed, but political
correctness prevented him from being headed off at the pass. That needs to be
corrected. How many times do we have to suffer the consequences of a lunatic's
actions only to learn he should have been locked up years ago? We should enforce
existing laws, dole out automatic 50-year sentences without bail for crimes
committed with a gun and reinstate capital punishment for murder. We should also
quit building prisons that resemble country clubs and instead make them
miserable hell holes that criminals will try to avoid like the plague. We all
agree that something needs to be done, but disarming law-abiding American
citizens is not the answer.

Ronald D Carmony

Sebring

Need more security

Besides the tremendous pain and sorrow of what happened in Connecticut comes
great anger and concern. Something must be done to protect the public at large
to the degree of national defense. Armed guards and metal detectors should not
be out of the question wherever crowds meet; schools, churches, hospitals games,
malls, and special events.

We spend billions building facilities for our troops to protect citizens of
foreign countries; what about us? Our defense budget must provide security
within our borders, and when perpetrators are arrested before they strike, they
should never see the light of day.

John Mannone

Tampa

Not U.S. problem

I was sickened by the elementary school killings in Connecticut. I only wish
these people would shoot themselves first before they turn their guns on
innocent children. I realize that the first thought after something like this is
gun control but the first thought should be what are we doing wrong in society
that gunmen and even mothers and fathers seem to think that killing children,
even their own children, will alleviate whatever pain they are feeling?

And this isn't just a problem in the United States. A look at the front section
of the Tampa Tribune on Dec. 15 on pages 5 and 8 shows that this has been
happening around the world. Scotland, Norway, and China have all had school
tragedies.

Terry Larson

Seffner

Confronting autism

I recently read in the Tampa Tribune newspaper about an article about autism.
The mainpoint of the article was the first changes that were being made in
almost 20 years to redefine disorders.

In the article, "Psychiatric board revises diagnostic guide," the writer tells
how changes were made to redefine disorders.

I think this development is a step in the right direction because it givesa more
accurate way to diagnose individuals who may have a disorder.

The article says, "Even seemingly subtle changes to the criteria can have
substantial effects on patterns of care." This addresses a lot about how little
changes can make a big difference.

I go to J.W. Mitchell High School, and I am doing my senior project on autism.
In my senior paper I included a lot about autism and the diagnosis of it. I
addressed why the correct diagnosis needs to be made so that the individual gets
the proper treatment, help and support they need to be able to live a successful
life. This article helped me to further understand my project, and I plan to
include it in my final presentation for my senior project.

Katarina Campbell

New Port Richey

World's end

With the Winter Solstice, Dec. 21, fast approaching, end times hysteria has
increased. My initial reaction was, "How funny!"

But maybe it's not so funny. Maybe the Mayans were right. The Winter Solstice of
2012 could mark the tipping point for world climate change, the point after
which there is no turning back.

Instead of a mythical fireball from outer space, we will be dealt a quickly
accelerating world collapse. Super storms, currently fertile farmland becoming
deserts, rising oceans, food and water crises, the extinction of millions of
species, and the eventual collapse of civilization. And all denied because it
was easier than dealing with the possibility.

So now there is great uproar about the "fiscal cliff." For the sake of our
children and grandchildren, it's time that we began dealing with the "climate
cliff," the real threat to our country and our very continuation as a species.
Or is it already too late?

Fern Williams

Zephyrhills

Tax surprise

Obama said there would be no tax increases for anyone making less than $250,000.
Well, I just got the news my health insurance is being taxed $63 for people with
pre-existing conditions.

I can only imagine what other surprises are in Obama care that we had to pass
before we get to find out what's in it.

Jame Malloy

Pinellas Park

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pay me now, or pay me later

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 265 words


I remember how building codes changed in 1994 as a result of a hurricane that
devastated Florida while Republicans in general denied climate change. I wonder
what a proactive climate-change administration would have accomplished over the
years toward preventing the damage resulting from freakish weather events. I
realize that "science" and "scientists" are not words that exist in the
Republican vocabulary, but science and scientists have been warning us for
decades that we need to prepare for future Hurricane Sandys. I understand that
the religious right is satisfied with weather change being an act of God or that
our weather can be controlled through prayer, but rational minds believe we need
a different reaction and approach to a safer future.

I've heard the damage from Sandy is estimated to be between $10 billion and $20
billion. Where does that money come from? If it is all insurance money, how does
the insurance industry survive? Will homeowners' and commercial insurance rates
increase to cover the damage? It sounds like a "you can pay me now or you can
pay me later" situation. Paying later always costs more, and the adverse Earth
events are just going to get worse. Do you still think the trillion we spent
blowing up sand in Iraq was worth it, or could that money have been used to
shore up our infrastructure and other exposures?

To be anti-science is to be anti-American -- in addition to being foolish if you
believe in eliminating FEMA.

Edward Racker

Lutz

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New energy plan for Florida, nation is critical

BYLINE: TOM EVANS, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 777 words


BY TOM EVANS

Special To The Tampa Tribune

Climate change is in part a result of a natural cycle of nature but also with a
substantial assist from mankind. We can't do much about Mother Nature, but we
can do lots of other things that may slow the process. We desperately need an
energy plan that not only encourages production of cleaner energy that does not
add further to the warming of our planet but a plan that also encourages
conservation. We must reduce the burning of fossil fuels and the spewing of
carbon dioxide that adds to the greenhouse effect that is making our planet
warmer.

We should, and can, through conservation, reduce the amount of energy we use.
All of us need to be a part of the effort. Everyone should do their fair share.
For example, turning our thermostats up on hot days and down a touch on cold
days will make a difference. Wearing a little extra clothing in winter andfewer
clothes in summer is not too difficult a task.

We can increase fuel economy standards, and in the process thousands of
engineers and scientists can be given meaningful jobs that help our economy. The
automobile companies have already indicated they are up to the challenge. This
will not only reduce fossil fuel use, it will save consumers money by giving
them more bang for the buck.

Another very important element in any credible energy plan is the development of
alternative sources of energy: wind, solar, nuclear and natural gas. We have a
great deal of natural gas in the United States, and it will in time help us
substantially reduce the use of coal and oil. In the process, the United States
will move away from our dependence on foreign oil from unstable regions in the
world. This also makes good sense from the standpoint of national security.

There's a lot riding on our ability to implement an energy plan that addresses
the problems we will continue to face. In the meantime, the melting of Arctic
ice and glaciers that provide water for half our planet continues, and that
creates enormous problems, especially in the undeveloped areas of the world. We
must reduce the burning of fossil fuels, and America must lead the way.

We have recently seen an increase in the intensity of storms that cause such bad
beach erosion and create storm surges that destroy properties and place so many
lives at risk. Hurricane Sandy's devastation should remain forever etched in our
minds. Mankind's significant contribution to climate change may be doubted by a
few, but it is for real and we have a profound responsibility to do everything
possible to slow the process -- not only for ourselves but for future
generations as well.

In the meantime, we also need to adapt to the dangers created by increasingly
vicious storms.

We need to stop encouraging development through government subsidies, in
storm-prone vulnerable areas. We cannot prevent development, but we should and
can say to those developing, "Do it on your own nickel and not the American
taxpayers."

Fortunately, there is an existing law, the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA),
which prevents subsidies, including federal flood insurance, on undeveloped
barrier lands along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, including 677,334 acres in
Florida. It was initially opposed by many well-funded special interests, but the
common-sense approach Congress took in passing the act was not only a tribute to
common sense but a fine example of Democrats and Republicans working together to
achieve success. I believe that will happen again because there is no other
choice.

Coastal barriers protect the wetlands that play such an important role in our
economy because they are spawning grounds for fish and shellfish. These valuable
natural resources also provide vital habitat areas for wildlife of all kinds and
are helpful in reducing the impact of flooding. If wetlands had not been
destroyed, Hurricane Katrina would not have destroyed much of New Orleans.

As Ronald Reagan said 30 years ago when he signed the Evans-Chafee bill: "It is
a classic example of environmental legislation that is a triumph for natural
resource conservation and federal fiscal responsibility."

Tom Evans is a former member of Congress from Delaware. With Sen. John Chafee of
Rhode Island, he co-authored the first Coastal Barrier Resources Act, which was
signed into law by President Reagan in 1982. Evans serves on the board of the
Florida Wildlife Federation and is active in the Smarter, Safer Florida
Coalition, which advocates for reform of insurance programs that promote
subsidized development in flood-prone areas.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 423 words


Regarding "Insurance industry no climate-change skeptic" (Other Views, March 7):
I was born in 1933; the hottest temperatures recorded in America were back then.
Our population was small then, and automobiles were few, so our carbon footprint
was very small. Forty years later scientists (?) were warning us of a global
cooling. And today scientists on both sides of the issue of climate change -- it
used to be called "global warming" -- don't agree.

The reason someone brings up the subject every now and then is because they want
to keep the issue alive and try to convince the American people that it is real
(even though the majority of people do not believe it). Furthermore, there are
those in high places who want to add another tax to hard-working Americans --
"cap and trade." And some would even use the insurance industry to push their
point.

Arthur Olsen

Clearwater

Community's events

In response to Steven Lopez's letter ("It's a race, not a social," Your Views,
March 7): Regarding his comments as to the legitimacy of the 2012 Publix Super
Markets Gasparilla Distance Classic 5K, the Gasparilla Distance Classic
Association does take a great deal of care in working to provide the opportunity
for all who choose to participate, and to be able to do so in a comfortable and
safe manner. This includes groups and church organizations and also runners such
as Lopez who consider themselves competitive.

To accomplish this, in 2012 a "5K wave start" was utilized. In order for it to
work efficiently, while completing the required registration form it was the
participant's responsibility to provide their "projected 5K finish time."
According to the time provided, a color-coded bib number was assigned to
correspond with five different 5K wave start corrals.

Without the requested information, participants who did not provide a projected
finish time were placed in the "Green Wave" projected finish time of 51-60
minutes. This was the last of four runner waves. Fortunately, and based on
positive runner and walker comments, the 5K wave start was successful and did
indeed create a runner- and walker-friendly environment.

The Publix Super Markets Gasparilla Distance Classic Race weekend events belong
to the Tampa Bay community. For some, it's a race. For others, it's a day to
participate, have fun and make memories.

Susan Harmeling

Tampa

The writer is executive director of the Gasparilla Distance Classic Association
Inc.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 5, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 610 words


Regarding "Coastal cities unready for Sandy's surge" (Our Views, Oct. 31): Your
editorial begins, "We do not know if climate change had a thing to do with
Hurricane Sandy's bizarre and devastating track through the Northeast." Rest
assured it did not.

The development of a Category 1 or 2 hurricane in the Caribbean during October
and then heading up the eastern U.S. coastline is hardly a once-in-a-century (or
two) aberration. Nor is a nor'easter.

What caused those two unrelated storms to fuse into an explosive hybrid was
nothing related to global warming, but rather the presence of a high-pressure
area (the opposite of a storm), with its clockwise circulation, sitting to the
east of northern New England and acting like a "Road Closed -- All Traffic Must
Turn Left" barrier.

Had these same three weather elements converged in the pre-industrialized era,
the meteorological result would have been the same.

Gary P. Posner

Plant City

A great man

Regarding "Vet takes issue with hospital's namesake" (front page, Oct. 22): As a
former aide to the late Congressman James A. Haley, I take umbrage with Bob
Sawallesh's move to change the name of the James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital. It
would be a travesty to dishonor this great man.

Haley had to live with the consequences of the tragic 1944 circus fire for the
rest of his life. Perhaps this experience is what made him so caring for others
and attributed to his great wisdom. Haley cared deeply for his veterans. He was
a veteran himself, serving in World War I and the Big Red One.

I and the late Elmo Hood manned the Bartow office for Haley for 15-plus years.
Hood served as commander of the American Legion of Florida, and his son, a West
Point graduate, was killed in the massacre of Dak To in Vietnam.

Although a Democrat, Haley was a staunch conservative. He did not believe in
wasting one dime of the taxpayers' money. If we had more like him in Washington,
we would not be in the mess we are in.

Sawallesh should delve more deeply in the character and lives of others before
he tries to malign them for a tragic event for which they were not responsible.

Helen B. Gienau

Bartow

Write-in responds

I am writing to assure both you and Tribune readers that I am a serious
candidate for superintendent of schools in Pasco County even though I am a
write-in and doing this without asking people for money. How could I, as a
write-in, ask for money when most people think I don't have a chance? So I
campaign via my Facebook profile, and I attended school board meetings in August
and September. I saw the angst of the teachers. What's more, I felt it because I
was a teacher.

I know the easiest part of being a teacher is teaching the students. The hardest
part is dealing with the fact that often you don't have sufficient
administrative support to back you up. If voters want a choice other than the
Republican nominee, it's me.

I didn't file for this job to close the August primary. Ed Collins did that. I
filed to try to counteract what he did. Then, after seeing how political things
were, I decided to stay in this for the principle of offering my experience to
voters who want someone real in this job. Kurt Browning is not a bad guy, but he
has so much to learn about the schools.

I can tell you if by some miracle I win, the first thing I will do is see to it
that Mr. Marsh (social studies) at Land O' Lakes High School has books to give
to students to take home. They don't all have computers, and the state thinks
all they need is an EBook code. It's time for someone who is real.

Kat Lambert

Dade City

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clinton calls for civility, solutions in Straz speech

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words


He cites polarization as hurdle to economic, environmental fixes

BY WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Former President Bill Clinton urged political civility, environmental
sustainability and economic equality in a speech to a near-full house at the
David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night.

"We are living in the most interdependent age in human history," he said, but
one that is afflicted with "a staggering number of poor people," environmental
degradation and unstable political and financial systems.

Much of the answer, he said, will come from "NGOs" --nongovernmental
organizations -- like the one he founded after leaving office, the William J.
Clinton Foundation, which includes his Clinton Global Initiative.

He described some parts of its work in alleviating economic distress after the
earthquake in Haiti, making AIDS medication more widely available worldwide and
limiting the consumption of sugary soft drinks in U.S. schools, which he said is
contributing to an epidemic of diabetes.

Clinton, who has been active on the speakers circuit since leaving the Oval
Office, said solving problems with nongovernmental, cooperative citizens efforts
is an American tradition as old as the first volunteer fire department in
Philadelphia in the 18th century.

"It's a great world. A lot of good things are happening," but "it's too unequal,
unstable and unsustainable. We have to do something," he said.

Earlier Wednesday, he visited a magnet school in Tampa with Susan King, the
Hillsborough County school district's director of magnet programs, with whom
Clinton said he had been friends since the fourth grade.

For some in the crowd who came to see Clinton at the Straz Center, his
appearance in Tampa recalled halcyon days for Democrats in Tampa when Clinton
came close to winning Florida in his 1992 election, then won the state in 1996.

"Bill Clinton is one of the foremost statesmen of our time," said former Mayor
Sandy Freedman, one of Clinton's strongest and earliest Tampa backers. "In my
memory, I don't think we've had a politician who's been able to connect with
people the way he has, combined with the intellectual capacity to deal with
issues."

During his speech, Clinton recalled riding through Tampa with Freedman and
current Mayor Bob Buckhorn, then her assistant.

Another prominent Clinton supporter, lawyer Richard Salem, said the ex-president
could teach today's political figures a lot about "how to keep a positive and
productive perspective while being pummeled by partisan politics and personal
problems. ... Most of us would be down for the count after the political turmoil
and personal problems he experienced."

Construction contractor George Solar of Tampa, said, "I enjoyed eight years of
prosperity in the Clinton years. ... He provided us with prosperity, a safe
environment and peace."

"We're hoping Hillary runs," said Becky Ellison of Lakeland, attending with her
husband, Mike.

Clinton largely stayed away from politics.

In his few political comments, he talked with pride about some of the economic
accomplishments of his administration and criticized the Republican Party for
what he said was its unrealistic rejection of the scientific evidence of climate
change and its human causes. He also praised President Barack Obama's health
care reform effort as the beginning of a solution to a problem governments long
have tried to solve.

During his presidency,he said, "we moved 100 times more people from poverty into
the middle class" than in the Reagan-Bush presidencies, and oversaw "the only
time in the last 40 years in America when the bottom 20 percent of Americans'
incomes increased percentagewise as much as the top 20 percent."

On the environment, he said the nation's growth model cannot be sustained
"because of the way we produce and consume energy and other natural resources."

"One party made the price of admission your advance denial of climate change,"
he said. "It's like a theological question, right after, 'Do you believe in
God.'"

But to solve the nation's problems, he said, "we can't afford a political
situation where the only thing that works is division, demonization and fighting
all the time." America, he said, is increasingly polarized because people refuse
to associate with those with whom they disagree.

Citing an author who wrote about the separation of neighborhoods into Democratic
and Republican bastions in Texas, he said, "We're not as racist as we used to
be, we're not as sexist as we used to be, we're not as homophobic as we used to
be. Our only remaining prejudice is we just don't want to be around anybody who
disagrees with us.

"We need to be around people who disagree with us. Nobody's right all the time."

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stories that get our vote

BYLINE: AMANDA SELLET, Special correspondent

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1060 words


Politics Hollywood-style will have you primed for the Republican National
Convention

BY AMANDA SELLET

Special correspondent

Ah, politics! Give us your theme songs and sound bites and tri-color balloons,
your men in dark suits sprouting wires behind their ears, your

waving flags and applauding faithful, the ladies with lacquered hair: It's party
time in Tampa.

Whether you're headed for the floor of the Republican National Convention,
protesting in the event zone or steering clear of the crowds, you can get a
taste of the action with these classic tales of government gone wild,
Hollywood-style.

Warm and Fuzzy, with

a Soupcon of Romance:

"Dave" (1993): Kevin Kline shines in the dual role of a comatose president and
the happy-go-lucky celebrity impersonator who gets an unexpected cameo in the
Oval Office. Sigourney Weaver plays the long-suffering first lady who wonders
why her snake of a husband has suddenly become a good guy. Also of note: Ving
Rhames in a sweater vest, and Bonnie Hunt's tour guide ("We're walking, we're
walking.")

"The American President" (1995): A thinking person's romantic comedy, with sharp
turns from Michael Douglas as a widowed president and Annette Bening as the
comely lobbyist who catches his eye. A sparkling supporting cast -- including
Michael J. Fox and Anna Deavere Smith -- is left to deal with the fallout from a
president who goes on dates. You will never again forget the state flower of
Virginia. (Flowering dogwood, of course.)

Conspiracy

Theorists Unite

"The Manchurian Candidate" (1962, 2004): Jonathan Demme's 21st-century remake
swaps the Korean War for the Gulf; Frank Sinatra for Denzel Washington; and the
Communist menace of 1962 for a modern evil: the global super corporation bent on
world domination. For sheer creepiness, the original still has the edge, thanks
to Angela Lansbury's turn as one of the scariest on-screen moms of all time. For
those who like to believe that their dreams are telling them something, this
story of brainwashed ex-soldiers is the stuff of nightmares.

When a Name

Becomes an Adjective: The Nixonian Oeuvre

"Nixon" (1995): Oliver Stone's other political movie is a sweeping and ambitious
biopic starring a Welshman (Anthony Hopkins) as Tricky Dick. In addition to the
parade of historical figures, an attempt is made to understand the man behind
the malfeasance. (It seems Nixon had intimacy issues withhis mother and his
wife, Pat, the latter played to Oscar-nominated perfection by Joan Allen.)
Sticklers may shudder at the director's dramatic license, but his fast-and-loose
approach to history feels strangely appropriate for the subject matter.

"All the President's Men" (1976): As much a newspaper movie as a political
drama, the story of the reporters who exposed the Watergate scandal takes a long
and detailed look at the process of investigative reporting. It helps that
Dustin Hoffman and Robert Redford are the ones rounding up sources and checking
on leads in the pre-digital era, but this careful, deliberate film may require
some serious concentration for those weaned on fast cuts and sloppy
storytelling.

"Dick" (1999): For a light, airy palate cleanser, check out this tale of two
ditzy teens (Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst) with a Forrest Gumpian knack
for stumbling upon (and comically altering) crucial moments in history. All the
familiar faces are here -- Nixon and various henchpersons; Woodward and
Bernstein -- only sillier.

Talking the Talk

"The West Wing" (1999-2006): Whether the thought of Martin Sheen as Commander in
Chief makes your heart flutter or stop, it's hard not to admire the verbal
dexterity of Aaron Sorkin's White House drama. The constraints of series
television occasionally resulted in storylines more sensationalthan their
real-life counterparts, but the show deserves credit for daring to intersperse
real issues with the histrionics.

High School "Crucible"

"Election" (1999): Matthew Broderick plays against type as a teacher struggling
with temptation in several forms, including that of pert blonde student Tracy
Flick (a perfectly cast Reese Witherspoon). It should be a simple thing for an
intelligent adult to outwit a control freak teen seeking not-so-high political
office, but moral ambiguity -- and frustrated hopes -- are the name of the game
as Broderick's world crumbles around him.

Because

"The Notebook"

isn't about

politics

"Ides of March" (2011): Director George Clooney plays a presidential hopeful
whose campaign staff includes the bedroom-eyed Ryan Gosling. The idea that power
corrupts is not exactly new, but Gosling's journey from innocence to experience
gains gravitas from an excellent supporting cast, including Paul Giamatti and
Philip Seymour Hoffman as dueling spin doctors.

Morality in Black

and White

"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" (1939): This is the classic tale of one man
taking on the system, as well as the ultimate gee-shucks role for star Jimmy
Stewart as the small-town boy who gets a taste of big-city politics when he is
unexpectedly appointed senator. Jean Arthur is the wisecracking love interest
who finds her cynicism wilting in the face of Stewart's impassioned earnestness.
For those who want to believe, this is the rare political flick in which the
good guy stays that way.

Sticking it

to the Other Side

"Primary Colors" (1998): Not all political movies put liberals on a pedestal.
Witness this juicy adaptation of the eponymous book, a thinly veiled expose of
Bill Clinton's rise to power. John Travolta plays the charismatic philanderer on
his way to the White House; Emma Thompson is his thin-lipped wife. Although the
real-life principals have gone on to relatively dignified second acts, no one
comes out smelling like a rose here.

When Elephants Fly

"Game of Thrones" (2011): Incest, beheadings and dire wolves, oh my! Wouldn't it
be fun if the political machinations of today involved more sword-fighting and
fewer stuffy debates? Our sober, be-suited candidates would be hard-pressed to
compete with a sadistic blond boy king whose throne is made of swords, or match
the drunken wit of Peter Dinklage. Nor does the average presidential dog (or
pony) stand a chance against dragons. The personal hygiene may be dubious, but
for sheer audacity this is political scheming at its best.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reversal fortune of

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT, Special correspondent

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words


Redfish might be showing up a bit early, thanks to warmer water

BY FRANK SARGEANT

Special correspondent

The classic wisdom on water temperature is this: Kingfish arrive when the water
temperature is 68 degrees, and redfish arrive when the numbers are reversed at
86.

With the evident climate change, we soon might see 86 arriving much earlier and
staying much later. It used to be at least the first of August before the heat
built to that level, but not anymore. The official NOAA water temperature for
Gulf waters in the St. Pete Beach area is 87. If the redfish are watching the
thermometer, then the run should be on any day.

Adult reds, 28 inches and up, move in from huge schools that spend most of the
year in the open Gulf in late summer and fall. They'll eventually spawn in the
larger passes before heading back offshore, but when they first arrive they're
in a feeding mood.

The fish not only bust tackle in the ship channels and around the spoil bars of
Tampa Bay and Charlotte Harbor, they also at times swarm onto the deeper flats,
leaving light-tackle anglers talking to themselves.

While the average late summer/fall red weighs about 8 to 10 pounds, there are
always plenty of real bruisers, particularly in deeper water, that weigh 40
pounds or more. A red that size is a real handful, even on heavy reef-fishing
gear, let alone the typical flats tackle most of us use.

The redfish schools around Fort De Soto and Tarpon Key used to be a carefully
guarded secret of a few seasoned guides. These days, it's general knowledge --
the trove there was the source of repeated netting forays by the Fish and
Wildlife Research Institute in St. Pete seeking brood stock for the Port Manatee
hatchery, and the "secret" was gone forever.

The area is not a lot different from many other flats around Tampa Bay, but it
is one of the closest to the open Gulf and the shipping channel, and that's
probably why big reds repeatedly show up there at this time of year.

Another good area to prospect, similarly close to deeper water, is the flat from
the Bulkhead east of Anna Maria to Rattlesnake Key and the mouth of the Manatee
River.

On the flats, the standard tactic these days is to set up near a slightly deeper
area and chum with live sardines. Reds also can be caught on soft jerkbaits,
weedless spoons, plastic shrimp and topwater lures -- if they haven't been
harassed recently by a redfish tournament.

For those who would just as soon take on the biggest fish in deeper water,
towing a jumbo diving plug like a Mann's Plus 25 right on the channel edges of
the main ship channel and the Port Manatee channel likely will find schooling
reds between now and the beginning of next month. And if it doesn't, you'll
still catch plenty of gag grouper to keep you entertained.

The Port Manatee artificial reef, just north of the port channel, is another
gathering spot for the giants at times, as are the spoil bars along the channel
edge; some of these are only 5 feet deep at low tide, and they're great places
to anchor and chum a bit with live sardines or threads. You'll catch Spanish
mackerel, ladyfish, jacks and blacktip sharks while you wait for the reds to
show.

Other famed "bull red" gathering spots are the west end of the Crystal River
power plant and the Cross Florida Barge Canal, where live pinfish are the
favored bait. St. Martins Reef, not far from Hernando Beach, (not to be confused
with St. Martins Keys off Homosassa) is another good area

All redfish more than 27 inches long must be released, and the limit is one
daily in our area. You'll rarely catch a keeper in late summer and fall -- most
are too big -- but as gamefish, these fish are well worth pursuing.

The fishing usually remains good until well into October, maybe November as the
weather is going.

The first cold front will move out any lingering adult fish, but there are
plenty of 18- to 27-inchers left behind to prowl the flats most of the winter.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAIRis issue in schools election

BYLINE: ROB SHAW, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 730 words


Islamic group cited as incumbent, activist square off in District 7

BY ROB SHAW

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Terry Kemple says Carol Kurdell has been around too long on the
Hillsborough County School Board and is part of the problem.

Kurdell, on the board for two decades and seeking a sixth term, thinks her
experience and background are invaluable in today's rapidly changing climate of
public education.

The two square off Nov. 6 in a runoff for the District 7 school board seat.
Voters countywide will cast their ballots in the nonpartisan race that was
narrowed from six candidates in August.

"She's become, in her tenure, institutionalized. She's basically part of the
system," Kemple said. "She is a rubber stamp. I'm not. I would bring a new level
of accountability."

"I've never been a rubber stamp," Kurdell countered.

If she has a problem with Superintendent MaryEllen Elia or a policy, Kurdell
says, she addresses it behind closed doors, not on the school board dais.

"What you won't see are hard discussions and things like that in public," she
said. "I think it's unprofessional and unnecessary."

Kemple has become a fixture at school board meetings for most of this year as a
guest speaker lashing out at the Council on American-Islamic Relations. The
issue arose after a speaker representing CAIR spoke to a class at Steinbrenner
High School last fall.

"I want to be sure that people who have been linked to the funding of terrorism
aren't invited to be speakers in our classroom," Kemple said. "There's no legal
reason they have to be there. It's simply up to the behest of the school board."

Kemple and others have tried to persuade the school board to adopt a strict
policy that would keep CAIR speakers out of public school classrooms.Kurdell and
the majority of the board don't think that's necessary, however.

"I think we have policies and procedures in place that protect our students,"
she said.

The veteran school board member called Kemple a single-issue candidate. Meeting
after meeting, she said, Kemple comes before the school board to talk about
CAIR.

"I think that's where there is a huge difference between the two of us," Kurdell
said. "This job is about student achievement and what is best for students in
the classroom."

Kemple says he's not just about CAIR. He says there are issues with teacher
morale because of the current evaluation system and that the avalanche of state
testing needs to have a different focus.

He's tired of hearing board members say the evaluation system, overhauled as
part of the Bill Gates foundation grant, is a "work in progress."

"It needs more than to be tweaked," Kemple said. "It needs radical surgery."

The challenger said he has talked to hundreds of teachers in the past few months
and has not heard from one person who is a fan of it.

"It's because of that, morale is in the pits," he said.

Kurdell says that change is hard for teachers to accept. And she says the
district has been responsive to complaints about the system.

"Are we doing better with it? I think so, to a degree," she said. "We're trying
to do it as fairly as possible and use the input and design from the people who
do the job every day."

Both candidates agree that high-stakes testing -- or at least the focus of it --
has gotten out of control.

"I think we've gone too far one way," Kurdell said.

She thinks that end-of-course exams are inappropriate and don't show the picture
of overall learning. If a student has a bad test on one day and therefore flunks
the course, it's not necessarily a good snapshot of that student's potential.

"I think it's wrong in the way that testing has morphed into the keystone for
money flowing into the schools," Kemple said. "It puts too much focus on the
test and not enough on learning."

The school board seat is a four-year term that pays about $41,000 annually. The
winner's term will begin Nov. 20.

rshaw@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7999

Carol KurdellAge: 67Education: bachelor of arts in human development from Eckerd
CollegeFamily: married, one stepsonHome: TampaProfessional experience:
reservations agent for Eastern Airlines; worked as an aide in a
special-education classroom and as a consultant for the school districtPolitical
experience: has served on school board since 1992Campaign website:
www.carolkurdell.com

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

If the GOP won't act, voters must

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 714 words


One of the more frustrating aspects of representative democracy is how voters in
other districts routinely elect insufferable nincompoops to high office. All the
while we, of course, choose rationally and wisely.

We are reminded of this imperfect arrangement this week by JD Alexander, the
nothing-to-lose, term-limited Republican state senator from Lake Wales.
Unwilling to leave his legislative legacy to fickle historians, Alexander seems
dead set on securing independence for the new Florida Polytechnic University,
and woe to anyone who stands between him and his chosen posterity.

Spawned as an adjunct to the University of South Florida, the Lakeland campus is
on track to become the state's 12th stand-alone university, but the schedule
doesn't suit Alexander's compressed calendar. He means to cut that ribbon as a
sitting state senator, and November looms.

As chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee in a chamber dominated by his
party, Alexander brandishes staggering influence. No one doubted that. It's good
to be the chairman. But in pursuit of his heritage-making schedule against a
resistant USF President Judy Genshaft, he's been the Incredible Hulk wielding
Thor's hammer.

The details of Alexander'smegalomaniacal excesses have been well-documented
elsewhere, as has the recent pushback by freshman Sen. Jim Norman, the
Carrollwood Republican whose district includes USF and most of Pasco east of
Little Road.

And this is where we come in.

Our immediate options are limited. Yes, Norman's constituents can, by writing
and calling, help starch his spine. Ditto the rest of Pasco's legislative
delegation.

Meanwhile, be watchful. Note how Republican incumbents answer Alexander's brazen
overreach, his use of spite as a policymaking tactic. Ultimately, anything less
than denunciation equals endorsement.

New Port Richey's Mike Fasano lost a chairmanship because he wouldn't play ball
with Senate brass eager to grant private prison companies a return on their
campaign contribution investment. Leaders claimed privatizing was thrifty. But
if squeezing pennies is their aim, why go along with Alexander's pricy
Polytechnic independence scheme while simultaneously proposing to scoop $400
million out of university reserves to close a budget gap?

What is the price of stroking one senator's Okeechobee-sized ego?

A decent argumentcanbe made that Florida's public universities are, for in-state
students, underpriced. In its latest rankings of bang-for-the-buck public
colleges, Kiplinger magazine lists three Florida schools (UF, New College, FSU)
in the top 18. Only California, with four, has more.North Florida came in at 63;
South Florida is No. 87, right behind Colorado State and a couple of notches
ahead of Auburn.

Kiplinger finds, in particular, a remarkable generosity toward Florida's
homegrown enrollees. Need-based aid shaves nearly 50 percent off the annual
total cost for UF students (to $8,079 from $15,526), and roughly a third for
students at FSU, North Florida and USF. Need-based grants save New College
students a whopping 65 percent (to $5,316 from $15,458).

Even if Tallahassee's coffers were flush, then, how much state taxpayers should
subsidize its universities would be an entertaining debate.

Meanwhile, failure by Republicans to thwart Alexander's vengeful calculation --
if for no other reason than it has been patently vengeful -- will provide
ammunition and opportunity for Democrats who can, and should, argue the
following:

The JD Alexander case exposes the Republican majority's ongoing cultivation of
costly cronyism over the best interests of Florida's taxpayers. Sure, we all
like (insert GOP candidate's name), but, remember, he looked the other way when
Alexander, indulging his ego, was browbeating one of our fine state
universities.

The only way this changes is to change the majority, to change who picks the
leaders. A vote for our Republican friend is an endorsement of the climate that
produced JD Alexander and those lining up to follow his repugnant example. So
there it is. One way or the other, the senator from Lake Wales will have his
legacy.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SeveralteachersleaveConnerton

BYLINE: RONNIE BLAIR, The Pasco Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words


11 seek transfer from controversial school

BY RONNIE BLAIR

The Pasco Tribune

LAND O' LAKES Eleven teachers at Connerton Elementary filed transfer requests
after the district decided to allow unhappy staff members to leave the school,
which has been a source of controversy.

Kevin Shibley, the school district's employee relations director, said Friday
that he has placed seven of the teachers at other schools.

The remaining four weren't interested in the jobs currently available and said
they want to "wait to see if something else comes open in the next few weeks,"
Shibley said.

"I'm going to be watching for vacancies for those other four teachers," he said.

Principal Anna Falcone and an assistant principal have been the target of a
protest and a petition by parents and former employees who complain that the
administrators use bullying tactics that have demoralized the staff. The parents
also say the administrators don't address their concerns and complaints.

Shibley said two of the teachers who applied for a transfer told him that their
decisions were unrelated to the controversy. Instead, they had long commutes and
wanted jobs closer to home, he said.

All these sudden job openings at Connerton proved fortuitous for at least one
teacher. She had been moved out of Connerton during the district's involuntary
transfer process because the school had too many teachers.

"She was offered the opportunity to go back and she did," Shibley said.

Connerton has a teaching staff of 67.

The parents, former employees and some students waved protest signs near the
school in late May. Some of them also have appeared at three school board
meetings to publicly air their complaints.

Some parents said they moved their children to other schools because of their
unhappiness with Connerton.

Pasco County Schools officials, though, said before that protest happened, they
conducted a climate survey at Connerton in which teachers could voice their
views anonymously. The climate survey indicated teachers were happy with the
administration, the district reported.

Still, Superintendent Heather Fiorentino met with school staff to discuss any
complaints. She later placed a new assistant principal at Connerton, but kept
the principal in place. Fiorentino also decided to have the district's staff
development director work with the school in the coming year.

A former school district employee who helped lead the petition effort and spoke
at this week's school board meeting said those actions aren't enough.

"You have added a mentor, a new assistant principal and are trying to change the
staff," Peggy Lopez said. "But you haven't dealt with the problem."

Lopez also said that other school employees weren't given the same opportunity
to transfer that teachers were and "they are probably wondering why."

rblair@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1853

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Two challengers battle incumbent in race for school superintendent

BYLINE: From staff reports, From staff reports

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2908 words


Business owner, former state official try to unseat Fiorentino

From staff reports

From staff reports

School Superintendent Heather Fiorentino, seeking re-election to a third term,
faces two challengers for the Republican nomination on Aug. 14.

They are Kurt Browning, former secretary of state for Florida, and Kenneth
Benson, a New Port Richey business owner.

The winner of the Republican primary is expected to be the next superintendent
because the only opposition in the November general election is from two
write-in candidates.

Here's what Fiorentino, Browning and Benson have to say about some of the issues
facing the Pasco County School District.

In recent years, the district has faced one revenue shortfall after another.
What kind of spending cuts could be made to prevent this recurring budget
problem?

Benson: I want to say first there will be no cuts if I'm elected. Those two
(Fiorentino and Browning) have no choice, they will have to cut programs and/or
teacher pay and they will be over budget again. Every year the school budget is
over budget; $25 million this year. They call this the Great Recession. That
means a depression is knocking at the door.

My proposal to Pasco County concerning the budget is for corporations to run our
services and products. Yes, we will save minimum $100 million the first year,
$259 million the next year. It will take 30 days to hammer it out and in 90 days
this will be smooth running. 1. Drivers 2. Fuel 3. Food and supply.

I guarantee this county will be over budget again if I'm not elected. They have
to cut programs and/or teachers' pay (no raise in six years). Good teachers are
leaving (we can stop this); there is just no way around it. Unless they adopt
this principle, they both have said they are against this. They are politicians,
I'm not.

Browning: District's budget continues to challenge the superintendent and school
board. With the board facing approximately $26 million reduction in revenue for
the coming year, approaches to increase efficiency will need to be explored.
That being said, since personnel accounts for the majority of the board's
budget, it will be difficult to make reductions without impacting staff.

In recent committee reports presented to the board, cost-cutting ideas were
offered to the superintendent and school board. I would further investigate
savings that may surface from reviewing bus transportation routes and bus idle
times, as well as district energy costs.

I would also address a finding of the FADSS (Florida Association of District
School Superintendents) study regarding the number of supervisors at the
district office. In partnership with the school board, we will need to ensure
that district operations are as efficient as possible, while maximizing supports
to schools and students.

Fiorentino: You are correct. This is the fifth consecutive year the district has
faced multi-million-dollar budget shortfalls. Each year the district has thrived
in the face of financial adversity, securing positive outcomes for children such
as our 88.5 percent graduation rate and being ranked by the state as the top
performing school system in Tampa Bay.

We have been able to achieve this because we have prioritized our resources. We
have also streamlined whenever possible, privatizing some aspects of operations
and consolidating efforts to maximizing efficiency.

This has allowed us to put our money where it belongs -- in the classroom. We
must continue this fiscally-conservative, student-centered approach to our
budgeting.

We have already identified areas for potential savings in the 2013-2014 budget,
targeting transportation and energy efficiencies, which are two areas that we
have already realized significant savings.

I believe these are areas that will continue to see savings by further
streamlining our operations. In addition to making targeted cuts, we must
continue to explore external funding sources and bring innovative solutions that
will help us generate revenue. We have already begun this work and must continue
to build upon these efforts.

Florida is headed toward common core standards for language arts and math. Is it
a good idea to have such a national standard for the curriculum as opposed to
each state having its own standard?

Benson: Yes, I believe in a national standard. Did you know they don't teach
writing any more? Too much time is wasted on FCAT; reason is teachers' pay is
based on FCAT once-a-year test.

Browning: We are facing challenges that are unprecedented. ... We must examine
how we are preparing the next generation to succeed in a global world. I do
believe the development and adoption of the Common Core State Standards (CCSS)
is an important step toward addressing these challenges because the "common core
of standards that are internationally benchmarked, aligned with work and
post-secondary education expectations, and inclusive of the higher order skills
that students need...".

The adoption of the CCSS is indeed a critical milestone if we are committed to
graduating students who are college, career, and life ready. A key issue will be
the implementation of these new, more rigorous learning standards.

In order to support our teachers in reaching various student populations, our
district must have a plan that takes into consideration professional development
needs, follow-up supports, and guidance materials.

Fiorentino: The Common Core Standards will provide the ability to make accurate
comparisons between the performance of students in different states, which will
be a positive. Additionally, the standards do significantly increase student
expectations in an effort to better prepare students for success in the global
marketplace. I do support accountability and the goal of helping all students
reach their highest potential. However, I also believe in state's rights and am
concerned about the erosion of local control.

I think states should have flexibility in determining whether or not to
participate in these increased expectations and should be able to develop a
realistic timeline for implementation that can be supported through appropriate
funding.

When evaluating teachers, how much weight should be given to student performance
on standardized tests?

Benson: None. Reason is that's not the teachers' fault if that student is a slow
learner or pays attention.

Browning: A valuable evaluation system must be multifaceted and should increase
teacher expertise and produce gains in student learning. Under Florida's current
model, performance of students represents 50 percent of a teacher's evaluation,
with performance based on student learning growth. It is fair to expect growth
from each student on an annual basis; however, the biggest challenge of this
facet of the evaluation arises from the many changes to the state tests in
recent years. Furthermore, in two years, Florida will come under the Common Core
State Standards, which will again require significant changes in how we teach
and test our students. As such, it will be important for the FDOE to investigate
how the current evaluation system works and to determine if adjustments to the
percentage are needed.

Bottom line, we are facing important issues that impact the lives of all parties
involved. More meaningful and timely feedback have the potential to increase
teacher expertise, improve collective capacity, and improve performance;
however, successful implementation of this evaluation system will require a
culture of learning where teachers are motivated to learn from the feedback they
are receiving. Collaboration, trust and a system of inquiry will be key to
boosting morale and elevating the status of the profession.

Fiorentino: This is really a moot point, since Florida law determines the
formula for determining how much weight is placed on standardized testing. The
law requires that 50 percent of a teacher's evaluation be based on standardized
test. I am extremely concerned that this was made a requirement before the state
implemented assessments for each subject area. This has created a situation
throughout the state where many of our teachers are being evaluated based upon
the performance of students they have never taught. This is a major concern that
I have continuously shared with the state. I believe standardized testing should
be one aspect of determining a students needs and that we must have
accountability in education. I do support alignment of the teacher evaluation
system with targeted professional development and view the evaluation system as
an important tool for helping all teachers improve their skill set and become
better equipped to meet the needs of our students.

A study by the Florida Association of District School Superintendents said
employee morale is a significant problem in Pasco schools. Why is that and what
can be done to improve it?

Benson: Get the top best corporations bid. Pick the best one for the money. The
morale will be all smiles (they will be happy to have a job).

Browning: The findings of the FADSS report, received in April 2011, points to
leadership issues that impact communication, innovation, shared decision-making,
and morale. From the start, my focus will be on establishing high quality
relationships. I will create opportunities to meet and interact with a broad
variety of stakeholders and community leaders to listen to their opinions and
perspectives about our schools. I will show to the community that I listen to
multiple perspectives, learn, and make informed decisions that will help our
schools reach the next level of success. I will foster a new level and spirit of
community engagement and support for our district by honoring education and
educators; improving communication and decision making capacity; building a
culture of trust, collaboration and shared responsibility; focusing on
continuous professional development for teachers and leaders; and celebrating
progress and success.

Fiorentino: The same organization has issued studies in districts throughout the
state and found the exact same concern regarding morale. The truth is that
morale is low in the field of public education throughout the state because we
have had massive financial cuts coupled with increased expectations. We are
asking our employees to do more than ever before and we are paying them less
than we used to. This would cause a morale problem with any organization. I am
proud of the more recent, independent external studies that praise our district
for our many accomplishments. We must continue to celebrate our success and to
create a collaborative culture where the input of educators is valued in the
decision-making process. We must also continue our work to alleviate the
workload of our teachers, which will allow them to focus on the job they love --
educating our children. As our budget picture improves, we must also work to
increase the compensation package of our employees and financially reward them
for a job well done.

The school district has faced criticism in recent months that it doesn't do
enough to combat bullying. Is that criticism justified and what steps does the
district need to take to address bullying?

Benson: Yes, that criticism is justified. I will have accountability. Fire the
one who is in charge of those (bullying) reports for not making them out and the
one who takes his or her place will be accountable.

Browning: First, we must acknowledge there is a problem. School safety is a
major concern for teachers, support staff, administrators and parents. As has
been recently reported, many students and parents communicated that they are
nervous about the bullying problem in Pasco schools. This fear, if not
immediately dealt with and extinguished, will have a direct impact on student
achievement. Students cannot be expected to reach his or her highest potential
if they fear the school environment. These incidents clearly indicate the need
for increased prevention, intervention, and monitoring of all teasing,
harassment, and bullying activities. To ensure teaching and learning happens,
schools must function as communities in which positive behavior is expected and
modeled within an environment of mutual respect and dignity. As such, I will
work to increase our efforts to implement effective school-wide positive
behavior supports; increase collaboration with community resources to educate
parents and increase access additional services; increase parent/community
involvement in preventing and responding to behaviors that threaten school
safety; identify alternative placement options for students that represent
safety threats to our schools; and refocus our student support efforts to ensure
students feel protected and comfortable reporting incidents of bullying,
harassment, and threats.

Fiorentino: Bullying is a national problem, and our school system is not
insolated from this societal issue. Student safety is our primary concern and we
work diligently to ensure that all students have a safe and secure learning
environment. We have trained all of our staff in how to recognize the signs of
bullying, how to investigate each allegation that is made, and how to take
appropriate intervening action when bullying occurs. The sad truth about this
social issue (not just in Pasco County, but throughout the nation) is that a
great deal of inappropriate behavior happens outside the purview of adults. Bad
behavior occurs in the community, online and among peer groups. As a school
district, we can only respond to inappropriate behavior that is observed or
brought to our attention. The key in stopping bullying tragedies is to engage
children in recognizing the dangers of inappropriate conduct and educating them
about how to report the behavior. This is why we have engaged in training
students and why we have multiple avenues available for students to anonymously
report inappropriate conduct. Each allegation of bullying is taken very
seriously and is acted upon. We will continue to take a very proactive stance in
helping to educate our community about this social problem and how they can join
us as partners in protecting children.

We have also recently had the state come down and provide training to all
administrators in how to report information about what happens in our school
district in a uniform manner, and I believe that will address many of the
concerns about our reporting of this issue.

Pasco has seen a number of experienced principals and district administrators
retire in recent years. What steps does the district need to take to recruit and
train people for leadership positions?

Benson: We can look at the national picture look at the ads of men and women
looking who want to be placed and let our district administrators see if they
are worthy of hire and training.

Browning: In addition to recruiting and training, I would like to address
retention of staff in leadership positions. In the past months, this district
has lost great talent due to the lack of vision and leadership. After speaking
to staff, including multiple current and former administrators, I am convinced
that the greatest difficulty in recruiting and retaining leaders is directly
connected to the key findings of the FADSS survey.

When it comes to training and retaining leaders, the traditional way of training
leaders has called for administrators to leave their buildings and learn theory
at the district office. The expectation is that this learning should be
implemented back at the school site. The problem inherent with this traditional
model is that it fails to recognize that every building is different; every
leader is different. The model I would implement would have the training
tailored to the needs of the principal and his or her staff. This will require
the district staff to shift their thinking from providing remote support to
providing side-by-side support. The job of principal is more difficult today
than it has ever been. The transition from manager to instructional leader is
critical and urgent and our district must respond to that shift by supporting
our leaders in a more comprehensive manner. To accommodate this change, I would
shift positions and expand the role of Leadership Development. By providing a
more personalized approach, we can build an extensive network of trusting
relationships, navigate the political climate, access information, and align the
work with district's goals.

Fiorentino: We have recently been awarded a perfect score by the state in their
assessment of our leadership programs. We have a very active program that
identifies and trains aspiring leaders with the skills they will need for
success. We will continue to expand these efforts in order to ensure that our
brightest and best are working with our children.

Kurt BrowningAge: 53Education: Pasco High School, 1976; Pasco-Hernando Community
College, AA, 1978; University of South Florida, BA, Political Science, 1982;
USF, Master's Degree in Public Administration, 1994Family: Married, two adult
sonsProfessional Experience: Deputy Supervisor of Elections, July 1975 to
January 1981Political Experience: Elected Pasco County Supervisor of Elections,
January 1981 to December 2007; appointed Florida Secretary of State, January
2007 to April 2010; reappointed Florida Secretary of State, January 2011 to
February 2012Campaign Website: www.kurtbrowning2012.com

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words


Tuesday's lead editorial disappointed this longtime Tribune subscriber ("Higher
mileage standards raise serious questions," Our Views).

With all of the indications to the contrary -- both in terms of the science and
the geo-political concerns -- there are still people at the Tribune who think
that "carbon pollution" is the leading challenge facing American leaders,
taxpayers and consumers.

The editorial writer, while showing no indication of irony, actually proposes
that we cut income taxes and use offsets of higher carbon taxes to make
everything peachy for the handful of folks who are obsessed with "controlling"
the climate.

Imagine a giant thermostat that environmentalists can tweak and fiddle with
until they stumble onto their next theme du jour.

Does anyone want to guess how long it would take Washington, Congress and the
federal courts to sort that out? Decades? Can you grasp the amount of mischief
that our public servants would wreak with something like that to play with?
Evidently, someone thinks that Al Gore is the leading challenger for the
presidency!

The environmentalists and their friends in Washington have been slapping
American consumers, and the companies that build the cars and trucks we buy,
with Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for over 30 years.

The only tangible result is that taxpayers have had to pay way more for new
cars, and we've been forced to bail out Detroit's major automakers with billions
of federal funds that should have been focused on real innovation and economic
growth, not pie-in-the-sky plans for something theoretical like global climate
concerns 100 years from now.

Jim Parker

Lakeland

Welcome to Florida

Are all liberals as confused as new Florida resident Jeff Gerbino, who vented
against "Romneycare"? ("Sticker shock," Your Views, Sept. 4).

The initial registration fee for out-of-state vehicles in Florida is $225, not
his stated $500.

And I don't see how you can equate a onetime vehicle transfer fee with a state
income tax that you pay year after year.

Small claim filing fees in Hillsborough and Pasco counties range from $55 to
$300, depending on the amount of the claim, not his stated $600.

As for electricity and insurance costs, those are private companies and have
nothing to do with the government.

Other than all that, though, welcome to Florida.

Bob White

Tampa

Research before packing

Regarding "Sticker shock" (Your Views, Sept. 4):

When we moved here 29 years ago from Michigan, we did one thing before packing
the moving van. We checked out what our expenseswere going to be in Florida, and
then we made the decision to move here.

InMichigan, we were paying $3,200 in property tax, 6.35 percent in state income
tax, 4 percent state sales tax, 2 percent city income tax and a 1-percent tax to
the city we worked in but didn't live in.

In Florida, we checked the costs to change over our vehicles, the insurance
costs, what energy costs were and what local taxes were like.

If you didn't do all this before you moved, shame on you! Ifyou're unhappy with
your life in Florida, go back to where you came from.

Florida is not for everyone.

J.R. Matthews

Wesley Chapel

Delta's ready

As a longtime Florida resident, I was amused by Jeff Gerbino's railing about the
fees Florida charges for services in lieu of state income tax like his former
home in Minnesota.

It's curious how he ties this into "the happy yet somehow angry Republicans
running around town" during the RNC.

Since Jeff is new here, I will reiterate the often quoted response to such
complaints: "We don't care how you did it inMinnesota."

And as a refresher of the old advertising campaign: "If you don't like it here,
Delta is ready when you are."

Gary Opala

Riverview

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hurricane season 2012 bids farewell

BYLINE: KEITH MORELLI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words


Seven years without direct hits is a record for Florida

BY KEITH MORELLI

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA The Atlantic Ocean hurricane season of 2012 went to bed early this year.

The National Hurricane Center's website Thursday showed a map of the ocean with
this note written over it: "No tropical cyclones at this time."

Once again, a dreaded hurricane season, which begins on June 1 and ends on the
last day of November, spared Florida.

"Florida has gone a record seven seasons in a row without having hurricane
landfall," said Dennis Feltgen, spokesman for the National Hurricane Center in
Miami.

"The previous record was five years, so we are just adding on to the record," he
said. "I'd like to see it go nine or 10, but we have to go into the 2013 season
thinking our luck eventually is going to run out."

The only full-fledged hurricane that came close to Florida was Sandy, which
blasted by the state's east coast near the end of October and barged into the
Northeast, causing major damage in New York and New Jersey.

Tropical Storm Debby formed in the Gulf of Mexico in June. The storm never
reached hurricane intensity as it came ashore well north of Tampa, but its winds
and storm surge did sweep sand from some beaches in Pinellas County.

And while Tampa braced for Tropical Storm Isaac in August, the storm was much
ado about nothing. Isaac never reached hurricane status until it hit the
Mississippi Delta, but it did cause enough worry for organizers of the
Republican National Convention to cancel the convention's first day in Tampa.

The season had 19 named storms, seven more than average; 10 hurricanes, four
more than normal; and only one major hurricane, fewer than the average three.

The one major storm was Hurricane Michael, a Category 3, which formed and
petered out in the middle of the Atlantic, a danger to no one except those on
ships at sea.

That's not to say the season was quiet. The Gulf and Atlantic are seeing more
tropical cyclone activity, part of an active pattern that began in 1995, Feltgen
said.

He said hurricane seasons are cyclical, largely unaffected by global warming, a
controversial subject Feltgen did not wish to discuss.

"We're in an active cyclical pattern which can last up to 30 years," he said,
"so we still have a long way to go."

If you think there are more storms forming in the Atlantic, the reason might be
technology, he said. With state-of-the-science satellite imaging, Feltgen said,
"we are seeing storms forming out in the Atlantic that we wouldn't have seen in
years past.

"This year, we had several storms that were short in duration and weak in
intensity," he said. They were documented but "went largely unnoticed."

Whether it was a good year or bad year depends on perspective, Feltgen said.

"If you were impacted by Sandy or Isaac or the two early season storms, it was a
bad year," he said.

While some say hurricane activity is on the increase because of global warming,
most climatologists discount that.

Scientists with the Science and Public Policy Institute in Washington mostly
agree that tropical cyclone activity is cyclical, though there is some debate in
scientific circles.

"Simply put, there is no general consensus on the matter," wrote institute
President Robert Ferguson in a 2008 paper titled "Hurricane Threat to Florida,
Climate Change or Demographics?"

He said it may be true that a warming climate may result in higher water
temperatures in the Atlantic tropics, where hurricanes are born, leading
possibly to stronger storms. But that is offset by another symptom of global
warming: higher levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that could "hinder
tropical cyclone formation and development," Ferguson wrote.

The real danger of hurricane season, Ferguson wrote, is damage to
ever-developing coastal communities.

And for Florida's nearly 20 million beach residents -- who account for half of
the coastal population from Texas through North Carolina -- there is a lot to
lose during hurricane season.

University of South Florida professor Al Hine, a coastal geologist with the
College of Marine Science, said building on sandy coastlines is just plain
foolish.

"The coastline not a permanent line in the sand," he said. "It's a highly
moveable shoreline that has been moving since we've had oceans. And we've had
oceans for 4 billion years, maybe longer.

"We," he said, "are the problem."

Bill Smith of Indian Shores had a front-row seat from which to wave goodbye to
630,000 cubic yards of sand -- enough to fill more than 100,000 dump trucks --
that was swept from the Pinellas coast by Tropical Storm Debby.

Smith, a director with the Tallahassee-based Florida Shore & Beach Preservation
Association, said erosion caused by Debby was second only to Hurricane Elena in
1985.

"When Debby passed by," he said, "the beach was really chewed into, big time. It
was pretty bad."

But nature took care of itself, he said. By the end of the hurricane season, "A
lot of sand came back. It had been carried offshore into a nearby sandbar. And
through wave and wind action, it came back."

He admitted he and his neighbors get nervous at the start of every hurricane
season. That Florida has avoided a direct hurricane hit in seven years isn't all
that comforting.

"When you flip the coin and it comes up heads 20 times in a row," he said,
"what's going to happen when you throw it the next time?"

kmorelli@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7760

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Browning looks past basics

BYLINE: RONNIE BLAIR, The Pasco Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 543 words


Schools chief wantstoensurekidsareready for college, career, life

BY RONNIE BLAIR

The Pasco Tribune

LAND O' LAKES As Superintendent Kurt Browning continues his reorganization plans
for the school district, he says he wants to bridge the divide between district
headquarters and schools.

"When schools call, we need to respond," Browning told the school board at a
workshop Tuesday. "We need to respond accurately, quickly and completely."

Ultimately, he said, the district should not just educate children, but "ensure
our kids are college, career and life ready."

Browning, who took office Nov. 20, bemoaned low reading scores and statistics
that show more than 50 percent of Pasco students who attend community college
need remedial coursework.

"This to me is a staggering number," he said.

The board previously approved Browning's plan to reduce the number of assistant
superintendents from four to two, but this week he unveiled more details of his
reorganization with the caveat that it's still a work in progress.

"This is all fluid," Browning said. "As we go through this we are going to have
to tweak it here and tweak it there."

Some of the highlights of the reorganization include:

The district's alternative schools that serve at-risk students and those with
discipline problems will be placed under the Office for Career and Technical
Education. Browning said he wants to improve the quality of education students
receive in alternative schools.

"I like that a lot," board member Alison Crumbley said. "You can change lives
that way."

Four learning community executive director positions are being created. Each
will be responsible for a group of schools that have been divided
geographically. They are labeled east schools, central schools, southwest
schools and northwest schools.

The Office for Instructional Technology and Media will be eliminated July 1. Its
functions will be absorbed by other offices.

The safety and security officer will report directly to the assistant
superintendent for administration and operations. "We take student safety
seriously; we take staff safety very seriously," Browning said.

Browning met with principals Monday afternoon to discuss his views and the
importance of treating people fairly.

"I am tired of hearing stories about the way some principals are treating their
staff," he said, vowing to deal with those issues after winter break.

Assistant Superintendents Ray Gadd and Amelia Van Name Larson worked with
Browning as he planned the reorganization, and he said he also had national
experts look at it.

Gadd said what's happening involves a changing of the culture and the climate of
the district, not just "moving boxes around and changing the organizational
structure."

Browning said some changes could come as a shock to people.

"Any time an organization of this size goes through change its nerve-wracking,"
he said.

Browning said at times he feels like he is playing the game Jenga, in which
participants pull blocks from a structure and place them elsewhere in the
structure.

"If I pull the wrong block out the whole thing comes crashing down," he said.

rblair@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1853

Twitter: @RBlairTBO

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kids charity worker turns whistleblower

BYLINE: MARK DOUGLAS, News Channel 8

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words


She was fired day she emailed board detailing financial, ethical concerns

BY MARK DOUGLAS

News Channel 8

HOLIDAY Meanda Dubay said she started gathering information about the charity
where she worked because she thought something wasn't right -- about its
fundraising methods, its contracting practices, and reports it sent to the
Internal Revenue Service.

The charity, Kids Wish Network, learned of Dubay's snooping and notified
authorities. The allegation: Dubay was stealing proprietary information via
computer to set up her own charity for granting the wishes of sick and dying
children.

The FBI confirms a cybercrimes investigation is under way and that it involves a
former employee. The agency would not comment further.

However the investigation turns out, the charityalready has corrected errors in
its 2010 and 2009 IRS filingsafter Dubay noted payments were missing.

Kids Wish Network, a $20 million a year operation that says it helped 73,200
children last year, neglected to mention it paid nearly $1.7 million over two
years to for-profit companies headed by Mark Breiner, its own founder and former
president.

"I did try to appeal to the board to do an investigation to see if indeed there
is a conflict of interest," Dubay said in an interview.

The omission was not intentional, but a clerical mistake overlooked by
management and the charity's outside accountants, said Anna Lanzatella,
executive director of Kids Wish Network, in an email response to questions from
News Channel 8.

"There are no penalties for this kind of error," Lanzatella said.

But failure to disclose payments to Breiner's companies could raise questions by
the IRS, said professor John Jewell, who heads the accountancy program at
University of South Florida St. Petersburg.

"The clerical aspect seems dubious," Jewell said.

The payments to businesses Breiner headed came to light in a four-page letter
Dubay emailed the charity's board Jan. 3. She attached 26 pages of documents to
support her wide-ranging concerns about Kids Wish Network operations.

Dubay was fired that day, after six months on the job and two weeks after the
charity first went to authorities with its suspicions about her.

"I lost a job I really, really loved to try and make sure people are doing the
right thing," said Dubay, a 34-year-old wife and mother of three who made $11 an
hour as a "wish granter." "I would do it again to make sure people know exactly
what is going on."

Dubay said she first became concerned when the mother of a child with cancer
rejected an offer from Kids Wish Network because of what she had learned about
the charity's finances.

Of the $20 million Kids Wish Network reported in revenue last year, $15.7
million came through campaigns by outside fundraising companies.However, only 12
cents of each dollar they collected went for granting wishes, buying gift cards
and distributing toys.

The fundraisers, including telemarketing companies, kept the rest.

Kids Wish Network does offer an online donation option, called the "Guardian
Angel Fund," where 100 percent of contributions go to the charity's programs.

There are few, if any, limits under federal law on how much a tax-exempt
charitysuch as Kids Wish can spend to raise money.

"That kind of raised a huge red flag for me," Dubay said. "So I started keeping
my eyes open."

Shortly after Dubay detailed her concerns to the board, the charity's
accountants sent the IRS an amended 2010 report, this one including the payments
of $692,000 to two fundraising companies operated by Mark Breiner.

Then Tuesday, Kids Wish Network released an amended IRS report for 2009 showing
it paidan additional $993,000 to one of those companies, United Charities
International. Breiner served as both Kids Wish president and co-managing
partner of United Charities in 2009.

Kids Wish Network says in the 2009 amended report that the payment to United
Charities International was left out "due to an oversight due to the
transitioning of and change in executive directors."

Breiner, 54, founded Kids Wish Network in Oldsmar 15 years ago with his wife,
Shelley, and her mother, Barbara Askin. Breiner left his $130,000 a year job as
the charity's president in 2009 to become a professional fundraising consultant,
specializing in sweepstakes giveaways of expensive race cars.

The contract between Kids Wish Network and consultant Breiner includes an
addendum signed by his mother-in-law, Askin, still an executive with the charity
and its second-highest paid employee. She receives $84,000 a year in salary and
benefits; executive director Lanzatella gets $95,000.

Lanzatella signed the five-year contract, agreeing to pay $100,000 a year to
Breiner's company, Amerasource Inc., for consulting. It's not clear what
arrangement the charity had with the other company with which Breiner is
associated, United Charities International. United Charities received $592,771
in "licensing fees" from Kids Wish Network, the amended IRS filing says.

Breiner's dual role as founder of Kids Wish Network and now a professional
fundraiser for the charity raises questions for Jewell with USF St. Petersburg.

"I believe those types of relationships should cause you to scratch your head
and say, 'Well, is that a legitimate relationship or does that person have so
much influence over the Kids Wish Network that they're able to receive an
above-market fee for the fundraiser?'" said Jewell, a CPA and a lawyer with
expertise on nonprofits.

Daniel Borochoff runs the industry watchdog group Charity Watch and has given
Kids Wish Network a grade of "F" for years because of its financial practices.

"You're telling me there's not a better fundraiser to use that they must use
their former founder that used to work there," Borochoff said. "It doesn't smell
well."

Ken Berger runs Charity Navigator, another watchdog organization that gives Kids
Wish Network low ratings, one star out of four. Berger said the practice of
having relatives conducting nonprofit business with each other is something
every charity should avoid.

"For the average donor, it's worrisome," Berger said.

Breiner would not agree to an interview with News Channel 8 but sent responses
to written questions.

He said he left Kids Wish Network and joined the for-profit United Charities
International "in response to the difficulties faced by charitable organizations
in today's economic climate."

United Charities International works hand-in-hand with Amerasource, he said. The
two companies share offices in Clearwater.

Long before employee Meanda Dubay brought her concerns to Kids Wish Network, the
charity was drawing criticism from watchdog groups in the nonprofit industry.

"If what she was saying is true, I think she reported it to the wrong parties,"
Jewell said. "It's kind of like the three little pigs reporting to the wolf
board, so to speak. They're better off seeking independent advice."

Berger at Charity Navigator said Kids Wish Network stands out among the
nonprofits it monitors: "Their fundraising is way off the industry standard."

Breiner's response to the criticism: Watchdog groups get it all wrong.

"Your presumption that a charity can be determined to be 'good or bad' based on
fundraising ratios is misguided," he said. "The achievement of a charity's
purpose for existence is not even factored into the fundraising ratio you
measure them by."

The public should ignore criticism of the Kids Wish Network's finances, he said,
and focus instead on all the children whose lives the group has helped. "I
believe this is a great example of how business in America should work," Breiner
said.

He also said there's nothing improper about the sweepstakes he runs to benefit
Kids Wish Network.

"Your inference of a quid-pro-quo, cozy insider relationship and conflict of
interest couldn't be further from reality," Breiner writes. "We are doing them a
favor, not the reverse."

Meanda Dubay presented a different view of the operation in her letter to the
Kids Wish Network board. Her goal in bringing up the concerns, she said, was to
help the charity, not sink it.

"The last thing that I want is for this organization to close or anything like
that," Dubay said. "That doesn't benefit anybody, but changes will."

mdouglas@wfla.com

(727)709-2753

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BYLINE: DINO VOURNAS, Special correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE & TRAVEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2136 words


BY DINO VOURNAS

Special correspondent

When people daydream at their workplace and fantasize about a winter vacation,
they seldom think of frigid Fairbanks, Alaska. But there are winter sights and
adventures -- starting in the "Golden Heart City" and ending hundreds of miles
south -- that could be life-defining.

I booked my late-February adventure dreaming of the northern lights, ice
sculptures, the pipeline, and a ride on the real "Polar Express" -- the Alaska
Railroad's Aurora Winter Train to Anchorage. And, as strange as it may seem, I
wanted to experience the legendary cold.

I got my first dose of "the weather" while landing sideways at Fairbanks
International in a stiff wind and climbing off the jet in near-whiteout
conditions. I wondered whether Sergeant Preston of the Yukon was still around in
case a rescue was in order. But as my companions and I let out a few nervous
laughs, the wind died down, never to reappear.

This city of 32,000 people was founded as a trading post in 1901. It boomed
shortly thereafter as gold was discovered, grew in the 1940s with the Alcan
Highway construction, and then boomed again in the 1970s as a hub for the
construction of the Trans Alaska oil pipeline.

Fairbanks is quite spread out, but it retains its "frontier outpost" feel in
portions of the downtown area and its rustic outskirts. After checking in at our
Springhill Suites room and ordering a northern lights wakeup call with the desk,
we settled in for dinner at the historic Chena Pump House restaurant -- and kept
scanning the northern skies in hopes of spotting the aurora borealis.

The next morning, we unplugged the engine heater on our rental car and headed
out exploring. The first stop was 10 miles north of town at the pipeline viewing
area. The welded steel tube -- 800 miles long and 4 feet in diameter -- comes
out of the ground here on its route from Prudhoe Bay to the port of Valdez. It's
insulated to keep the hot oil (111 degrees) from melting the permafrost soil.

We took in the University of Alaska's Museum of the North in the afternoon and
were treated to fine cultural exhibits on Alaskan and native peoples, artwork,
history, wildlife and geography, and a special sound-and-light room that changes
with environmental conditions.

Late afternoon included a visit to the World Ice Art Championships, where
artisans using mostly hand tools turn 4-ton blocks of crystal-clear pond ice
into sculptures of unbelievable wonder. We saw two basketball players fighting
for the ball under a beautifully carved hoop and net, polar bears and mermaids.
There also were ice slides and a carved-from-ice playground for kids.

This year the competition at George Homer Ice Park starts Tuesday and continues
for a month, attracting teams from around the world (including Florida!). As the
sun was setting, we rushed down to the frozen Chena River to catch a glimpse of
the finish line of the Iron Dog snow machine race, a 2,000-mile trek from Nome
to Fairbanks, where a certain former Alaska governor's husband took second
prize.

After wolfing down some of Big Daddy's smoked barbecue (necessary protein), we
went in search of the fabled northern lights. Driving out of town to escape the
city glare, we had the stellar conditions of clear skies and no moon in the
prime viewing months of February to March.

Fairbanks sits smack in the Auroral Oval, one of the best regions of the world
to see the aurora borealis. Our Gore-Tex clothes crinkled in the minus 25-degree
cold, which had us wishing we were watching for the lights from the comfort of
the nice pools at nearby Chena Hot Springs. Several disappointing hours passed
before we gave up.

All aboard for the Alaska Railroad!

We left Fairbanks, Milepost 470.3, on a crisp minus 30-degree early morning,
headed full throttle for the boundless wilderness ... and abruptly stalled a few
minutes out of town. After a minor delay during which we exhausted our
worse-case-scenario fantasies, we lurched forward and were on our way, through
seemingly endless Taiga forests of low-lying spruce and hardwoods.

The construction of this 470-mile railroad was started in 1904, as a private
venture to access the vast mineral and coal deposits in the interior and to
transport the materials to the ice-free port of Seward, far to the south. The
private concerns went belly-up, but in 1914, President Woodrow Wilson brought in
the federal government and, with the help of equipment shipped in from the newly
completed Panama Canal, the rail line was finished by 1923.

A few hours into the trip, we crossed the Mears Memorial Bridge, where President
Warren G. Harding performed one of the more admirable tasks of his presidency:
driving the golden spike that completed the railroad. He died two weeks later on
his return to the lower 48.

Before completion of the bridge, track was laid on the frozen river in the
winter for the trains to ride on. We saw our first two moose a few minutes
later, both of them spooked by the "iron horse" and stumbling for cover. Our
conductor, 44-year Alaska rail veteran Harry Ross, reminded us to let him know
the next time we saw wildlife, and he would stop the train for a closer look.

Whaaat? But that's what they did indeed, on numerous occasions. The rails pass
through the town of Nenana, where in 1985 Alaska purchased the railroad from the
U.S. Government. Following the Nenana River, we skirted the waterway's gorge
into magnificent Denali National Park. The centerpiece of the 6-million-acre
park is the massive 20,320-foot Denali peak, known outside Alaska as Mount
McKinley. The use of the latter name is a sore subject to the natives.
Glacier-adorned Denali, "The High One" in the native Athabaskan, is the highest
mountain in North America and one of the world's great peaks. It can be seen
from many spots along the train route, but it can be elusive for weeks, as the
mountain creates its own weather, cloaking the summit from view.

It was time to open the train's vestibule window for some photos. ... Hello! The
blast of wind-driven cold air was shocking. But the view of mountains, valleys
and skies was tremendous. The train chugged into Denali Park Station, where
tourists in droves exit in summer for lodging and recreation. Thirty-five miles
out of the station, we encountered an abundance of wildlife, slowing to watch a
moose sauntering down the tracks and then stopping for an extended photo shoot
with a herd of caribou. During the interlude, conductor Harry regaled us with
his early days tale of talking down a drunken passenger who was randomly firing
his gun out the train window at passing scenery. The "Last Frontier" indeed.

On we went, passing the Continental Divide, climbing the wistfully named
Honolulu Pass and then stopping dead in the middle of the Hurricane Gulch
trestle. This stop, surely causing some of the passenger hearts to flutter, also
afforded a great photo opportunity while perched some 300 feet above the gorge.
Down the line, snowmobilers carved tracks through a broad valley as the train
heeded a waving flag and stopped to pick up a passenger. The train, which is the
only link to civilization along this route south of Hurricane, provides this
necessary service to travelers.

Next stop is the town of Talkeetna, the site of the annual Moose Dropping
Festival, which also serves as a base station for trips and flights to the
mountain. A few miles out of town, we finally saw majestic Denali and its grand
companions of the Alaska Range.

The sun dropped below the horizon an hour later as Alaska's urban centers came
into view. The bedroom community of Wasilla (no, she wasn't home), the
agricultural Matanuska Valley and Whitney, home of Elmendorf Air Base, whizzed
by the rail coach windows as dusk settled in. The lights of Anchorage, our
destination, loomed into view soon after.

Anchorage, Alaska's largest city, originated as the main staging area for the
railroad's construction in 1914, and boomed following the discovery of oil at
Prudhoe Bay in the far north. Situated on the Knik and Turnagain Arms of the
Cook Inlet, the city is situated amid a gathering of gorgeous mountain ranges
and is surrounded by water, which tends to moderate its winter climate.

We rose early to witness the ceremonial start of the famous Iditarod sled dog
race, which commemorates the 1925 relay by dog teams to deliver diphtheria serum
to the epidemic-stricken city of Nome. Mushers and their very excited dogs get
to strut for fans on a snowy stretch of downtown before starting the real race
in Willow on the 1,050-mile hazardous journey to Nome.

The lead-in to the "Last Great Race" is the 10-day Fur Rendezvous Festival,
"Rondy" for short. The celebration started in the early 1930s when miners and
trappers came to town with their winter "take," and Alaskans in general gathered
together for some mid-winter camaraderie. It has since evolved into an eclectic
collection of events, some sedate and others downright wacky.

On the "loony scale," nothing beats the Running of the Reindeer, during which
hordes of "wild animals" (who resemble people) are released on snowy Fourth
Street to run among perplexed reindeer, who are themselves running to get away
as fast as their hoofed legs allow. A close second in wackiness might be the
Outhouse Races, in which contestants drag porta-potties on skis down a course
and into immortality. People-watching qualifies as a spectator sport and Rondy
event. Walking down Anchorage's main drag, you begin to appreciate the variety
of folks who call Alaska home, among them backwoodsmen, trappers, hermits, old
sourdoughs and the requisite urban kids with Raiders hoodies and pants sagging
down to there.

Sporting events are front and center in town. Take in the World Championship
Sled Dog Races on the streets of downtown and see what true canine athletes are
all about.

If you're into the social scene, the Miners and Trappers Ball is for you. Grow
some facial hair in time for the Ball's Beard and Moustache competition. There
are lots of other things to do at the Rondy: Peruse the exhibits and shops for
Native American arts and crafts, check out the snow sculpture competition, strap
into the carnival rides, visit the Anchorage Museum for special exhibitions, get
flung in the air at the festival blanket toss and bite into a reindeer hot dog
from a street-side cart. Stay at or visit the Captain Cook or Hilton Hotel
towers for great views of the region, nearby mountain ranges and even distant
Denali.

Want to satisfy your ski or snowboard craving? Forty miles south of Anchorage in
the town of Girdwood is the Alyeska Resort and ski area. From the luxury hotel,
take the aerial tramway up 2,000 feet to the heart of a mountain that boasts of
frequent and sometimes legendary powder dumps. Ride Chair 6 up to 2,750 feet,
the top of lift service, for stunning views of the Kenai Mountains and
Peninsula, and the Chugach Range, bisected by the sublime Turnagain Arm of the
Cook Inlet -- named for the legendary English explorer Capt. James Cook. From
there, you can take intermediate runs down or opt for the double-black diamond
challenges of the North Face.

For apres-ski and dining, try the Seven Glaciers Restaurant at the top of the
tram for gourmet Alaskan cuisine, or the Double Musky Inn down in Girdwood town
for Cajun-Creole fare.

The highlight of our Alyeska stay was a fleeting but awe-inspiring look at the
northern lights, momentarily intense but fading quickly as we ran to find a
viewing spot free from the resort's illumination.

There's so much more winter and spring wonder to see in the vicinity if you have
some time. Grab a rental car and explore the Kenai Peninsula. Take in the
historic port of Seward and go for a glacier boat cruise on adjoining
Resurrection Bay. You might see orcas, sea lions, porpoises, bald eagles, sheep
and lots of other fauna, along with some requisite jaw-dropping mountain, sea
and glacier sights. Go fishing on the Kenai River. Take a four-hour jaunt to
Homer on beautiful Kachemak Bay, taking in the quaint Russian and Native fishing
village of Ninilchik and the magnificent mountains and volcanoes of the Cook
Inlet along the way.

Homer, at road's end, is an artist colony and fishing center, whimsically
referred to as "a quaint drinking village with a fishing problem" by the locals.
Halibut and salmon sport fishing is king here, on a tract of low-lying land
called the Homer Spit. Head into the Salty Dawg Saloon for a cold one and feast
your eyes on the most dollar bills you've ever seen stuck to a ceiling. Relax
waterside in a small inn and see bald eagles soaring around you. The winter
climate is moderated by the water, and it was a fine place to conclude our
"North to Alaska" adventure.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Briefs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 822 words


TAMPA The Naval Air Warfare Center Training Systems Division has awarded
Tampa-based Aero Simulation Inc. a $22.3 million contract for the HC-144A
maritime patrol aircraft flight trainer program.

The contract involves delivery of an HC-144A flight trainer and supporting
systems to the Coast Guard's Aviation Training Center in Mobile, Ala. The
HC-144A is a fixed-wing airplane powered by two turboprop engines.

The program will enable Aero Simulation to keep its 90 workers on the job as
other projects wind down at the Tampa firm, located at 4450 E. Adamo Drive.

ExecuJet Charter Service adds sixth aircraft

TAMPA ExecuJet Charter Service Inc. has added its sixth executive jet for
charter service at Tampa International Airport -- a Hawker Beechcraft 800XP.

The aircraft seats eight passengers. ExecuJet's fleet also includes two Hawker
800XPs, a Falcon 50, a Westwind 1124 and a King Air 200.

Wells Fargo to expand $7 checking account fee

NEW YORK Wells Fargo customers in six states who had free checking accounts will
pay $7 a month starting in May.

The bank said Thursday that it started moving customers in 23 states to the $7
fee last year and is expanding to six more -- Georgia, New Jersey, New York,
Connecticut, Delaware and Pennsylvania.

Customers can avoid the fee by keeping a minimum balance of $1,500 or making
direct deposits of at least $500 a month. Wells Fargo says it hasn't offered
free checking to new customers since 2010. The bank, based in San Francisco,
will expand the fee to all 39 states it serves but has not determined when.

Kitchen appliances top U.S. complaint list

WASHINGTON From dishwashers that spark and flame to ovens that turn on
spontaneously, kitchen appliances are the top source of complaints in the
government's year-old product safety database.

One-third of the more than 6,500 reports filed to SaferProducts.gov in the past
year were complaints about appliances, mostly in the kitchen. Other top
categories included nursery equipment, toys, footwear and home climate-control
systems.

SaferProducts.gov, created a year ago, is a database where people can submit
reports, for public view, of injury or worse from everyday products in and
around the home.

Coca-Cola, PepsiCo to change color formula

NEW YORK Coca-Cola Co. and PepsiCo Inc. are changing the way they make the
caramel coloring used in their sodas as a result of a California law that
mandates drinks containing a certain level of carcinogens bear a cancer warning
label.

The companies said the changes will be expanded nationally to streamline their
manufacturing processes. They've already been made for drinks sold in
California.

Coca-Cola and PepsiCo account for almost 90 percent of the soda market,
according to industry tracker Beverage Digest. The American Beverage Association
said its members will continue to use caramel coloring in certain products but
that adjustments were made to meet California's standard.

Stock rally helps boost household wealth

WASHINGTON Americans are climbing further out of the hole they sank into during
the recession.

A stock rally at the end of 2011 helped rebuild more lost wealth -- a trend that
carried into 2012. Households responded by borrowing more for the first time
since the financial crisis began, even as home values fell.

Household wealth rose 2.1 percent to $58.5 trillion in the October-December
quarter, the most in a year. Still, it would have to rise 13 percent more to
reach its pre-recession peak.

Volvo shows car with first pedestrian airbag

STOCKHOLM Volvo Car Corp. showed a five-door hatchback this week in Geneva
featuring the world's first pedestrian airbag. The Swedish carmaker is counting
on such innovations to burnish its safety image and help double sales.

The V40, Volvo's first model designed under owner Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co. of China, has an airbag that ejects from the hood to protect pedestrians
from injury. It also has a backswept headlight and panoramic glass roof to give
it a sporty look.

Jury says Stanford must forfeit seized funds

HOUSTON R. Allen Stanford, convicted of running a $7 billion investment fraud,
must forfeit all funds seized by the U.S. government, a federal jury in Houston
said, finding the money is a proceed of the scheme.

The jury granted total forfeiture on 29 accounts prosecutors valued at $330
million. The panel returned its verdict Thursday.

Plans call for $600M resort in Catskills

THOMPSON, N.Y. Plans to develop a $600 million resort with gambling on the site
of the grandest old Borscht Belt hotel are being revived.

The proposal will include a hotel, a golf course, a harness track and video
lottery terminals on the former site of the Concord Hotel, famed from the days
when the Catskills were a prime destination for summer tourists, many of them
Jewish families up from New York City.

From staff and wire reports

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Turning up the heat

BYLINE: Roy Cummings, The Bucs

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words


Offseason conditioning setting a tone for what's to come in September

Roy Cummings

The Bucs

TAMPA You can change the culture inside the building at One Buc Place, but you
can't change the fact that outside, on a Sunday afternoon in September, it is
unbearably hot at Raymond James Stadium.

Bucs coach Greg Schiano has taken note of that. It is one of the reasons he
built little, if any, downtime into his intense offseason workouts, which are an
exercise in constant motion.

Players are required to run, not walk, from one drill to another. Even those who
are not participating in drills because of nagging injuries are required to do
what exercises they can outside in the broiling sun.

You get the feeling Schiano would have embraced the old One Buc Place by the
airport, where the weight room was literally outside under an awning. But there
is a method to what some might see as madness.

Having coached the defense at the University of Miami for two years more than a
decade ago, Schiano has a good working knowledge of the difficulties presented
by Florida's searing heat and humidity.

And, like Jon Gruden and Raheem Morris before him, Schiano is out to turn those
conditions into an advantage for the Bucs on sticky Sunday afternoons.

"That has to become our advantage,'' Schiano said of the Tampa area's taxing
heat indexes, which regularly soar to more than 100 degrees through September
and sometimes into November.

"When you get teams out there in that stadium and it's really hot and you push
the envelope, I think it becomes an advantage and that's something that is
important to me.''

So important, the Bucs can probably say goodbye to those once-a-week trips to
climate-controlled Tropicana Field they made under Morris to escape the heat. As
long as Schiano is in charge, the heat will be on and it will likely be on high.

Tighten up

TE Kellen Winslow said last week that Schiano's dissatisfaction with his desire
to spend part of the offseason working out in San Diego was a big factor in his
release, but there could be more to it than that.

Money almost certainly factored into the decision to some degree. Winslow was
slated to make $4.8 million in 2012. By signing Dallas Clark to a one-year, $2.7
million deal, the Bucs saved $2.1 million.

The expected use of the tight end may have played a role, too. With former
Giants quarterbacks and receivers coach Mike Sullivan running the offense, there
is reason to believe the Bucs might put less emphasis on the tight end.

A year ago, for example, Tampa Bay threw to Winslow 114 times, according to ESPN
stats, making him the fourth-most targeted tight end in the league. The most
targeted tight end in the Giants offense was Jake Ballard with 58.

Ballard caught 38 passes last season. In 2010, the Giants' top pass-catching
tight end was Kevin Boss with 35. Clark and protege Luke Stocker could end up
with similar numbers in 2012.

Central command

Long before Schiano showed up, the Bucs had plans to make former Rutgers
offensive lineman Jeremy Zuttah a center. Turns out Schiano always believed that
was Zuttah's best position.

"We were really struggling and so he wound up playing every position on the line
for us (at Rutgers), and it sounds like that's what he did here,'' Schiano said.
"But I'm glad he's settled into the center position. I think he has the perfect
temperament for it, because he's got the intelligence for it and he's got the
toughness for it.

"Is he the biggest guy in the world? No. But I think at that position you've got
help on both sides and he's got a lot of help on both sides. I think he'll be
very productive.''

rcummings@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7979

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Make it easy, just vote no

BYLINE: Steve Otto, sotto@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words


Steve Otto

sotto@tampatrib.com

I've been hearing from some of you who voted early and have no idea what you did
when you got to those proposed constitutional amendments. Fortunately, from what
I've gathered, most of you took the easy way out and voted no on all ... not a
bad idea.

The real problem, of course, is the Florida Legislature has once again taken the
easy way out and passed on the real work to the voters. Instead of working out
these issues in the Legislature, they let us do their dirty work.

You know, if we wanted a pure democracy instead of a republic, we wouldn't have
bothered putting these people into office in the first place. Think of the money
we could have saved if we just shut down Tallahassee altogether, except for the
football team. The elimination of all that hot air might have cut back on global
warming.

Unfortunately, that's not the way it works and that's why you are dealing with
the mess that is on the ballot right now. A couple of the proposed amendments
have some merit, but not enough to deserve changing the constitution. Make it
easy on yourself and vote "no'' on all of them.

I wonder what it must have been like living in New Orleans and watching the
tragedy unfold across the Northeast these last few days. You also have to wonder
if Hurricane Sandy was yet one more example of the promised severe climatic
changes allegedly coming our way in the next few years.

My friend Joe Joeb was watching coverage of the storm and had these thoughts: "A
little earlier I was watching coverage of the storm on Fox News Network. At the
end of the program, after showing all sorts of existing devastation and
predicting even worse, the camera showed the Honor Guard at the Tomb of the
Unknowns, in the high wind and driving rain, continuing their dutiful pace. The
tomb has not been without its guard since 1948 and will not be without its guard
throughout the storm.''

Finally, you never know who reads this stuff. Commenting on a column last week
about the capture of the monkey in Pinellas County, I received this email from
David S. Reed, who is the consultant to the Barbados Wildlife Reserve and
Barbados Primate Research Center.

"Great articles about the Mystery Monkey," he writes. "Unfortunately, because of
movies and other mis-info, monkeys get the blame for so many diseases ...
whereas birds are the real culprits; i.e. SARS, avian viruses, etc. Monkeys do
not cause HIV, AIDS, Ebola, etc. ... but they are suspect from so much erroneous
sensationalism. In fact monkeys are very clean externally and serologically,
particularly the monkeys in the West Indies.

"What monkeys do provide is polio vaccine. Polio vaccine cannot be made
synthetically, and ever since the days of its discovery in the early '50s by
doctors Salk and Sabin, polio vaccine is manufactured by using monkey kidney
cells. It only requires a few thousand humanely euthanized monkeys each year to
provide the kidney cells that produce the world's supply of vaccine."

He goes on at length about our friend the monkey, but you get the picture.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Daily life more affected by local races

BYLINE: Tom Jackson, tjackson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 806 words


Tom Jackson

tjackson@tampatrib.com

Early voting is over. Your neighbors who were too excited to wait -- and there
were a bunch of them, well more than 100,000 -- have had their say. Now it's up
to the holdouts, the traditionalists, the procrastinators, and, oh, my yes, the
lingering undecideds.

If the lines at the early voting precincts are a preview, Tuesday -- Election
Day -- may resemble big-box retailers at midnight on Black Friday: great crowds
charged with anticipation snaking along walkways, grimly intent on their
purpose.

Tuesday, at last, is go time. There will be no rain checks, even though
scattered thunderstorms are in the forecast. Pack an extra dose of patience and
look on the bright side. After all, you could be stranded on Staten Island.

Remember to take your sample ballot. If you haven't read the proposed state
constitutional amendments before you leave for your precinct, it's too late.

By Wednesday, we'll have decided big things. At least for a while. Not just the
presidency and the balance of power in Congress. I get it that the race at the
top is why we're turning out in proverbial droves. It's the headliner. It's
Ali-Frazier, the Super Bowl and the Indianapolis 500, all wrapped up in the
Tournament of Roses Parade.

In related news, New York Mayor-for-Life Michael Bloomberg granted President
Barack Obama a tepid endorsement -- based on the president's faith in man-made
climate change -- and in the next breath declared the New York Marathon open for
business, no matter how many resources the race would divert from post-Sandy
recovery efforts. Never mind that Bloomberg ultimately succumbed to public rage,
canceling the marathon late Friday. By then, his vast cluelessness was well
established.

Some pundits hailed the mayor's blessing as a swing-state game-changer. OK,
fine. I want to meet the Pasco fence-sitters nudged, at last, from their perches
based on Bloomberg's tin-eared judgment -- and, more to the point, upon which
side of the fence they landed. If the consumption nanny is for Obama, does that
tilt you toward Mitt Romney?

That said, whoever occupies the White House the next four years is unlikely to
affect daily life around Pasco County nearly as much as the winners of the
contests for constitutional officers in the middle of the ballot: sheriff,
property assessor, tax collector, clerk of the court and schools superintendent.

With two jolting exceptions, these races are graced with uncommonly capable
candidates. Presumptive superintendent Kurt Browning, the Republican nominee,
drew only a write-in challenge, and courts clerk Paula O'Neil faces an
unqualified rival fueled exclusively by an imaginary slight.

Otherwise, we reiterate our position established in this space a few weeks back:
Pasco is not likely to stumble however those remaining races turn out. But that
assessment also suggests the incumbents are performing capably, raising the
question of whether the challengers have presented compelling arguments for
change.

We're thinking: Not so much.

Is the property assessor's office antiquated and its boss AWOL, as San Antonio
Democrat Allison Newlon claims, or is it a careful steward of taxpayer dollars
with a well-coordinated staff whose CEO is always on call, as Republican
incumbent Mike Wells says? Another question: Would this even be a race if a
Tampa TV reporter hadn't caught Wells at home in his shorts on a day he'd called
in sick?

Will voters switch tax collectors because Democrat incumbent Mike Olson is
intent on building regional centers, and longtime TECO executive and Republican
challenger Ed Blommel says leased space is more economical? Who wants to read
that spreadsheet?

As for the sheriff's race, beyond youth and enviable political connections, are
there urgent reasons to replace Chris Nocco with Lee Cannon-era retread Kim
Bogart?

OK, Nocco is 36. But in 18 months behind the big badge, he's demonstrated skills
beyond his years. By most accounts, Nocco runs a happy shop; his deputies have
effectively gotten after prescription drug abuse; he's enhanced, by merging, the
sheriff's SWAT team with New Port Richey's; he has the office back on speaking
terms with the county commission; and he engages effectively withthe business
community.

Wednesday, in a well-attended press conference, Bogart flung assorted charges of
deputy misbehavior and slipshod detective work owing to a lack of experience and
a failure of oversight, but closer inspection revealed smoke, not fire. Nocco
correctly identified it a "desperate political attack."

Happily, the season ofpolitical attacks is nearly at an end. Time, at last, to
decide the big things.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

https://www.facebook.com/TomJacksonTribune

Twitter: @tjacksonTBO

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bring back conservation corps

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 332 words


From 1933 to 1942 under the Roosevelt administration, the Civilian Conservation
Corps (CCC) demonstrated there was no conflict between preserving the
environment and creating jobs.

"We cannot always build the future for our youth, but we can build them for the
future!" said FDR.

Many American families were saved in the Great Depression from starvation and
homelessness by their hard work and $25 sent home in a monthly allotment. Bottom
line is it generated 3.5 million jobs and jump-started our middle class.

The lesson of Hurricane Sandy is clear: Mother Nature is nonpartisan and could
take out red or blue states with various weather events in the future.
Scientists warn the planet is facing a global climate crisis that could result
in unprecedented sea-level rise, drought and food shortages. The new CCC would
be on duty for disaster prevention as well as disaster relief.

A bill in Congress, HR 494, proposes renewing this job-creation program to
invest in and put to work the young unemployed and underemployed civilians and
military veterans on useful public works projects aimed at safeguarding natural
resources and developing new transportation infrastructure. The sponsor of the
bill, Rep. Marcy Kaptur of Toledo, Ohio, has 30 co-sponsors. Two Florida
representatives are co-sponsors -- Kathy Castor of Tampa and Alcee Hastings of
South Florida.

The revitalized CCC would enlist thousands of young Americans in all 50 states
and the territories, putting them to work on the huge backlog of reconstruction
projects so urgently needed on the 700 million acres of both urban and rural
public lands across our country. Contact your members of Congress and the
president and ask them to get on the ball.

Jay Alexander

St. Petersburg

The writer is president of CCC-Initiative Inc., which is working to bring back
the Civilian Conservation Corps in the United States and worldwide.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reflections for both parties

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 630 words


Many in the media are taking delight in the Republican "hangover," with the GOP
falling far short of its goal of taking the presidency and the Senate majority.

The GOP does need, as Texas Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, the chairman of the
National Republican Senatorial Committee, put it, "a period of reflection."

But so, for that matter, does the Democratic Party.

The GOP should be worried that it is alienating moderates, minorities, women and
the growing Hispanic population.

The Democrats should be equally concerned they have largely lost the confidence
of white males and, more importantly, the nation's business leaders.

A party viewed as the enemy of commerce is unlikely to be able to revitalize the
economy and ultimately is destined for failure.

President Obama would do his party -- and the nation -- a service if he
collaborated with Republicans on improving the nation's business climate,
particularly jettisoning the costly and cumbersome regulations that stifle free
enterprise.

Some in the GOP clearly have been shrill in their anti-government rants, seeking
to eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency and other such nonsense. We
need environmental, consumer and public health protections. There are firms that
will dump toxins in rivers or take shortcuts with food safety.

The federal government should provide basic safeguards, not a spider web of
onerous rules and procedures that have more to do with bureaucratic control than
public safety.

Were Obama to make it a priority to unshackle businesses -- including
entertaining sensible revisions to the Affordable Health Care Act -- he would
take a giant step toward achieving an effective bipartisan government.

The Democrats hardly have a mandate. The popular vote was nearly equally
divided. Millions of Americans are profoundly disillusioned with a government
that won't control spending and has gone beyond providing a safety net to
offering a lifetime support system.

The Democrats can probably thank the tea party, which seemed more interested in
ideological purity than candidates with broad appeal, for retaining the Senate.
Most of the extreme candidates who prevailed in the GOP primaries lost in the
general election.

The emergence of the tea party in 2010 was a healthy development, focusing
attention on the deficit and highlighting the hypocrisy of Republicans who
campaigned for smaller government but spent wildly once in Washington.

But the movement now needs to grow up and wise up. It too often is characterized
by an angry contempt for opposing viewpoints and an unwillingness to compromise,
and seems to think government should stop investing in infrastructure and other
public projects.

Mainstream Americans understand no political faction is right all the time, and
agreements that allow some progress are superior to throwing a tantrum.

Indeed, more decorum and respect are badly needed in Washington. We want leaders
who exercise restraint with tax dollars -- and their mouths. Colorful insults
make good news stories but rarely achieve good policy.

It is notable that the bombastic quote machine, U.S. Rep. Allen West of Florida,
a tea party favorite, was not returned to Congress. It is lamentable that the
venomously flamboyant Alan Grayson, a Democrat, was.

The re-elected president and Congress will quickly face a critical challenge:
Developing a spending agreement that will keep the nation from going off a
"fiscal cliff."

Instead of histrionics, we would like to see the president and congressional
leaders thoughtfully searching for common ground.

We hope this election, with its warning to both parties, will cause such a sea
change in Washington. But we are not holding our breath.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Will USF's future include Holtz?

BYLINE: JOEY JOHNSTON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 975 words


There are many questions, few answers as Bulls finish tough season

BY JOEY JOHNSTON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Salaries have escalated. Patience has disappeared. College football's
firing-line climate was typified by Black Sunday, when five head coaches were
released, including two who had achieved bowl eligibility and another just two
seasons removed from a national championship.

Meanwhile, at the University of South Florida, there's a logical question.

Is Skip Holtz safe?

By anyone's estimation, USF has endured a massively disappointing football
season. Picked to contend in the Big East Conference and perhaps challenge for
the program's first BCS bowl, the Bulls instead will miss the postseason
entirely for the second straight year.

USF (3-8, 1-5 Big East) faces Pittsburgh (5-6, 2-4) in Saturday night's finale
at Raymond James Stadium. After that, it's realistic to expect changes, whether
they involve Holtz, his staff or the program's long-term strategy.

Here are the variables:

The record

Overall, Holtz is 16-20 in three seasons. Seven of those victories came against
Football Championship Subdivision or non-BCS schools.

He is 5-15 in the Big East, with losses in 11 of his past 13 conference games.
Losing close games has become an art form, as 11 of the overall defeats were by
a touchdown or less.

USF has clearly trended downward -- from 8-5 to 5-7 to 3-8 -- and this season
featured a roster with 25 seniors and 15 returning starters. Clock management
has often been mystifying. The Bulls were hampered by season-ending injuries to
their two foremost offensive playmakers, quarterback B.J. Daniels and running
back Lindsey Lamar.

But the biggest culprit was poor defense. Three times, USF had the
fourth-quarter lead with 3 minutes to play (once, it was tied), only to have its
defense fail to protect the advantage. Even if Holtz stays, first-year defensive
coordinator Chris Cosh and defensive assistants could be vulnerable.

The contract extension

Last June, as Holtz prepared to enter the third season of his original five-year
contract, USF athletic director Doug Woolard presented him with an extension
through 2017 at an annual $2 million salary. Even though the Bulls were coming
off a 5-7 bowl-less season, Woolard said he thought it was necessary to lock up
Holtz because other BCS-league schools had inquired about his services.

Such a gesture is not unprecedented at USF.

In the late 1980s, men's basketball coach Bobby Paschal had three straight
losing seasons (21-63). Still, amid criticism, his contract was twice extended
by then-athletic director Paul Griffin, who said, "I don't believe in a
revolving door for our coaches. Establish a plan, then stick to it.'' Paschal
ultimately guided the Bulls to a pair of NCAA tournament appearances.

Now, the extension cuts both ways. If Holtz is fired, the school owes him a $2.5
million buyout, payable in annual $500,000 installments, and Woolard would have
to concede a mistake. If USF stays the course, Woolard must hope for a quick
turnaround, as Holtz can hardly afford another losing season.

The Big East

USF athletics can justifiably say it has bigger concerns than football's sagging
direction.

The Big East is changing rapidly and its football viability seems up for grabs.
Last week, Rutgers was accepted into the Big Ten. According to multiple reports,
the ACC is coveting either Connecticut or Louisville as its 14th member (to
replace Maryland). The Big East, in full scramble mode, will add Tulane and East
Carolina for 2014.

The league is saying goodbye to Syracuse and Pittsburgh. West Virginia already
bolted and so did TCU (before playing its first game).

Some highly speculative realignment-shuffle scenarios have USF eventually
landing in the ACC or Big 12. Bottom line: The Bulls have attractive natural
resources -- television market, facilities and the program's Florida location --
but their conference home is not stable. And until that's settled, would
potential coaching candidates be hesitant?

The future

One bright spot in the Holtz regime has been an academic turnaround. USF
football has advanced its Academic Progress Report score to 963 -- up 54 points
in the past three years, the best improvement by a BCS school. In 2005-06, USF's
APR score was 879. Meanwhile, 22 of USF's 25 seniors will earn a degree at the
end of the fall semester (including 11 who already have graduated).

Recruiting under Holtz has been rated as middle-of-the-pack, although his first
class had to be assembled and/or maintained in about three weeks. Upon his
hiring, he spoke about building a fence around the Tampa Bay area, keeping home
the blue-chip recruits, but all top 100-ranked local players have gone
elsewhere, many to the University of Florida.

Next season, the Bulls have sophomore defensive end Aaron Lynch, a transfer from
Notre Dame, who was the nation's 28th-ranked recruit in 2011. Also, Winter Park
High quarterback Asiantii Woulard, the Most Valuable Player of the prestigious
Elite 11 camp, committed to USF last summer, although he recently visited N.C.
State (which just fired coach Tom O'Brien).

For next year, the Bulls must identify a quarterback. They need depth at running
back. The secondary, consistently the team's weakest position, faces an
overhaul.

It's hard to visualize 2013 as a breakthrough season for Holtz -- or anyone
else. Season-ticket sales, boosted by Florida State's Tampa appearance this
year, are bound to take a hit. But this isn't Gainesville, where 90,000 fans
show up, no matter what. If USF becomes a contender, interest will rise and
people will come.

USF's rabid fans want change -- either on the sideline or on the scoreboard.

So many questions. So few easy answers.

jjohnston@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7353

Twitter: @JJohnstonTBO

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 24, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

America in need of spiritual revival

BYLINE: JEFF LUKENS, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 794 words


BY JEFF LUKENS

Special To The Tampa Tribune

We live in and age of unbelief. We live with America in decline. We are no
longer the America of our founders, or even the America that existed 20 years
ago. Collectively, we are more secular, with ever-increasing faith in
government, and decreasing faith in God. The consequences of which are already
showing. The culture must change. We need a spiritual revival. We need a Third
Great Awakening.

No education? No problem. The government will take care of you. Having a baby
out of wedlock? No problem there, either. Forty percent of babies are born that
way. Gay marriage? Hey, who cares what the Bible says. Victimhood trumps
success. Nothing is right or wrong, because that might suggest a standard by
which right and wrong would be defined.

Freedom should be an easy sell. So why are conservatives and the people of faith
who proclaim freedom the ones who are insulted and mocked? We are seen as the
deniers of freedom. What so many are missing is morality, a self-governing limit
to behavior. As the left sees it, they do not have to accept
responsibility.Freedom means no obstacles on the road to what our grandparents
called depravity.

Culturally, the nation is already broken. The shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary
in Connecticut is only the most recent example. We have reached a majority of
people who do not think citizens should be personally responsible.

What's needed is profound national revival. May God in his grace and mercy allow
the American people to experience a Great Awakening. It is our only hope.

Two revivals were such game-changing events in American history that Christian
historians where compelled to call them Great Awakenings. The first occurred in
the early to mid-1700s, and the Second Great Awakening in the early to
mid-1800s. Ministers proclaimed the Gospel with great care, passion, and
conviction. These included Jonathan Edwards, George Whitefield, John Wesley and
Charles Wesley. With their aid, people realized they needed to repent and get
right with God.

In time, this national yearning for spiritual expression and moral leadership
led to the desire for the nation to rid itself from the tyranny of King George
III. Although not every Founding Father was a devout Christian, many of them
were, and they sought to establish a free society based on Judeo-Christian
principles.

The First Great Awakeningcreated the moral climate for the Declaration of
Independence and the founding of a new country, conceived in liberty, which
would truly become a light to the nations.

The Second Great Awakening was even more powerful in the mid-19th centurythan
the First Great Awakening had been in the 18th century. In his book "Implosion,"
Joel Rosenberg explains: One piece of observable evidence in this regard is the
explosive growth in the number of church congregations that were established in
the wake of both Great Awakenings. At the same time, Christians during this
period sought to put their faith into action to improve their neighborhoods and
communities and the nation as a whole.

They persuaded millions of children to enroll in Sunday school programs to learn
about the Bible and pray for their nation. They opened orphanages and soup
kitchens to care for the poor and needy. They started clinics and hospitals to
care for the sick, elderly and infirm. They founded elementary and secondary
schools for girls as well as boys. They established colleges and universities
dedicated to teaching both the Scriptures and the sciences. They led social
campaigns to persuade Americans to stop drinking so much alcohol and to abolish
the evil of slavery.

These Christians didn't expect the government to take care of them. They
believed it was the Church's job to show the love of Christ to their neighbors
in real and practical ways. They were right, and they made America a better
place as a result -- not perfect, but better.

The Second Great Awakening culminated with Abraham Lincoln and the abolition of
slavery.

Both government programs and charities can feed the hungry and clothe the naked.
Government welfare, nevertheless, cannot reach people's hearts. Christian
charities can. Serving the needy in a loving Christian way serves the ultimate
purpose of reaching the heart where the will for change takes place.

Abiding faith is unfashionable, and is considered an oddity. If you are going to
exercise your faith with authenticity and courage, you will receive mockery,
ridicule, and rejection. For patriots, it is the price that must be paid to save
the nation.

Jeff Lukens is a staff writer for the New Media Alliance, a conservative issue
advocacy group. He lives in Brandon.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fitch cuts airport's bond rating

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292 words


Firm says it's been slower to recover than other airports

BY TED JACKOVICS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Fitch Ratings downgraded its long-term rating from AA- to A+ on $645
million in outstanding Tampa International Airport revenue bonds, and revised
the outlook from "negative" to "stable."

"The airport benefits from a sizable origination and destination market and is
served by a diverse mix of legacy carriers and low-cost carriers," the report
said. "However, the airport faces some competition from nearby Florida airports
and its enplanement levels have been slower to recover than peers."

"While management has indicated an average traffic growth in the range of 3
percent over the next five years, Fitch views these assumptions to be aggressive
in nature, given the current environment in aviation, the uncertain economic
climate and the risk of traffic diversion to other airports."

Fitch cited a 0.8 percent decline in October and November of passengers leaving
Tampa but did not include a 0.8 increase in December of passengers leaving Tampa
over the previous year. Tampa International completed 2011 with a 0.5 percent
gain in overall passengers to 16.7 million.

Tampa International's ratings change issued last week reflects a similar dynamic
nationwide, with Fitch in December predicting flat or nominal traffic growth for
most airports in 2012.

Fitch rates Orlando International Airport at AA- with a stable outlook. Credit
outlooks for the Dallas-Fort Worth, Chicago O'Hare and Miami airports were
revised from stable to negative in December after the American Airlines
bankruptcy protection filing.

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7817

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

School board to discuss study

BYLINE: RONNIE BLAIR, The Pasco Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 903 words


Topics on the table include low morale, poor communication

BY RONNIE BLAIR

The Pasco Tribune

LAND O' LAKES Nearly a year after an outside agency study was completed, the
Pasco County School Board finally is scheduled to discuss its report of low
morale in the school district, communication problems and other concerns.

The board will hold a workshop Tuesday to talk about the study, which was
conducted by the Florida Association of District School Superintendents at the
request of Superintendent Heather Fiorentino.

The study was completed in April and the board was to discuss its conclusions at
a workshop in August, but the follow-up meeting kept being postponed.

"That's made me very frustrated," board member Alison Crumbley said. "It's
almost been a year. We could have made a lot of positive changes. A whole year?
Ridiculous."

School board members thought they were poised to discuss the problems at a
workshop last month and became agitated when Fiorentino instead appeared to be
moving ahead with a five-year district transformation plan without addressing
the issues raised in the study.

Board Chairwoman Joanne Hurley nearly stopped the workshop altogether. Other
board members, though, said they might as well listen to the presentation,
especially since so many district administrators had taken time out of their day
to attend and help with it.

Fiorentino disagreed with the board's assessment that she had launched the
transformation plan without board input. She said the plan was still a work in
progress.

The superintendent also said she and her staff don't agree on everything in the
study.

"It has some valuable information," she said. "It has some inaccuracies as
well."

The study included results of surveys of 117 district-level administrators and
202 school-based administrators who were asked about the work environment in the
district.

Administrators were asked to agree or disagree with a series of statements. The
results showed the administrators view the schools as safe, their work
environment as safe and that they are expected to meet demands for high levels
of performance.

But the study also found that most administrators don't feel they have much
autonomy in decision-making; they don't feel free to suggest and undertake
innovative strategies; they believe school district morale is poor; they don't
believe each unit of the school district is equally empowered; and they don't
believe salaries are fair and based on actual job performance.

Administrators said decisions tend to be "top down," and that input often is
requested but ultimately ignored by top-level supervisors, the study reported.

In addition, decision-making is postponed by assigning issues to committees, the
report said, which can lead to unnecessary delays. That in turn can lead to
frustration and confusion among employees and an increase in the severity of the
problems, it said.

"Administrators do not see innovation as being rewarded or encouraged," the
study said. "Morale was a major concern ...and was seen as declining."

Administrators also expressed concerns about the school board, questioning
whether board members are doing more than policy-making.

The school board sets policy, but day-to-day operations are supposed to be the
purview of the superintendent.

Hurley said last week that the study provided the district an impartial look at
the management and climate there, yet a year passed without board members being
able to discuss with the superintendent the issues the study raised.

"The board should have been given the opportunity much earlier to comment on how
we would like to use the study to improve our district," Hurley said.

She became even more frustrated when she learned that Pinellas County
commissioned a similar study from FADSS and the Pinellas superintendent and
school board met Monday, days after receiving the results, to discuss how to
address the problems their study unearthed.

Board member Allen Altman said one problem Pasco faces is a shortage of people
interested in becoming principals. That problem is made worse, he said, when
potential leaders see administrators who are discouraged and frustrated.

The district has a large number of senior administrators who will retire within
the next few years and Altman said he worries about a leadership vacuum.

"Motivated strong leaders are a must at the school level," he said.

Crumbley said one of her concerns is that the need for improved communications
was a running theme throughout the study. Communication is more important than
ever, she said, as the district struggles with budget shortfalls and needs to be
run efficiently without jeopardizing student achievement.

"In my opinion, we can't do these things as effectively as we need to unless we
have good communication between the superintendent and the board," she said.

Crumbley said lack of communication contributes to the low morale cited in the
study.

"Where you don't have good communications, people jump to the worst
conclusions," she said.

Communication also needs to be two-way, she said, not just top-down. Employees
should feel their input is valued, Crumbley said, especially since the district
hasn't been able to give pay raises or step increases for several years.

"They are the ones in the trenches, so to speak," she said.

rblair@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1853

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BYLINE: RODNEY KITE-POWELL, Special correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE & TRAVEL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 940 words


BY RODNEY KITE-POWELL

Special correspondent

Tampa's civil rights story is not as grand, or as shameful, as other cities in
the South.

This is not to say that the area didn't see its share of horrible crimes against
African-Americans, including several lynchings in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, or for that matter numerous success stories regarding peaceful
integration in the 1960s. The story of Tampa's early history regarding race
relations is an interesting one.

The town of Tampa grew from the northern boundary of Fort Brooke, on the east
bank of the Hillsborough River, in the early 1830s. By 1855, there were enough
people in the village to obtain a city charter from the state of Florida. The
early citizenry consisted mostly of merchants, farmers and fishermen who relied
on trade with the inhabitants of the military post for their livelihood.
Although slavery existed in Tampa, there were no large-scale plantations in the
vicinity. The closest was in Ellenton, more than 40 miles to the south, so there
was not a high concentration of slaves in the Tampa area.

Most Tampans favored leaving the Union during the secession crisis of 1860, but
the Civil War proved devastating to the area. Republican rule during
Reconstruction allowed Tampa's black citizens their first political
opportunities, but the town languished in backwoods anonymity.

People learned early that racial lines could blur. At least one prominent white
Tampan, William Ashley, carried on a long-term public relationship with a black
woman. Although this was not uncommon, his final pronouncement of devotion to
her, and presumably her to him, does seem out of the ordinary. When Ashley died
in 1873, he requested in his will that his companion (and former slave), Nancy
Ashley, be buried with him when she passed away. As executer of the Ashley
estate, John Jackson, a former mayor of Tampa, carried out Ashley's wish and,
when Nancy died soon afterward, she was laid to rest with William. Their
tombstone bears the following inscription:

Here Lie William Ashley and Nancy Ashley, Master and Servant; faithful to each
other in that relation in life, in death they are not seperated (sic).
Strangers, consider and be wise -- in the grave all human distinctions of race
or color mingle together in one common dust.

Economic growth finally arrived on the rails of Henry B. Plant's railroad, which
connected Tampa to northern markets in January 1884. Soon after, in 1885, two
Spanish entrepreneurs brought the cigar industry, and tremendous economic and
population growth, to Tampa.

The influx of new workers forced a change in the weft of Tampa's economic and
cultural fabric. The cigar industry, centered in the new enclave of Ybor City,
soon dominated the financial climate, and Ybor's streets were alive with Cubans,
Spaniards and Italians. Added to this mix was the presence of Afro-Cubans. At
first, the Afro-Cuban community lived and worked, integrated, among the larger
white Latin population. Soon, though, school segregation and Americanization
would drive a wedge between white Latinos and their black brethren.

Tampa was the location of a mass U.S. military encampment in 1898 during the
Spanish-American War. The army's black regiments were a part of that build-up,
and they encountered prejudice among the citizens of Tampa. The Buffalo Soldiers
were not allowed to eat in white restaurants, drink at white saloons or be
entertained in white brothels. This prejudice quickly grew to hostility, and on
June 6, the night before the army would ship off to Cuba, Tampa was the scene of
a riot between the black soldiers and Jim Crow himself. The riot was finally
quelled by a volunteer regiment from Georgia, with bloody efficiency.

Although the Tampa Riot of 1898 paled in comparison to that of the Wilmington,
N.C., riot of the same year, it is still an important piece in black Tampa's
civil rights struggle. Many of the Buffalo Soldiers were entertained in the
homes of Tampa's black families, and those families had the chance to see
someone who, though still denied some basic rights, was able to travel the world
and see that conditions were not the same everywhere.

The early 20th century saw an important push for civil rights in Tampa,
manifested in three ways: the founding of the Tampa Bulletin, a black weekly, by
the Rev. Marcellus D. Potter in 1915; the founding of the Tampa branch of the
NAACP; and the filming of "Birth of a Race," the "rebuttal" to "The Birth of a
Nation" and probably Tampa's most famous movie.

Filmed mostly in Tampa in 1917 and 1918, "Birth of a Race" used "hundreds of
area Afro-Americans ... as extras, Nubian soldiers in the Pharaonic army,"
according to Gary Mormino and Tony Pizzo's book "Tampa: The Treasure City." The
Hillsborough River doubled as the Nile and Sulphur Springs served as the Cradle
of Civilization.

The filming of a black movie in Tampa (or the South, for that matter) carried a
certain irony, because blacks were not allowed into the white movie theaters of
Tampa (or in most other southern cities) until the mid-1960s.

Tampa's NAACP branch was formed in 1917, the same year "Birth of a Race" began
filming. The NAACP proved to be a major force in breaking down racial barriers
in Tampa in the 1950s and 1960s, in concert with the Tampa Bi-Racial Commission.

Rodney Kite-Powell is the Saunders Foundation Curator of History at the Tampa
Bay History Center. He welcomes your comments and questions and can be reached
via email, rkp@tampabayhistorycenter.org, or by phone, (813) 228-0097.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Briefs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words


TAMPA The 2012 Tampa Bay Host Committee for the Republican National Convention
has unveiled its GOParty Card at the 2012Tampa.com website that will provide
visitors and residents discounts to more than 100 local establishments.

The GOParty Card is divided into six categories: arts and culture, casual
dining, dining, things to do, golf and outdoor activities and ecotourism.
Discounts range from percentage-off purchases to "buy one, get one free" deals.
The offers are valid from Aug. 17 to Sept. 3.

Mortgage rates hit another record low

WASHINGTON The average U.S. rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell this week to a
record low for the seventh time in eight weeks. Cheap mortgages have helped
drive a modest recovery in the weak housing market this year.

Mortgage buyer Freddie Mac said Thursday that the average on the 30-year loan
dropped to 3.66 percent. That's down from 3.71 percent last week and the lowest
since long-term mortgages began in the 1950s. The average rate on the 15-year
mortgage, a popular refinancing option, declined to 2.95 percent. That's down
from 2.98 percent last week and just above the record 2.94 percent reached two
weeks ago.

Best Buy reconsidering its big-store strategy

RICHFIELD, Minn. Best Buy Co. Inc.'s annual meeting opened Thursday with top
executives promising change, and no sign of its founder's presence. Interim CEO
G. "Mike" Mikan told shareholders that Best Buy will become more relevant, more
intelligent and more nimble as it reconsiders its big-store strategy that
brought success in the past.

"We can no longer focus on the box," Mikan said. A top priority, he said, is
ending "showrooming," the practice by customers of coming to stores only to look
at merchandise that they buy from other retailers online.

Small businesses plan to borrow, survey says

NEW YORK Many small businesses expect to seek a bank loan this year although
signs still point to a weak lending climate.

In a survey of nearly 6,000 businesses by Pepperdine University and Dun &
Bradstreet Credibility Corp. during the first quarter, nearly a third of the
participants said they plan to seek new financing in the next six months.

Coal company to lay off 500 as demand declines

LOUISVILLE, Ky. Arch Coal will lay off more than 500 miners in the struggling
coalfields of eastern Kentucky, a coal industry executive said Thursday, in the
latest setback for an industry increasingly being pushed aside as utilities
switch to cleaner and cheaper alternatives.

Bill Bissett, president of the Kentucky Coal Association, said he was informed
of the layoffs by an Arch executive. The St. Louis-based company describes
itself on its website as one of the world's top five coal producers.

Dairy Queen not in favor of NYC soda restrictions

NEW YORK International Dairy Queen said customers should have a variety of menu
choices as the fast-food chain enters New York, where city officials are
pressing for restrictions on the size of soft drinks sold at restaurants.

"We want to have options on the menu," John Gainor, Dairy Queen's chief
executive officer, said today in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. "Obviously, if it's passed, we will have to work with it," he said of
Mayor Michael Bloomberg's proposed ban at city restaurants on sales of sugary
soft drinks larger than 16 ounces a cup.

SmartMoney ends print product, cuts 25 jobs

NEW YORK SmartMoney's print magazine is ceasing publication and switching to an
all-digital format aimed at online and tablet computer users. Dow Jones & Co., a
unit of News Corp., said 25 positions at SmartMoney will be eliminated. It will
increase SmartMoney.com's staff from nine to 15 employees.

Samsung's newest smartphone available

SUWON, South Korea Samsung Electronics Co., challenging Apple Inc.'s iPhone,
began rolling out its Galaxy S III flagship smartphone in the United States
through T-Mobile USA Inc.

The touch-screen device will be available from the three other largest U.S.
carriers -- Verizon Wireless, AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp. -- in the coming
weeks, thecompany said.

First Tesla-made electric cars hit the pavement

FREMONT, Calif. Tesla Motors Inc. survived a cash crisis in 2008 and today
delivers its first electric car designed and built solely in-house. Co-founder
Elon Musk will soon learnwhether there's enough Model S demand for Tesla to
profit.

The first 10 "Signature" performance versions are to be picked up by their
owners at Tesla's factory. They're priced at $95,400 to $105,400 and able to go
265 miles per charge. More than 10,000 people have made $5,000 deposits to
reserve one.

From staff and wire reports

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 29, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Things should start clearing up quickly

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words


GO FISHING is a look at the area fishing scene through the eyes of the local
charter boat captains and fishing guides. Today: Frank Sargeant.

Yes, the water is muddy. Yes, the rivers are running full. Yes, it's muggy.

But the fish still have to eat.

The passing of Tropical Storm Debby kept most anglers off the water for nearly a
full week, but in a few tide changes there will be clear water along the beaches
and in the passes again. It may take a week or so for the fresh-water runoff to
stream out of the rivers, and long-time observers of Florida's climate such as
captain Scott Moore of Bradenton are concerned that the influx of nutrients and
fresh water might lead to a red tide. But for the time being, there are plenty
of angling opportunities.

Spanish mackerel are noted for working edges where murky water meets clear, and
there will be a lot of those locations from Homosassa to Anna Maria for the next
week, as well as inside Tampa Bay and Charlotte Harbor. Fish a fast-moving jig,
spoon or chrome lipless crankbait down the seam on the clear edge of the mud.

Captain Ray Markham of Florida Sportsman reports that red snapper fishing has
been excellent beginning in about 80-foot depths. And the deeper you go, more
and larger fish result. Live baits along with frozen squid and sardines are all
chewed when the bite is on for red snapper. Red grouper have been cooperative
southwest of Pinellas, mostly from 80 to 110 feet.

Markham said inshore fishing -- his specialty -- should return to normal
quickly, with plenty of keeper trout over grass in 8 to 10 feet as well as on
coral bottom areas inside Tampa Bay. He said reds are still around Fort DeSoto
as well as Long Bar in Sarasota Bay. Go with jigs for the trout, jerkbaits for
the reds (visit

flatback@tampabay.rr.com).

Fresh water is now in the usual summer pattern -- a brief topwater flurry on the
edge of the grass early, and then flippin' or live shiner action the rest of the
day. But those who know where offshore hydrilla beds can be found in Toho,
Kissimmee and other Central Florida lakes can catch fish all day on plastic
worms or jigs. The rocky ledges of Okeechobee are famous for producing summer
fish, as well, both on worms and on crankbaits bounced along bottom.

Also, while the runoff continues, culverts and creek mouths anywhere across
Florida will produce lots of bass.

Tribune correspondent Frank Sargeant can be reached at

franksargeant@charter.net

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Tribune's choices in Republican House primaries

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words


Hillsborough voters will choose candidates in four primaries for the state House
in newly drawn districts. Two of the races are Republican, two are Democratic
and all offer choices between the enthusiasm of youth and the wisdom of
experience.

Today, we'll look at Republican matchups in districts 57 and 58. Monday, we'll
make our recommendations in Districts 61, open to all voters, and for Democrats
in District 63. Also on Monday, we'll endorse in Pasco County's two Republican
primaries in districts 36 and 37.

District 57

In southeastern Hillsborough's House District 57, Jake Raburn and Brian Hollands
are on the Republican ballot to see who will run against Democrat Bruce Barnett
in November.

Both are qualified, serious candidates. Raburn, 27, is a strawberry farmer.
Hollands, 45, works for Hillsborough Community College.

Hollands has experience in marine biology and commercial real estate. He is a
member of the Hillsborough Planning Commission and says excessive regulations
are discouraging growth.

In the House, he would work for a tighter connection between what students learn
in school and what employers need them to know. Coordinating with business is
part of his job at HCC. Hollands promises to serve a maximum of two terms, not
an appealing idea to us in a Legislature short on experience and a local
delegation lacking in punch.

Raburn is married to Melissa Hinton Raburn and works for Hinton Farms Produce, a
small family business. A graduate of the University of South Florida, he also
has worked for the Florida Department of Citrus and understands agriculture and
its many challenges.

On immigration, he says a federal fix is essential, because "we need to know
who's in our country." His ideas for reform include a new guest-worker program
that would be more useful to both workers and farmers.

His legislative priorities are jobs and public safety. He discusses with
authority the challenges facing small businesses and farmers. His endorsements
include that of Hillsborough Sheriff David Gee and State Attorney Mark Ober.

In the Legislature, Raburn would soon be helping write useful laws.

Hollands is an appealing candidate. But in District 57, because of his deep
roots in the district and his refreshing zest to find practical, conservative
solutions, the Tribune endorses Jake Raburn.

District 59

Republicans in the Brandon area's House District 59 will choose from among four
candidates with solid credentials and relevant experience. Rep. Rachel Burgin
would have been considered the incumbent, but she is running instead for the
state Senate.

The winner of this primary faces Democrat Gail Gottlieb in November.

Joe Wicker, 34, is picking up a number of endorsements, including those from
commissioners Mark Sharpe and Al Higginbotham. A manager for International Paper
Company, he has served two combat tours in Iraq, one as a commander of a tank
platoon.

In the county since 2008, he says he knows how money is made, lost and wasted.
He would phase out the state corporate income tax and make other changes to
improve the business climate. Wicker says he would approach issues with an open
mind.

Mike Floyd is a former police chief and retired heavyweight boxer. Even at age
68, he's fit and not someone you'd want to face in the ring.

A volunteer coach, he says his main strength is an ability to listen to people.
He stresses public safety and says the region needs to crack down on gangs.

Among his law enforcement jobs, Floyd has been a police chief for the Seminole
reservation and served in both the Tampa and Plant City police departments. He
is against privatizing state prisons and would bring an independent voice to a
House too often in partisan lockstep.

Ross Spano, who has a law firm in Riverview, believes Florida can cut expenses
and still have a responsive government. That's what small businesses like his
have to do, he points out. Spano impresses us as a no-nonsense hard worker.

Our choice in this very competitive race is Betty Jo Tompkins, who represents
individuals and businesses before local boards. In helping resolve zoning and
land-use issues, she has a deep understanding of the kind of rules that
unnecessarily stifle the economy.

At age 65, she remains a dynamo of local civic action. She lost a state Senate
race to Tom Lee in 1996 but later won a seat on the Soil and Water Conservation
Board.

She is supported by Tampa Bay Home Builders, County Commissioner Ken Hagan and
23 past presidents of the Brandon Chamber of Commerce.

Her knowledge of and concern for the district is reflected in more creative
proposals than we can list here. One example is how she would discourage misuse
of food assistance for the poor.

"A $600 EBT card will get you $200 in cash and a bottle of crack cocaine," she
says. She would require a photo ID for use of food-stamp debit cards.

She says Florida's highway rest stops are dingy and ugly. She suggests leasing
them to various Florida tourist attractions, which could use them for
promotions.

"Sea World might have fish tanks at one," she says.

Thompson is no dreamer. She has headed the Hillsborough County Fair and the 4-H
Foundation. She understands water issues and agriculture better than most
members of the House.

Based on her many years of successful service to the community and her potential
to do much more in District 59, the Tribune endorses Betty Jo Tompkins.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Activism drives a new approach to branding

BYLINE: RICHARD MULLINS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1044 words


More companies are embracing political stands to encourage customer loyalty

BY RICHARD MULLINS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA Customers at Chick-fil-A today can expect to see a bit of same-sex
smooching around their chicken sandwiches and waffle-cut fries, as gay-rights
groups protest the company CEO's comments about marriage.

Although Chick-fil-A officials are now working to leave the debate behind,
business and marketing experts say social controversy is something companies can
hardly avoid in the world of instant social media and hyper-partisan debate.

It seems the days of the non-partisan chicken sandwich or politically moderate
washing machine may be fading fast.

In fact, some companies are willing participants. Big brands such as Ikea,
Target, General Mills and Amazon have jumped into some of the most controversial
modern issues: gay marriage, climate change and economic policy.

"What you're seeing are companies catching on to what is essentially the utopia
of branding," said Americus Reed II, a marketing professor at the Wharton School
of Business.

"If a brand can transcend the functional attributes of the product itself and
resonate with who people think they are or want to be, that creates a deeper
sense of loyalty, and when they perceive an attack on the brand, that person
responds in defense," Reed said.

Decades ago, a CEO could make an offhand comment and see it fade out of notice.

Today, Reed said, everything is recorded and instantly Tweetable and postable,
"and something can go around the world in 12 seconds."

Chick-fil-A experienced that Wednesday when stores were packed with customers
coming out to support the chain after CEO Dan Cathy said humanity was "inviting
God's judgment on our nation when we shake our fist at him and say, 'We know
better than you as to what constitutes a marriage.'"

After Cathy went public with his views, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos made a $2.5
million donation to keep same-sex unions legal in Washington state.

That sort of activism is not as uncommon as consumers might think.

Target has long supported the lesbian and gay community through volunteering and
financial donations to advocacy groups, executives said. That support became
public after the company started selling "Pride" brand T-shirts that mixed
rainbows and the slogan "Love is Love."

All the proceeds went to the Family Equality Council, which represents same-sex
parents.

Likewise, Ikea recently ran "Ikea Family" advertisements in Italy that showed
two men holding hands under the slogan "We are open to all families" in Italian.
The ads drew scorn from the country's prime minister and Catholic leadership.

The Swedish company may focus on selling couches, kitchen gadgets and frozen
meatballs, but the ad was no mistake or aberration.

"The ad reflects not just our inclusiveness of different cultures, but our
respect for everyone's lifestyles," said Ikea spokesman Joseph Roth. "Our whole
concept is providing affordable, well-designed home furnishings to many people.
That doesn't mean many people who fit into a particular stereotype, but to the
many people who occupy this Earth."

While ideology is often at the forefront, economics can also factor into the
reasons why a company takes a stand.

The food company General Mills took a public position against a proposed
amendment to a state constitution that would ban same-sex marriage.

By potentially shunning gay people from Minnesota, executives said, the company
would face a disadvantage in recruiting and development.

"We do not believe the proposed constitutional amendment is in the best interest
of our employees or our state economy," chief executive Ken Powell wrote in a
letter online. "We value diversity. We value inclusion."

One constant in this debate is the never-ending pursuit of profit, said retail
analyst Doug Stephens. "Let's not put it past corporate Americato gather around
the conference table and ask, 'Can we make some money on this?'" he said.

Such stands, no matter the reasons, come with risks.

The research firm BrandIndex measures sentiment about hundreds of brands, with a
score of 50 being neutral.

On July 16, the day the Baptist Press published its Dan Cathy interview,
Chick-fil-A's score stood at a positive 65, a full 19 points above the average
sector of fast-food brands.

Four days later, Chick-fil-A fell to 47, and the following week fell to 39, well
below the sector's average score of 43. In the traditionally conservative South,
Chick-fil-A's score went from a stellar 80, down to 44, and the score in the
North fell from 76 to 35.

Despite that, the outpouring of support that built over the past week led to
record sales Wednesday for the company.

Brian Winfield, managing director of Equality Florida, a statewide gay-rights
advocacy group, said it's a mistake to characterize these issues as a debate
over free speech. CEOs are free to have their opinions, he said. "What Dan Cathy
says or doesn't say doesn't matter much."

He said they take issue with the financial support given to groups that try to
limit rights. "A portion of every dollar you spend there winds up going to
organizations that de-humanize gay and lesbian people."

For its part, Chick-fil-A issued a statement making it clear Chick-fil-A
Appreciation Day was not organized by Chick-fil-A, but by social activists who
support Cathy's position. "We appreciate all of our customers and are glad to
serve them at any time. Our goal is simple: to provide great food, genuine
hospitality and to have a positive influence on all who come into contact with
Chick-fil-A," it said.

By Thursday, Chick-fil-A executives were working to distance themselves from the
controversy, posting a statement online saying, "Going forward, our intent is to
leave the policy debate over same-sex marriage to the government and political
arena."

Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, who helped launch the day of support for
Chick-fil-A, came full circle Thursday by defending the right to protest the
chain by showing up to kiss.

Speaking to Fox News, Huckabee said, "In America, I believe people have a right
to do things that I might not agree with."

rmullins@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7919

Twitter: @DailyDeadline

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Billboards booked to jab, cajole RNC delegates

BYLINE: KEVIN WIATROWSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words


BY KEVIN WIATROWSKI

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA When GOP delegates make their way downtown each day next week, they'll get
a reminder that they're holding their quadrennial convention in a city run by
Democrats.

A billboard scheduled to go up today on Interstate 275 at ArmeniaAvenue welcomes
Republicans to a city "Where the mayor and all city council members are
Democrats."

It adds, for good measure, "Enjoy our well-run city!"

The billboard was purchased by Ruth's List Florida, a group that works to elect
what it describes as progressive women. It's one of a number of organizations,
partisan and nonpartisan, laying claim to the Tampa area's tallest billboards to
grab the attention of the Republican National Convention crowd.

C-Span has bought billboards on I-4 andI-275 to promote its gavel-to-gavel
coverage of the convention. Other groups promote positions opposing abortion or
supporting measures to curb climate change.

In a written statement announcing Ruth's List's billboard, the group's
co-founder, Ellis Robinson, drove home its message:

"Electing women makes a difference," Robinson said. "Women office holders are
also more collaborative in their decision-making -- both with colleagues and the
public. And Democratic women do this better than anyone."

The Public Notice, a Virginia-based nonprofit, is pushing its own message urging
national political leaders to "stop digging" the deep financial hole the country
now finds itself in.

Public Notice founder Gretchen Hamel said the group is targeting 10 swing
states, Florida included, with its message favoring debt reduction. They're
taking out billboards in Charlotte, N.C., aimed at the Democratic National
Convention, which opens a week after the RNC.

"Our primary goal is to educate Americans about the policies coming out of D.C.
and how they affect them," Hamel said.

Her group wants both political parties to add debt reduction to their party
platforms.

Clear Channel Outdoor has seen an increase in politically oriented demand for
its advertising space throughout the Tampa region, said spokesman Jim Cullinan.

Clear Channel and CBS are the area's two top billboard owners.

Clear Channel is juggling the rush of new customers with existing customers,
Cullinan said. Some existing customers are being moved to less high-profile
signs. Others are getting additional time to make up for being bumped during the
convention, he said.

In at least 15 cases, the company could not accommodate RNC-related customers in
high-profile locations near Tampa International Airport and the Tampa Convention
Center, Cullinan said.

The company's electronic billboards are popular with political advertisers
because they're available on a short-term basis -- a week or two instead of the
month or more old-fashioned boards usually require.

Clear Channel Outdoor's former corporate sibling, Clear Channel Radio, has close
ties to conservative talk radio stars Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Back and Sean
Hannity. But the billboard company doesn't play political favorites, Cullinan
said.

"Billboards are not a partisan issue," Cullinan said.

kwiatrowski@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

Twitter: kevinw_trib

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Aqua Utilities offers to sell

BYLINE: LAURA KINSLER, The Pasco Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words


Company's water, sewer rates in Pasco are twice what county charges

BY LAURA KINSLER

The Pasco Tribune

NEW PORT RICHEY Aqua Utilities no longer wants to do business in the Sunshine
State.

This week, the state's largest for-profit water utility offered to sell all of
its assets to the semi-public Florida Government Utility Authority for $95
million. It was an abrupt change for a corporation that spent the last decade
expanding its operations in Florida.

Christopher Franklin, president of the utility's parent company, Aqua America,
called the sale "the best alternative for our customers, employees, shareholders
and the communities we serve."

Aqua has 23,000 water customers and 14,000 sewer customers in Florida. The
company owns three systems in Pasco County that serve about 3,000 customers. The
utility's water and sewer rates are twice those charged by the county.

The FGUA, the same entity that purchased the troubled Aloha Utilities in 2009,
has until Sept. 30 to notify the 19 counties where Aqua does business to gauge
their interest in the deal.

FGUA Chairwoman Lee Ann Thomas said the deal could be great news for Aqua
customers, especially those in Polk and Pasco counties who unsuccessfully fought
two rate hikes in the last three years.

In his letter, Franklin said Aqua was offering the "discounted price" to FGUA to
facilitate a quick sale and to "prevent disruption to our customers and Florida
employees." The utility wants FGUA to keep its existing non-executive staff.

"That shouldn't be a problem," Thomas said. "We've done that in the past."

FGUA Assistant Director Steve Spratt said the price "appears to be reasonable."

The asking price is less than what FGUA has paid to acquire other troubled
utilities. The authority paid $90.5 million -- about 9 percent more per customer
-- for the Aloha system. Earlier this year, FGUA agreed to pay $14 million for
Mad Hatter Utilities, which has about 3,000 customers in the Land O' Lakes area.

Industry watchers suspected Aqua might unload its Florida assets this year after
the bitter rate case. Aqua got its rate hike -- although less than it requested
-- but was saddled with a "marginal" rating from the Florida Public Service
Commission.

Franklin admitted Aqua's relationship with its Florida customers was "less than
ideal" and the cost of the recent rate case, which gets passed on to the
ratepayers, was extraordinarily high.

The Florida Legislature this year also created a study committee to recommend
overhauling how private water utilities function in the state and how they set
their rates.

Aqua America has pulled out of New York, Maine and Missouri in the last two
years largely because ofunfavorable political climates. The company reported
record earnings this year.

Pasco County Commissioner Jack Mariano, a member of the state study committee,
said "there's no doubt in my mind" it played a role in Aqua's decision to leave
Florida.

Thomas agreed. "Maybe they were just worn out," she said.

State Sen. Mike Fasano, R-New Port Richey, who has been a vocal critic of Aqua,
credits the customers who traveled by the busload to fight Aqua's rate hikes.

"I think it's because of the coordinated efforts of the customers to bring to
the attention of the PSC and to their elected officials the poor service they
received from Aqua and the poor quality water they receive from Aqua."

House Speaker-designate Will Weatherford, R-Wesley Chapel, praised the decision.
"I encourage swift action on approving a potential new contract," he said. "The
community has waited long enough."

Aqua set a Nov. 30 deadline for FGUA to accept the offer. The company hopes to
close the sale by Feb. 1. Spratt said the authority should have no problem
meeting that deadline and that FGUA would make every effort to avoid raising
rates.

lkinsler@tampatrib.com

(813)371-1852

Twitter: @lkinslerTrib

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Preserve water flow to precious Florida rivers

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 456 words


With the Chassahowitzka River being degraded by rising salinity levels, the
Southwest Florida Water Management District governing board decided the other
day to allow even more fresh water withdrawals.

Given the original staff proposal to allow withdrawals of as much as 9 percent
of the Chassahowitzka's flow, the board's decision to limit any flow level
reductions to only 3 percent can be viewed as something of a victory.

But this should hardly be the final word on the protection of the beautiful
spring-fed river, which flows through nine miles of wilderness to the Gulf of
Mexico.

The river, about 50 miles north of Tampa, has been designated an Outstanding
Florida Water. So has the nearby Homosassa River, which also is experiencing
increased salinity levels that are hurting flora and fauna.

The district's governing board also set a limit of a 3 percent flow reduction
for the Homosassa.

The 3 percent may sound reasonable, but existing withdrawal levels are estimated
to be at 1 percent at both the Chassahowitzka and the Homosassa, and both are
suffering.

Longtime Chassahowitzka River users such as Mickey Newberger of Lutz report at
least a quarter-mile of the river swamp is dying, likely because of an
insufficient flow of fresh water.

Many who frequent the Homosassa River report similar deterioration.

Terri Auner, a member of the Homosassa River Alliance, told the Citrus County
Chronicle, "If anything, they should be adding water. The Homosassa River is
dead. The plant life is gone, and you hardly find fish in there."

During the district board meeting, a member of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service warned that increased withdrawals would threaten manatees, fish and
other wildlife in the Homosassa and Chassahowitzka.

The district staff believes the problems are likely the result of rising sea
levels, lack of rainfall and nutrient pollution.

Even so, why risk further damage with flow levels that allow additional
withdrawals?

The "compromise" is superior to the original proposal, and to its credit, the
agency plans to develop "water use cautionary area" rules for Hernando and
Citrus County, toughening the requirements for water withdrawal permits. The
proposed rules will be presented to the board next year.

The governing board also voted to review the minimum flow levels for the
Chassahowitzka and Homosassa every six years.

These steps are positive.

But to save the Chassahowitzka and Homosassa -- irreplaceable resources that
profoundly enrich life in Central Florida -- the district is going to have to
get far tougher on groundwater withdrawals and force communities to develop
alternative water sources.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Losing mortgage deduction would be a small sacrifice

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 533 words


The tax deduction for mortgage interest, designed to encourage home ownership,
has done its job by encouraging some families to make wise investments. At the
same time, it has enticed other buyers to go deeper into debt than they
otherwise would have.

Now, with Congress seeking ways to reduce the budget deficit, a good place to
look would be at reducing or even eliminating this long-standing deduction.

Today's low interest rates make the deduction worth less than in the past.
That's no problem because with great rates available, buyers need less
incentive.

Nationwide, only 26 percent of taxpayers claimed a mortgage deduction in 2010,
USA Today reports. In Florida it was only 19 percent. The average deduction in
Florida was $11,163.

A few years ago, some members of a deficit-reduction panel suggested that the
deduction for mortgage interest be replaced with a tax credit equal to 12
percent of the interest paid on a maximum loan of $500,000, down from the
current $1 million. They also wanted the tax break eliminated for vacation
cabins and any second home.

The idea went nowhere. Those involved in building and selling houses fought
back, fearing any change would discourage home-buying and even hurt property
values.

Home ownership, without a doubt, can strengthen a community's social fabric in a
number of ways. But why must it be a permanent government obligation to help a
minority of us make our interest payments to the bank?

This tax break subsidizes debt, penalizes savings and leaves more homeowners at
risk of losing their homes during recessions. It rewarded homeowners who drained
the equity from their homes to buy luxuries unrelated to home ownership.

The more equity you build in your home, the less the tax break is worth. Many
homeowners these days are finding that the standard deduction is worth more to
them than itemizing their mortgage interest and other write-offs.

In today's economic climate, we don't think the loss of this tax break would
cause much economic impact. As Laura Kaufman notes in Forbes magazine, "A
subsidy worth $215 a year is not going to move many $40,000 families out of
rental housing into a home of their own. Neither would a tax increase of $5,000
a year be likely to induce many millionaires to move out of their own homes into
rentals."

Another option for raising tax revenue is to place some sort of cap on all the
exemptions one taxpayer is allowed to take, as Mitt Romney proposed during the
presidential campaign. The error in that approach is that all tax breaks are not
equally important.

It seems to us that the money you choose to pay to a for-profit bank is less
worthy of tax-free status than deductions for your state and local taxes, your
charitable giving or your medical bills.

If you had to spend all your income last year on surgery and medicine, why
should you have to pay any income taxes at all?

The main purpose of the exemption for home mortgage interest seems to be to help
upper-income taxpayers buy slightly more expensive homes. This is not a bad
thing. It is also a good option to lay on the bargaining table.

Copyright © 2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
