
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 17, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

At risk by the sea

BYLINE: JIM PRESSWOOD and JOSEPH V. SIRY, for The Tampa Tribune; Jim Presswood
is a staff attorney with the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy in Tallahassee.
Joseph V. Siry, Ph.D., is director of environmental management at Rollins
College in Winter Park.

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words


President Bush acknowledged last week prior to leaving for Europe that climate
change is an important "issue that must be addressed by the world."

Bush's acknowledgement that climate change is a problem comes a week after the
release of a report by the National Academy of Sciences. The report, which the
Bush administration requested earlier this year, confirmed previous scientific
studies on climate change, finding that greenhouse gas emissions are
accumulating in the Earth's atmosphere as a result of human activities and that
the global average surface air temperature increased between .7 and 1.5 degrees
Fahrenheit during the 20th century. The NAS report also found that the warming
over the past several decades was most likely due to human activities.

It appears, however, that the NAS report has not persuaded Bush to support
mandatory reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. One of the reasons he
continues to oppose the Kyoto Protocol is that he believes the greenhouse gas
emission reduction targets in the agreement are arbitrary and not based on sound
science. Unfortunately, it may be a long time before scientific understanding of
climate change develops to a point where a "safe" level of human-produced
greenhouse gas emissions can be identified, if such a level exists.

More than enough, however, is already known about climate change science to
justify mandatory reductions in emissions. It is undisputed that greenhouse
gases trap heat and that greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere have
significantly increased. Since the mid-1700s, the concentration of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere has risen approximately 31 percent as a result of
human activities, and it continues to rise. The uncertainty comes in when
scientists try to predict how the Earth's climate will respond to increasing
concentrations of greenhouse gases.

We are essentially conducting an experiment on the Earth's climate, and it is a
dangerous experiment. The scientific community's best prediction - developed by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, an international group of leading
scientists - on how global average surface air temperature will respond to
higher concentrations of greenhouse gases is that the temperature will increase
between 2.5 and 10.4 degrees Fahrenheit above the 1990 average by 2100. The
potential impacts of climate change are catastrophic, and we may not have
complete certainty on the science until it is too late to take meaningful
action.

Scientists predict climate change could lead to impacts such as rising sea
levels inundating low-lying coastal areas, more intense tropical storms and
prolonged droughts. The IPCC projects that sea levels will rise somewhere
between 3.5 inches to almost 3 feet by 2100.

Sea levels already are rising in Florida, which is uniquely vulnerable to rising
sea levels with approximately 4,900 square miles being below 5 feet in
elevation. A significant rise in sea levels would be disastrous for property
owners in the Tampa Bay area.

Taking swift and aggressive action in reducing greenhouse gas emissions is
consistent with sound risk-management principles. The risks associated with
climate change are too significant to not take steps to minimize them.

The insurance industry, which specializes in risk management, is beginning to
recognize this fact. One of the world's largest reinsurance firms, Munich Re,
issued a report earlier this year stating that climate change could cost the
world $300 billion each year and that only "urgent efforts" to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions would avert this outcome.

Florida is so vulnerable to climate change that it needs to be at the forefront
of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our state's leaders should advocate for an
international treaty and national legislation requiring reductions in emissions.

Some Florida counties have already cut their greenhouse gas emissions through
targeted reduction plans. The state of Florida should build on these efforts by
developing a global warming response plan and enacting legislation that requires
power plants to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.

Climate change is the most challenging issue facing our world this century. The
United States, as the sole remaining superpower and producer of a quarter of the
world's greenhouse gas emissions, has a duty to take a leadership role in
solving this problem. We are optimistic that Florida will play a key part in
persuading America to take on this role.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 17, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Let cooler heads prevail

BYLINE: JIM O'BRIEN, for The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words


Based on the evidence available, those who envisage climate catastrophes and
advocate hasty actions are only practicing politically correct science.

TALLAHASSEE - The recent winter was the coldest in a long time. That and the
three-year drought in Florida should serve as a warning to us about the folly of
basing present global warming policy on future climate prediction and
underestimating the ability of nature to take care of itself by natural
variability. If we can't predict the winter and the rain, maybe caution is
prudent.

The central public justification for signing the Kyoto agreement, which
President Bush has rejected, has been that it would limit global warming and
prevent the sea level from rising. Sounds like apple pie until you examine how
fragile the information is.

About 10 years before former Vice President Al Gore wrote his book "Earth in the
Balance" (1992, Houghton Mifflin), government officials proclaimed that the
surface temperature of the world would warm up about 10 degrees by 2020 and the
seas would rise by 6 feet. Current estimates are 2 to 3 degrees and a 2- to
3-foot rise by 2100. That is a big, big difference, especially for Florida.

What is the scientific truth of sea level rise? Many estimates by the most
respected oceanographers say that sea level over the entire globe is rising 1.7
mm per year. Let's round that off to 2 mm per year. The result - an 8-inch
increase during the next century. If the sea level is going to rise 2 to 3 feet,
it had better get going!

All those on the East Coast may be aware that the sea level is rising. Why? The
entire coast of the Atlantic Ocean is falling because of effects from the last
ice age. In other parts of the world, like Sweden, the land is rising out of the
sea. So when it comes to basing policy on rising or falling seas, politicians
are being misled over estimates. My prediction is that if you are a grandfather
and own land in the Florida Keys, you can count on your newly born grandson
enjoying it.

As for the warming side of the equation, most engineers would agree that the
Earth system has had a small amount of extra heat added because of man-produced
carbon dioxide. But the extra CO2 and other gases from industry contribute a
very small fraction of total greenhouse gases.

Thank goodness for greenhouse gases, such as water vapor (H20) and CO2. They
absorb heat energy. All objects - you and me, roads and trees, ice, lakes and
oceans - radiate the energy back into the air as heat energy. Water vapor and
CO2 grab the heat and slow down the eventual radiation into space. This is how
the Earth keeps a pleasant temperature and heat balance. Otherwise, the average
temperature on Earth would be like that on Mars and not livable for humans.

Again, guessing what the temperatures will be far into the future is an art that
has eluded scientists. Advocates of controls on global warming point to models
that predict cataclysmic changes in the weather. The initial modeling work was
done without any oceans in the model. It ran amok.

Subsequent calculations melted all
the ice in the Arctic Ocean and predicted gigantic, unrealistic sea level rises
of 6 feet. That served to frighten the people of the world. Entire nations would
be completely flooded. Entire populations would have to relocate.

One hopes cooler heads will prevail. Better atmosphere/ocean/ice models are
finding that the magnitude of expected global warming is greatly reduced. Actual
measurements also tell a different story. The average surface temperature for
the globe appears to have increased by less than a half-degree during the past
100 years, despite record amounts of man-made carbon emissions. Twenty years of
satellite measurements show no increase in global temperatures. Sea surface
temperature data indicate the ocean has either warmed 1 degree or not at all.

In fact, El Nino is an example of nature taking care of itself. In order to get
the extra heat out of the atmosphere, slightly stronger low-pressure systems
transfer heat to higher latitudes. There the air is drier and more transparent
to radiate the little bit of extra energy out to space.

Certainly, we can't take for granted that nature will cure all of its own ills.
And we must always remain sensitive to activities that could affect future
climate. Human activities such as more people and changing land use have been
changing local climates for years. But based on the evidence available, those
who envisage climate catastrophes and advocate hasty actions are only practicing
politically correct science. In fact, such a policy would be premature and may
even be counterproductive to efforts by nature itself.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (C)
VAUGHN HUGHES/Tribune illustration

(DRAWING) (C) (Earth with thermometer in its mouth)

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 13, 2001, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Energy Pinchers Rev Up Savings

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH , jhollingsworth@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jan
Hollingsworth can be reached at (813) 259-7607.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words


COUNTY INITIATIVE ABATES GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS

TAMPA - When Randy Klindworth goes to lunch, the lights in his office at the
County Center automatically go out.

When he goes home, the building's air-conditioning system also takes a break.

By turning off lights, turning up thermostats and installing power-saving
equipment at 192 county-maintained buildings, Hillsborough's energy manager
expects to trim $1 million or more off the county's $10 million electric bill
this year.

Don't tell anyone, but the conservation measures also are making a local dent in
a controversial international phenomenon known as global warming.

"That's the nice thing about it," Klindworth said. "Every bit of energy you
save, you're saving yourself dollars and [greenhouse gas] emissions."


Political Hot Potato

The county's conservation initiatives date back to the 1980s, when the global
warming debate was generating more heat than light in scientific and political
circles.

Among the early projects that helped position Hillsborough as a leader in energy
savings: the construction of an incinerator that converts garbage to electricity
and a recycling program that has cut nearly in half the amount of waste to be
buried or burned.

Although the projects resulted in a reduction in the heat-trapping pollutants
believed to contribute to the so-called greenhouse effect, they weren't tied
specifically to climate change.

"There's an environmental benefit, but we have really approached it as
efficiency and cost reduction," said Ned Baier, transportation manager for the
Hillsborough County Planning and Growth Management Department.

That began to change in 1996, when Hillsborough commissioners agreed to
participate in a climate protection campaign led by the International Council
for Local Environmental Initiatives.

The commission passed a resolution committing the county to develop projects
that would help reduce energy consumption and - not incidentally - greenhouse
gas emissions.

Motion detectors that turn off lights in empty offices, timers that turn off
water heaters and energy-aware employees who turn off computers and printers
have cut consumption of kilowatts significantly and thus the amount of pollution
coming from local power plants.

Although electricity accounts for most energy use, the county also is looking to
save money and emissions by promoting carpooling, telecommuting and bus transit
among its employees.

The county's climate protection plan also calls for introducing
alternative-fueled vehicles into its 4,000-car fleet, Baier said. And it is
about to embark on a pilot project that will replace incandescent bulbs in
traffic lights at several intersections with LEDs, or light-emitting diodes,
which can cut kilowatts by up to 90 percent.

All told, the county has identified energy-saving measures that would keep more
than 8,000 tons of carbon dioxide - a key greenhouse gas - out of the atmosphere
each year.

"We've actually [kept out] about a quarter of that so far," Klindworth said of
the programs that have been implemented.

Nonetheless, the county's conservation efforts still tend to focus less on
climate protection than on dollars and sense - common sense, according to
Commissioner Jan Platt.

"I purposely don't talk about global warming," Platt said. "I think the public
thinks it's some far-fetched environmental issue that has no meaning to them as
individuals."


Scientific Questions

Not everyone subscribes to the theory that pollution from cars and power plants
is causing potentially cataclysmic changes in the world's climate that could
lead to erratic weather patterns, rising sea levels and an increase in tropical
diseases.

For decades, a contingent of hard-core skeptics - many associated with the
fossil fuel industry - has disputed the notion that global warming exists, or
that if it does, human activities have little to do with it.

There are many uncertainties, even among those who believe the earth is warming
at an accelerated rate.

No one can say how, when or to what extent climate change might affect a
particular region. Or to what extent humans are contributing to the phenomenon.


Belief In Benefits

County commissioners are not convinced necessarily the Gulf of Mexico someday
will be lapping at doorsteps in Valrico or encephalitis and dengue fever will
become as common as the cold.

But few would argue with the beneficial byproducts of the climate protection
action plan.

"There's definitely a very significant health impact from this along with the
whole economics of it. Every time we have a bad [air pollution ] day in the
Tampa Bay area, we know that people's health is affected," said Niki Blair of
the National Environmental Trust.

More than half the states in the nation have a climate change plan. All have a
component that deals with economics and energy efficiency.

"I think it is a very logical place to start from. The whole term global warming
has a bad connotation attached to it," Blair said.

Hillsborough is one of more than a dozen Florida counties to adopt a resolution
urging the governor and Cabinet to develop a statewide global warming and energy
reduction action plan.

In August, Gov. Jeb Bush proposed a statewide conservation initiative that calls
for many energy-saving measures the county has identified or has implemented -
although not in the name of climate protection.

"There is a consensus on conservation and efficiency, so let us start there,"
Bush said.

(CHART) (C) GREENHOUSE GASES
The source of heat-trapping emissions generated by Hillsborough County
facilities and/or services in 1990.
Food waste 2.5%
Diesel 2.9%
Gasoline 3.5%
Paper 13.0%
Electricity 78.1%
Hillsborough's climate protection action plan calls for the county to reduce
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by 20 percent of 1990
levels during the next nine years.
Tribune graphic; Source: Hillsborough County

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART (C) PHOTO
WFLA-TV photo by JOE BAMFORD

Hillsborough's energy plan could trim $1 million from its $10 million electric
bill this year.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 24, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Studies Put Heat On State

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH , jhollingsworth@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jan
Hollingsworth can be reached at (813) 259-7607.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 716 words


TAMPA BAY AREA LABELED EXTREMELY VULNERABLE

ST. PETERSBURG - Global warming and a pending population explosion pose a
significant threat to the state's people and economy, according to two studies
released Tuesday by climate experts.

Joseph Siry, director of the Florida Climate Alliance, called the reports "an
early warning advisory about a problem that shows no signs of going away."

"The potential impacts are so great, we must plan now to avert them," he said.

The studies suggest accelerated warming of the global climate might lead to a
catastrophic rise in local sea level, dramatic weather fluctuations, and an
increase in heat-related and insect-borne illness.

Coastal flooding, beach erosion, decimation of coral reefs and unstable climate
conditions could affect tourism, agriculture, fisheries and other key industries
during the next century.

But Florida already is seeing the early effects of global warming in the form of
retreating shorelines, dying coral reefs, more wildfires and salt water seeping
into the freshwater aquifer, said a peer-reviewed study by scientists from
Florida universities.

The second report, prepared by the Cambridge, Mass.-based Union of Concerned
Scientists and the Washington-based Ecological Society of America, addresses the
potential impact of climate change along the entire Gulf coast.

Both reports suggest Florida, especially the Tampa Bay area and South Florida,
stands to suffer the most immediate and dramatic consequences.

Maximum summer temperatures could increase 3 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit, boosting
July's heat index - the combined effect of heat plus humidity - by 10 to 25
degrees.

"We're already doomed to having the consequences of global climate change no
matter what we do," said Mark Harwell, a professor of marine ecology at the
University of Miami. "But we can significantly reduce the consequences if we
acknowledge and plan for them now."

The Florida Climate Alliance, which comprises 40 organizations, is seeking state
support for strategies that address the issue.

The scientists say Florida needs to:

Reduce the power plant and automobile pollution thought to cause global warming.

Develop the capacity to adapt to global warming threats with minimal disruption
and cost.

Allan Bedwell of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection said Tuesday
that he had not seen the report.

The state's 2020 Energy Study Commission is looking at global warming and how it
relates to the issue of utility restructuring, he said. "There's a lot of
activity going on right now, and this is a major point of discussion."

A dozen of Florida's largest counties, including Hillsborough and Pinellas,
recently adopted resolutions seeking a state global warming action plan.


Ongoing Controversy

Scientists have grappled for decades over the implications - indeed the
existence - of global warming.

Although most mainstream scientists agree the Earth is warming at an
unprecedented rate, skeptics argue there are too many unknowns about its cause
and potential effects.

There are doubts as to when, how and to what degree climate change will make its
mark. But there is growing certainty the warming trend is real and is caused, at
least in part, by humans.

The 2,500-member Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reported this year
that most of the observed warming in the past 50 years "is likely to have been
due to the increase in greenhouse gas concentrations."

A review of those findings by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, requested
by the Bush administration, supported the international panel's conclusions.

In Florida, the state's burgeoning population is expected to exert increasing
environmental pressure upon a peninsula already taxed by the global climate
picture, Harwell said.

About 1,000 people move to Florida every day, a pace expected to more than
double the population to 34 million in 30 years.

"Water supply is critical to this scenario. It's going to be the problem for
Florida in the future," said Susanne Moser of the Union of Concerned Scientists.

Moser was project manager for the studies, which were sponsored by the Natural
Resources Defense Council, a national organization of scientists, lawyers and
environmental specialists.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C)
(C) Joseph Siry
(C) Susanne Moser
(C) Mark Harwell

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 18, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Myopia, mischief and a little madness steer the politics of global warming

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1155 words


Some mysteries cloud the European anger over the Kyoto treaty, the one President
Bush tossed into the Oval Office trash can.

A sign held up in Madrid expressed the widespread but muddled discontent: "Stop
Bush. Save the climate."

The reference is, of course, to global warming. The complaint is reputed to be
that the United States, which generates about 20 percent of the world's man-made
greenhouse gases, isn't planning to reduce its emissions over the next decade to
1990 levels. Environmentalists were encouraged when former Vice President Al
Gore signed the Kyoto agreement, but almost no one expected it to be enforced;
the Clinton administration didn't even submit it to the Senate for ratification.

What good would it do the world's climate for the United States to return to
1990 levels of emissions?

"The Clinton administration's own scientists say it would change global
temperatures by seven hundredths of a degree in 50 years," reports Patrick J.
Michaels of the Cato Institute.

WHY, THEN, ARE EUROPEANS, whose own governments haven't ratified Kyoto, so upset
about something that would do so little good? And if it's good they want done,
why aren't they insisting that Americans plant more trees? A researcher at
Princeton estimates that U.S. forests already could be soaking up more carbon
dioxide than is produced by all the nation's machines.

The best answer is that the goal is less environmental than economic. Forcing
the United States to cut back its energy production would give U.S. rivals a
competitive advantage and their governments a political victory.

Or why not shift the base year for Kyoto from 1990, when European emissions were
very high, to 2000?

Because that would cost Europe too much, says S. Fred Singer, professor of
environmental sciences at the University of Virginia and former director of the
U.S. Weather Satellite Service.

Starting in 2000 "would remove the built-in advantage that Germany and Great
Britain now enjoy and force them into heavy emissions cuts, like those
contemplated in the United States," says Singer. "Such a reasonable proposal
would draw an automatic veto from European Union members and expose the crass
commercial reasons behind their support of Kyoto."

The nations of Europe want to set up an international regime to set tax policy
in the United States; global warming is just the excuse and the Kyoto Protocol
is the only available vehicle.

Scientists disagree about the extent of global warming. To the extent it is
happening, they disagree on its causes. And among those who believe humans are
causing the temperatures to rise, there is no consensus on what to do about it
or how much damage slightly higher temperatures will cause.

"I know of no one who would argue that this is all due to man," says Richard
Lindzen, MIT professor of meteorology. "To attribute any of this to man is very
hard. The odd thing is, the settled question is that Kyoto won't do much."

Recently the National Academy of Sciences issued a report concluding that the
temperature is rising, probably because of man-made emissions. Lindzen, one of
the 11 scientists who wrote the report, said scientists are confident about
three things: 1. Global temperature is up 0.5 degrees Celsius from a century
ago. 2. Levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have risen for two centuries.
3. Carbon dioxide is one of the so-called greenhouse gases that trap the sun's
warmth.

"Contrary to media impressions," he says, "agreement with the three basic
statements tells us almost nothing relevant to policy discussions."

On this question the United Nations, which is pushing the Kyoto agreement, is no
help. Its Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change sounded the alarm and is
running in circles.

Consider these passages from the report:

"Countries and regions will have to choose their own path. ... Estimated costs
and benefits may not reflect the actual costs and benefits."

What is likely to happen? "A full range of plausible scenarios has not yet been
evaluated."

Green plants will flourish in an air richer in carbon dioxide. What role will
they play? The answer is "uncertain due to the complex interactions between
factors. ... Terrestrial ecosystems appear to be storing increasing amounts of
carbon."

If average temperatures rise, will it rain more or less? Water vapor is a much
greater factor in the greenhouse effect than is carbon dioxide, so what will be
the impact of clouds on temperature? The United Nations doesn't know: "Changes
in precipitation may exacerbate or offset the effects of increased evaporation."
And this gem of wisdom: "Any increase in flooding will increase risk of
drowning," especially in areas with bad drainage.

As Clinton, Gore and other Democrats quickly figured out, talk of global warming
makes good politics; getting serious based on the facts at hand is politically
dangerous. To enforce the Kyoto standards, economists estimate that gasoline
prices must increase 50 percent and electric prices must increase 80 percent.

"If we're going to be serious," says Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, "we've
got to entertain some way of dealing with this issue in a mandatory rather than
a voluntary way." But as far as we know, the South Dakota Democrat isn't leading
the charge for energy taxes.

In fact, just the opposite is happening. California's liberal Democrats in
Congress are screaming for lower gasoline prices and demanding a federal cap on
electricity prices.

But science and politics aside, energy conservation is sound environmental and
economic policy, and it's good for individuals, communities, governments and the
world.

Warming or no warming, burning fossil fuels dirties the air and is unhealthy.
Money not spent on fuel can be spent or invested in ways that strengthen the
local economy and improve standards of living.

Most of the real work must be done at the local level. Initiatives such as
better public transit, smarter growth laws and stricter building codes would
slow the increase in emissions that comes with population growth.

ADDING BETTER INSULATION to old buildings, using fluorescent lights rather than
incandescent, buying more efficient appliances and cars, setting the air
conditioner a few degrees higher, and any number of other sensible changes can
actually reduce emissions and reduce the need for new power plants.

And the U.N. climate report is right about energy taxes: To the extent they
encourage efficiency and replace other sources of government revenue, such as
the income tax that penalizes success or the sales tax that reduces purchasing
power, they could be an economic improvement.

Many intelligent changes ought to be made locally and nationally to promote
conservation of fossil fuels and reward efficiency, regardless of the reading on
the global thermometer. But none of it should come on orders from the U.N.
bureaucracy.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 1, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Education's steep climb

BYLINE: BEN FELLER and MARILYN BROWN, of The Tampa Tribune; Ben Feller can be
reached at bfeller@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-8285. Marilyn Brown can be reached
at mbrown@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-8069.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2819 words


Eight powerful people will forge the state's education future, but their job
comes with immense challenges.

TAMPA - Your kids. Your money. Your future. Your vote.

All of them could be affected, perhaps profoundly, by an education experiment
that officially starts today. Welcome to the learning lab known as Florida, one
that puts kindergarten through college under one roof but begins with a shaky
academic foundation.

Eight people - seven state board members and their chief executive - are
suddenly empowered to set an education vision for a state of 16 million people.
Their agenda, and their degree of success, will be shaped by two themes: more
student learning and rigorous accountability.

For Floridians, the inherent promise is that meaningful changes are on the way,
from testing and teacher quality to student counseling and classroom computers.
Above all else, expect the people in charge to be zealous about setting
standards and measuring performance, like new corporate leaders of a struggling
business.

The picture may sound pretty. The backdrop isn't.

This state led by the president's brother, though breaking ground with its
reforms, is not even close to leader status. Charting progress is imprecise,
experts say, but Florida clearly lags behind the nation in diverse and widely
accepted measures.

Test scores. College enrollment. Teacher salaries. Work-force development.

"This is 30 years in the making. It takes time to build your way out of this
mess, but we will get there," said Education Secretary Jim Horne, whose job
didn't exist two months ago.

"I'm going to lead us there at a faster rate than we're going," he said. "I
think that Florida will be a leader. You've got the support of the Legislature,
the governor, the system itself. The slate is wiped clean."

And the debate is shifting.

So far, the furor about Gov. Jeb Bush's overhaul has been about how education
will be run. Now, it turns to the views of those he picked to run it.

BOARD MEMBERS have the responsibility to improve education at all levels,
although Bush and his Republican legislative allies surely will hold sway in
their own ways. At stake is Florida's ability to build its reputation, boost its
economy and produce students who can excel anywhere.

Voters gave Bush authority to pick a state board so education oversight would be
removed from elected Cabinet officers whose focus is elsewhere. Republicans went
further, launching huge changes in the university system and giving the governor
even more power.

No matter what your view of those reforms, they're now in place and moving fast.

Horne and the board members have some different priorities for the "K-20"
system, concerns that may or may not get debated.

But it's clear the accountability theme will dominate as the board sets its
vision, crafts its budget and reorganizes jobs.

That's why board members already talk about some sort of achievement measure for
universities and their students, just as the state now grades its lower schools.
That idea, potentially controversial, is one sign of what's to come.

"I don't want to talk about power. I don't want to talk about how the governor
has too many appointments. The issue is how we measure success," said Chairman
Phil Handy, a Winter Park investor. "It is of paramount importance that we use a
set of criteria as a basis for the most important public policy question in
Florida: How do you assess the success of education?"

Accountability gets buried mainly because people care more about the political
intrigue - the people Bush put in charge, how the state university board got
canned, whether Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob Graham will succeed in overturning
things.

Essentially, Floridians want to know how their education system is doing, not
how board members decide how to measure.

That is the very debate, though, that will determine whether this experiment is
successful, Handy said. And people tend to start caring when the chosen measures
affect their college transcripts, the size of their paychecks or the money their
schools receive.

IT'S NOT THAT Florida doesn't grade itself now in dozens of ways. But it has
done little to lead anywhere because schools, colleges and universities haven't
seen themselves as one big system, said Kim McDougal, Bush's chief education
policy analyst.

"There's been no emphasis for change from within, and that's the frustrating
part," she said. "Why aren't we ranked in the top 10 in K-20? There is no reason
why Florida can't be No. 1 nationally or internationally, but you need change.
Now people from the outside are driving the change because they're demanding
more performance."

It is here that Horne, an accountant by trade, gives shape to talk about a
"seamless" system. For example, he wants college professors and high school
teachers to work together.

"What's shocking to me is there is absolutely no real feedback from the
university system," he said. "Do you realize we don't tell the K-12 system how
well they've done? That's just unbelievable. How can you hold someone
accountable if you don't communicate about learning gains?"

Trouble is, even the new leadership isn't exactly sure how to account for
progress. There is no national consensus on which measures are the best.

The government's National Research Council plans a 20-month study just to
determine which criteria are superior in judging research programs. A private
organization's recent report card found all 50 states lack meaningful data to
show what students learn in college.

"No matter what you pick, there's going to be some criticism. You just have to
provide a balance as best you can and look to other states," said Thomas Snyder
of the government's National Center for Education Statistics.

"The measures don't tell you the solution, but they do give a framework for the
debate," he said. "Otherwise, you're in a situation where anybody can say
anything they want."

FLORIDA'S EDUCATION directors don't dispute what the numbers say about the
state. Despite the Legislature's repeated efforts, progress has been slow at
best.

Businessman Charles Garcia, a board member from Boca Raton, goes so far as to
call Florida public schools "a disgrace."

"I tell people we have great universities, but K-through-12 is a problem," said
Garcia, whose children attend private school. "I could not in good conscience
tell someone they could put their kids in public schools and get a good
education."

Education insiders say Florida struggles with growth pressures, entrenched
institutions, finger-pointing, even a national reputation as a playground state.

"At one point in our lives, we've all said, "It wouldn't be this way if I were
in charge.' Well, now we have a chance to really be in charge," said board
member T. Willard Fair, head of Miami's Urban League. "We have a chance to put
together a system that is truly objective."

They have a starting point, though it isn't widely known.

The new education law sets out four areas that must be measured: achievement,
seamless access, the work force and cost efficiency. Everything from student
remediation to "cost per graduate" is to be charted. Money will be tied to
performance starting in 2003.

This is where some academics get nervous, particularly at universities where
research and service missions don't fit neatly into business measures.

McDougal, Bush's aide, said those factors will be considered - and chief
executives for schools, college and universities will have say over what
measures make sense.

Coming up with the right measures "gets sticky," acknowledges William Proctor, a
St. Augustine board member and former Flagler College president who has taught
college courses in educational measurement.

School districts have different demographics, some performance factors are
beyond a school's control, and some comparisons are too superficial, Proctor
said.

Viewed another way, accountability is pretty simple, Fair said. The real issue
is whether Florida graduates can thrive in the labor market.

"You can measure that 1,000 different ways," he said. "What I want to know is,
can Bubba in Liberty City compete with John in Coral Gables? And can the two of
them compete with someone from Orange County? And can all of them from this
state compete against those throughout the Southeast?"

PUBLIC MONEY is always part of the picture, as board members must figure out how
much weight to give teacher salaries and class size. Academics across the
country are trying to do the same.

"We still operate on the assumption that money equals quality," said Patrick
Callan, director of the private National Center for Public Policy and Higher
Education. "No one in their right mind would deny there is some relationship,
but we don't necessarily understand what the relationship is."

Clearly, the Florida board must consider economics, say board members Julia
Johnson and Linda Eads. The state itself reports it lags behind the nation in
producing degrees in most every field, hampering industry recruitment and jobs.

"One reason to put business people on the board is to look out for employers,"
said Johnson, an Orlando technology executive. "People coming out of our K-12
system, some with college degrees, are not ready."

Board members talk ambitiously about thinking both big and small. They want to
compare Florida not just to other states but to other countries. They want to
measure not just classes of students but individual students.

Again, how this will happen is the debate ahead.

"It can be overwhelming. But we shouldn't ever forget that there are people who
have come through our system who are doing very well," said board member Carolyn
Roberts, a real estate executive from Ocala.

Knowing they, too, will be held accountable, board members are hurrying to
prepare for their first meeting this month. Some are visiting schools and
colleges, talking to superintendents, doing their own research.

Their enthusiasm is high. So are the expectations.

"I think we need to acknowledge that this is going to take a generation to fix,"
Handy said. "We'll have some positive change sooner, but to do this right, it's
a long-term process."

Fair is riding a faster track.

"I know that if you stack us up against the other 49 states, we probably fall at
the bottom of the rungs," he said. "But in my 38 years in this state, we have
never had the highest elected officer in the state make quality education a
priority. He has challenged the Legislature, he has challenged the public, and I
suggest to you that if we continue with that kind of aggression, we will not be
in this position five years from now."

(CHART) ON THE AGENDA
Florida Board of Education members and their secretary plan a united push for
accountability, but they have their own ideas on that front and others. Their
agendas:
Secretary Jim Horne - Go fast, cover ground. Give vocational education more
attention. Revamp the teaching profession. Launch a technology plan. Change the
way guidance counselors track students. Get principals leadership training.
Chairman Phil Handy - Keep the board focused on K-20, not divided by region or
educational topic. Avoid committees. Steer immediate debate toward board vision,
revision of school laws, reorganization of education department, first unified
budget.
Charles Garcia - Craft programs to reduce high school dropout rates,
particularly those of Hispanics. Lure retired, certified teachers back in the
classroom.
Linda Eads - Get businesspeople a chance to be school administrators. Weed out
bureaucracy, particularly in large school districts. Set student standards that
encompass learning and social issues, such as school violence.
T. Willard Fair - Make a stronger push to get dollars earmarked where the needs
are greatest, including poor-performing schools. Lobby for "colorblind" rules
and standards that "focus on the children regardless of the biases of adults."
Julia Johnson - Ensure equity in education for minorities. Push for more
partnerships between college students and businesses. Pull educators into the
reform effort the board is leading.
William Proctor - Strengthen teacher education programs, set high standards.
Shape other priorities as board settles in. "I have seen educational reforms
come and go. We never leave one in place long enough to see if it work. This is
not the typical education reform."
Carolyn Roberts - Stick to theme of equal opportunities for students. "That
sounds very trite and simplistic. But it's so important that each student be
encouraged to learn. We need to see at the end of each year that each child has
been successfully taught."

(CHART) Florida report cards
Higher education
Preparation........ ................C
Includes students' test scores, percent who study advanced math or science,
percent who complete high school credential
Affordability....... ...............D
Includes loan reliance, state aid strategies, percent of family income needed to
pay for college
Participation........ ..............D+
Includes percent of adults in different age groups enrolled in college
Benefits.............. .............C-
Includes percent of adults with degrees, increased income fueled by degrees,
civic measures such as voting rates and charitable donations
Completion............. ............B+
Includes college freshmen return rates, degree achievement rates at all levels

K-12 education
Standards & accountability.. ........B
Includes student assessment tests, school progress measurements and specificity
of criteria
Improving teacher quality... .......D+
Includes training, licensing tests, percent who teach in their fields,
incentives for national certification
School climate......... ............F
Includes school choice and autonomy options, class size, parental involvement
and student engagement indicators
Resources adequacy...... ...........D+
Includes per-pupil spending, percent of total taxable resources spent on
education
Resources equity......... ..........C+
Includes geographic cost differences and other variables
Source: The National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, November
2000; Education Week, January 2001
JENNIFER F.A. BORRESEN/Tribune graphic

(CHART) Measuring Florida
No single method is the best assessment of educational progress statewide, but
experts see value in a range of measures that address student achievement as
well as systemic strengths. Here are some examples using demographic
informations.

Florida on national tests
Average scores on Scholastic Assessment Test in high school
....... ........... 1992....... ............... 1998.........
....... ....... verbal/math ...... verbal/math
Florida....... .......493/494... ................ 500/501.......
United States... .....500/501..... .............. 505/512.......
Average scores on National Assessment of Educational Progress, taken in a
sampling of schools, grade levels and certain years:
........ ........... 1992...... ...............1996/1998.......
....... .....4th-grade math/reading.. ...8th-grade math/reading..
Florida......... .....214/208.......... ..........264/253........
United States... ....219/215........... .........271/261... ....

Average teacher pay
Primary/secondary ........1989-90 ............... 1998-99.......
Florida.......... .......$28,803 . .............. $35,196.......
United States.... .......$31,367.. ........ ... $40,582.......

Colleges/universities. ...1989-90.. ............. 1998-99.......
Florida..... ............$38,027 ......... ..... $50,200.......
United States.. ..........$40,133. .......... ... $54,097.......

Average per-student spending
Primary/secondary.. ......1986-87...... ........ 1996-97.......
Florida............ .... $3,794...... ......... $5,986........
United States...... .... $3,970...... ......... $6,393........

Colleges/universities. ...1986-87..... ......... 1996-97....
Florida... ............. $7,348 ............. .. $10,751....
United States ........ .. $8,020...... ......... $13,061..

Losing ground
*Percent of 18- to 24-year-olds enrolled in college:
.......... .....1985-87 ......... 1996-98.......
Florida...... ......26% ............. 30%.........
United States. ......26% ............. 34%.........

Sources: The College Board, U.S. Education Department's National Center for
Education Statistics, U.S. Census Bureau, The National Center for Public Policy
and Higher Education.
*Enrollment calculated by dividing total students/graduates by total population
in this age group, then averaging the result for three years.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 9 (1C) CHART 3
CAROL CLEERE/Tribune photo-illustration

(C) (school boy climbing ladder to reach money, accountability, job training,
class size, access and excellence, which are written on the upper rungs)
Jim Horne
Phil Handy
Charles Garcia
Linda Eads
T. Willard Fair
Julia Johnson
William Proctor
Carolyn Roberts

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 2, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

The big bang

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 910 words


Scientists glean valuable information from a volcano 10 years after the most
cataclysmic eruption in nearly a century.

It was one of history's most violent explosions, a geologic belch felt 'round
the world.

Today, 10 years after the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines,
scientists still study the effects of this monster event, which offered valuable
information about how volcanoes behave and their effects on land and atmosphere.

Pinatubo was an event of global scale. When the volcano blew its top in June
1991, it killed 270 people, made 250,000 homeless, destroyed two of the largest
U.S. military bases in Asia, and obliterated much of the island of Luzon. The
explosion injected into the air 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide, which reacted
with water to form sulfuric acid droplets.

The most cataclysmic eruption in nearly a century changed the dynamics of the
atmosphere and cooled temperatures around the world, says Chip Trepte, an
atmospheric scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's
Langley Research Center in Virginia.

"We learned that Pinatubo had a very strong effect on the atmosphere, and it
lasted not for months but for several years," he says by telephone. "It changed
the circulation of the upper atmosphere and the amount of energy that reached
Earth's surface. It also changed the way energy was released back out to space."

SCIENTISTS USE Pinatubo as a model to study changes in the stratosphere, a layer
of atmosphere extending from about 6 mile up to 30 miles up. At this altitude,
there are no clouds to wash out pollutants, which can remain circling the globe
for years and possibly decades.

Pinatubo created a hot cloud of gas 22 miles high - the ideal eruption, says
Jerry Meehl, a climatologist with the National Center for Atmospheric Research
in Colorado.

"Pinatubo is an important volcano in terms of the quality of observations and
the way that data is used," he says. "It was the best-observed volcanic
eruption, in terms of climate effects, in history."

Climatologists work with computer models, constantly adding new information to
study the long-term changes in the atmosphere. Pinatubo added a burst that
spiked that model, and scientists now can make comparisons that help them better
understand natural and human influences on the environment.

"Volcanoes put a lot of stuff into the stratosphere that can produce global
cooling, but we don't have a lot of good observations," Meehl adds. "Pinatubo
was a large explosion and produced a significant global climate effect, so we
were able to get really good observations about what was spewed into the
atmosphere. It's helped us reconstruct a history of past volcanoes that we can
put into a [long-term] climate model."

For geologists, Pinatubo also offered a wealth of scientific data. After the
eruption, intense, heat-driven wind blew ash in all directions, blanketing the
countryside with sand, silt, glass and larger pumice pebbles. This ash will
effect the surrounding environment for decades, affecting vegetation, ground
cover and water flow.

Geologists also learned from Pinatubo's interior, particularly how new magma,
forced up from deep in the Earth's crust, can trigger a reaction in a dormant
volcano. Scientists gleaned much about volcanic "plumbing" and the importance of
this fresh magma on the overall system.

Still, questions remain. When will it erupt again? How intense might that
eruption be? What is the cyclical nature of eruptions in general? Can other
volcanoes behave like Pinatubo, and if so, why?

Pinatubo was much different from the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in
Washington, which blew sideways. Its gaseous plume stayed relatively low.
Pinatubo went up like a geyser.

"Pinatubo was huge," Trepte says. "It went into both hemispheres and the debris
moved over the globe very quickly. So we learned a lot about circulation
patterns in the upper atmosphere. It's like putting a color dye in a sink or
bathtub, so you can see how the fluid moves. Pinatubo created a laboratory for
us where we could observe all these motions in the atmosphere."

Here's a select look at what atmospheric scientists have learned a decade after
the eruption:

Temporary global cooling. The massive aerosol cloud temporarily halted global
warming, lowering global average temperatures by 0.5 degrees Celsius (about 1
degree Fahrenheit) through 1992.

A global pall of dust. Pinatubo pumped so much volcanic ash and gas into the
upper reaches of the atmosphere that the normal levels of stratospheric aerosols
increased by more than 20 times.

Ozone level drops. The protective ozone layer in the upper atmosphere weakened
as a result of gases injected into the stratosphere. The ozone eventually
recovered.

Change in weather. Climate models showed that Pinatubo produced a shift in wind
patterns over the North Atlantic Ocean that lead to a warmer-than-usual winter
in Europe in 1991-92.

Mud flows. Millions of tons of ash and rock that blanketed the flanks of
Pinatubo created dangerous rivers of mud during the annual rainy season. These
dangers have not gone away.

Swirling atmosphere. The eruption was a unique natural experiment that revealed
atmospheric currents previously unseen by scientists. As satellites tracked
volcanic gases moving around the globe, they documented movements passing from
the lower troposphere into the stratosphere for the first time.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C)
AP file photos

(2C) Filipino farmers plow their rice fields as Mount Pinatubo erupts in 1991.
Below, tribesmen flee the mountain as ash blocks out the midday sun. IT: (C) The
eruption sent a cloud of gas 22 miles high, giving scientists a better
understanding of the atmosphere. Above left, the plume is seen in a satellite
photo.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 16, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Donations To Simple IRAs To Rise By $500 Annually, Then $1,000

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON , jfjohnston@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jo-Ann Johnston can
be reached at (813) 259-7804.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words


AND EMPLOYERS CAN PAY MORE INTO PROFIT SHARING

Lawmakers have made big changes to the two most common retirement vehicles at
smaller companies.

But small-company owners, in general, haven't gotten as much information about
these kinds of changes, said Kalyn Deegan, president of Penservco Inc., a
benefits consulting company based in Clearwater.

"I don't think most small employers are even aware of what they're going to be
able to take advantage of next year," Deegan said.

So it may be up to employees to bring the changes to the attention of their
bosses.

The most significant change: Simple IRA contribution limits will increase from
$6,500 this year to $7,000 in 2002. The limit will then increase by $1,000 each
year, reaching a $10,000 peak in 2005.

Simple IRA plans, which have lower administration costs than 401(k) plans, are
predominantly found in companies with fewer than 30 employees, said Steve
Athanassie, a certified financial planner who owns the firm Trademark Capital in
New Port Richey.

There also are catch-up provisions for savers age 50 and older in the Simple IRA
plans.

The catch-up allowance in 2002 is $500, and then it increases by another $500
each year, reaching $2,500 in 2006.

People at companies that, instead of Simple IRAs, offer profit-sharing plans,
also may have greater opportunities to save in years that employers pay into the
profit-sharing, Athanassie said.

Starting in 2002, employers can pay up to 25 percent of an individual worker's
annual pay into a profit sharing plan, compared to 15 percent now. But it is up
to the employer to make a profit-sharing distribution, based on business
conditions in any given year, he said.

There also are some changes to less commonly used and more complex retirement
plans - typically used by higher-income earners - to increase contribution
limits. To find out what the changes will be to these plans, workers need to
consult their individual plan providers.

(CHART) NEW RULES AT SMALLER WORKPLACES
Simple IRA contribution limits are also changed for 2002-06. Here are the
regular limits and contribution limits and added savings allowed under catch-up
rules:
YEAR REGULAR LIMIT CATCH-UP ALLOWANCE
'02 $7,000 $500
'03 $8,000 $1,000
'04 $9,000 $1,500
'05 $10,000 $2,000
'06 smaller $2,500

increases

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 17, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Seek solutions from technology

BYLINE: LYNN EDWARD WEAVER; Lynn Edward Weaver, Ph.D, P.E., is president of
Florida Institute of Technology.

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 562 words


As the Bush administration tries to forge a new approach to the contentious
issue of global warming, it should seize the opportunity to encourage new
investment in clean technologies that use electricity.

Since all fossil fuels emit greenhouse gases when burned, efforts should be
directed at using free-market incentives to reduce emissions when and where they
are most cost-effective.

Electrotechnologies - ranging from microwave clothes dryers to induction-
heating furnaces and electric steelmaking - improve productivity, save energy
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Because of such improvements, U.S.
industrial output is one-third more energy-efficient now than it was 30 years
ago.

While computers and other electronic devices are responsible for a small
increase in power-plant emissions, they are, on balance, an environmental
benefit. Telecommuting cuts the consumption of gasoline, thereby reducing
overall emissions of carbon dioxide. Since automobiles account for one-third of
U.S. greenhouse omissions, liberalizing the opportunities for telecommuting,
particularly for government workers, can make a difference by reducing emissions
of carbon dioxide.

In the not-too-distant future, those of us who commute to work every day or who
merely want to take the car for a Sunday excursion will be able to drive a
cleaner, more fuel-efficient car, quite likely powered with fuel-cell engines or
batteries. No one knows exactly when such vehicles will become available, but to
speed their introduction, it may be possible to harness a conservative idea -
tax credits - to a traditionally liberal environmental purpose.

Because developing new technologies for engines is a long-term proposition,
Congress should provide funding for a joint government-industry program to
develop by 2004 a so-called supercar that would get 80 miles a gallon. It's
worth noting, however, that automobile manufacturers are increasing the
resources they devote to development of alternative technologies - particularly
hybrid vehicles using small internal combustion engines combined with batteries
or fuel cells.

President Bush should consider mobilizing the national laboratories to find more
ways to utilize electro and other technologies. In fact, a recent study by five
national laboratories determined that pushing research and incentives to adopt
new technologies could reduce the growth in electricity demand by at least 20
percent.

Improvements to date have barely scratched the surface of what is possible. The
Electric Power Research Institute in California forecasts that electricity use
in the United States will rise a net 250 billion kilowatt-hours by 2010, but
that carbon dioxide emissions will decline by 685 million tons, in large part
because of the wider use of electrotechnologies.

As prudent insurance against climate change, the administration should focus
research and development spending on the kind of forward-looking, targeted
technologies that boost productivity and profitability and lower greenhouse
emissions. This would position U.S. firms to capture a large share of what will
become a huge global market for clean technologies.

Real headway is possible in the battle against climate change if we use
practical technologies to reduce greenhouse emissions that work to the benefit
of our economy and our quality of life.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 28, 2001, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Pivotal Year For USF

BYLINE: BEN FELLER, bfeller@tampatrib.com; Reporter Brett McMurphy contributed
to this report. Reporter Ben Feller can be reached at (813) 259-8285.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words


The doubts and dreams marking the start of each fall term are heightened for a
school swimming in a sea of change.

TAMPA - Student body President Mike Griffin walked the University of South
Florida campus early Monday, aiming to capture the buzz of the first day of
classes.

After all, USF starts this pivotal year with a new board in charge, a
second-year chief executive, and regional campus leaders who haven't even been
picked yet.

"Hey, you're the president, right?" another student asked Griffin.

Yes.

"Great. Where's Cooper Hall?"

The story tells a larger one at USF. No other state university faces such
leadership change, as President Judy Genshaft splits power with a new state
Board of Education, 13 USF trustees, and campus boards in Lakeland, Sarasota and
St. Petersburg.

But students, the people for whom all this restructuring is designed, have other
things on their minds. And they aren't likely to be affected much this year
because the overhaul at USF, and across Florida, isn't expected to hit the
classroom so quickly.

"All they're concerned about is their diploma, their classes and getting there
on time," said Griffin, whose student government role makes him one of the
trustees. "But that's OK. That's why I got elected, to be inclusive and
represent them."

Uncertainty And Hope

The uncertainty and hope that define the start of each fall term have come in
larger shares for USF, although those seeking measurable signs of change are in
luck, too.

The largest freshman class in school history is expected to bump enrollment to
37,500, a spokesman said, one of the largest student bodies in the nation. And
now USF has one of the traditional marks of a big school: Division I-A football.

"We want to showcase this university across this country, both in athletics and
academics," said football coach Jim Leavitt. "It is a big jump."

This is the year, Genshaft said, that USF must get started on a football complex
befitting the program's stature. The project would take millions in private
dollars.

Although Genshaft knows a huge part of her job is reaching out to donors and the
broader community, she starts this year hoping to spend more time focused on
campus life. In other words, she wants less politics.

Genshaft worked out deals this spring to keep and empower her branch campuses,
although lawmakers pulled New College, the state's honors program in Sarasota,
away from USF.

Now the university's direction is at stake, and the coming debates over
strategic plans and vision will affect the bottom line: where the money goes.

"All universities will now pitch for their own money, and that means every
university is going to have to put together a really good business plan," said
state Sen. Jim Sebesta, R-St. Petersburg. "That's where I would be spending my
time. Successful businesses operate that way, and the Legislature is very
attuned to that."

Genshaft noted that her broad priorities, including expanded research
prominence, now must be reviewed by her trustees. The university also faces
possible late-year budget cuts as Gov. Jeb Bush withholds money from state
agencies, bracing for a revenue slump.

In the meantime, Genshaft said, she'll move forward with her ideas, including
the creation of an honors college in Tampa, giving the program's students a
dedicated faculty base.

USF leaders don't expect questions about the campus climate to disappear. A
racial controversy in the women's basketball program has prompted lawsuits from
former players, ensuring the matter will stay in the headlines.

"That [attention] alone isn't of concern to me," Genshaft said. "What is of
concern to me is when the efforts and successes we've had are distorted as if
we're doing nothing. That's not the case."

Unhappiness With Bush's Changes

Faculty have their own challenges in the year ahead, said Roy Weatherford,
president of their union at USF. He's among those who say Bush-led changes will
amount to commercialization of higher education.

"If the USF faculty pulls together and works with the administration, together
we may yet make this a better university," he said. "But in the meantime, there
are clear forces at work that are not committed to excellent education but
rather to maximizing economic return."

In St. Petersburg, campus executive Bill Heller sees plenty of hope.

The branch came to life Monday with record numbers of faculty and freshmen. It
soon will have its own policy board and authority to request its own money. By
this time next year, Heller said, separate accreditation should give the campus
and its students even more stature.

(CHART) USF FACTS
USF is the second-largest university in Florida, with this year's enrollment
projected to reach 37,500 students on four campuses.
More than 3,700 first-year students make up the largest freshman class in USF's
41 years.
Of more than 2,000 full-time faculty, 200 are new this year.
Of 6,871 degrees awarded in the last academic year, about two-thirds were
bachelor's degrees.
The St. Petersburg branch has new bachelor's degree programs in graphic design,
visual communications, and environmental science and policy.
The Lakeland branch has new bachelor's degree programs in information
technologies and business administration, and new master's degrees in social
work.
The Sarasota/Manatee branch has a new program to ease the transition for
students attending after two years at Manatee Community College.
The Tampa campus has opened Magnolia Apartments, its first housing for graduate
and professional students as well as students with families.
USF's charter trustee board will meet next on campus Sept. 21. For information
about the trustees or other aspects of the university, visit www.usf.edu

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C) CHART
Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

(C) USF freshman Joshua Tanner takes notes during his calculus for engineers
class Monday. Like its freshmen, the university is embarking onto some uncertain
turf this year.
Tribune photo by CLIFF MCBRIDE

(C) Students crowd the checkout line at the USF bookstore Monday morning.
Enrollment is estimated at 37,500, making the university one of the nation's
largest.
Tribune photo by CANDACE C.MUNDY

(C) Daniel Espinoza, a USF freshman, performs with the Herd of Thunder Marching
Band on the USF campus Sunday.
Tribune photo by PHIL SHEFFIELD

(C) USF football player Justin Daniel signs an autograph for Ross Louk, 9,
during fan appreciation day Saturday, when fans got to meet their favorite
players.
Tribune photo by CANDACE C. MUNDY

(C) It was a feast for those at the First Night and Multi-Cultural Expo on
Sunday.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 6, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Dated aims and strategies cloud Tampa region's economic outlook;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words


A ranking of the top 50 metropolitan areas in the United States in how rapidly
they are adapting  to the information age puts Tampa near the bottom.

Tampa, along with Jacksonville and West Palm Beach, is more closely identified
with the old  economy, according to research by the Progressive Policy Institute
in Washington and the Center for  Regional Economic Issues in Cleveland.

The conclusion for the Tampa region is that a low unemployment rate and fast
population growth  are no longer adequate measures of success.

To create more high-salary jobs, the area must become more attuned to the
knowledge-based New  Economy.

MANY CITIES IN THE SOUTH and Southwest have put too much emphasis on low-cost
development, the  report notes, "keeping taxes and other government-influenced
costs low in an attempt to lure  cost-conscious firms (usually branch
manufacturing plants) to move into the region."

The metro areas at the top of the list - San Francisco, Austin, Seattle,
Raleigh-Durham and San  Diego - have invested heavily in education and have
attracted "highly mobile, highly skilled  knowledge workers seeking good
employment opportunities coupled with good quality of life."

Important keys to success are a regional approach to problem-solving, a skilled
work force and  great quality of life, especially opportunities for outdoor
recreation. The wide availability of  information, such as the mountain of data
used to compile the New Metropolitan Economy Index, means  that the strengths
and weakness of a region's business climate now are visible worldwide.

Viewed from that perspective, local politics takes on an importance far beyond
the personalities  who come and go.

There have been many successes to celebrate and much effective recruiting work
has been done by  Enterprise Florida, The Tampa Chamber's Committee of One
Hundred, the Tampa Bay Partnership, the  University of South Florida and others.

The region has many assets and is becoming a global competitor, yet on many
fronts there is a  continuing struggle and much energy wasted just to keep from
losing ground.

The attempt by a Pinellas legislator to split the USF into two schools so
Pinellas County can  have an independent campus is a good example of political
idiocy in action. What the region needs  is a powerful research university with
a high national profile, not two lesser schools that local  politicians can call
their own.

The struggle to find enough water for the region has created one of the few
examples of regional  cooperation, the Tampa Bay Water board, yet many
politicians in the three-county region would  rather resist change and blame
others than take the political risk that comes with cooperation.

A common characteristic of the New Economy is the urbanization of the suburbs.
Research and  high-tech parks outside city centers are creating some of the
world's best-paying jobs. Yet here in  Hillsborough, this growth is being
governed by a board designed decades ago to manage a sleepy,  rural community.

Without a county mayor, there is a power vacuum and a chronic lack of
accountability, despite a  small army of skilled and dedicated county workers.

The result is political campaigns that stress what's going wrong but that are
short on  solutions.

The New Economy report urges policy makers to "view the region as a complex
interconnected  organism whose overall health is affected by the health of its
parts."

Easier said than done. A good start locally would be for policy makers to take a
broader view of  the county instead of being alert for new ways to pit one part
against another for some petty  political advantage.

Many of Hillsborough's public schools are among the nation's best, yet many are
overcrowded. The  Tampa region ranks 49th of 50 metro areas in computer use in
schools and ranks 47th in work-force  education. With rankings like these, the
resistance of home builders to a fair impact fee for  school construction is
indefensible.

The Tampa mayor's attempt to build a downtown cultural district anchored by a
new art museum is  extremely significant. That's just the sort of amenity that
would help keep the area competitive  for the best new jobs and high-tech
industries. But those who favor the old cheaper-is-better  approach are
threatening to stop the improvements.

Similar resistance is apparent in any effort to improve highways, add transit
service, expand  the park network, create bike and jogging trails, boost
resources for schools and better manage  growth.

ECONOMIC CHANGES UNDER WAY now are as profound and will be as long-lasting as
the rise of  manufacturing in the 1890s and the emergence of the corporate
economy in the 1940s and 1950s, the  report correctly says.

New companies are emerging and old companies are being transformed from within.

The Tampa metropolitan area is part of this once-a-lifetime change, and it has
the potential to  compete with cities in the top 10.

The first step is to understand the rules of the competition, which can be
reduced to one: The  more a city improves itself, the better it will become.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 27, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Out in the crowd;

BYLINE: JACKIE CHANDONNET, CHRISTOPHER HODGES, PATRICIA KIM, AMY LIGHTFOOT,
ANN-MARIE MANCHISE, ANN ; NORSWORTHY, ANALISA SEHEULT and DONNA KOEHN of The
Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2837 words


Gay teens who are ostracized and abused in our high schools need more protection
or less social  support, say people on opposite sides of a cultural divide.

TAMPA - Sarah Drain skipped classes day after day to hide in a school bathroom,
stung by cruel  taunts about something so personal. Other students could not
accept a girl appearing to live as a  boy, and she finally dropped out to get
her education at home.

Bryan Blakely goes to classes with confidence at another school. He finds
comfort in an alliance  of gay teens like him and straight friends who aren't
bothered by the differences.

David Sweney sees both sides at yet a third school. He was upset officials
brushed aside his  complaints of being attacked in a classroom, but pleased they
ignored, and thus allowed, his male  prom date.

As society frets increasingly about the causes and effects of student violence,
the experiences  of these Tampa Bay area teens show important inconsistencies.
Local schools are all over the map in  the ways they define, and address,
harassment of those in a sexual minority.

Student conduct codes in Pasco, Pinellas and Manatee counties, for example, list
"sexual  orientation" as a basis for protection from harassment or
discrimination. Polk County doesn't have  any such language. And under
Hillsborough's policy, simply "being called a gay or a lesbian" can be
considered harassment.

That last point bothers plenty of folks who see no shame in those names. What's
more, they say,  many students face much worse than name-calling.

Teens in the sexual minority are abused - insulted, shoved, punched, even spit
upon - by  classmates almost daily. A 1999 national survey found 70 percent of
such students have experienced  verbal or physical harassment.

"I was called a faggot, punk, dyke, anything they could think of," says Drain,
15, who attended  Dunedin High School before retreating to home school. "If they
feel uncomfortable, if something is  different, then it must be bad. They're
just mean."

"I had two incidents where someone threw a book at me," says Sweney, 17, of
Plant City High  School. Keys are frequently scratched through the paint on his
new car - "Twice on the back fender,  three times on the door and twice on the
front fender," he says.

"The language is horrible," says Clayton Jones, 17, of Robinson High School.
"You can't turn around  without hearing the word "gay' in a derogatory manner.
You hear it wherever you go, and the  teachers don't say anything."

Teachers and other adults, as well as peers, look the other way too often,
agrees Kathleen  Malinsky, a University of Sarasota education professor.

"Students and teachers need to be made aware that this is harassment that is
often dismissed as  teasing," Malinsky says. "They are definitely a population
at risk."

That should concern all people, regardless of personal views about
homosexuality, says civil  rights lawyer Karen Doering of Tampa.

Doering cites reports that the last five suspects in the nation's rash of school
shootings have  been boys targeted by antigay epithets. And in recent weeks, a
national report about student  bullying has emerged as school districts,
including Hillsborough, adopt new policies to address  such behavior.

"Gay and lesbian teens (bear) the brunt of more abuse because it's more
acceptable socially to  discriminate against them," says Roy Kaplan, Tampa Bay
chapter director of the National Conference  for Community and Justice.

Bay area school officials say they don't account for sexual orientation in
verbal or physical  incident reports, and they can't speculate how many students
are affected.

But 58 percent of gay, bisexual or transgender students do not feel safe at
school, according to  a 1999 National School Climate Survey by the Gay, Lesbian
and Straight Education Network. And that  report came 10 years after a federal
task force found gay youths two to three times more likely  than straight peers
to attempt suicide.

"I think what's going on in our schools today is sad," Malinsky says. "The only
way to change what  is happening, I think, is to create a climate of acceptance
and tolerance."

THAT'S NOT EASY - and frankly, not even proper in the eyes of many.

The Pinellas County School Board triggered a hot debate before it added "sexual
orientation" to  its antiharassment policy two years ago. Foes led by activists
such as David Caton of the Florida  Family Association termed the action, at
best, unnecessary.

"School board policy should forbid all forms of harassment for any reason
against any student,"  Caton says. "I believe it's wrong for public policy to
single out for protection any student based  on a single category."

That argument carries weight with legions of adults, including those less vocal
in opposing  homosexuality on religious or moral grounds. And in private, many
agree with the views expressed  notably this spring by state Rep. Allen
Trovillion, R-Winter Park.

Trovillion made headlines when he told gay teens lobbying for a new
antiharassment law that they  must face the consequences of their actions - and
that God would "destroy" them.

Other lawmakers rallied to the teens' cause, vowing to introduce legislation
next year to add  protections based on sexual orientation. But success appears
doubtful in a conservative  Legislature, one more reason supporters want to see
change at the local level.

Linda Lerner, a Pinellas School Board member, is a proponent of student groups
called Gay  Straight Alliances in area high schools. Lerner figures a lack of
peer support was one reason her  son Michael, now a math and physics teacher in
London, never talked with his family about being gay  until his senior year at
Yale University.

Today, GSAs exist at five high schools in Pinellas, and Lerner would like to see
them at all 16.

"I am much more educated on this issue because I have a gay son," she says. "I
think the education  effort linked to Gay Straight Alliances is such a positive
way to educate the school community and  its employees."

Absolutely wrong, says Caton.

"I think it's wholly inappropriate for there to be a club on the basis of
(making) any teenager  comfortable with sexual activity, whether heterosexual or
homosexual," he says. "We spend millions of  dollars every year in taxpayer
money to encourage abstinence among teens.

"And the sole basis for a GSA is there is nothing straight about it," he adds.
"I think it's very  irresponsible from the standpoint of a child's long-term
sexual preference for there to be a group  having an effect and influence on
children to move toward homosexuality."

THERE'S NO ATTEMPT to influence students that way, says guidance counselor
Victor Bode of Tampa  Bay Technical High School, which has had a GSA since 1998.

Bode describes himself as a conservative Christian, 61, old-fashioned and
soft-spoken. Yet after  19 years as a counselor, he's adamant about having a
GSA. Gay teens need a place to turn, he says,  because "it's as healthy as it's
going to be in our society."

Bode credits Principal Sylvia Albritton with putting her 1,730 kids first. A
year ago, when  students couldn't find a sponsor to start an Islamic Club - a
mosque sits at the end of the school's  property - Albritton volunteered
herself. Although the club didn't attract enough members to  survive, she was
happy to help.

"I just try to do what I have to do," says Albritton, who has 31 years of
experience in the school  district and is its most veteran principal.

When teachers and students approached her about forming a GSA, she admitted not
knowing much  about it. But after researching and talking to school board
members, she was ready.

Albritton saw initial faculty concern that the club would promote a lifestyle.
The year before,  she says, a gay graduate had moved from Tampa Bay Tech to the
University of South Florida and  committed suicide.

But the principal insisted the GSA would educate everyone involved. When she
opened it to  faculty in search of a sponsor, she got 16 volunteers. The club
once ranged from 50 to 100  students, though only a handful remain.

"If it helps one student, it's worth having," she says. "I'm very proud of the
fact that it's  worked well here. ... Sometimes the kids teach you more than you
can teach them."

IN A WAY, that's what Jones hopes to do at Albritton's former school, Robinson
High. The  teenager says he wants to show his community there is nothing to fear
by allowing a GSA.

So far he has collected 40 names on a student petition to support his plan. But
administrators  have "delayed the process as long as possible," he says.

That's common, says Lisa Tolchin of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education
Network.

"They want to make sure no one gets upset," she says. "If it's related to sex,
there's controversy.  ... A lot of (parents) don't know "those kinds of people.'
They think that because of their kids'  age, they're too young to know what sex
is about."

After attending summer workshops in the area about GSAs, Jones dug up the 1984
Equal Access Act.  The federal law states secondary schools that allow any
noncurriculum-related, student-oriented  group on the premises must allow all
such groups.

With this information, he approached the topic with new Robinson Principal Kevin
McCarthy.

McCarthy says he hasn't taken a stand, largely because Jones hasn't submitted
the required  constitution and bylaws. The principal also noted that with the
end of this school year near, it  might be best to wait until fall.

A go-slow approach also appears favored at other schools - Bloomingdale,
Chamberlain, Durant and  Hillsborough - where students hope to join Tampa Bay
Tech and Blake High in creating GSAs.

JONES, MEANWHILE, has found an unlikely friend to spread his message: Dwayne
Haymon, a classmate  who used to be one of those who made life difficult for
kids like Jones.

"My lifestyle, I was used to people bashing gay people and just not being fair
to them," Haymon  says. "I just didn't like them. They were just kind of kooky,
you know? I felt like the  stereotypical guy."

Jones was hiding his sexuality when he became friends with Haymon. Then Haymon
asked, Jones told  - and Haymon decided to dump his views instead of dumping his
buddy.

"That's none of my business whether they like people who are the same sex or
not. They're humans,"  Haymon says. "That's all I care about. You're human, and,
hey, you're funny and I can talk to you."

The two friends walk to and from school together and play video games in their
free time. Haymon  has learned about the frustrations Jones and others deal with
every day. He even has tagged along  to support group meetings at a local coffee
shop.

"I support him completely," he says of Jones. "I love what he's doing with the
school. ... Everyone  is a person, regardless of your age, race, sexuality. It
doesn't matter, you know? Everyone is  equal."

THAT'S WHERE THE LAW comes in, too.

In a landmark case from 1995, a jury found Wisconsin school officials who
ignored violence  against a gay teen violated the 14th Amendment's equal
protection clause, and the school district  had to pay $ 900,000 to victim Jamie
Nabozny.

Nabozny was mock-raped, urinated on, and kicked so badly he needed surgery to
stop internal  bleeding. Yet when he and his parents complained to a school
official, they were told "Jamie had to  expect that kind of stuff because he was
homosexual," according to the November 1999 American School  Board Journal.

In a South Carolina case, the U.S. Supreme Court confirmed two years ago school
districts may be  held liable if employees are deliberately indifferent to
complaints of peer-to-peer sexual  harassment.

Yet legal support for harassed gay students is, at best, very difficult to find
around Tampa  Bay. Even with references from the Florida Bar, a telephone search
for lawyers willing to take such  cases quickly reaches dead ends in
Hillsborough, Pinellas, Pasco, Polk, Manatee and Sarasota  counties.

Doering, who practices with Equality Florida, appears to be alone among lawyers
in the region.  She left a profitable law firm to spearhead the nonprofit ADLR
Inc. because of the lack of legal  assistance to Florida's gay and lesbian
community.

"The problem in high schools is really dramatic," Doering says. "If you ask kids
who are at the  high school level what's the most common put-down they hear at
school, they say, "Oh, well, you  call them queer; you call them a sissy.'

"Some teachers might say, "Oh, hey, don't say that.' But nothing is ever done.
No disciplinary  action is ever taken against the kids who are saying it."

ULTIMATELY, THAT'S a problem for everyone, Doering and others insist.

"It impacts other kids who are heterosexual but who are targeted with this type
of derogatory  language, who may not meet the male stereotype of macho tough
guy," Doering says. "These kids often  get called the same names. ... They get
made fun of by the school bullies, and this is again  permitted to happen by the
teachers and administrators because they haven't thought about the  impact.

"Ninety-seven percent of all high school students have reported that they have
either heard or  been the target of antigay remarks in schools. Ninety-seven
percent. That is ridiculous.

"Where do these kids turn? Where do they go? There are so few resources.

"The unfortunate answer is that most of these kids turn it inside," she says.
"And that  internalization of those feelings has shown up in the high school
shootings we've seen around the  country. It has shown up in teen suicides; it
has shown up in dropout rates. It shows up  everywhere.

"And we, as a community, need to make the decision: Do we want to make our
schools safe for all  kids, or do we only want to make our schools safe for
those who think the way we want them to  think?"    (CHART) A student staff
This report is part of a multimedia project by University of South Florida
students enrolled in  a course created with The Tampa Tribune, WFLA News Channel
8 and TBO.com. As the newspaper,  television and online partners break ground
nationally with a joint approach called convergence,  they hope to help the
state university train a new generation of journalists.   Classes were held at
The News Center in Tampa, led by professionals from the three media based  there
- John Vaughan and Kim MacCormack from the Tribune, Rich Murphy from WFLA, Peter
Howard from  TBO - along with adjunct professor Neil Vicino from USF's School of
Mass Communications, who  developed and supervised the course. Students proposed
their own ideas for a semester project, and  gay students in high school was the
topic selected.   The Tribune's Donna Koehn assisted with the story. Student
Lucas Grindley was not involved in  the news reporting; he wrote a companion
piece for TBO.com and a later Commentary section. The  other students are:
Jackie Chandonnet, 25, a senior broadcast major spending the summer at a New
York City TV station  on a fellowship offered by the International Radio and
Television Society Foundation.   Christopher Hodges, 27, a senior broadcast
major who spent five months contributing to a news  program called Florida Focus
and awaits graduation in December.   Patricia Kim, 24, who received a mass
communications diploma this month and holds a previous  bachelor's degree in
microbiology from the University of Florida.   Amy Lightfoot, 24, also a new
mass communications graduate, who has interned as an online film  critic but
anticipates a career in publication design.   Ann-Marie Manchise, 23, a
four-year member of the women's soccer team who studied abroad for a  semester
in Australia and awaits summer graduation from the USF Honors Program.   Ann
Norsworthy, 36, a senior print journalism major and summer editor of the USF
Oracle newspaper  who awaits graduation in December.   Analisa Seheult, 21, a
senior awaiting a mass communications degree in August who hopes to become  a
journalist with a local television station.    (CHART) (Homosexual Teenager
Statistics)   90% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth often hear
antigay comments at school.   70% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
youth have experienced verbal, sexual or physical  harassment.   58% gay,
lesbian, bisexual or transgender students do not feel safe in their schools.
More than one-third of gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender youth report
hearing antigay remarks  from faculty or school staff.  Source: Gay, Lesbian and
Straight Education Network National School Climate Survey, 1999    (CHART) (On
violence)   46% of students believe their school has violent groups or groups
capable of violence, based on  what group members do.  Source: 1999 Gallup Poll

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 11 (1C); CHART 3,
 (7 mugs of the student staff)

NOTES: OUT IN THE CROWD

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 2, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Sprawl fuels global warming, report says

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH, of The Tampa Tribune; Brad Smith covers growth and can be
reached at bsmith@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-7365.

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


A new report argues for changing how we design cities in Florida to curb
car-centered development.

Jean Carson is convinced.

The Tampa environmental activist said the evidence is all around: Sprawl is
warming the planet.

"When you cut down all the trees, the ground gets hotter and hotter," Carson
said. "It makes sense."

Carson, for one, said a new report is on target.

A study by the Worldwatch Institute in Washington, D.C., paints sprawl as a
global disaster, prompting pollution that sickens people from Tampa to Thailand
and warming the planet with carbon emissions from too many cars.

"With the United States leading the way, every world region has some
metropolitan areas that are harmed by sprawl or car-dependent development," said
the report, "City Limits: Putting the Brakes on Sprawl."

The bottom line: Sprawl from Westchase to Wimauma is a key culprit behind global
warming, said report author Molly O'Meara Sheehan, an expert on the role of
cities in solving environmental problems.

Hogwash, said skeptics such as the Cato Institute's Jerry Taylor, a leading
critic of warming theories. Even if sprawl is heating the planet, he argued,
maybe people like it that way.

"There aren't a whole lot of people who say they want to live five minutes from
work," Taylor said. "If you look at surveys, people overwhelmingly want to live
in rural areas, secondly in suburban areas and least in urban areas. So the only
way to transform society is to see government telling people where to live."

To find a society like that, look 90 miles south of Florida to Cuba, Taylor
quipped.

But Sheehan argued that strategies to fight climate change should focus on
incentives for stopping sprawl.

"There is no one solution to deal with the problem. It's taking different shapes
in different places," said Sheehan, who studied antisprawl measures in Portland,
Ore.; Copenhagen, Denmark; and Curitiba, Brazil, before analyzing them in her
report.

All "put the brakes on car-centered development," the report said, resulting in
revitalized city centers, improved environmental health and safer streets.

Although polls show Floridians are increasingly upset about sprawl, evidence
shows not much is being done to stop it. With the world's most car-reliant
cities, the United States guzzles 43 percent of the world's gasoline to move 5
percent of the globe's people, according to the report.

At the same time, cities such as Tampa are spreading faster than population
growth in a phenomenon planners call leapfrog development.

According to Sheehan, Americans face a lifestyle choice: reject car-centered
cities and turn to bicycles, trains, buses and subways, or keep sprawling into
suburbia where cars are necessities.

The issue is urgent because most humans will live in cities by 2010. Already,
almost half the globe's population - 2.85 billion people - is urban. How people
transport themselves will affect sprawl-caused pollution, the report said.

Sheehan's proposal is to change how we design cities to include more parks and
fewer parking lots. But is that a utopian vision?

Lynn McGarvey, a Tampa environmentalist, thinks not. Florida's notions about the
coveted lifestyle - a new dream house in the suburbs - can be changed to curb
sprawl, but it won't be easy, she said.

"We've lived in Europe and traveled all over to places like Portland, Ore.," she
said. "We should at least start to look at other thinking. But the problem is
we're paving over places we should be saving. Florida is so far behind in its
thinking. The information highway seems to stop at our state line."

The report said government boosts suburban development by spending more on
highways than public transit, and by loaning more money for new suburban housing
than for inner-city development. These policies "sparked a dramatic increase in
car dependence between 1950 and 1990," the report said.

Besides causing nearly 1 million traffic fatalities a year worldwide, cars
enable the rich and poor to live in separate worlds and may even foster less
civic engagement as people live farther from government centers, the report
said.

Worldwide, the share of carbon emissions from transportation climbed from 17
percent in 1971 to 23 percent in 1997, jacked up mainly by road traffic, the
report said.

"We just need to have an honest discussion of the different types of urban
growth that are possible," Sheehan said. "If it's sprawl as usual, then you're
going to be paving over a lot of Florida where there are environmental assets
that a lot of people want preserved."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (2C)
(C) Jean Carson
JIM REED/Tribune file photo from Eagle 8 (1998)

(C) A study by the Worldwatch Institute in Washington, D.C., labels sprawl a
global disaster as development projects such as apartments in New Tampa and at
other sites continue to spread.
ANDY JONES/Tribune file photo (1999)

In the Lexington Oaks community in Wesley Chapel, homes in various stages of
completion added to sprawl in east Pasco.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 27, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Into The Storm

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at
(813) 259-7570 or kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 719 words


Researchers hope to attack hurricanes from all angles during a Florida-based
weather project.

TAMPA - The day might soon arrive when modern science stops a deadly hurricane
in its tracks, breaking it apart with chemicals or diverting it with
satellite-based lasers.

Until then, researchers must be content with better ways to follow a storm,
predict its movement and intensity and warn people in harm's way. One of those
ways is a cutting-edge field investigation now happening in Florida, just in
time for the busiest part of the hurricane season.

Called the Convection and Moisture Experiment (CAMEX), the project will gather
an enormous amount of storm data from multiple sources in, around, above and
below hurricanes. The experiment is part of a joint effort involving the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration and 10 universities.

The point: Attack hurricanes from all sides, says Robbie Hood, a CAMEX mission
scientist with NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Alabama.

"The ultimate goal is to increase the accuracy of weather forecasting for
hurricanes," she says. "In order to understand what's going to happen with
hurricanes in the future, we need lots of data from today, and that's what we're
gathering."

Researchers are running the CAMEX mission out of Jacksonville, with the regions
of interest shown on the map on this page. Flights are limited to eight hours,
and teams will study tropical storms and hurricanes near the East Coast, the
Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico - prime storm targets and breeding grounds.

Last week, they flew planes into Tropical Storm Chantal and got valuable
information, says Ed Zipser, a CAMEX researcher with the University of Utah. The
storm's behavior provided "an opportunity to learn more about the dynamics of
severe storms and hurricanes," he says.

Researchers also are looking at the way thunderstorms develop, along with rain
and water vapor patterns. Sophisticated airplanes - some unmanned - collect data
at up to 65,000 feet. The mission is a continuation of a similar CAMEX project
in 1998.

"This year, we're asking ourselves additional questions, such as, "How does a
hurricane intensify?' and "What is its rainfall potential after it comes to
shore?' " adds Hood. "The highest number of hurricane-related deaths are due to
inland flooding, so inland rainfall is something we will be monitoring very
closely."

Florida residents have reason to take note. Of the 50 hurricanes that make
landfall in the United States over the next three decades, 20 could hit Florida,
says James Elsner, a climatologist at Florida State University. In a recent
study, Elsner says 18 of those 50 will be "major" storms. He says he believes
climate changes are intensifying hurricane activity, and he delves far back in
history for evidence of recurring patterns or change.

Elsner's methods look at paleoclimate data to give his research prehistoric
perspective. By using information on over-washed sand deposits, lake levels and
tree rings, he can better look at cyclical trends over centuries. He also
includes hurricane data over the past 150 years to create a better model for
anticipating storms.

Residents of Tampa Bay have been lucky with hurricanes. The most recent major
hurricane to slam the area was a Category 3 hurricane in 1921, but the
population was small compared to today. Not even considering how many people
could die in a big storm, property losses would be enormous. Insured residential
property last year totaled $43 billion in Hillsborough County and $47 billion in
Pinellas County, according to the Florida Insurance Council. Only Dade County -
with $77 billion in residential insured property - tops the Tampa Bay area.

A single hurricane also holds the record for the highest death toll from a
natural disaster in the United States. A storm that slammed Galveston, Texas, in
1900 killed 6,000 people.

CAMEX ultimately could help scientists provide weather centers with increased
warning times as a hurricane approaches, which means lives saved. But even with
all the high-end equipment, researchers can't really tell what storms will do.

"We don't predict hurricanes," Hood says. "We can only develop new scientific
models of them."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C)
(C) The Convection and Moisture Experiment, or CAMEX, flies planes, including
this DC-8, out of Jacksonville to study hurricanes and tropical storms up close.
Flights are limited to eight hours.
(C) This map shows the area CAMEX covers. A similar research project tracked
rainfall during Hurricane Bonnie in 1998, above right.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 24, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Voters fume at water curbs as growth booms;

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words


TAMPA - The drought makes voters focus on quality of life issues, and could
change the area's  political landscape.

Across the Tampa Bay area, as lawns wither and azaleas droop, tempers flare. But
will voters  rebel?

After two years of drought, residents chafing under water restrictions are
increasingly saying  they shouldn't pay the price for new construction and its
new water users.

They're raising a cry that's anathema in a state built largely on real estate
development: Limit  growth.

There's not much organization and no money behind the idea, but there's a ton of
grass-roots  emotion. Just ask Paul Carbinone of Citrus Park.

"I have no grass left in my front yard, and we don't wash our cars," Carbinone
said. "But right  behind me, a developer from outside the county is trying to
build a town house project that will  use 4 million gallons a year. A lot of
people will remember that at election time."

Or ask Pat Burke of Zephyrhills, who took her first plunge into politics last
year by running  for Pasco County commissioner on a growth-limitation platform.

"People would take water restrictions more seriously if governments would do the
same," she said.

Or Helen Barnes of Sun City Center.

"Brandon is almost spreading down to Sun City," she said. "We just simply can't
tolerate more  development."

Local political experts and officeholders call water and growth the No. 1 public
concern.

But many question whether voters will still be angry by the next countywide
elections in 2002,  when the drought probably will be over.

And even if voters hang onto their grudge, stalling growth is a drastic idea
whose time hasn't  come, they say.

Tampa City Council member Bob Buckhorn said he hasn't seen any concrete
political action on the  issue, but he thinks concern about this and other
quality of life issues signal a long-term change  in voter moods.

"It used to be all I heard about was crime," he said. "Now I hear cut-through
traffic, speeding and  water. I think that's a good barometer of how elections
are going to go over the next decade."

Local political consultant Wayne Garcia, who's working on three campaigns in the
Clearwater and  St. Petersburg city elections, said his candidates are getting
an earful.

"It's on voters' lips at every door we knock on," he said. "They're saying, "We
have these water  issues, and yet we're still building.' "

But Garcia isn't sure how that will affect elections.

"I can't imagine a scenario in which it would cause any of the local governments
to stop growth,"  he said. "Even the most growth-conscious official in the Tampa
Bay area, (Hillsborough County  Commissioner) Jan Platt, only ran that up the
flagpole for about half a day before she had to take  it down."

Platt said she never favored or asked for a moratorium.

Last month, she asked county attorneys for a list of growth-control suggestions
in response to  the concerns of residents. A partial moratorium in northwest
Hillsborough was on the list, but  Platt said she knew it would be polarizing,
and suggested rejecting it. The board put other ideas  on the list on hold.

Platt is a local hero to growth-control advocates, but she says her main goal is
to see  development decisions take water supplies into account.

"For decades, I've been in favor of linking development to water resource
availability," she said.  "I've been ignored - and now we're having to pay the
piper."

Commissioner Ronda Storms, considered a pro-business voice on the board,
acknowledges that the  issue is changing the political ground, but said
growth-limitation advocates need to propose  sensible measures that won't shut
down the economy. Halting growth in other areas has cut stocks of  affordable
housing and forced tax increases, she said.

"If there is this much intensity out there, there ought to be a citizen-led
initiative to put  something on the ballot," Storms said. "That would force
people to really think about what they're  proposing."

Storms said buildings aren't the problem - "It's people. Without people having
babies and moving  here, you don't have a reason to build. ... You can't tell
people to stop having babies."

In Pasco County, where water pumping has done environmental damage to private
property, there  has been more political organizing around the issue.

Citizens for Sanity, a group regarded by some as radical but by others as a
brave attempt to  preserve a rural or suburban way of life, backed three
candidates in the 2000 county commissioner  elections.

All lost.

But the group has won changes in subdivision plans and ordinances, said Clay
Colson of Land O'  Lakes, who helped form the group.

"We had never played the political game before and never realized how hard it
is," Colson said.  "Most people don't know what the issues are, and vote on name
recognition."

But, he said, "We know how to run a grass-roots campaign now. Everybody keeps
saying you can't  win an election without money. Well, we hope to prove in the
next election that's not true."

In southern Hillsborough, an influential new organization, Save Our Bays and
Canals, or SOBAC,  has combined with traditional environmental groups like the
Sierra Club, raising concerns about a  water desalination plant and opposing a
sulfur-melting plant between Apollo Beach and Gibsonton.

SOBAC, a charitable group, can't involve itself directly in politics.

But League of Women Voters President Dena Leavengood, along with Sierra Club
official Denise  Layne and development lawyer Ron Weaver have formed a group
called Tomorrow Matters, which aims to  balance social, environmental and
economic concerns.

One aim is to establish a link between water and land use, said Leavengood.
Currently, because  of the wording of its contracts with the regional water
supplier, Tampa Bay Water, Hillsborough  can't legally deflect development
because of concern about water supplies - a situation  growth-control advocates
consider ridiculous.

Layne, has said she's considering running in 2002 for the seat now held by
Commissioner Jim  Norman. Leavengood said she hopes there will be other
candidates.

But in a weird twist, global climate shifts could influence the Hillsborough
county elections.

The current drought, by far the worst on records that go back to the 1890s,
results partly from  La Nina, a cooling of western Pacific surface water, said
National Weather Service meteorologist  Eric Oglesby.

Sometime late this fall or next winter, though, that's expected to change to a
mild version of  the El Nino surface warming - which caused drenching rain here
in 1997-98.

That won't solve the area's water problems, but it may make people forget.

Still, the Tampa Bay area's continuing, on-and-off water problems are forcing
their way into  local political culture, said Garcia. Knowledge of the issue is
required for candidates just as  tough-on-crime stances used to be.

"Five years ago, water was something that came out of the tap," Garcia said.
"Now, it comes up at  every seminar and every candidates' forum." William March
covers politics and can be reached at (813) 259-7761 or wmarch@tampatrib.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2,
 Ronda Storms

NOTES: TAPPED OUT

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 7, 2001, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Incubators nurture high-tech revolution;

BYLINE: DAVE SIMANOFF, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words


TAMPA - When Mike Kovac talks about his long crusade for a technology incubator
in Tampa, he  doesn't come across like a home buyer who's been searching for the
perfect house or like a  fundraiser trying to squeeze community dollars for a
local charity.

He sounds like a revolutionary.

The executive director for the University of South Florida's High Technology
Partnership said  his goal is nothing short of a cultural change in the Tampa
Bay area. He wants the local business  environment to foster more
entrepreneurship, to cultivate the same kind of high-tech growth that  he's seen
in hot spots such as Austin, Texas, and Silicon Valley.

That's why a technology incubator, a resource center to house and support
start-up firms, is  more than a chunk of real estate. It's the first step toward
improving the area's entrepreneurial  landscape.

"I've been giving a standard speech for the last six or seven years, pointing
out a series of  articles describing the miracle of Silicon Valley," Kovac said.

"If you read these articles, the most important thing (you see) is cultural
change - a culture of  (entrepreneurship)."

That change is significant, it's vital and - after years of much talk and little
action - it could  finally come to the Tampa Bay area.

Two technology incubators are expected to open their doors this summer. USF is
preparing to open  an incubator near campus as part of the school's Center for
Entrepreneurship, and a nonprofit group  is readying plans for an incubator near
downtown at the University of Tampa.

The incubator at UT is tentatively named TechVillage Tampa Bay.

"Creating these two incubators ... will be one of the most significant events
(in Tampa) in the  next five years," Kovac said. "My fantasy heading for The
Tampa Tribune in the year 2006 is that the  Tampa Bay community is so robust in
entrepreneurial culture, it has six or seven incubators in the  area."

The two incubators will operate independently, but will work together as
partners and share  resources and expertise, said Marty Donsky, chairman of the
steering committee that's creating the  downtown Tampa incubator.

"These two entities are very synergistic," he said.

DONSKY, KOVAC AND OTHERS have been incubator evangelists for many years, but
late last year  Tampa Mayor Dick Greco finally appeared willing to listen. Rick
Smith, the director of Tampa's  planning and management department, began
working on a citywide technology agenda with support for  a downtown technology
incubator.

"I hope we had a role to play in helping all this come about," Smith said.
"Clearly, it was when  the mayor got interested in it that things began to take
on a focus and a priority."

The Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce also began to show an interest about that
time.

"I think this represents a critical piece of our mission, and one that's going
to become an even  stronger focus for us," said Kim Scheeler, chamber president.

"Our goal is to try to help create an environment where businesses have a better
opportunity to  grow in this community," he said. The technology incubators "fit
right in with what we're trying to  do."

Kovac and Donsky said they expect both incubators to open in mid- to late
summer, welcoming  fledgling entrepreneurs with promising technology or software
ideas.

But it could be months, or even years, before a successful business is hatched.
And it will take  much longer than that to bring about the kind of
entrepreneurial environment that's proved so  successful in other areas.

"You don't create winners overnight," Donsky said. "We know there's a lot of
expectation, but this  is a long-haul process. It takes many, many years to
create the kind of environment you want."

KOVAC SAID HE EXPECTS the USF incubators to take in up to five businesses in the
first six to  nine months. At incubators across the country, it generally takes
18 months to 21/2 years before a  company reaches the point when it's ready to
leave the incubator, he said.

Donsky said the dot-com downturn, and the faltering economy in general, won't
take a toll on  technology incubators. Demand for information technology is much
stronger than the ups and downs of  the stock market, he said.

"Information technology changes everything that we do," he said. "The market's
tough right now, but  look at what IT is doing to every company in every
industry."

Marty Traber, chairman of Foley & Lardner's corporate practice in Florida, is
raising money for  the downtown incubator. People and companies still are
willing to contribute - not because they  expect a return, which they won't get,
but because they see it as a way to strengthen the local  business community.

"If this were a for-profit incubator, people would not be interested for a
second," he said.

Kovac said he expects a lot of interest when the incubators open this summer. As
anecdotal  evidence, he recalled a workshop he co-hosted with another USF
professor two years ago. The subject  was how to create a high-tech workshop,
and about a dozen people were expected.

More than 100 showed up.

"There is a latent interest in entrepreneurship here in Tampa Bay," he said.
Dave Simanoff covers economic development and real estate. He can be reached at
(813) 259-7762 or dsimanoff@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C); DRAWING (C),
 (C) Marty Traber says local businesses are helping with the technology
incubators.

NOTES: BAY COMMERCE 2001

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 6, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Famed D.C. park lures tourists, protesters;

BYLINE: GIL KLEIN, of Media General News Service;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 669 words


WASHINGTON - From casual tourists to serious protesters, the park offers a haven
from hectic  Washington.

Lafayette Park, across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House, appears to be a
serene place,  with manicured tulip beds and scores of schoolchildren following
tour leaders.

But below the surface there's a tension symbolized by the great vacant street
that sees more  in-line skaters than automobiles.

Two police cars sit poised for any provocation as bicycling officers patrol the
two blocks of  Pennsylvania Avenue closed to traffic since the 1995 Oklahoma
City bombing.

The Secret Service feared a truck bomb set off in front of the White House would
threaten the  president's life. Police are vigilant for fanatics with rifles or
pistols.

IT'S ALL PART of Lafayette Park's charm.

Surrounded by 19th century town houses of vice presidents, Cabinet secretaries,
senators and  socialites, Lafayette Park was the city's elite address in the
nation's early years.

In 1961, then-first lady Jacqueline Kennedy stopped the destruction of the old
buildings. Now,  they house offices, such as the Council for Environmental
Quality, White House Historical  Association and Climate Change Task Force.

The park is not dominated by a statue of the Marquis de Lafayette, but by Andrew
Jackson, waving  his hat while atop his rearing steed.

People-watching is a favorite pastime as tourists pose for pictures in front of
the White House.  Babies are hoisted by proud parents for mandatory future U.S.
president photos.

Protesting is another activity. Every cause from antiabortion to Zairian freedom
has drawn  crowds to chant and rant.

Concepcion Picciotto has become an attraction during her 20-year peace vigil.

SCHOOLCHILDREN study her poster that says, "Stay the Course and This Will Happen
To You" with  pictures of skulls, charred bodies and suffering people. In her
battle with park police, she is a  lesson in First Amendment rights.

"I'm going to be here until the government comes to its senses and eliminates
the weapons of mass  destruction and stops provoking wars," she says.

But there are plenty of stories of celebration, commemoration and violence in
Lafayette Park  going back nearly 200 years.

Throngs celebrated the Civil War's end; suffragettes chained themselves to the
White House  fence; crowds gathered when they heard the Japanese bombed Pearl
Harbor; Vietnam War demonstrators  were repelled with tear gas.

Around the corner at Blair House, two Puerto Rican nationalists in 1950 tried to
assassinate  President Truman, who was staying there during White House
renovations. A policeman and one Puerto  Rican were killed.

AT THE NORTHWEST corner of the park is Decatur House, a resplendent mansion
built by War of 1812  naval hero Stephen Decatur in 1819. Decatur was shot in a
duel with another naval officer.

Then there's Dan Sickles, a representative from New York just before the Civil
War. He owned a  mansion on the park's east side. There his beautiful wife
languished while he enjoyed liquor,  gambling and pretty women.

His wife took up with Philip Barton Key, son of Francis Scott Key of national
anthem fame. When  Sickles caught Key signaling his wife from the park, he shot
him dead. Sickles was acquitted of  murder by temporary insanity.

A terrible Civil War general, his right leg was shot off at the Battle of
Gettysburg. Sickles is  gone, but his leg can be seen at the National Museum of
Health and Medicine. Sickles sent it to the  Army Medical Museum and visited it
yearly on the anniversary of losing it.

Six years after Sickles killed Key, the mansion was the site of an attack April
14, 1865. As  John Wilkes Booth shot President Lincoln at Ford's Theater, an
accomplice, Lewis Payne, tried to  slit Secretary of State William Seward's
throat. Seward, recovering from a carriage accident, was  saved by a neck brace,
but tour guides say Philip Barton Key's ghost roused him just in time.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 Amy Rossetti, Potomac News (C) Concepcion Picciotto, right, is a favorite of
tourists in Lafayette Park, where she has conducted a 20-year peace vigil. She
plans to remain at her post until the U.S. government "comes to its senses and
eliminates the weapons of mass destruction and stops provoking wars."

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 7, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Fast forward;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477 words


Florida hurricanes: make landfall over the next three decades, and 20 could hit
Florida. So says  James Elsner, a climatologist at Florida State University. In
a new study, Elsner says 18 of those  50 will be "major" storms.

Elsner predicts two hurricanes will make landfall this year, and one could be a
Category 3 or  higher - meaning winds of at least 111 mph. Will it smack
Florida?

"Where it goes depends on a number of factors," he says. "I think it is more
likely to hit Florida  or the Gulf Coast, based on climate changes."

Elsner's methodology looks at paleoclimate data to give his research prehistoric
perspective. By  using information on over-washed sand deposits, lake levels and
tree rings, he can better look at  cyclical trends over centuries. He also
includes hurricane data over the past 150 years to create a  better model for
anticipating storms.

"We often judge what's going to happen to us based on very limited past
experience," he says. "And  if the short-term past indicated only a slight risk
of hurricanes, we can grow complacent about the  real risk."

Smoke and cavities: develop problems with their teeth, according to researchers
at Strong  Children's Research Center in Rochester, N.Y. A team analyzed data
from the third National Health  and Nutritional Examination Survey, which
provided a nationally representative sample of 3,873  children.

The children in the study had dental examinations and blood tests measuring
their cotinine  levels. Cotinine is a quantitative marker of tobacco-smoke
exposure and can detect effects from  second-hand smoke. The researchers found a
correlation between cotinine levels and cavities.

"This study should serve as a sobering wake-up call to parents who still don't
see the danger in  smoking around their children," says pediatrician Andrew
Aligne, the study's lead author. "We already  know smoking isn't good for us,
and here's another reason: Second-hand smoke accounts for a  significant
proportion of cavities in children."

Aligne adds that if dentists want to take the next step in improving dental
health, "they should  educate patients about the harmful effects of smoking."

Pyramid scheme: pyramids, many of which have stood solid as architectural
marvels for 4,000  years. Archaeologists still don't have a complete picture on
how they were constructed, and many  individual stones offer yet-to-be
deciphered clues about long-lost cultures.

These and other subjects come to light in "The Ultimate Guide: Pyramids," a
television documentary  airing tonight at 9 on the Discovery Channel. Shot on
location in Egypt, Peru and Mexico, the  special takes viewers around and inside
these remarkable structures and attempts to unravel their  religious and social
purposes as well as engineering techniques that made them possible.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 26, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 380 words



Sophisticated Mummies

The ancient Egyptians used more savvy methods to mummify their dead than many
researchers believed. Scientists at the University of Bristol in England
analyzed 13 mummies dating back 4,000 years. The wrappings contained plant oils,
tree resins and beeswax.

"Our results show that a mixture of commodities, with a compositional diversity
greater than reported previously, was used," the researchers wrote in the
journal Nature. "The use of drying oils was clearly widespread, with coniferous
resins and beeswax increasing in importance with time."


Sweating Out Bacteria

Human sweat contains a natural antibiotic that might play an important role in
protecting people against infections from bacteria and fungi commonly found on
the skin, German researchers say. The substance is a peptide, a fragment of a
larger protein dubbed dermicidin that appears to be made only by specialized
cells of sweat glands, according to a Washington Post report.

The peptide is present in high concentrations in human sweat and kills several
microbes that can cause skin and wound infections, including "staph" bacteria,
E. coli bacteria and yeast (Candida albicans). It is highly active against the
microbes over the range of salt concentrations and acidity found in sweat. The
study will be featured in the December issue of the journal Nature Immunology.

Scallops And Climate

Scallop shells may hold valuable clues to changes in Antarctic climate, says
scientists from the University of Michigan. Their study of scallop shells is
filling gaps in Antarctica's temperature record for the last century.

Unlike areas that have been inhabited for long periods - where people have
measured temperatures every day for hundreds of years - there are very few
instrumental records of temperatures on the Antarctic continent that extend back
to the early 1900s.

However, growth bands and oxygen content in the shell of the Antarctic scallop,
a sea animal that can live 100 years or longer, reveals annual environmental
trends, says geologist Kyger C. Lohmann. By analyzing shells of scallops
collected in different areas, the researchers hope to get a year-by-year picture
of temperature changes in different parts of Antarctica over the past century.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 21, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Across the region

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1025 words

DATELINE: HERNANDO COUNTY


Car Dealer Fights To Keep Its Flags

SPRING HILL - More than 60 American flags have flown over a Commercial Way car
dealership since it opened in 1998. Now Hernando County officials want all but
three taken down.

Last year the county rewrote its ordinance pertaining to flags, limiting them to
three on any commercial property.

Gulfview Motors maintains the ordinance violates the First Amendment right of
free expression.

In county court Wednesday, Assistant County Attorney Kent Weissinger argued that
a similar code in Durham, N.C., has been upheld in court even when an American
Legion post was cited for a violation of the number of flags it flew - and all
were American flags.

County Court Judge Peyton Hyslop will rule in 60 days whether Gulfview will have
to lower its flags.

HIGHLANDS COUNTY

Recycling Program Faces Severe Cuts

SEBRING - Highlands County's recycling program is facing major cuts as County
Administrator Carl Cool and staff continue searching for more than $1 million in
the proposed 2001-02 budget to satisfy county commission requests.

Commissioners want staff members to find money to provide employees with 3
percent cost-of-living pay increases and to pay for 12 percent increases in
health insurance premiums for employees. They also want a slight increase for
Sheriff Howard Godwin's department. He is slated to receive $190,000 less than
he did in 2000-01.

Proposed program cuts include a savings of $670,000 by removing about 90
recycling receptacles in the county and having residents take their materials to
the Arbuckle Creek Road landfill. Some staff reduction also could occur.

PINELLAS COUNTY
St. Petersburg Opens 1st Park For Pooches
ST. PETERSBURG - It's enough to make a Lab wag, a golden grin, a shepherd
shimmy.

Grab the Frisbees and chewed tennis balls, St. Petersburg's first pooch park
officially opens today.

The 1-acre Coquina Key Dog Park has a fence with gates, benches, a picnic table,
even separate water fountains for dogs and their handlers. There are also poop
bags available for those who forget their own and a time-out area for the
occasional behavior problem.

The off-leash park, at 3595 Locust St. S.E., opens at 9 a.m. with a
ribbon-cutting by city and neighborhood representatives, refreshments and doggie
treats. Dog parks are a relatively new concept gaining popularity nationwide.
Sarasota and Fort Lauderdale already have areas that cater to canines, and Tampa
and Largo are considering creating hound havens, too.

HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY
Appraiser To Study Port, Airport Taxes

TAMPA - For years, Hillsborough Property Appraiser Rob Turner has upset the
Tampa airport and seaport authorities with his tax policy.

Now he has been appointed to a state committee to study whether those policies
make the authorities less competitive than similar facilities in other states.
The eight-member group includes state lawmakers, the director of the state
Department of Revenue and two appointees by Gov. Jeb Bush.

The group has until October to make a recommendation to the Legislature.

Turner broke with tradition when he was elected in 1996 and decided that
private, profit-making enterprises operating on public land had to pay taxes.
That meant that concessions at Tampa International Airport, for example, now pay
property taxes.

Religious Group Plans 5 Days Of Community Aid

TAMPA - They have come from Florida, Arkansas and Texas - 130 teens and adults
gearing up for five days of working for God and the community at the first Tampa
Workcamp.

The project has taken six months of planning, spearheaded by Tim Stutzman, youth
director of the Bay Area Church of Christ in Mango.

Starting Sunday, the workers, some as young as 13, will scatter throughout
eastern Hillsborough County to paint homes and do yard work for 10 elderly
residents.

"One woman was so excited, she said, "I'll give you the paint!' " said Angela
Thomas, 19, one of the local organizers.

Thursday, they will hold a celebratory dinner and have a slide show at the
church with the homeowners and 27 local sponsors.

"We really want to focus on glorifying God and letting other people know that
he's given so much to us that we want to share that with other," Thomas said.

Diversion of Officers Irks Community Group

TAMPA - Tampa Homeowners an Association of Neighborhoods is asking the city to
reconsider the use of community police officers for weekend duty aimed at the
party crowd.

Last month, the city began pulling the officers out of neighborhood firehouses
at midnight on Friday and Saturday, with 10 going to Ybor City and 12 to the
squad targeting drivers under the influence.

Their hours had been 1 p.m. to 12:25 a.m. daily. They now work 4 p.m. to 3:25
a.m. Neighborhood representatives contend this curtails officers' neighborhood
involvement.

The change comes as the federal government ends funding for the community
policing program.

THAN, which represents neighborhood groups in Tampa, has written a letter
protesting the changes to Mayor Dick Greco and city council members, and to Rep.
Jim Davis, D-Tampa, asking for help getting federal support reinstated.

PASCO COUNTY
Business, City Leaders Hope To Revive Downtown

ZEPHYRHILLS - Business owners, along with city leaders, are launching an
initiative they hope will revive the economic climate of Fifth Avenue.

Economists from a University of South Florida applied research group presented
the first draft of its plan to study the city's downtown during a meeting at the
Zephyrhills Chamber of Commerce.

Main Street Zephyrhills and the chamber have committed $2,500 each to the study.
Zephyrhills Spring Water Co. kicked in another $5,000 and the city put in
$10,000.

The rest of the project is funded by a grant from the university's community
initiative program, which seeks to get university departments out into the
region to tackle community problems.

The city will get a comprehensive study, which will lead to an appropriate
marketing and economic strategy for the district, said Gina Space, the project's
coordinator.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACROSS THE REGION

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 24, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

After The Flames St. Petersburg Riots Defined Elusive Goals

BYLINE: CARLOS MONCADA ; Reporter Carlos Moncada can be reached at (727)
823-3412.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words


SO; cmoncada@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG - Five years ago today, St. Petersburg's inner city erupted.

A white police officer shot and killed a black teenager during a public traffic
confrontation.

On that night in 1996 and on Nov. 13, after a grand jury cleared the officer of
wrongdoing, rioters looted stores and torched businesses and other buildings,
causing $5 million in damage. Two dozen people were injured, including an
officer.

Those episodes stamped the anger and frustration felt by the city's black
residents into the psyches of city officials.

As city leaders came together after the rioting, there was consensus that from
the destruction there should be rebirth.

But today, the rebuilding effort in predominantly black south-central St.
Petersburg leaves a mixed legacy, drawing both praise and criticism from
community leaders.

Some positive trends have emerged: better police-community relations, a
declining crime rate, improved public housing and rising property values.

"We've come a long way in five years," said Dorothy Gilliam, a 31-year city
resident whose 13th Street Heights neighborhood, just north of where the rioting
ignited, has had trees planted, a new park and sidewalks since the civil unrest.

Yet economic development in the inner city - where the unemployment rate of 6.9
percent is more than double the citywide rate of 2.9 percent - has been
relatively sparse and painfully slow.

"I thought after the riots they were going to do a lot of things to create jobs
in the community," said Isam Jaber, who rebuilt his Wildwood Meat Market after
it was burned by rioters. "But talking to the customers, I really don't see much
change in creating jobs."


Jobs For The "Challenge' Area

Creating 2,500 jobs by 2001 was a major goal of former Mayor David Fischer's
ambitious initiative to improve living conditions in what he called the
"Challenge" area.

But at best, about 1,500 jobs were created, according to city figures released
this week. Moreover, most of those jobs are low paying or part time, and provide
neither a living wage nor benefits.

Fischer, who retired in April after serving 10 years as mayor, acknowledges not
everything he set out to do through his Challenge 2001 program was accomplished.

"These were goals," he said in a recent interview. "We had no standards to go
by, so you break a lot of new ground. But if you're going to set low goals,
you'll never get there. So we set some high goals, and we're still working on
that. ... [But] that doesn't bother me a bit."

Lou Brown, chairman of the African-American Leadership Coalition, said he was
not surprised by the city's failed efforts at jump-starting inner-city economic
development.

"When you neglect an area economically for, I'd say, 50 years, it's obvious it's
going to take quite awhile to get it back up," he said. "And it may have been
naive, to a degree, to think that even some of the changes that were made would
make much of a difference. It takes time."

The city is continuing with its Challenge program, although it has dropped the
"2001" from the title.

"Before, I think the main concentration really was on some of the housing
conditions - they were deplorable," said city council Chairwoman Rene Flowers,
who represents much of the district. "And now the focus is we want to see more
businesses come in and provide more jobs."

Though the racial disturbances were sparked by a confrontation with police, many
say the underlying reason for the rioting was black frustration over the lack of
good jobs.

Omali Yeshitela, chairman of the International People's Democratic Uhuru
Movement and a former mayoral candidate, contends the city has made practically
no progress resolving some of the issues that led to the riots.

"I don't think there has been any meaningful effort by the city to deal with the
kinds of problems that led to Oct. 24 and Nov. 13," he said, adding that he
thinks the potential for more disturbances still exists.

The Rev. Manuel Sykes, pastor of Bethel Community Baptist Church, agreed.

"You have the potential for flash points because the climate has not changed
drastically," Sykes said. "We have some trees and some sidewalks and some
islands in the street. But home ownership hasn't gone up because you don't have
the economic base to support it."


Changing "Midtown'

First-term Mayor Rick Baker, elected in March, hopes to change that.

Baker has pledged to improve economic conditions in what he renamed "Midtown"
and has named Deputy Mayor Goliath Davis III, the city's former police chief, to
lead the effort. Davis became the city's first black chief when Fischer
appointed the veteran officer after the riots. His selection is widely regarded
as having been a major step toward healing the city's wounds.

Davis, who began his new job this month after retiring from the force, said he
has concluded there is a good reason why the city never created 2,500 new jobs.

"I don't think we have 2,500 unemployed people in the area," he said.

Davis noted that $90.5 million in federal, state, county and city assistance has
been spent in or earmarked for the inner city since the riots. Some of that
$90.5 million would have been spent in the area anyway. Most of it went into
schools, housing, streets, sidewalks and lighting - improvements needed to
attract private-sector development dollars, Davis said.

"I think we've made quite a bit of progress," he said. "But are we where we want
to be? Obviously no. But are we better off than we were five years ago?
Obviously yes."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5(3C)
Tribune file photo by ALLYN DIVITO (1996)

(C) St. Petersburg Policeman James Knight shot and killed TyRon Lewis five years
ago today, sparking two nights of rioting in the town's inner city.
(C) TyRon Lewis

Allegedly bumped Knight repeatedly with car
(C) James Knight

Got in front of suspect's car to block it
Tribune file photo by FRED FOX (2001)

A man rides along Ninth Street past the All People's TyRon Lewis Community Gym,
one of several improvements the city has made in the area where riots occurred
in 1996.
Lou Brown

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 24, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Business Expo changes place to make way for bigger crowd;

BYLINE: MICHAEL DUNN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NORTHEAST, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


TEMPLE TERRACE - The chamber's 12th annual Business Expo is Tuesday. More than
70 businesses are  participating.

The Temple Terrace Business Expo has moved to larger quarters and a new day this
year, and  organizers are hoping for their biggest crowd ever.

The event is from 3:30 to 8 p.m. Tuesday at the Dr. Blaise Alfano Conference
Center, 11606  McKinley Drive (off Fowler Avenue across from the University of
South Florida).

It is free, but tickets are required. They may be picked up in advance at the
Greater Temple  Terrace Chamber of Commerce or at participating businesses. A
limited number of tickets also will  be available at the door.

This year's exposition will feature more than 70 businesses, restaurants and
organizations  demonstrating their products or services and giving away
promotional items, said event coordinator  Jan Porter.

There will be door prizes, too, and complimentary food from such area
restaurants as Savvy  Jack's and Golden Corral, she said.

"I'm really excited," Porter said. "They've opened the whole (auditorium) up for
us, so we've got a  lot of room."

This year's event will have a futuristic theme, Porter said, as the city focuses
on  strengthening its business climate. The exposition is intended to give
residents and businesses a  chance to get to know one another, she said.

It's also the chamber's major fundraising event of the year.

"It's important to let people know what kinds of services and businesses are
available," said Jan  Whitaker, the chamber's executive secretary.

"You can have one-on-one contact instead of just flipping through the Yellow
Pages," she said. "And  it's great exposure for the businesses."

The event typically draws 600 to 1,000 people, Whitaker said, but organizers
hope to draw as  many as 3,000 this year.

Also this year, the event has moved from Saturday to Tuesday.

"It doesn't take people away from their families and the activities they usually
do on weekends,"  Porter noted.

Porter, owner of Creative Ideas advertising agency in Tampa, said her company
has benefited from  previous business expos.

"I've always come out of it with a lot more leads and potential new business,"
she said. "It's a  chance to show your wares."

For ticket information, call the Greater Temple Terrace Chamber of Commerce at
(813) 989-7004.  Michael Dunn covers Temple Terrace and can be reached at (813)
977-2854, Ext. 28 or mdunn@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 7, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Hemp Festival draws determined gathering

BYLINE: JOHN WING, of The Tampa Tribune; John Wing can be reached at (813)
779-4613 or jwing@tampatrib.com

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: ZEPHYRHILLS


Despite recent setbacks in its fight to legalize marijuana, a local group
presses on with the Hemp Festival.

Michael Palmieri considers Florida the "front line" in the nation's war on
drugs.

And despite last month's U.S. Supreme Court decision that upheld federal laws
against supplying marijuana to terminally ill patients, Palmieri, executive
director of the Florida Organization for Reformed Marijuana Laws, or FORML, says
the battle to legalize the drug can be won.

"We're not giving up," he said. "I'd say Florida is going to be the toughest
state, since we've got more DEA, FBI and other police presence here than
anywhere.

"But everybody on our side is still trying."

Today at Zephyr Park, FORML will use its Hemp Festival to collect signatures for
a marijuana legalization petition that is attacking drug laws on three fronts,
Palmieri said.

Activists consider easing medical use restrictions as the best chance to
legalize pot, but they also are circulating petitions calling for complete
legalization and for the right to drug treatment for non-violent drug law
offenders.

Similar petition drives prior to last year's election fell short of the 450,000
signatures needed to get a referendum on the state ballot.

Since then, Palmieri said the climate for change has gotten worse, with the
Supreme Court decision and the selection of hard-line pot foe John Walters as
President George W. Bush's drug czar.

Still, nine states have approved medicinal use of marijuana through voter
referendum, with Nevada signing its new guidelines into law last month.

Palmieri said he thinks those states will ignore the federal court decision.

Locally, however, change is slow, he said.

At a Hemp Fest in Plant City in April, Palmieri and other pot activists were
arrested by Hillsborough County sheriff's detectives working undercover for
smoking the drug in public.

The charges have been dropped, Palmieri said.

In its third year in Zephyrhills, the Hemp Festival has drawn about 300 people
to the park, most there to enjoy a day of music and food, Palmieri said.

No arrests were made in the first two festivals, according to city police Capt.
Richard Scudder.

"We haven't had any major problems out there," he said. "But we're not going to
turn our heads if we see somebody violating the law."

FORML was denied an alcohol permit for the festival and for the second straight
year was turned down when it applied to march in the city's Founder's Day parade
in March.

But Palmieri said today's event will proceed, with live music (six bands), craft
vendors and pro-pot speakers.

"It's time for America to ditch the drug war strategy, because it doesn't work,"
he said. "The anti-drug warriors can see their time is ending."


(CHART) Find out more
The Hemp Revolution Bar-B-Que and Hemp Festival is noon to 7 p.m. today at
Zephyr Park on State Road 54 in Zephyrhills. The festival features food, live
music, speakers, vendors, community information booths and Stoner Games 2001.
For details call (813) 779-2551.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) CHART
FRED BELLET/Tribune file photo (1999)

(C) Florida Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws executive director
Michael Palmieri will be collecting signatures for a constitutional amendment.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 16, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Manager credited with airport's success

BYLINE: JOHN WING, of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

DATELINE: ZEPHYRHILLS


After helping pull the city's airport out of debt, Jim Werme is still fighting
for his vision of what it can be.

If first impressions were his guide, Jim Werme may never have returned to
Zephyrhills Municipal Airport.

Landing his private plane for a splash of fuel in the early 1990s, Werme rolled
up to an abandoned terminal.

A few lonely planes were tied down near a couple of hangars.

Nothing moved except some wind-swept grass across a worn runway.

He got back in his plane and took off without topping off his fuel tank.

For the former commercial pilot then just settling in Pasco County, Werme never
could have predicted he'd one day be charged with pumping life into the city's
beleaguered airport.

For years, the hulking 846-acre spread had been a sore spot in city hall.

Strapped by litigation and few tenants, the facility was debt-ridden and plagued
with physical problems.

But a change in political climate in 1995 spelled a new start.

Werme stepped in, a young, brash redhead not shy about shaking things up.

A native of Massachusetts, Werme came to Florida in the early 1990s after a
four-year stint in the Air Force and a six-year run as a commercial pilot.

A downturn in the aviation industry led Werme to Pasco, where he and a business
partner started a flight school and maintenance business in Gowers Corner, at
Pilot Country Airfield.

HIS FASCINATION with flying began as a child, Werme said, when at 5 he built a
mock plane out of scrap wood.

"The thing must have weighed 200 pounds. I thought I could strap it to the back
of a bicycle and get it going fast enough to fly.

"I intended it to fly."

Years later, while piloting commercial planes over rural farms, Werme looked
down and dreamed of owning his own pasture where he could build an airstrip.

One thing he never thought about, however, was running an airport.

But when the offer came, the idea of turning a "sleeping giant" into a viable,
self-sustaining airport captivated him, he said.

He went about pitching his vision of a pilot-friendly place where workers
greeted arriving planes with conversation and service.

"I set out to create an atmosphere," Werme said. "I have a pilot's perspective
and I've flown into all types of airports. I wanted it where you were greeted
with a cup of coffee, some help washing and fueling your aircraft. That was a
starting point."

The facility was nearly $1 million in debt, the result of a legal settlement
with a former tenant.

At least another $1 million in improvements were needed to get the place up to
industry standards.

It would take backing from the city council and a strong nose for securing state
and federal grants to help dig the facility out, he said.

NOW, LOOKING AROUND from his office in the B. F. Parsons Terminal, Werme said
the struggles getting here were worth the fights.

Six years after taking over, an industrial park houses nine tenants.

More than 55 plane owners rent hangar space, up from eight when Werme started.

The airport's signature feature, its skydiving businesses, is as successful as
ever.

And a team of consultants is drawing up a 20-year master plan, designed to guide
the airport into the future - which might include a commuter jet service and an
on-site hotel.

Yet along with Werme's reputation for getting things done, he's earned other
labels from critics and even some friends.

Arrogant.

Aggressive.

Unyielding.

Airport Authority member Leonard McGinty said the 39-year-old Werme is often his
own worst enemy.

"Jim is young and exuberant, but he needs to go to charm school," McGinty said.

"He's done a lot of good out there, but until his attitude changes it'll never
be a situation where we have the types of businesses out there that are
possible."

Some former tenants have accused Werme of favoring some businesses over others.

Another, Linda Stewart, filed a state ethics investigation into Werme's use of a
city contractor in 1997 to work on his private airstrip in Trilby.

Werme was cleared of wrongdoing by the Florida Commission on Ethics in 1998.

Hulan Nasworthy, who operates a flight school at the airport, has had numerous
run-ins with Werme over fuel sales and lease agreements.

Nasworthy said he wouldn't comment on Werme for fear of escalating their feud at
a time when Nasworthy is bidding on a vacant hangar at the airport.

But the two faced off in June at an Airport Authority meeting at which Werme
accused Nasworthy of fixing authority members' planes in violation of airport
regulations.

State transportation rules say only one licensed maintenance contractor can work
on airport property. Nasworthy is licensed through the state to do airplane
repairs and inspections but doesn't hold the maintenance lease at the airport.

"I just think it's potentially a conflict of interest and that those authority
members should recuse themselves if they're voting on something that can help
[Nasworthy]," Werme said.

"My motivation has always been to protect the airport."

ON OTHER OCCASIONS, Werme has had trouble at city council meetings, losing his
cool when decisions went against him.

City Manager Steve Spina said he's talked with Werme about improving his
communication skills.

"If you have to talk about a weakness with Jim, it's in the bureaucratic
details," Spina said.

"He'll admit he's not that good there, but he's worked on it. His strengths in
the aviation community make up for that, I think. He has to get a lot of the
credit for what's transpired out there."

The way Werme sees it, credit for the airport's success starts with the council.

"Without their support, no manager could have turned things around," Werme said.

He also heaps praise on his staff, now up to seven employees.

At the top of that list, is office manager Trina Sweet and maintenance chief
Woody Coggins.

"They've been with me from the very start, and they take it as personally as I
do when things go wrong," Werme said.

As negotiations for new hangars and leases continue, Werme said he finds relief
from airport pressures at home with his family.

His wife, Jennifer, a Pasco native who he met through a friend renting planes,
and son, Jack, 2, provide stability, Werme said.

He also raises cattle at the couple's Trilby home.

"I'm real comfortable with where I am right now," Werme said. "You have to keep
your eyes open with this job, because the politics are not always as favorable
and a shift can send you back to square one."

As for his critics, Werme said his intensity sometimes comes off the wrong way,
but he's fighting for what he believes is right.

"The city of Zephyrhills gave me a chance and I feel obligated to do the best
for Zephyrhills and that airport as I can," Werme said. "If sometimes I come off
as harsh, it's just that that is where my heart is."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (1C)
BOB WESTENHOUSER/Tribune photo

(C) Jim Werme took control of the Zephyrhills Municipal Airport six years ago
and has earned a reputation for getting things done - and being aggressive.
Hulan Nasworthy, an airport tenant, says he has had run-ins with Jim Werme.
ANDY JONES/Tribune file photo (1998)

Consultants are drawing up a 20-year master plan to help the Zephyrhills
Municipal Airport continue to grow.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 10, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Combating Malaria

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 923 words


Scientists are testing a drug to overcome a resistant strain. The National
Institutes of Health, meanwhile, is developing ways to predict and contain
epidemics.

TAMPA - At a time when medical science seems on the threshold of beating the
world's scourge diseases, malaria continues to ravage with a vengeance. Every 30
seconds, a child dies of this epidemic, which paralyzes entire communities in
poor countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa.

Americans who dismiss health problems outside their borders might not appreciate
the global magnitude of the disease. It affects an estimated 500 million people
each year, killing at least 1.5 million. A protozoal infection transmitted by
mosquitoes, malaria poses a risk to 40 percent of the world's population, even
though many countries have the drugs to combat it.

However, the most common fatal strain is showing resistance to treatments, and
health officials fear malaria might take a stronger hold. But scientists at
Johns Hopkins University say they have designed a drug that passed the first
stage of preclinical testing in mice and rats. The results of their study
appears in the September issue of the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The compound - known as carboxyphenyl trioxane - is showing promise, says Gary
Posner, a chemist at Johns Hopkins. The drug also is water soluble, which makes
it "easy to administer orally and intravenously," he says.

Scientists trace the compound's roots to the work of Chinese organic chemists
who 30 years ago isolated a component from the artemisia plant, which
historically was used by the Chinese as an herbal remedy for malaria.
Researchers think the plant possesses chemicals that kill the malaria parasite.

"Knowing the details of how this happens gave us the insights we needed for
design of new treatments," adds Posner.

A big question behind the potential therapy is cost and educating millions of
people in developing countries, says John Sinnott, the director of the division
of infectious and tropical disease for the University of South Florida's College
of Medicine and for Tampa General Hospital.

"The control of malaria is expensive and requires public health intervention to
have an impact," he says. "You have to educate people, and in communities that
don't read or write, you have a problem. Malaria also has become resistant to
cheap drugs. Now, we're beginning to see expensive [nonresistant] drugs that
many poor countries can't afford."

The National Institutes of Health just began a program to battle malaria on
another front. It wants to know how man-made changes affect the spread of the
disease at its epicenter in Africa. The first-ever study of its kind will
develop methods for predicting epidemics and strategies to contain them.

For instance, new outbreaks of malaria are thought to be the result of changes
in agriculture, rainfall, deforestation and global climate. All can lead to more
fertile breeding grounds for mosquitoes.

In poor communities, people are advised to sleep under mosquito nets sprayed
with insecticides. But the nocturnal insects are adapting to such simple
methods, says Guiyan Yan, a biologist at the State University of New York at
Buffalo. Yan received a $3 million NIH grant to study ways to prevent malaria in
Africa.

"In many African regions, the mosquitoes that transmit malaria have developed
resistance to insecticides," he says. "Our main objective is to develop an early
warning system for malaria. ... What we really want is to develop methods for
predicting outbreaks."

(CHART) A Primer On The Disease

Q. What is malaria? A potentially fatal disease caused by a parasite. Four kinds
of malaria infect humans.

A. Where does malaria occur? It can be found in about 100 countries and
territories, and more than 40 percent of the people in the world are at risk.
Large areas of Central and South America, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican
Republic), Africa, the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and
Oceania (Pacific islands including Polynesia) are considered malaria-risk areas.

Q. Is malaria common in the United States?

A. The World Health Organization says 1,200 cases are diagnosed in the United
States each year. Most involve immigrants and travelers.

Q. How do you get malaria?

A. Through the bite of a malaria-infected mosquito. The malaria parasite must
grow in the mosquito for a week or more before the infection can be passed to a
person. The parasite gets into the person's blood and multiplies in the liver
and later the red blood cells. When the red blood cells burst, they release more
malaria toxin.

Q. What are the signs and symptoms of malaria?

A. Fever and flu-like illness, including shaking chills, headache, muscle aches
and tiredness. Nausea, vomiting and diarrhea can occur, too. Malaria can cause
anemia and jaundice because of the loss of red blood cells. Infection with one
type of malaria, P. falciparum, can cause kidney failure, seizures, confusion,
coma and death.

Q. How soon will a person feel sick after being bitten by an infected mosquito?

A. For most people, symptoms begin 10 days to four weeks after infection,
although a person might feel ill as early as eight days or as late as one year
later.

Q. What is the treatment?

A. Various prescription drugs, depending on the kind of malaria, where the
patient was infected and how sick the patient is. Scientists are hoping to make
a malaria vaccine.

Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C) CHART
(C) A malnourished girl suffering from malaria awaits medical treatment at a
Mozambique hospital Mosquitos infect millions of people annually, killing a
child every 30 seconds.
(C) Sporozoites infect the liver, where they mature and reproduce. Then they
reproduce again in red blood cells, causing malaria symptoms.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 15, 2001, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Grad Rate At Colleges In Spotlight

BYLINE: BEN FELLER, bfeller@tampatrib.com; Reporter Ben Feller can be reached at
(813) 259-8285.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words


SCHOOL LEADERS, STUDENTS SUGGEST RETENTION IDEAS

ORLANDO - Florida's focus on recruiting a bright, diverse student body broadened
Wednesday to an overlooked challenge: ensuring those in college actually
graduate. Education Secretary Jim Horne, starting to shape his agenda, launched
a drive to shore up campus academic and social life so more students stay in
school.

At a meeting in Orlando, the people he charged with leading the way, mainly
university leaders and undergraduates, found ideas worth sharing and systematic
problems they know will be hard to erase.

The scope is vast, from making sure students don't get the bureaucratic
runaround to helping them through math to offering activities suited for various
ages.

It's the first spotlight on retention since 1999, when Gov. Jeb Bush introduced
his One Florida program eliminating racial quotas in student recruitment.

"This is the big issue," Horne said, contending "it's more appropriate" to focus
on student success than on the much-debated and sensitive matter of admissions.

Campus climate could improve simply with more communication and awareness of
student needs, task force members said. But other changes would require money,
which could prove difficult at a time of budget cuts, Assistant Secretary John
Winn said.

Florida hopes to boost the national stature of its education system at all
levels, but improving graduation rates is about more than pride. It's viewed as
a tangible way to increase the success of individuals and the economic prowess
of the state.

The challenge facing the task force, as with all advisory groups, is to produce
a report that will lead to legitimate change. Members were assured their ideas
will be considered by the Florida Board of Education as it makes requests to the
Legislature.

"We're serious about this, and we're not going to let it drop," said R.E. LeMon,
vice chancellor for academic and student affairs. He said the goal is a report
by early next year.

Horne originally billed the effort as an attempt to increase minority retention
but expanded it to cover all students.

The discussion showed the complexity of the issue. Graduation measures are used
differently for traditional schools such as the University of Florida than for
schools such as the University of South Florida, which has a large number of
part-time students.

On average across the country, 42 percent of students graduate within five
years, according to data compiled by the state Division of Colleges and
Universities. Within Florida's schools, 50 percent graduate within five years.

Nationally, more than a quarter of freshmen at public universities dropped out
between their freshmen and sophomore years in 1999. The dropout rate tends to be
higher for minority and part-time students.

Those trends come as Florida universities are expected to raise academic
standards, said Kandy Bentley-Baker, retention director at Florida International
University. To help students succeed, she said, support must be everywhere:
classrooms, dormitories, adviser offices.

"It's important that we feel a part of something," said Darnell Storm, a junior
at Florida A&M University, which added mentoring for 200 freshmen this year. "We
need to create more of a family atmosphere."

Rajuan Kimble, a senior at USF, advocated an "early alert" system in which
professors could check in on students who start missing classes.

"When you go away to school, you don't have your parents there. You need
somebody for support," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
(C) Jim Horne

Is shaping his agenda for education board

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 6, 2001, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Zephyrhills Shouldn't Change Bidding

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words


Zephyrhills City Councilman Mike Bussell's heart is definitely in the right
place by wanting to boost the city's business climate. But the idea he's pushing
is so flawed it would subject city government and the entire council to a
hornet's nest.

The first-term councilman proposes the city rework its bidding process to favor
a local-first approach - giving local businesses and firms the inside track at
winning solicitations for city services and equipment. "Any local business that
has dealt with the city should get preference within the city," Bussell told
Tribune reporter John Wing.

Not when it comes to spending tax dollars, they shouldn't. Taxpayers should
expect their government officials to get the best possible deal, period, fair
and square and without any appearance of impropriety. There are many ways to
bolster local businesses without taking the preposterous step of giving
preferential treatment in the bidding process.

The city's current procedure allows business and firms, regardless of location,
to submit sealed bids in response to requests by the city. This allows the city
to receive a wide range of proposals, which, in turn, gives city officials more
than enough information to make informed decisions. And there also is a matter
of state law - which requires government to accept lowest-priced bids.

Though his overall intent to help city businesses in admirable, because economic
development should be a major objective of the council, Bussell clearly wasn't
thinking of the dangerous ramifications a local-first ordinance would bring.

In Zephyrhills, where the simplest of mistakes at city hall is too often
overblown, a local-first approach surely would lead to charges of cronyism,
favoritism and other ethical shortfalls that the current process avoids. In
addition, the word that Zephyrhills has changed its policy to favor locals would
spread to outside businesses and firms, inevitably leading to a reduced number
of bids and shortchanging taxpayers.

If Bussell and other council members would like to get more local businesses
involved in providing city services and equipment, they should listen to city
Utilities Superintendent Louie Sellars and Director of Development Todd Vande
Berg. In response to the local-first proposal, these employees wisely suggested
it be rejected, and as an alternative they simply proposed raising the limit for
services that must go out for sealed bids from the current $5,000 to as much as
$10,000. This move clearly would encourage local bidders while, just as
important, not discouraging outside companies.

Zephyrhills' sealed bidding process works. There is no reason to tweak or bend
it.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 2, 2001, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Meltdown;

BYLINE: JOHN A. HERBERT, Special to the Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words


A would-be polar explorer sees his journey sink into the ocean as the sun beats
down on the  global icecap.

SPRING HILL - Awhile back, The New York Times warned the world the North Pole
ice cap is melting.  One thing a lot of people may not realize is that the pole
partially melts every year under the  beating of the summer sun. Nearly 30 years
ago, I learned it firsthand.

At the time, I was deputy director for public relations at SAS, the national
airline of  Scandinavia. At SAS, many of my friends were ground or air
navigators, co-pilots or co-conspirators  of early arctic explorers Amundsen,
Nansen, Rasmussen. These men were Norwegian and Danish idols of  Babe Ruth's
stature in America.

My friends included Einar Sverre Pedersen, a Norwegian polar navigator. He's the
one who gave me  the exploring bug. Another explorer friend helped me plan a
trek to the pole.

I should have known from the beginning the trip was doomed.

I SUPERVISED THE loading of our gear onto a plane that would take us to Thule,
our starting  point in northern Greenland. Somehow I crammed 16 tons into a
compartment built for 13, and the  takeoff became one of the most terrifying
experiences of my life.

Heading down the runway, we rolled and rolled and rolled before we picked up
enough speed to  lift off. We barely made it.

We arrived in Thule, at the time still a U.S. nuclear air base on Danish soil,
to a  not-very-warm welcome. The Americans, it seemed, had spent too much time
previously searching for,  and rescuing, screwballs like us. In fact, when we
arrived, the base commander greeted us with:  "When are you leaving?"

We were out of there in four hours, headed for Canada. Most North Pole hopefuls
like us started  out on skis in northern Canada no later than the end of
February. At that time of year, the region  remains shrouded in Arctic darkness;
there isn't much snow, though what snow there is comes down  sideways in
gale-force winds. Temperatures can reach minus-60 Fahrenheit.

When temperatures warm up to around minus-30, it's time to move. But you can't
always move fast.  My Swedish colleague and I were among those not moving fast
enough.

After about a week or 10 days of relatively smooth cross-country skiing, we hit
the first of  many so-called pressure ridges. Those are formed when the wind
blows hard and two or more ice floes  collide.

The ridges can be several feet high, and they're as slippery as any ice patch.
You can don  spikes and drag yourself and your supplies over the ridges. Or you
can waste a couple of days  conquering them with tools that look like hammers
and chisels.

No one used dog sleds by that time. Old polar adventurers would eat their dogs
that dropped dead  of exhaustion, but the practice had fallen out of favor. So
we had a small plane dropping food,  water and mail by parachute about every
other day.

We saw plenty of seals and walruses. No polar bears, but we knew they were
around because we saw  their tracks on the ice. During the day we'd never be
more than arm's length from our shotguns, and  at night we slept after ringing
our tent with trip wires and dynamite as crude early warning  systems.
Fortunately, the contraptions never went off.

Our journey from the Canadian mainland should have taken 10 to 12 weeks. But we
took too long,  and I realized how long when I fell through the ice about 120
miles from the pole.

The summer sun had been warming the polar area 24 hours a day for weeks, and it
had turned the  solid surface to water around us.

WE HAD TO JETTISON nearly everything we had - including tents, shovels, skis,
food, radios - to be  rescued off an ice floe by ski plane.

Our stuff added to other litter in the polar waters from Scandinavia and
England.

Among the junk I left submerged, I thought, was a handmade time capsule I had
lugged all the way  from Sweden. It wound up haunting me eight years later,
after the 2-foot-long cylinder drifted all  the way from where we were picked
up, past Greenland, out into the North Sea.

First to see it was a fisherman from the Faroe Islands who avoided the canister
because he  feared it was a leftover mine from World War II. But another Faroese
fisherman caught it by  accident in his net, and he called Radio Faroe about his
trophy.

There was no doubt it was mine; it still contained the cigar butts I had tossed
in the capsule  at the last minute. But that fisherman was a budding
entrepreneur who offered to sell the capsule  back to me for "only" $ 10,000. I
kindly turned him down by radio.

I never tried another ski trek to the pole, though I tried to take my wife there
a few years  ago. We boarded a tramp steamer in northern Norway, then got caught
up in trash ice at 84 degrees  north. Trash ice is another annual sign of a
massive summer polar melt.

Would I try to reach the North Pole again? No, it's not a challenge anymore. I
hear the Russians  are selling package tours by "luxury" icebreaker for about $
20,000 per person. We spent $ 80,000 on  transportation alone 27 years ago, so
I'd call that deal a bargain.  "I Remember It Well" is a continuing feature of
Prime Time. Please submit typewritten entries to Lindsay Peterson, The Tampa
Tribune, P.O. Box 191, Tampa FL 33601. Include a telephone number.  Submissions
cannot be returned and can be submitted through e-mail. Send text-only files to
Lindsay  Peterson at lpeterson@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2(1C),
 Photo from John A. Herbert FRED BELLET, Tribune photo 2(1C) John A. Herbert,
left, was in his late 20s when he battled the climate and other obstacles to
make it near the North Pole. At right, Herbert, from his home in Spring Hill,
recalls the journey that began in northern Greenland.

NOTES: I REMEMBER IT WELL PRIMETIME

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 27, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Teams get warm welcome;

BYLINE: LEE DIEKEMPER, Tribune correspondent;

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 513 words


CLEARWATER - Pinellas County residents and schools open doors to three
international football  teams during Super Bowl week.

Call Lisa Newman a mother at heart.

During the semifinals of the Global Junior Championship V international prep
football  tournament, the East Lake cheerleading sponsor was monitoring her
squad as they happily went  through their chants and jumps in front of football
fans at Clearwater's Tornado Stadium.

The catch was, East Lake was not playing.

But Team Canada was.

"We're their cheerleaders," Newman said with a smile. "They have no one to cheer
for them. But  we're their host school. So, we're here for them."

While the three international teams competing in this week's tournament (the
Bronze Medal Game  between Teams Europe and Japan is at 4 p.m. today with the
championship between Teams Canada and  USA to follow at 7 p.m.), each team has a
host school in the county.

For Team Canada, East Lake is their host school. Team Europe's host is Palm
Harbor University,  while Team Japan calls Countryside its home away from home.

During the day, while students at the three respective high schools attend
classes, so do the  football teams. The schools have offered space to the teams
so that their traveling tutors can keep  the youngster's class work on schedule.

And the teams have fit into each school and the surrounding community as if they
have lived here  for years.

"They take their lunch break right between classes so they get to mix with the
kids a little bit,"  said Palm Harbor football coach Mike June, who helped
members of Team Europe find families to house  the football players this week.

Even though the players may be thousands of miles from home, they are, after
all, teenagers.

"(After lunch), it's hard separating (Team Europe players and the Palm Harbor
student body)," June  said. "They've taken to the American girls a little bit."

And the players have taken to American culture, Tampa Bay style.

After football practice, all of Team Canada could be found watching East Lake
basketball games.  Team Europe got a chance to visit Clearwater Beach.

And Team Japan?

Well, after Wednesday night's semifinal loss to Team Canada, the players were
still dripping  with sweat when many all but mobbed a pair of Tampa Bay
Buccaneers cheerleaders who were signing  autographs.

Before the week was over, all four teams in the tournament got a tour of Raymond
James Stadium  and of the media headquarters at the Tampa Convention Center.
Some of the players were interviewed  by radio talk show hosts from out of town
covering the Super Bowl.

Like any other football fan, the players are disappointed not to be able to
attend the Super  Bowl. But they have their own parties planned.

East Lake will throw a Super Bowl bash at the school with Team Canada as the
guests of honor.  June has arranged for each family hosting a Team Europe player
to have their own private Super Bowl  party.

"I want the players to experience how most Americans enjoy the Super Bowl.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 MARK GUSS, Tribune photo Canada quarterback Jonathan Williams (1) runs away
from Japanese defenders during Wednesday's Global Junior Championship V all-star
football game at Clearwater High.

NOTES: YOUTH FOOTBALL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 13, 2001, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Letters;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1391 words

 In the name of progress

Regarding your front-page article "For critics, new UT dorm a kill to a view"
(Feb. 12):

Progress is not always pretty and rarely does it embrace preservation. It's too
little, too late  for city officials to complain about the construction of UT's
new dorm facility and its effect on  the city's skyline. Where were they during
the ground breaking?

I wish city Councilwoman Linda Saul-Sena and her patrons had also been around in
the mid-'50s  when the city razed the old courthouse building downtown for the
sake of "progress." The town even  allowed citizens to haul off the red brick,
some of which my father used for a walkway in front of  his home. There was no
mind-set for preservation back then. For a needed, larger judicial facility,
the city didn't blink when it came to tearing down some of its own quaint
history. Now we have a  courthouse that has been and remains the ugliest
structure downtown.

How quickly this town forgets its own deeds of ignorance.

When they start to dismantle those silver minarets over Plant Hall to add
another needed floor,  then you'd better start squawking loudly, and you'd
better do it real early this time.  DANA GROFF JR.  Tampa  Better Seminole
Heights

Excuse me if I don't feel the warm glow about the proposed art district
downtown. I look around  my Seminole Heights community that borders Nebraska
Avenue and see what wonders Mayor Greco's  vision has brought to the
neighborhood of his birth: neighborhoods with no sidewalks, pawn shops on  top
of pawn shops on top of flophouses. Streets in disrepair and houses with so many
code  violations that the list would stretch as long as your arm.

I question the mayor's sense of priorities. I look around and imagine what $ 30
million could  mean to this area. It is obvious from his actions that the mayor
does not see these neighborhoods  as a priority for this city.

Here are some suggestions for Mayor Greco:

Hire more code enforcement officers to take some weight off the overloaded
inspectors,  thereby allowing each of them to be more effective.

Begin an initiative for sidewalks and play areas for our children, so they don't
have to play  on the narrow streets of Seminole Heights.

Impose a moratorium on pawn shops and police more aggressively to help remove
the prostitutes  that plague the area.

Just some suggestions - $ 30 million could go a long way.  KURT KUECHENBERG
Tampa  Good reports about TGH

I was extremely interested in your health article featured in the BayLife
section of the Feb. 4  issue of the Tribune.

I was diagnosed with a spinal compression fracture and was pleased to find out
from my internist  that Avery Evans, an interventional neuroradiologist, was
performing the procedure, vertebroplasty,  at Tampa General Hospital.

A wonderful, brand-new area has been set aside in the hospital for this
procedure. This area had  been open only a week when I was admitted. I went in
with intense pain and came out pain-free.  Evans is a fine young man who took
the time to explain the procedure. He has a very capable staff  working with
him, and it is a comfort to know that Tampa General has this department.

Thank you for writing about this matter because it opens options to many with
great back pain.  RUTH C. ALLEN  Sun City Center  Perspective on history

During December you published a column by Leonard Pitts Jr. titled "Why GOP has
a problem with  black voters" (Commentary, Dec. 15). It gave a twisted view of
real history.

After the ravages of the radical Republicans' military Reconstruction following
the Civil War,  for nearly half a century the term "solid South" was used
historically to describe the Democratic  grip on the states of the defeated
Confederacy.

It would be 1920 before Tennessee gave the first electoral votes to a Republican
presidential  candidate. There were throughout those decades, and until recent
years, lynchings carried out by  ignorant hate mobs who were actually deeply
frowned upon by average citizens.

Let me observe, these activities of the Ku Klux Klan and other groups were not
the acts of  Republicans on vacation from the North - they were Democrats from
the "solid South!"

Democrat city governments made those rules forcing blacks to the rear of the
bus. When I came to  Tampa in 1948 to teach in a segregated school, blacks were
banned from whites-only restaurants. It  was nine years later that Rosa Parks
refused to give up her seat to a white man on a Montgomery,  Ala., bus. And
throughout the "solid South" were those "black" and "white" drinking fountains.

Pitts' history has gaps.  GEORGE W. SEEVERS  Tampa  Ex-felons' voting rights

Concerning your editorial of Jan. 30 and Samuel F. Maguire's response (Letters,
Jan. 31), I have  the following thoughts:

1. Thirty-seven states return the right to vote to people who have "paid their
debt"  automatically. Thirteen states, of which Florida is one, do not and
require that the ex-felon  petition for re-establishment of his or her civil
rights, one of which is the right to vote.

2. In my 23 years with the state of Florida Department of Labor, the most
difficult part of  placing people on jobs is the natural unwillingness of the
applicant to discuss past transgressions  that might have a negative impact on a
potential employer.

When I learned that the Department of Corrections did not advise people being
released of the  process for reinstatement of civil rights and/or their
potential eligibility for assistance in  obtaining jobs, I added these processes
to the application process of those who came to me for job  search assistance.

While my attitude that people pay their debt to society by incarceration may be
a minority view,  I applaud the Tribune's stand that these people ought not have
to "jump through hoops" to return the  right (or privilege, if you will) to
them.  HOWARD RAYMOND  Valrico  Clinton's real damage

The real damage done by the Clinton administration is not the Clinton-Gore
recession, but the  one-world socialist policies of his court and government
appointees and the presidential directives  and the U.N. treaties Clinton signed
without Senate ratification.

His arrogant and dangerous executive orders have surrendered American
sovereignty to global  bureaucrats in the United Nations and State Department
who are striving to:

1. Set up a U.N. standing army to place our troops under foreign command. One
order gave the  United Nations $ 100 billion to fund an independent U.N. army.

2. Set up a world court to prosecute Americans without our Bill of Rights
guarantees. This would  allow U.S. service members and citizens to be detained
and prosecuted in secret trials on  trumped-up, trivial or malicious charges.

3. Levy a new U.N. tax directly on Americans. We have too many taxes now
creating the  Clinton-Gore recession and do not need another tax to further
dilute our sovereignty.

4. Lock us into the World Trade Organization which has ruled against the United
States four  times and forced us to change our laws.

5. Involve us in eastern European border disputes between people who have been
fighting for  centuries and "peacekeeping" engagements with no clear exit in
sight.

6. Establish U.N. registration of all private firearms as a prelude to taxing
and later  confiscation.

Only prompt and aggressive congressional action can neutralize these
ultra-left-wing  Clintonisms. As Clinton's appointee Strobe Talbott said in Time
magazine, "Nationhood as we know it  will be obsolete. All states will recognize
a single, global authority."

Help!  JOHN M. HAMILTON  St. Petersburg  Comment on tax dollars

They've got it all wrong. Much of what I read and hear about the proposed tax
cuts makes it  sound as if the government was going to give us something. It is
often referred to as a give-back  or refund. That is not true. The proposal is
to take less of our money.  DONALD FENNO  Sun City Center  More praise for
Sowell

I agree with the letter by Gerald Sadzeck of Feb. 9, "Applying common sense."
Thomas Sowell is  unique in his common sense yet intellectually brilliant
approach to the subjects he writes about.  More, please!  BETTY KERNEY  Lake
Placid

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 19, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Bucs bid Edwards bittersweet goodbye;

BYLINE: JOEY JOHNSTON;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words


It was Bucs training camp, the summer of 1996. John Lynch was not yet a Pro Bowl
player. He was  not even a full-time starter. The new coaching staff was in
place.

Things weren't going well during a pass-defense drill. Lynch's frustration
boiled over. He  chucked the football back at his position coach. Teammates
stopped, waiting for a reaction.

Herman Edwards simply reached up and caught the ball one-handed. He said
nothing.

On to the next drill.

A few minutes later, Edwards pulled his disgruntled player aside, away from the
others. Lynch  still remembers the words.

The cream will rise to the top, John. Work with me. Keep plugging. Good things
will happen for  you.

There was something about this man, something that made you believe. John Lynch
trusted. He  bought into the system. Now he's a three-time Pro Bowler, maybe the
NFL's best strong safety.

Thursday was a happy day. It also was very sad. Lynch said he was overjoyed for
his coach and  friend. At the same time, he felt bad for himself.

Herman Edwards, who molded a career from being at the right place at the right
time, now has the  opportunity of his lifetime. He's head coach of the New York
Jets. New York's gain is Tampa Bay's  loss.

AT NFL HEADQUARTERS, they finally can exhale. Since the Bucs hired Tony Dungy in
1996, only one  of the league's next 41 head-coaching openings was filled by an
African-American. Paul Tagliabue  said he was working behind the scenes,
identifying the base of minority candidates. But there had  been no results,
some puzzling omissions and very few interviews.

Now here's a result. Edwards is not another NFL retread. He's something fresh,
something new.

He has never been a head coach. So what? Neither was Jon Gruden or Jim Haslett.

He has never been a coordinator. So what? Neither was Andy Reid.

He has always been a leader.

For five seasons, Edwards has been Dungy's assistant head coach, his confidante,
his rock. He  transformed a trio of third-round picks and a free-agent castoff
into one of the league's big-play  secondaries.

He's sharp. He looks you in the eye. His method of communication includes a lot
of listening.  But when he talks, that voice fills the room. He's funny. He's a
storyteller. You want to huddle  around. You want to follow.

The Jets need a man like this. Hard to believe, but he's the franchise's fourth
head coach in  the last year. Bill Parcells bumped himself upstairs. Bill
Belichick, the heir, lasted one day.  After a late collapse that prevented a
playoff berth, Al Groh made a shocking exit to the  University of Virginia.

Which brings us to Herman Edwards.

HE SHOULD BRING stability and considerable character to this job. He's a
stand-up guy, something  that will be appreciated by the New York media. He's
straight-up with players, no games, no hidden  agendas.

Edwards brings a little bit from all his mentors - the emotion of Dick Vermeil,
the organization  of Marty Schottenheimer, the patience of Tony Dungy. He has a
background in scouting and  administration. He's well-prepared. Now he has his
chance.

"You don't dwell on it (potential head-coaching opportunities)," Edwards said.
"I always think  about the work at hand and don't worry so much about what the
future holds. Don't look back. Don't  look too far forward. That's how I've
always coached my players.

"There's some quality players here (in New York). From afar, they've won a lot
of football games  here. Now it's just a matter of winning in the later months
and getting into the playoffs."

If there's anything familiar to a Jet fan, it's disappointment. Also, constant
change. The  Giants are prime tenants at the Meadowlands. They hog attention.
They're the standard-bearers. Now  they're going to another Super Bowl. The Jets
usually pick up the scraps.

Charley Winner once was the Jets' head coach. So was Lou Holtz (for all of 13
games). Joe Walton  begat Bruce Coslet, who begat Pete Carroll, who begat Rich
Kotite. In 41 seasons, there has been  one Super Bowl appearance and just eight
playoff berths.

Jets players have experienced the recent coaching carousel. Might they be
skeptical about yet  another new face?

"One thing about players, they understand the climate of the NFL," Edwards said.
"They understand  free-agency. They understand that coaches get fired. Their
mindset will be, "What am I (Edwards)  going to bring to the table? What am I
going to do to enhance their ability to win games?'

"I just have to be me. That's what Tony Dungy always told me. You can only be
you."

Lynch said that's enough.

"Some guys need a kick in the butt and other guys need a pat on the back," Lynch
said. "Herm knows  the difference. He just knows about the dynamics of people.
He's special."

New York's gain.

Tampa Bay's loss.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOEY JOHNSTON

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 3, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Vacant stores quickly filled;

BYLINE: KATHY STEELE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NORTHWEST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words


Carpet redux: Bad financial news for a national carpet company proves good news
for other  businesses looking to expand.

Flooring America Inc. rolled up its threads and shut down some of its stores
last year after  filing for federal bankruptcy protection in Atlanta. A
reorganization plan called for closing 35  company-owned stores in 13 states.

A handful, though not all Flooring America stores, closed in the Tampa area.

But those vacant storefronts enticed Clearwater-based Bob's Carpet Mart and the
Texas-based  specialty sleep shop, The Mattress Firm, to set up more of their
shops.

The mattress company unloaded box springs and mattresses at 6218 N. Dale Mabry
Highway about  three weeks ago. It's in the midst of a grand opening. Hours are
from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.,  Monday-Friday; 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday; and noon to
6 p.m., Sunday.

The Mattress Firm also has locations in St. Petersburg and Brandon TownCenter.
Earlier this year  it opened a store at the Plaza at Citrus Park, across from
Citrus Park Town Center.

Bob's Carpet Mart plans soft, or unadvertised, openings for three stores on
Monday, including  one at 13809 N. Dale Mabry, former home for Flooring America
carpets. Other locations are 28365  U.S. 19 North in Clearwater and 5990 S.
Tamiami Trail in Sarasota.

"We did some face-lifting stuff but we didn't have to structurally make changes,
" Smith said.

The new locations will give Butler Carpet Co., which operates Bob's Carpet Mart,
17 locations in  the Tampa area, said Lori Smith, vice president of the
family-owned business.

"It's an opportunity," Smith said of the Flooring America closings.

Bob's Carpet also has picked up some stores shut down by the financial woes of
another company,  Factory Direct Interiors, she added.

The store sells carpets, of course. But its products include ceramic tile,
laminated wood  floors, vinyl tile and sheet tile. Installation services are
offered, Smith said.

Store hours are 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday-Friday; 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday; and
noon to 5 p.m.,  Sunday.

Storage stuffers: Space for stuff is growing along Waters Avenue.

Two new self-storage facilities will join Shurgard Storage in leasing
mini-warehouses up and  down the Town 'N Country roadway. Shurgard opened its
units in 1999 across from Waters Crossing  shopping center, west of Veterans
Expressway.

U-Haul Self-Storage and Public Storage are adding more mini-warehouses.

About 54,000 square feet of storage is under construction by U-Haul on Waters,
east of Anderson  Road. Tentative opening is in July, said U-Haul spokeswoman
Jennifer Flachman.

There will be 525 units, some climate-controlled and some not.

Recreational vehicles can be parked on-site, and U-Haul will also rent trucks
and trailers for  hauling things.

Security will be provided by on-site cameras and individual alarm systems in
each unit.

Public Storage modified the planned development zoning of a 7-acre parcel on
Waters Avenue at  Wilsky Boulevard in 1999 to build up to 100,000 square feet of
self storage. Company officials said  they expect to open by late June or early
July.

Good eats: A new Key West-style bar and grill just started feeding lunch crowds
in Lutz.

The Luxury Box opened this weekend on Florida Avenue at the former Rock City
club.

The restaurant features new wood floors and cedar-lined walls and offers a lunch
and dinner menu  filled with pastas, steaks, seafood, and its specialty, crab
cakes.

On Friday and Saturday nights, the eatery will have a live acoustic guitar
player strumming  Jimmy Buffett-style music.

The hours are from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 2 a.m.
Fridays and  Saturdays, and noon to 11 p.m. on Sundays.

This is the first restaurant venture for co-owners Chris Yankee and Jim Green.
The duo worked  for a restaurant consulting company before opening The Luxury
Box.

Citrus bank: First Union Bank will move one of its banks across the street to a
new Gunn Highway  address.

The new bank will be located in the Publix-anchored shopping center under
construction across  from Sickles High School, at Gunn Highway and Ehrlich Road.
Tentative opening date is Feb. 20, bank  officials said.

It will offer full banking services including drive-through windows and
automated teller  machines.

When the new bank opens, the former location at 7920 Gunn Highway will be
closed.  Elizabeth Lee Brown contributed to this report. Kathy Steele can be
reached at ksteele@tampatrib.com or 885-5437.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT'S DEVELOPING

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      March 2, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

For better or worse;

BYLINE: JOE FOLLICK, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1999 words


The marriage of government and business spurs hopes and fears.

TALLAHASSEE - Gov. Jeb Bush, surrounding himself with government workers, both
in person and  watching live on the Internet, sought to reassure the state work
force Thursday that his revolution  will not turn them into casualties.

The message he delivered, with tinkering, could have came from the lips of a
chief executive of  a large company preparing workers for job cutbacks. Bush
told them his aim is to create "increased  productivity" while "operating more
efficiently" within a "performance-based budget."

To do that, the governor said, he plans to hold state workers more accountable,
rewarding good  workers with incentive pay increases as he makes it easier for
poor performers to be dismissed. He  did not mention his goal of eliminating
more than 4,000 state positions this year.

"This is my passion," Bush said. "I want to liberate the productivity of state
workers. I want  state workers to be joyful in their service to the state."

To some, Bush's moves to transform what he calls "obsolete management" is a
belated and necessary  shock to an outdated government bureaucracy that operates
under often decades-old rules,  regulations and practices.

"This is just common sense," said Jon Shebel, president of one of the state's
largest and most  influential business lobbying groups, Associated Industries of
Florida. "Shouldn't you pay people  based on their value to the entire
enterprise?"

Increasingly, the interests of state government and business intersect in the
economy.

Corporate leaders especially embrace the governor as someone refreshingly in
step with business,  technological change and the demands of a new economy.

Bush is in the vanguard of contemporary politicians eager to dislodge, replace
or at least  retool what they view as creaking government programs that evolved
from the New Deal philosophy of  President Roosevelt and the Great Society
programs of President Johnson.

Getting the same performance from government that is expected in the private
sector is a top  priority.

To others, however, the governor's rhetoric signals the end of a different era -
one in which  government was seen as a social problem-solver rather than a
problem.

"Somewhere along the line people got soured and began believing anything done by
the government  was inherently bad," said Chuck Wolfe, director of external
affairs for Gov. Lawton Chiles in the  early 1990s.

But in Wolfe's view, can-do idealism in political discourse has been replaced
with a bottom-line  attitude.

"In political life the idea that you would really like constituents and enjoy
making lives better  seems to be missing," he said. "You now hear how we can
make our businesses better. Or how we can  give a bigger tax cut. Or how we can
make sure our businesses are on an equal playing field.

"These examples are dramatically different than when I was going to school when
we were talking  about helping civil rights or even building a better defense
system," he said.

BUSH'S EFFORT TO REMOVE the career protection enjoyed by state workers to attain
his goal of  increased productivity is just one of a number of ways in which he
is merging the worlds of  business and government.

The governor also is seeking to continue privatizing parts of agencies big and
small. His  success, in part, is measured in numbers.

Under Bush, state tax revenues are up while personal tax burdens are down. After
growing by more  than 12,000 employees in the early 1990s, Bush has cut state
government by more than 2,000  positions and hopes to trim 4,000 more in the
next year.

The governor's push to turn over more government functions to private businesses
is harder to  quantify.

State Comptroller Robert Milligan supports a review of all state operations to
make them more  efficient. But he said it's easy to fudge the numbers to justify
privatizing state functions.

"The unfortunate part is when (Bush's staff) says they're going to cut 4,000
jobs, they haven't  really done cost-benefit analysis," he said. "You don't know
whether you're going to save money or  not. People work hard to create analyses
that look good."

Some private companies that have taken over various functions of state
government, meanwhile,  have achieved poor to mixed results. For example:

As a pilot program in three counties, including Hillsborough, the state hired
private  companies to take license plates from cars owned by uninsured
motorists. But more than one-third of  those the companies seized came from
insured drivers.

Under Secretary of State Katherine Harris, a private company was hired to purge
convicted  felons from voter registration lists prior to the recent elections
but, to the shock of civil  rights observers and election officials, the firm
also purged legal voters from the lists.

Two private companies were paid $ 4.5 million to collect unpaid child support
and drew sharp  criticism when they failed to force a single "deadbeat dad" to
pay his debts.

Few lawmakers debate whether to privatize government functions anymore. And even
the harshest  critics of Bush agree on the need to trim some jobs from the
public payroll.

"Maybe it doesn't matter if the people at the toll booths work for the state or
for a private  company," said House Minority Leader Lois Frankel, D-West Palm
Beach.

It does matter to those in the cross hairs. Ray Henley, a vocational instructor
in the laundry  services department at Florida State Hospital in Chattahoochee
is one of them.

A Vietnam veteran who has spent 36 years working for the state, Henley is only a
little more  than two years away from retirement.

No one has proposed privatizing his job yet, but about 150 of his co-workers in
the hospital  kitchen have been told the state plans to eliminate their jobs by
July 1.

"They're scared," Henley said. "Those jobs don't pay much more than minimum wage
now, so I don't  know where they think they're going to be saving all this money
they're talking about."

While state workers fret over job security, state business leaders knit their
brows over whether  the state could still do more.

Shebel said that in his 30 years of involvement in state government, "Bush has
gone faster and  further than any other governor."

"But Florida still suffers from not understanding how important it is to have a
good business  climate," he said.

Shebel said, to better position the state for the future, there should be an
overhaul of the tax  system that would eliminate targeted taxes that inhibit
business growth. In exchange, the business  community would accept a fairly
levied state tax on profits, he said.

Shebel credits Bush's awareness of the good that can result from merging
business and government  to his business background as a South Florida
developer.

OTHERS IN STATE GOVERNMENT, however, question whether such thinking hasn't gone
too far in some  realms. Sen. Tom Rossin, D-West Palm Beach, said he realized
last week just how far the business  mind-set has permeated state government as
he listened to the state's lottery officials tell a  Senate committee about
their plans to "grow the lottery" and "get more money ... so we can give it to
the educational trust fund."

"Should the lottery be run as a for-profit business, where expansion and growth
is its primary  function?" Rossin asked, "Are we abrogating our responsibilities
as legislators, representatives to  people, to provide revenue in a more direct
way?"

Rossin does not fault lottery officials. They're doing as the Legislature
instructed: Make more  money.

"Somehow, in this drive for privatization, in this drive for economic
development, we've lost  sight about what government should be doing, and that's
educating citizens properly and taking care  of our health needs," he said.

But Bush's staff says using business models can accomplish those goals, too.
Just as new  technology can help improve services and save money.

Roy Cales, chief information officer for the state, said having companies bid
online for the  right to sell things like light bulbs and copy paper to the
state saved nearly $ 4 million last  month alone.

He hopes to end the usual bidding practice where companies mail in their bids.
According to  Cales, the real-time competition between companies bidding against
each other led to cheaper prices  for the state.

Cales also said the state will soon establish a one-stop online site that will
make it easier  for new businesses to incorporate in Florida.

"Hopefully, technology will enable us to automate some of the more mundane
things we do and have  more people to take care of kids or keep our streets
safe," he said.

MERGING BUSINESS and government through privatization is not new. Most state
governments have  been pursuing the same course over the past decade. And some
experts suggest the trend is going to  run its course sooner or later.

The functions of government that could and should be privatized mostly have
been, said Derek  Bok, the former president of Harvard University and the author
of a number of books, including "The  Trouble With Government."

Other programs may too greatly blur the line between the conflicting purposes of
business and  government, he said. Examples include giving schoolchildren state
vouchers to attend private  schools.

"You get a little bit uneasy substituting the profit motive in an enterprise
concerned for  helping humans," he said.

"We go through periods of worshiping the market. You go through periods like the
New Deal," he  said. "The pendulum will swing."

The swinging pendulum looks more like a sword these days to workers in some
state agencies. When  government is ruled by a business approach and is eager to
turn programs over to private companies,  even being good may not be enough to
keep a state agency under public control.

Andy McMullian remembers standing in front of Bush in late 1999, steeling
himself for the  question he knew was coming.

And it did. "Can we privatize the Division of Retirement?" Bush asked McMullian,
who was director  of the agency then.

McMullian was a 43-year veteran of state government, proud of his agency that in
1998 was cited  by a state internal review as one of the most efficient
overseers of public pension plans in the  country.

So his answer came slowly, but with the reluctance of a man telling his boss
what he doesn't  want to hear.

"I looked right at him," McMullian remembers, "and said, "Yes. We can. But I
don't recommend it.' "

Bush didn't say a word, glaring at McMullian until he took his seat, McMullian
said.

"It was like lightning coming out of his eyes," McMullian said. "I could tell he
didn't like my  advice."

Less than a year later, McMullian was forced out of his post. A Bush spokeswoman
said the  governor doesn't remember the incident.

In January, the chief of staff for House Speaker Tom Feeney, R-Oviedo, asked
legislative  analysts for an audit of the agency to determine if its operations
can be handled by a private  company.

The analysts were the same ones who wrote a glowing evaluation of the division
in June 1998 and  concluded it should not be privatized.

But that was before Bush took office. The analysts' new report, released
Thursday, concluded the  agency can be privatized and identified companies that
could do it.

The changing view of the analysts is in keeping with the sharp shove that has
transformed state  government into what the governor refers to as an
"enterprise."

"It's solely about business," Wolfe said of government today. "Maybe that's what
the electorate  voted for, or maybe they don't know what's going on."  Staff
writers David Wasson and John Wark contributed to this report. Joe Follick
covers state government and can be reach at (850) 222-8382.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (4C),
 (C) Associated Industries of Florida President Jon Shebel said
growth-inhibiting taxes should be curbed.

NOTES: 2001 LEGISLATURE FLORIDA INC.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 3, 2001, Saturday
                       Correction Appended, FINAL EDITION

Young scientists show off projects in competition;

BYLINE: MICHELE SAGER, of The Tampa Tribune,

SECTION: NORTHEAST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words


TAMPA - Students from across the county were honored for their top projects as
part of the  regional science fair.

More than 350 awards were given out to science fair winners Wednesday night
during a ceremony at  the University of South Florida Sun Dome.

Students in grades K-12 showcased the best science experiments from schools
countywide during  the Hillsborough County Regional Science Fair. About 800
students participated in the two-day  event.

Elementary projects were divided by grade and category.

Winning projects were given a ranking of Superior (first), Excellent (second) or
Outstanding  (third).

Middle and high school projects were divided by category and division. Middle
school students  competed in the junior division, while high school students
were in the senior division. Winning  projects were awarded first, second or
third place.

First-place winners in each category of the junior and senior divisions will go
on to the state  competition in April.

Two projects were also named best of the fair. King High student Aimee Laskowski
won the senior  division for her project titled "Antiproliferative and Apoptotic
Effect of Resveratrol on NIH 3T3  Cells: A second year Study."

Benito Middle student Jackie Eisenhauer won the junior division for his project
"Is water from  the dentist dangerous?"

Eisenhauer said a television news program inspired him to test water from the
dentist.

"This show said it was a problem with some dentists, so I wanted to check it out
for myself," he  said.

"My dentist gave me some water to test and I found out that I'm pretty safe."

In addition to the division awards, 86 special awards were given for projects
that met criteria  created by the sponsors of each award.    (CHART)  ELEMENTARY
WINNERS  CLARK ELEMENTARY:   Spandan Bandyopad, third grade: "What're Pressure
and Gravity?" - superior   Kyle Hsu, third grade: "Smoker, Are You Also the
Greenhouse Effect Maker?" - American Lung  Association Award   Erik Madsen,
fourth grade: "Going, Going, Gone: Damaging Effects of Acid Rain" - superior
Monice Mukherjee, fifth grade: "Does Size-Dependent Terra-Cotta Absorbtion
Reduce Fertilizer  Drainage Through Sand?" - superior   Grace Weir, fifth grade:
"Is the State of Your Rain a Pain?" - superior  HUNTER'S GREEN ELEMENTARY:
Allie Blevins and Jessie Veksler, fourth grade: "Let's Dissolve!" - superior
D.J. Capezzuto, fourth grade: "What Type of Roofing Fabric Has More Strength?" -
superior   Will Hunt and Sam Kusha, fourth grade: "How Does the Air Pressure
Affect the Bounce of a Soccer  Ball?" - superior   Ton Wang, fifth grade:
"Bacteria" - superior  PIZZO ELEMENTARY:   Vittorio Ottanelli, fifth grade:
"Cool It: Earth Friendly Insulations" - superior  PRIDE ELEMENTARY:   Laura
Burgin, third grade: "Light Bulbs and Fire" - superior  MIDDLE SCHOOL WINNERS
ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL:   Jenny Jacobs: "Initial Filtration of Contaminated Surface
Water for Human Potability: Evaluation of  the Efficacy of Various Prefiltering
Materials" - American Society of Agricultural Engineers'  Outstanding
Agricultural Science Project, Junior/Senior Division; Stocholm Junior Water
Prize;  Carolyn Crow Award   Mark Marchese: "Which Woods-You-Choose?" - first
place, Junior Chemistry  BENITO MIDDLE SCHOOL:   Joey Banfield: "The Water
Works: What's on Tap?" - city of Tampa Water Department's Drinking Water  Award,
Junior/Senior Division   Justus Roberts II: "Is Water From the Dentist
Dangerous?" - first place, Junior Medicine & Health  Science; Scientific
American Achievement Award, Junior/Senior Division  GRECO MIDDLE SCHOOL:
Jonathan Tubb: "How do Frequencies of Sound Waves Affect the Viscosity of Water
and Sand Flowing in  Pipes?" - first place, Junior Engineering  HIGH SCHOOL
WINNERS  KING HIGH SCHOOL:   Chen Chen: "The Effect of Bacitracin on the
Kinetics of Strepetomyces grieus Aminopeptidase" - first  place, Senior
Biochemistry; Navy-Marine Achievement Award   Anapama Kotha: "Antiproliferative
and Apoptotic Effect of Resveratrol on NIH 3T3 Cells: A  Second-Year Study" -
first place, Senior Medicine and Health Science; Society for In Vitro Biology
Award   Michael Lehman: "The Effects of Carbon Dioxide Concentration of
Callinectes sapidus" - first place,  Lowry Park Zoo's Environmental Awareness,
Senior Division   Alex Mohapatra: "The Effect of Acute-Phase Promoters on
Protein Expression During Infection" - first  place, Senior Microbiology
Shannon Scully: "Heart Throb" - American Heart Association Award, Junior/Senior
Division; Army  Achievement Award Certificate of Achievement; Scientific
American Achievement Award, Junior/Senior  Division   Shojing Song: "From the
Blood to the Brain: The Differentiation of Bone Marrow Stromal Cells into
Neurons" - first place, Senior Zoology; National Association of Biology Teachers
Award  TAMPA BAY TECH:   Keandra Hopkins: "Prevalence of Use of Alternative
Complimentary Nutritional Therapy During Cancer  Treatment" - first place,
Senior Behavioral & Social Sciences  MAGNET AND PRIVATE SCHOOL WINNERS  DUNBAR
MAGNET SCHOOL:   Robert Friedman, fourth grade: "Compost Happens" - First place
Lowry Park Zoo Environmental Awareness  Award  FERRELL MAGNET MIDDLE SCHOOL:
William Gower: "Do Enterochromaffin Cells Release ANP When They Are Stressed?" -
Florida Association  of Science Teachers' Critical Thinking Award, Junior/Senior
Division   Christopher Ortiz: "Do Lawn Products Affect the Pond Ecosystem?" -
first place, Lowry Park Zoo's  Environmental Awareness Junior Division   Ryan
VanOlst: "Do Plants Affect the Characteristics/Purity of Water?" - Bio-diversity
Conservation  Science Award, Junior/Senior Division; Seminole Environmental
Sciences Award, Junior Division  ORANGE GROVE MAGNET MIDDLE SCHOOL:   Kristen
Amidei: "Does the Location of the Soil Samples Found in Lettuce Lake Park Affect
the  Percolation Rate?" - Society of Women Geoscientists' SAGE Award  WASHINGTON
MAGNET MIDDLE SCHOOL:   Brent Finklea: "Building Steam With a Grain of Salt" -
Institute of Electrical & Electronics  Engineers Outstanding Topic in
Engineering, Junior Division   Jarad Greene: "The Die is Cast" - second place,
Outstanding Science Fair Display   Lydia Greene: "What Color is Your
Personality?" - MOSI Design and Exhibit Award, Junior/Senior  Division; second
place, Florida Psychological Association's Outstanding Behavioral Science
Project;  first place, Outstanding Science Fair Display   Sarah Toney: "An Icy
Treat: Can What You Drink Help Keep You Safe?" - Florida Aquarium Award, Junior

 Division  YOUNG MAGNET MIDDLE SCHOOL:   Rumela Das: "Effect of Day of the Week
on the Speed of Electronics-Commerce" - first place, Junior  Computer Science
Matthew Johnson: "The Effect of the Angle of Descent from the First Hill of a
Roller Coaster on the  Maximum Height of the Second Hill" - NASA Award; Nelda
Mason Award   Sara Schonwetter: "Bye Bye Bacteria!" - first place, Junior
Microbiology

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2001

CORRECTION: King High student Anupama Kotha won best of fair in the senior
division at the Hillsborough County Regional Science Fair. An incorrect name was
published in Saturday's Northeast section.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); CHART,
 JAY NOLAN, Tribune photos John Wesley Honaker, 10, yawns after the first of two
judges leaves his display at the Hillsborough County Regional Science Fair held
at the University of South Florida this week.  Categories included biochemistry,
botany and chemistry.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      March 5, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Favorite Web sites;

BYLINE: Compiled by Mike Kersmarki;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 328 words

 Moving on

www.moving.org/ - The Census Bureau says one-sixth of all Americans - an
estimated 43 million  people - move every year. And as more people get laid off
- or become extremely overworked by an  incompetent and/or greedy company
because they're one of the leaner, meaner employees who kept  their job - it may
be time to move on. Your first step should be to scan the leading moving
portals.  There's also www.moving.com

www.monstermoving.com/ - This site features home and apartment listings galore
and cash-back  incentive programs. It also offers moving-cost quotes from dozens
of moving companies.

www.bestplaces.net/ - Go here to compare urban areas, using some 30 variables,
including housing,  crime, health and climate.

www.insiders.com/ - Get the inside scoop on what it's really like to live and
work in a certain  area. Written by residents of the communities, the online
service reviews more than 60 areas across  the United States.

www.homefair.com/index.html - This site provides dozens of relocation-related
calculators, from a  salary calculator that compares the cost of living in
cities in America and around the world to a  community calculator that
identifies U.S. neighborhoods with similar demographics.

www.usps.gov/moversnet/ - Go online to complete the many change-of-address forms
and other  paperwork associated with a move.

www.makethemove.com - Discontinue household utilities and other services in your
departure city  and get them connected and restarted in your destination city.
We are family

thesuccessfulparent.com - Go here for a newsletter designed to help you navigate
the  responsibilities of child-rearing. There's also  parenting.com and
parentstages.com

childanxiety.net - Anxiety disorders are one of the primary mental health
problems affecting  children and adolescents today.  Compiled by Mike Kersmarki,
assistant business editor. Reach him at mkersmarki@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Get the inside information on travel destinations at www.insiders.com,

NOTES: FAVORITE WEB SITES

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 16, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Cover story;

BYLINE: CAROLE TARRANT, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words


This swimsuit season leaves more to the imagination, with coordinated coverups
and one-piece  suits exposing less skin. Look for these conservative bathing
beauties in vivid colors and retro  styles.

The itsy-bitsy string bikini may work well for the under-21 crowd, but this swim
season even the  cellulite-free may be reaching for the one-piece suit.

Maybe it's fashion's retro mood of the moment, with swirling, '60s-style Pucci
prints and  color-block patterns prominent off the beach and on.

Or maybe it's just the none-too-surprising realization that most women look and
feel better with  less skin showing.

In fact, a recent survey commissioned by T.J. Maxx found that 72 percent of
women ages 25 to 45  prefer the one-piece over a bikini.

Even Diane Smith, who rounds up the teenie-weeniest of bikinis annually for
Sports Illustrated's  swimsuit edition, has noted the change.

"One-pieces are becoming much more fashionable and much less utilitarian," says
Smith, who sizes  up about 5,500 suits every year before selecting the skimpy
few that make the magazine.

"You are seeing more representations of one-pieces than you have before, in
different,  interesting kinds of cuts," she says.

Suits with halter tops recall Esther Williams' tank-diving days, while those
with plunging  fronts expose plenty up top but provide coverage where most women
need it: below the waist.

Some swimwear manufacturers are playing around with the traditional design,
strategically  cutting out panels and adding insets of lace that give the
illusion of the suit almost being two  pieces.

The tankini that appeared a few seasons back bridged the skin gap between the
bikini and  one-piece tank

suit. It provided coverage but allowed a glimpse of taut tummy to peak through.
While the style  remains popular, Smith says, less-sporty options abound this
season.

"I'm seeing more womanly, more sophisticated, more grown-up kinds of suits," she
says, adding,  "maybe grown-up also meaning easy to wear."

One of the most flattering new styles also has a retro feel - the Grecian drape.

The fabric is gathered at the hip or near the bust line, in a Betty Grable style
that Smith says  conveys an "allusion to a goddess."

"I think it's going to be a trend because it's also kind to different figure
types," she says. "The  draping certainly covers flaws, and most women look
really beautiful in that kind of suit."

Whether in one-piece, two-piece or tankini, look for these swimwear trends this
season:

Color - The brighter the better is the rule, with pink, purple, aqua and
tangerine the hottest  combinations.

Psychedelic prints inspired by the late Italian designer Emilio Pucci have been
a big hit in  street clothing, with their popularity moving over to swimwear.
Mod geometric shapes also are  represented in vivid prints that provide a
high-tech feel to conservative swimsuits.

"Four or five years ago, everybody was buying black suits," Smith says. "You
just don't see that  much anymore. People are having a bit more fun with it and
trying new things."

Coordinated coverups - This season there are more fashionable options than the
pareo wrap skirt  or oversized gauze blouse. Designers are offering tailored
shirts and "swim skirts" in coordinating  fabrics for a more finished,
body-fitting style that works well away from water.

Mark Sidle of the Miami-based Swim 'n Sport retail chain says he buys the
matching pieces  whenever they're available from swimwear manufacturers. The
ensembles are especially important in  Florida, he says, where year-round warmth
means women will own more suits than average and wear  them daylong around the
backyard pool.

"Dupont says a woman buys one bathing suit every three years, nationally.
Obviously that's not  the case in Florida," Sidle says. "People have wardrobes
of swimsuits in warm climates."

Ornamentation - Beading is another trend that has moved off the runway and onto
swimwear. It  might appear as red fringe on a bikini top or as wooden beads at
the end of knotted tassels. Tiny  flower accents on shoulder straps and
faux-gold chains also dress up otherwise plain suits.

Mix-and-match separates - If you're determined to go the two-piece route, you'll
be happy to hear  that swimwear manufacturers are offering more tops and bottoms
sold separately. This trend allows a  woman with a size 8 top to hunt down the
size 10 bottom she needs.

"It's giving you a lot of flexibility," Sidle says. "There are only one or two
perfect bodies out  there."  Carole Tarrant can be reached at (813) 259-7324 or
ctarrant@tampatrib.com  (Swimsuits and coverups from Swim 'n Sport at the Shops
at Channelside; shirt from Victoria's Secret)  Photos shot on location at the
Florida Aquarium

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (7C),
 (C) The sailor-inspired suti ($ 86) and matching swim skirt ($ 68) from Ralph
Lauren offer plenty of coverage for a day of boating; both are from Swim'n
Sport.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 18, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

There's plenty to do over spring break;

BYLINE: ANDREW BELL, Tribune correspondent;

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words


BRANDON - For those students staying in the area for spring break, many camps
and clinics will be  available.

Spring break and Florida have a rich tradition together, as many locals and
tourists hit the  beach and take some time off. However, those committed to
athletics know that the best athletes are  made in the off-season and Florida's
climate offers great opportunities for students on break this  upcoming week.

Camps will be held in Brandon, as well as Tampa. Participants will have the
opportunity to  improve on athletic skills or enjoy various activities as
provided at local YMCA's.

Brandon High boys basketball coach Mark Hermann attributes the recent success of
the program to  constantly assessing talent in the community and teaching
youngsters basic fundamentals they can  build from, as he does in his spring
camp sponsored by the Hillsborough County Parks and Recreation  Department.

"Camps are a great way to see what you'll have in a few years," Hermann said.
"To be successful you  have to introduce kids to the program and teach them at
an early age. The camp teaches them how to  develop their own work ethic and
regimen."

Hermann sees spring break as a crucial period for those about to participate in
middle school  programs when they return. By running the spring camp, Hermann
can teach double the 25 campers he  sees at the Future Stars camp over the
summer, while using the same drills, ball handling  techniques and fundamentals.

"The spring camp has really grown since we started it and has helped some of our
current JV and  varsity players," Hermann said. "You can tell who has a future
in basketball, because they're the  ones who work at it."

Four days may not appear to be sufficient for player development. But Jack
Miltner says that's  plenty of time at his Jack Miltner's School of Baseball and
Softball camp. He has seen players not  able to throw or hold a glove properly
leave much improved by the end of the camp.

Since he began the spring program 12 years ago, Miltner has added two baseball
fields with  dugouts, a batting cage and has made seven instructional videos
that are part of his program. Only  three weeks into the Little League season,
players can improve their skills for the remainder of  the season.

"You'd be surprised what you can do with the players in one week," Miltner said.
"You can show them  organization, discipline and the proper fundamentals of
baseball. You'll see changes over the  course of four days. Any player can
improve."

As part of their after-school programs, local YMCAs also will have spring
sessions this week,  with each one conducting different activities.

The Brandon YMCA, which has done a spring session for more than 10 years, is
holding a spring  camp from 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. for ages 5-12, who are divided
into two groups, 5-8 and 9-12.

The younger group will play various sports such as soccer, kickball, baseball,
football,  basketball and swimming. There also will be activities in the
computer lab and indoor games. The  older group will take field trips and is
more sports-oriented. The cost is $ 90 for facility members  and $ 110 for
program members. Annual membership can be obtained for $ 30.

"The expectations for the spring are different than the summer," Brandon YMCA
branch manager  Darlena Nelms said. "Most families will take time off and see
relatives and the time period is much  shorter, too. The summer includes 10
weeks. But, we expect a good turnout."

The YMCA Camp Christina will hold a spring camp from 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. for
ages 6-12.  Completion of kindergarten is required. Trips will be taken to Fort
DeSoto, Medard Park and Simmons  Park for outside sports and games, such as
football, rock climbing, kickball and soccer. The cost  is $ 85 for members and
$ 115 for nonmembers.

"The number of participants has really grown in the three years we've run this
program," Camp  Christina program coordinator Jenny Stevenson said. "It started
out with a couple of kids and last  year we had about 85 children."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPORTS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      April 9, 2001, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Zephyrhills tackling downtown doldrums;

BYLINE: JOHN WING, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 702 words


ZEPHYRHILLS - The city is asked to help in a public/private partnership to
revive the downtown  business district.

Dade City did it with antiques.

Dunedin spruced up its buildings and played up its waterfront location to revive
its shopping  district.

Zephyrhills' leaders think it's time to catch up.

At tonight's city council meeting, City Manager Steve Spina will ask for $
10,000 to kick-start  economic revitalization downtown, starting with a market
study and land-use analysis.

The studies are part of a grant application submitted by the University of South
Florida's  Center for Economic Research and the Florida Center for Community
Design and Research.

The idea is to analyze the city's demographics, from income and population
information to  architectural and land-use histories, to point business leaders
toward an appropriate marketing  theme for its downtown, said Gina Space, a USF
economist.

"There are numerous success stories all over Florida where small communities are
able to preserve  the character of their downtowns and still prosper
economically," Space said.

"Through this information, we're expecting the city can find itself a marketing
niche."

FOR BETTY KENNEDY, executive director of Zephyrhills Main Street Inc., the study
can't happen  fast enough.

In March, the downtown's oldest family-owned retail business, Neukom's For Your
Health, closed.

In the coming months, Kennedy expects to see a few more vacant storefronts,
despite newly  refurbished downtown sidewalks and medians.

The one positive coming from the dire retail climate is the attention business
and civic leaders  are paying to the problem, she said.

"This has been a long time coming, but we're talking and that's turning into
action like this  study," Kennedy said. "This is really an opportunity for us to
shape the future of downtown."

So far, Main Street and the city's chamber of commerce have committed $ 2,500
each to the study.  Zephyrhills Spring Water Co. kicked in another $ 5,000.

Along with the $ 10,000 sought from the city, the USF groups want $ 20,000 more
from the  university's community initiative program, which seeks to get
university departments out into the  region to help tackle problems.

The goal is to bolster the city's historic retail core by promoting events like
street fairs,  fostering new investment by making appropriate regulatory changes
and seeking the right mix of  businesses to make the entire district thrive,
Space said.

To accomplish that aim, a public/private partnership is necessary, Kennedy said.

And so far, she said the city has done its part.

Last year, Zephyrhills completed a $ 900,000 streetscaping project to polish its
historic Fifth  Avenue. Now, the business community is asking for the city's
help to make the project worth the  effort, said chamber director Cliff
McDuffie.

"Only good things can come out of it," he said. "I've been saying for a while
that we need a  theme-type restaurant or two to draw folks in, and then they can
mingle about and see what a gem we  have here."

But McDuffie warned that business leaders can't expect others to do the work for
them.

For years, when winter residents headed north, downtown businesses took a nap,
he said.

There was a tradition of businesses closing early on Wednesdays during the
summer.

That type of complacency has to end, McDuffie said.

"We've got about 50,000 people in a two-ZIP code area right around us, but we
don't go after them  very well," he said. "We've got to realize there is a large
untapped market sitting right next to us  that doesn't have to go to Tampa to
spend money if we give them a reason to stay here."

If the research centers get the grant, the study will begin in July and take
about a year to  complete, Space said.

The groups will keep the community informed with reports detailing the study's
progress, and  meetings will involve the community as well, Space said.

"We need residents to contribute and tell us what businesses they want as we
uncover what  businesses will work," Space said.

"It's their city."  John Wing can be reached at (813) 779-4613 or
jwing@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 BOB WESTENHOUSER, Tribune photo (C) Zephyrhills City Manager Steve Spina and
Betty Kennedy, executive director of Zephyrhills Main Street Inc., look over
paperwork for putting a partnership together for a comprehensive business study.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 19, 2001, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Greenspan acts to avoid a recession;

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words


TAMPA - To boost consumer confidence, the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates.

Wednesday's surprise interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve gave Wall Street
an excuse to  celebrate. But it's only a partial victory.

The real battle to energize the economy and avoid a recession still rages in
corporate budget  rooms and in businesses along America's Main Streets.

The Federal Reserve decided Wednesday during an emergency conference call to cut
interest rates  for the fourth time this year, this time to 4.5 percent.

No one expected the Fed to move on rates again before its next regular meeting,
on May 15, so  Wall Street danced with delight at the good news.

The Dow Jones industrials soared 399.10, or 3.9 percent, to 10,615.83, its
third-largest daily  point gain ever. The blue chips were up as much as 470
points before settling back before the  close.

And the Nasdaq rose 156.22, or 8.1 percent, to 2,079.44, reaching the 2,000
level for the first  time since March 15 and posting its fourth-best daily
percentage gain.

The cut marked the most aggressive string of rate cuts - four half-point
reductions in a year - by  Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan in his nearly
14 years at the helm. And it shows he'll do  what he must to avoid a recession.

Analysts said the Fed clearly had investors in mind Wednesday and hoped to
bolster consumer  confidence, which has been sagging as Americans watched
trillions of dollars of paper wealth  evaporate during the past year.

The biggest threat of a recession would come from a sudden plunge in consumer
and business  confidence, Greenspan has warned, which could be triggered by a
steep stock market sell-off.

But the half-point cut was meant primarily to jolt spending at the small
businesses and larger  corporations more than to invigorate stock prices,
economists said. Indeed, executives at area  businesses welcomed the help.

"I think this was a very good psychological boost," said William Sanders, senior
vice president of  Kforce.com Inc., a publicly held staffing company.

His assessment: "It came at a time when everybody needed it. Maybe this means
that business  executives will feel more comfortable now that there won't (be)
... a recession, and hire our  people."

Like other staffing companies, Kforce.com saw demand for temporary help at
corporations fall  when the economy started to soften six to 12 months ago,
Sanders said. So Kforce had to let more  than 200 people go, and stalled plans
to open more offices across the country, Sanders said.

This rate cut may change the climate, Sanders said. The earlier rate cuts helped
somewhat,  Sanders said, but this one packs more impact with its surprise: "This
was the right one at the right  time."

The cumulative effect of this cut, combined with the previous cuts, should
create more business  optimism and spending, said St. Petersburg Internet
advertising executive Eric Obeck, chief  operating officer of the year-old
DirectNet Advertising.net Inc.

"Over time, more and more people open up their budgets," said Obeck, whose
company employs 34  people.

A rate cut helps businesses in several ways. It allows businesses to take out
new loans at lower  interest rates. But less expensive financing alone won't
make businesses borrow money for new  equipment, a plant expansion, additional
offices or staff.

Executives have to be reasonably sure there will be sales to cover the costs of
the debt and  generate a profit before they'll risk a new wave of expansion.

Prudent executives haven't had that assurance.

They've seen their profits shrinking, and in turn have cut travel, new projects
and employee  ranks, said Mark Vitner, chief economist in Charlotte, N.C., with
First Union Corp. bank.

"Even if corporations don't borrow any new money, their borrowing costs will go
down," Vitner  said. That's because many have floating interest rates, or
interest rates tied to the prime rate,  for existing business debt. If their
businesses interest expenses decrease, businesses that have  borrowed a lot of
money will be better able to make their payments, and will have some money freed

 up for other things.

Many say the Fed will cut rates again, at its meetings in May and again in June,
by at least a  quarter-point each time - in case the economy needs another
boost.

Rate cuts generally take six months or more to be felt throughout the economy.
Only the stock  market reacts instantly.

Even so, the Fed didn't cut rates just to make the stock market move up, said
Scott Brown, chief  economist in St. Petersburg for Raymond James Financial Inc.

In fact, the Fed doesn't like to do things that might artificially boost stock
prices, although  consumers help the economy by spending more when their stock
portfolios are plump.

But the market jumped anyway, because investors didn't expect a rate cut until
May, observers  said.

The big question about the stock market now is whether Wednesday's recovery will
be sustained -  whether the recent downturn in stock prices is over.

That the rally lasted all day, instead of dissolving in the afternoon, is a good
sign, Brown  said.

Some investors sell stocks Thursday and take profits from their gains Wednesday,
said Cheri  Etling, who teaches finance at the University of Tampa.

She agrees the Fed will cut rates again to keep nursing along an economic
recovery this year.

"They don't want the economy to go into a recession," Etling said. "They don't
mind a slowdown, but  they don't want a recession."    (CHART) (C) When the Fed
speaks, the market listens (sometimes)  When the Federal Reserve made a surprise
interest rate cut, the Dow-Jones Industrial Average jumped  sharply in early
January and mid-April. But when the Fed cut rates at its regularly scheduled
meetings, the market's reaction wasn't as extreme.  (See microfilm for details)

 Source: Bloomberg News Service  JENNIFER F.A. BORRESEN/Tribune graphic  E*Trade
or Ameritrade? There are many ways to invest in the stock market online. TBO.com
takes a look at several companies offering that service and charts the
commissions they charge. Also read  about Charles H. Dow and the industrial
stock average he created in 1896.  Jo-Ann Johnston can be reached at (813)
259-7804.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART (C),
 AP photo (C) A trader telegraphs a deal in the Standard & Poor's 500 pit at the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange on Wednesday - just as a surprise rate cut by the
Fed unleashed a healthy surge in the market.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 29, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Drought challenges Tampa Bay communities to conserve;

BYLINE: JERRY MAXWELL;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 941 words


As a region, we might have taken water for granted in the past. But after two
long years of  severe drought and increasing restrictions on nonessential water
use, no one can say our region  takes water for granted any longer. What's
important now is that we never take it for granted again  - even if we return to
normal rainfall.

Gov. Jeb Bush has made combating drought a priority and asked the state's
leaders and residents  to do the same. Our region has led the way.

Droughts are a normal part of Florida's climate. Unfortunately, the current,
unprecedented  drought may be a part of a warming cycle that has only just
begun. The U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency warns that in areas where
evaporation increases more than precipitation, soil  will become drier, lake
levels will drop and rivers will carry less water. We must do even more to
protect ourselves from the adverse impacts of drought if these warnings become
reality.

Our first phase of the new master water plan projects will be producing water by
2003 - but they  were developed to allow environmental recovery and serve the
region's growing population. While  these new projects do include drought-proof
and drought-resistant sources, an important way to  prevent the effects of a
serious drought in the future is to increase the efficiency of the water  we
already have.

Tampa Bay Water's member governments have implemented highly successful
conservation programs,  with some even becoming national models. The city of
Tampa's educational curriculum taught  conservation to more than 121,000 K-12
students in the 1999-2000 school year. Hillsborough County  has the best low-
flow toilet rebate program in the state. The city of St. Petersburg is a
national leader in the use  of reclaimed water, and Pinellas County has a unique
rebate program that allows residents to drill  their own shallow irrigation
wells, thereby removing themselves from the potable regional system  and making
them exempt from water restrictions.

Many of our members have added or expanded water use restrictions and, as many
constituents have  asked, beefed up enforcement. Tampa Bay Water has increased
our public awareness and education  efforts on water conservation sixfold, using
cable, radio and local television to present  water-saving tips.

Even so, more can be done.

Open up landscaping options. Deed restrictions in many new communities mandate
certain  percentages of water-hungry green plants and grasses. Unfortunately,
this can preclude the use of  other beautiful and more Florida-friendly ground
covers. We're working with developers to help  modify standards so that
attractive, drought-tolerant and Florida-friendly ground cover  alternatives
will be acceptable and marketable.

In fact, Tampa Bay Water is funding a University of Florida research program to
develop pleasing  ground covers that can be grown on slabs and harvested like
turf grass, such as drought-tolerant  jasmine, so that a new home can have a
green yard immediately. We hope these efforts serve as a  catalyst for changes
in the way home builders develop landscapes.

Understand and use xeriscape. Many people believe that xeriscape means
"zero-scape," or no lawn at  all, but actually one of its components simply
means using thirsty turf grass in a more functional  manner. For example, turf
is appropriate in areas where children play, but it need not be the major
feature in the yard. A properly designed and maintained xeriscape can not only
be beautiful and  efficient, but help increase the value of your property. Local
cooperative extension offices offer  xeriscaping and Florida-friendly
landscaping programs to all residents through the Florida Yards  and
Neighborhoods Program.

Increase irrigation efficiency. Currently, no efficiency requirements exist for
sprinkler  systems, yet most new homes feature built-in irrigation systems.
Tampa Bay Water has been working  with a committee of irrigation professionals,
local governments and other affected industries to  develop irrigation system
design standards so new systems will be water-efficient.

Since turf grass and bushes require differing watering frequencies and
quantities, it is  important for homeowners to understand the efficiency of
their own system. Residents who live in  Hillsborough County or the city of
Tampa have access to free irrigation evaluations through their  municipalities.
Or residents can contact their irrigation contractor for information on a
system's  efficiency.

Plan ahead. Despite the recurrence of drought, the Tampa Bay area lacks a
regional response  mechanism to handle dry conditions. Tampa Bay Water is
working with our members to develop a  proactive, standardized response to
future drought. Called the Drought Mitigation Planning Program,  it will help us
analyze weather conditions, water use and other triggers. The result will be a
coordinated, programmed response program that can be implemented rapidly in the
future, before a  drought reaches crisis proportions.

Our region's municipalities continue to be on the forefront of developing
programs to reduce the  impact of such water crises on our residents. They have
much to be proud of.

We thank all the residents of Tampa Bay for their creativity and diligence in
conserving water,  especially during this drought. Our hope is that these
activities become good habits that we can  all learn from and use in the future.

 Jerry Maxwell is general manager of Tampa Bay Water. For more information on
water conservation, visit www.tampabaywater.org.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Call 800-423-1476, ext. 4757, to get conservation tips from the Southwest
Florida Water Management district.

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 2, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Tax cut helps economy gain altitude;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 611 words


As Congress moves toward a compromise on cutting taxes, lawmakers need to change
the way they  picture the economy.

Many of them seem to see it as a person climbing without a safety rope: The
higher he goes, the  harder the fall when he slips, which always happens sooner
or later. Viewed like that, the only  safe growth is slow growth of 2 to 3
percent, because a fall from 3 feet hurts less than a plunge  from 6.

With that image in their minds, they call a tax cut risky.

BUT THE ECONOMY isn't climbing; it's flying through uncertain skies. When it
hits turbulence, a  higher altitude brings a margin of safety. Last year growth
averaged 5.2 percent but dipped to 1  percent in the fourth quarter as
economists began warning of recession. The first quarter of this  year, growth
was up to 2 percent and, let's hope, it is still rebuilding strength.

"One of the central questions about how government should address the ups and
downs of the  business cycle," The New York Times said in a recent analysis, is
"whether tax policy is always going  to be so slow-moving that it can never be
an effective anti-recession tool."

That's the wrong question. Obviously Congress cannot lower taxes every few
months to boost a  slipping economy back up the cliff, nor can it instantly
raise tax rates if the economy seems to be  venturing too high. Not even the
Federal Reserve - staffed by financial experts who are shielded  from politics
and empowered to take immediate action on interest levels - knows how to find
the  perfect rate.

What Congress ought to do is set a tax rate that gives the economy ample
recovery room. A  slowdown of 4 percentage points from a growth rate of 3
percent can mean negative growth,  widespread layoffs and recession. The same
drop from a growth rate of 5 percent allows recovery to  begin at a less painful
1 percent growth.

As was demonstrated last autumn, a downturn can happen quickly, even before
politicians realize  it. Their goal should be to keep the low phase of the
business cycle in positive territory.

From that perspective, let's look at where Congress is heading.

President Bush has been criticized by Democrats and some Republicans for wanting
to limit the  growth of government's discretionary spending to about 4 percent a
year. The Senate asked for 8  percent growth, but a compromise seems likely at
around 5.5 percent growth in federal spending.

Remember that the latest measure of the economy clocks it at an annual growth
rate of only 2  percent. Personal consumption was about $ 6.8 trillion last
year. The latest estimate by the  Department of Commerce has it growing to about
$ 7 trillion next year, or something less than 4  percent. Experts seem pleased
even though some of the spending is done on credit.

Bush has proposed a $ 1.6 trillion tax cut over 10 years, which by his estimate
amounts to just  over one-quarter of the budget surplus. Congress is likely to
reduce the total amount of the cut,  but assuming it is $ 1.4 trillion, that
averages to $ 140 billion a year, or about 2 percent of what  Americans are now
spending in a year.

A CUT OF THAT SIZE would still leave government spending growing faster than
consumer spending,  but the gap would be narrowed. The tax reduction would also
give the economy a noninflationary  boost and create more business activity to
be taxed.

The government wouldn't be creating more money; rather, it would be letting
productive workers  and investors keep more of their gains. And more important,
it would help the economy fly higher  and at a safer distance from the hard
ground of zero growth.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 23, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Tires rolling into court, Butterworth predicts;

BYLINE: JOE FOLLICK, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 370 words


TALLAHASSEE - Ford Motor Company's latest recall of Firestone tires is not
likely to put the  brakes on states preparing to file lawsuits, Florida Attorney
General Bob Butterworth said Tuesday.

"Unless there is some kind of settlement, I believe this case is going to end up
in the courts,"  Butterworth said.

Butterworth and attorneys general from the other 49 states have been
investigating documents  they subpoenaed from the companies last summer when
Ford first recalled some Firestone tires used  on its popular sport utility
vehicles.

The states argue Ford and Firestone knew the tires and top-heavy SUVs made for a
dangerous  combination. The companies failed to act quickly to address the
problem even as deaths blamed on  blowouts mounted, Butterworth said.

The hot climate in Florida tends to increase the stress on the tires, and at the
time of the  first tire recall more Firestone-related fatalities had been
reported here than in other states,  according to the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration.

Butterworth said there is no timetable for filing a lawsuit, nor did he say what
the state would  be asking for in a civil action.

"I don't think we're really in a race to the courthouse," he said. "The case is
very solid. ... Our  main goal is simply to get these bad tires off the roads."

Butterworth blasted Firestone for failing to prevent another summer of blowouts
and rollovers.  He credits pressure from the states with forcing the companies'
hand.

"Firestone still hasn't learned how to do good PR," he said. "I really think
they fell on their  face with these warm, fuzzy (television) ads. Instead of
trying to change their image, they should  have been changing their tires."

The ads, which feature Firestone's president assuring folks of the company's
commitment to  quality, began airing this week as word leaked of Ford's
dissolution of the Firestone partnership.

Butterworth said Floridians should get rid of the recall tires as soon as
possible.

"Don't risk your family on those tires," he said. "The last thing we want is
another person injured  or killed."  Joe Follick can be reached at (850)
222-8382 or jfollick@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 2, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Biz Briefs;

BYLINE: A Tribune staff, wire report;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

 TAMPA BAY AREA  Port gets seawall grant

The U.S. Department of Commerce announced Friday it will contribute $ 1 million
toward seawall  improvements at the Port of Tampa. The project is needed to
boost capacity at the port, department  officials said.  Danka extends offer

Danka Business Systems extended its exchange offer to holders of all $ 200
million of its 6.75  percent notes due April 1, 2002. The new deadline is June
8. Danka received tenders on 78 percent,  or $ 156.4 million, of the notes as of
a previously extended deadline Thursday. The exchange for a  combination of cash
and longer-term notes is one part of a financial restructuring plan to restore
profitability to the London- and St. Petersburg-based copier services
distributor.  FLORIDA  HCA settles charges

Four hospitals run by HCA, the Nashville, Tenn.-based hospital chain, agreed to
pay $ 1.9 million  to settle allegations they improperly billed Medicare for
operations using experimental cardiac  devices, the U.S. Department of Justice
said. The hospitals used devices that hadn't been approved  by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration when the procedures were done between 1987 and 1994, the
department said. Two of the hospitals are in Florida: Miami Heart Institute in
Miami and West  Florida Regional Medical Center in Pensacola.  Disney adds
cruise route

Disney Cruise Line plans to add a western Caribbean route. Starting next year,
the Disney Magic  cruise ship will alternate each week between a western and
eastern Caribbean itinerary. The western  route will have ports of call in Key
West, Grand Cayman, Cozumel and Disney's own Castaway Cay. The  ports of call on
the eastern route will continue to be St. Maarten, St. Thomas and Castaway Cay.

 NATION  Cummins cuts back

Engine maker Cummins Inc., based in Columbus, Ind., said Friday it is laying off
500 workers and  stopping development of a new engine. The company is tightening
its belt because fewer heavy-duty  trucks, the vehicles that use Cummins'
high-power diesel engines, are rolling out of factories  these days.  Alcatel
ousts 900

Paris-based Alcatel SA, a company that provides telecommunications equipment,
said it will cut  900 jobs and consolidate some operations in North America.
Company officials cited the tough  business climate in the United States.  AT&T
rates rising

People who subscribe to AT&T's basic long-distance plan will see higher bills
starting July 1.  The telecommunications giant said it will begin charging 25
cents a minute for weeknight calls, up  from 22.5 cents. Weekday calls will cost
30 cents a minute, up from 28.5 cents, and weekend calls  will go to 16 cents
from 14.5 cents a minute. The change affects only basic-rate customers, who
don't pay a minimum fee for calling plans.  DuPont may cut deeper

Chemical giant DuPont said it's likely to lay off more than the 5,300 people it
announced in  April. The company is facing a tough quarter because of softening
demand for carpet and paint  products, company officials said.  STOCK QUOTES AND
UPDATES

Get updated quotes, and track your portfolio and the market around the clock at
TBO.com for more  information.CHANNEL 8 BUSINESS NEWS

Watch "News Channel 8 Today" at 6 a.m. Monday through Friday for The Tampa
Tribune MoneySense  report.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BIZ BRIEFS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 21, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Downtown desires unity

BYLINE: JOHN WING, jwing@tampatrib.com; Reporter John Wing can be reached at
(813) 779-4613.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: STUDY TO DETERMINE BUSINESS STRATEGY


ZEPHYRHILLS - Some modern malls try to create the "small-town feel" of a
downtown district by building mock, retro-style facades on storefronts.

Zephyrhills already has the real thing.

What's missing, some downtown merchants say, is a coordinated plan to make their
old retail core thrive.

On Thursday, some of those business owners, along with city government leaders,
kicked off an initiative they hope will revive the economic climate of a
beleaguered Fifth Avenue.

Economists from a University of South Florida applied research group presented
the first draft of its plan to study the city's downtown during a meeting at the
Zephyrhills Chamber of Commerce.

The atmosphere at recent downtown meetings has been tense, but Thursday's
meeting had less rancor and dissension.

Uproar over the direction of the district caused Main Street Zephyrhills
director Betty Kennedy to resign last month.

The group, which started in the mid-1990s with the mission of revitalizing the
city's historic downtown core, is still without a director or an office.

Meanwhile, down the road from the Chamber of Commerce offices on Fifth Avenue,
three storefronts stood vacant on Thursday.

Foot traffic was light.

Some business owners say they are making it, while others say they are barely
getting by.

"We've been hanging on," Debbie Spanger, owner of Spanger's Interior Designs,
told the economists.

"Most of my customers come from Wesley Chapel and if I moved I could probably
triple my business. But I've chosen to stay in Zephyrhills because of my love
for this place. But it's getting tempting [to leave], especially if we're going
to have to wait three more years for something to happen."

So far, Main Street and the city's chamber of commerce have committed $2,500
each to the study. Zephyrhills Spring Water Co. kicked in another $5,000 and the
city put in $10,000.

The rest of the project is funded by a grant from the university's community
initiative program, which seeks to get university departments out into the
region to tackle community problems.

For its money, the city can expect a comprehensive study, which will eventually
point to an appropriate marketing and economic strategy for the district, said
Gina Space, the project's coordinator.

By analyzing the demographics in and around the city, from income information to
spending patterns, and then coupling that data with an architectural and
land-use study, the city's key players can coordinate a unified strategy, Space
said.

But she cautioned, attracting streets full of shoppers takes time.

"We do know there is a sense of urgency here," Space said. "But it will be
better to map out a plan and have this information so you can take it to
investors and say, "Look, there's a market here."

The challenges are many, most at the meeting agreed.

There is competition from the large retail giants like Wal-Mart, which is
opening a Supercenter on U.S. 301 by early next year.

There is a lack of a restaurant downtown to attract families and shoppers.

And there has been an ambivalence from some downtown building owners to
coordinating with merchants.

"There's the sense that some of the building owners don't care what businesses
go in here, as long as the spaces are filled," said Jim Tenney, owner of
Tenney's Custom Saddlery.

"There's no static between the merchants and building owners, it's not like
that. But without the building owners cooperating, all of this is just blah,
blah, blah, blah."

Space said she thinks perceptions can change as the plan moves forward.

She pointed to the rapid development going on in and around the city.

Newcomers will need places to shop, she said.

But just like Hyde Park attracts shoppers from all over the Tampa Bay area,
creating an image is necessary.

City Manager Steve Spina said the city has enough charm. Getting the word out
about the district, once it has enough businesses to attract people, is the key.

"These couple of blocks distinguish us, this is the heart of our community,"
Spina said.

"When you have a homecoming parade before the Friday night football game winding
through the streets, I can guarantee they don't do that in New Tampa."

The USF team mapped out a schedule for their work, expected for completion in
March.

Along the way, community meetings will take place to infuse feedback into the
plan's final draft.

That communication is key to the district's potential success, said City
Councilwoman Elizabeth Geiger.

"We have to provide the opportunity for everyone to tell us what they would want
down here," Geiger said. "That's an important step and it will have to be done
early on and often for people to get behind this."

Space said the team would set up a strategy for collecting community input
within a few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (2C)
Tribune photos by BOB WESTENHOUSER

(C) Main Street in Zephyrhills is reflected in one of several empty storefronts.
A study has been funded to address marketing and economic strategy for the
downtown area.
(C) Gina Space, Main Street Zephyrhills project coordinator, points out areas of
special interests. Trent Green, architectural coordinator, helps Space with the
map.
Tribune photo by BOB WESTENHOUSER

Trent Green, architectural coordinator for the downtown project, listens
intently to business owners.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 26, 2001, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

President Right To Be Wary Of Global Warming Treaty

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 569 words


The U.S. delegate at the global warming talks in Bonn, Germany, was roundly
booed when she tried to explain her country's position on the environmental
issue.

And it is easy to make the world's greatest industrial power appear a villain in
the dispute.

The United States produces as much as 25 percent of the emissions blamed for
global warming. Yet it was the only major country that refused to sign an
agreement worked out by 178 nations that calls for the reduction of greenhouse
gases, primarily carbon dioxide emissions from power plants, factories and
automobiles.

It appears that the United States is washing its hands of all responsibility for
a serious pollution problem.

But appearances are misleading.

The popular media depict global warming as a fact. But many scientists doubt
that industrial emissions have a major impact on the weather, which has
undergone many warming/cooling cycles through the eons. Water vapor drives
weather patterns, and civilization's carbon dioxide emissions are tiny compared
with the world's oceans.

This does not mean we should ignore the possibility that greenhouse gases are
harmful. Some of the conflicting data appear to support the greenhouse theory.
Coastal states such as Florida would be devastated should the Chicken Littles
prove correct and should warming cause a significant rise in ocean levels. But
the president advocates a sensible reaction. He wants a task force to study the
facts and come up with effective steps to remedy the problem - if there is one.

Beyond the uncertain science, Bush has an even better reason to be wary of the
treaty. It is designed specifically to handicap the United States. It requires
nations to achieve by 2012 a combined reduction of annual gas emissions of 5.2
percent from levels measured in 1990.

The selection of that year is significant. Germany then was assimilating the
industrial wreck of East Germany, so its pollution rate was sky-high. Great
Britain and many other European countries also experienced high pollution rates.
They won't be exercised much to reach their target reductions.

In contrast, emissions in the United States in 1990 were relatively low; it was
a recession year. So reaching the treaty's goals would be much more difficult
for the United States and could throw its economy into a tailspin. Economists
have estimated the treaty could cost the nation more than $400 billion a year in
gross domestic product.

Technological innovations often make regulations less expensive than the
naysayers predict, but why gamble the nation's economic health for a regulatory
scheme that is certainly unfair and may be unnecessary?

Dubious Motives

The agreement reached in Bonn is a revision of the preliminary Kyoto Protocol
that nations worked out in Japan in 1997. The treaty does improve on Kyoto,
providing countries more flexibility in reaching emission goals. They now will
get credit for preserving forests that absorb carbon dioxide. Countries also can
receive credit for helping undeveloped nations adopt cleaner energy sources.

Perhaps there is something to be said for the nations of the world banding
together to address an environmental problem. But motives were not exactly pure
here. And there is nothing to be said for allowing the international community
to decide - with questionable facts and strategies - the fate of the United
States' economy.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 24, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Letters

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1098 words



Awaiting History Center

I want to thank you for your support of the Tampa Bay History Center. A pledge
was made by the Hillsborough County Commission in 1998 to give $17 million to
help build the museum. Although supporters of the center have raised the $11
million required by the county, some commissioners want to break the county's
promise.

Commissioners should make the decision to keep the pledge that was made in order
to honor and preserve the region's past and future for the people who live here
today and in the future. They should support the Tampa Bay History Center.
SARA COREY GILBERT
Tampa

Smells Way Over Here

The smell from city hall reaches all the way over here to Kennedy and Dale
Mabry. I'm sure the more the media dig, the smellier the LaBrake/McCarter
garbage is going to get.

Makes one wonder what other "deals" happen in the city's other departments.
VICKI ANDERSON
Tampa

Realign Commitment

There is nothing wrong with our mayor surrounding himself with committed people.
However, he and they should be working to save the taxpayers money, not lining
each other's pockets - or retirement funds. Wrapped in the finery of taxpayers'
dollars, we are beginning to see a loose thread.

Mayor Greco, James Palermo, Steve LaBrake, et al, continue to be swayed and
blinded by the glint of their golden robes of office. Alas, as we continue to
follow this loose thread of improper use of office, I fear we will find that the
golden robes are really a carpetbag, and Daniel Ruth will be the little boy who
cried, "Look, Mother, the emperor has no clothes!"
REX BALDWIN
Tampa

Control "Sick Building'

Regarding "Office Air Sickens Courthouse Workers" (Nation/ World, Aug. 18):

Here we go again! Now the new city buildings are contaminated with the "sick
building" syndrome! Where do they get those names and diagnoses from anyway? Are
they going to start building again or has the time come to use some common sense
and elbow grease?

Florida's climate encourages mold growth - that is just a fact of life! To keep
it to a minimum, wash the building and furnishings down with water, soap and
vinegar twice a year - and, please, no carpet.

Furthermore, use dehumidifiers wherever possible. This would be more helpful and
less costly than putting up a new building every other year.

People with allergies should try to build up their immune systems with vitamins,
exercise and adequate rest. The mode of attack has not changed much. We are
covering up the symptoms instead of getting to the source of the problem.
YVONNE JANSEN
Spring Hill

To Help Terri Schiavo

Regarding Judy Hill's column "Why Not Allow Doctors To Try?" (BayLife, Aug. 21):

Thank you for summarizing so clearly Terri Schiavo's plight, as well as speaking
out so well for her. Hill's column shows me (and your entire readership) that
The Tampa Tribune people have real hearts concerning the value, respect and
dignity of human life.

In answering the question: "What is there to lose?":

If experimental treatments are tried for Terri Schiavo, Michael Schiavo stands
to lose money. If we do nothing to try to help Terri Schiavo live, we stand to
lose our humanity!
DALE KIMBALL
Tampa

Family Is As Entitled

I wonder just how much of a controversy there would be if Officer Lois Marrero
had been living with a male partner for the last 10 years. If Marrero had wanted
Mickie Mashburn to be her beneficiary, it seems she would have named her so. If
anyone should be entitled to Marrero's pension benefits, it should be her
immediate family.

Mashburn has a job and her own pension benefit when she retires. By law, only
surviving spouses and children are entitled to Marrero's pension. Where's the
problem?

Attorney Danny Castillo says that Mashburn is "entitled to it." Is Castillo
entitled to circumvent the law to benefit himself? It makes great rhetoric, but
that's all it is.
MARC ROSATO
Winter Haven

Teacher-Voter Turnout

I read with interest (or disgust) that only a third of Hillsborough County
teachers bothered to vote in the recent contract ratification.

When will educators figure out that the only way change will come about is when
they begin to assert themselves as professionals? One would think that after the
2000 election, the lesson taken away, especially in this state, is that every
vote counts. It's a shame that teachers spent a week complaining about the
proposed contract and did nothing about it.
DEBORAH MOLTISANTI
Land O' Lakes

Social Security Funds

Keith Edwards' letter "Useless Lip Reading" of Aug. 20, alleging that President
Bush has stated he will tap Social Security funds, is an outright fabrication.
The president has consistently affirmed through his spokesperson and his
speeches that he will not allow these funds to be touched. There was even an
article reiterating his position in your paper on the same day.

If Edwards would read these reports instead of listening to Democrat demagoguery
and propaganda, he would know that the president never made such a statement.
Please get the facts straight before taking pen in hand.
EDWARD R. WRIGHT
Brooksville

Reasons For Popularity

Not often does one learn anything of value from a liberal, but an exception
occurred in your Letters page on Aug. 19, written by David Yohn. He detailed all
the reasons why he was against President Bush. In doing so, he alerted me to the
reasons why Bush's popularity was so high and why I had such "good vibes" about
the president. One often forgets events as they pass, but by putting the record
all together, Yohn highlighted many of the president's great stands on the key
issues. It also reminded me that the president has stood firm on his convictions
and his campaign promises, unlike so many past politicians. In fact, since
President Reagan, I don't believe anyone has followed through so consistently on
his promises. This bodes well for Bush, as Reagan was recently voted the most
popular and respected president of the 20th century.

I urge the president to stay firm on the missile defense system we so
desperately need, continue with his tax cuts, have accountability in education,
make America less dependent on foreign oil, reject "ivory tower" treaties like
Kyoto that would bankrupt us, stay out of all the unnecessary foreign treaty
entanglements that do no one any good, fight the trial lawyers trying to
"lawsuit" us out of good medical care, and continue all of the other wonderful
goals summarized by Yohn.
JAMES C. BOWERS
Tampa

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 26, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Close Election Continues To Stir Up Partisan And Resentful Voters

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words


In a letter to the Tribune published Aug. 19 titled "Bushwhacked," David Yohn
listed 15 items accomplished by the Bush-Cheney administration. This averages
more than two per month.

Since I agree with all but one of them, I hope they keep up the good work.

I would remind Yohn of two things:

One, you don't need the popular vote to win. Only electoral votes count. Two, if
we are headed toward Reagan-type deficits, then he should be leaning on his
congressman and two senators to vote for cuts (not increases) in spending since
the president can't spend a dime unless Congress appropriates it.
DEE WILLIAMS
Sun City Center

This Country First

David Waite Yohn shows a tremendous amount of tunnel vision. Of the 15 or so
points he puts forward, I find that they are all for the United States first,
and that is why Bush was elected.

Of the points mentioned, every one of them is easily refuted. Just for starters,
his first point about the Kyoto Protocol is faulty because there is no total
agreement among the world scientists that this so-called warming exists and that
it is caused by humans. Eons ago our temperatures were far warmer than they are
today and man had not even appeared on the face of the Earth. And to this day,
only one country in Europe has ratified this farce.

As for the land mine issue, Yohn should go to the 38th parallel in Korea and
face 1 million armed North Koreans who would be all over our 30,000 to 50,000
men and women stationed in South Korea without the mines to protect them.

On "Star Wars," does Yohn not realize that Moscow is protected with its own
brand of antimissile defense and yet he would deny us the same?

As to the plans to drill for oil in Alaska, I hope Yohn read the letter
appearing before his that spelled out what a small amount of land is being
opened for oil exploration.

Each and every one of his other points is easily countered by logic and an open
mind. But these are not traits of liberals.

Let us put the United States first in all our actions and thoughts.
PAUL R. SIDLO
Spring Hill

Bush's Follies

"Bushwacked" is a commendable description of the present administration's
follies of the first seven months.

President Bush, with his lackluster attitude, does not seem to convey any
interest in the economy. He offers no explanation why after a record economy for
the last eight years, it is declining. We have the highest unemployment in nine
years and the worst growth rate in eight, all happening in the seven months
since he became president!

Bush and Dick Cheney used hysterical rhetoric about an energy shortage, blaming
it on the lack of refineries in this country, but they failed to mention that we
had been shipping our own refined oil to China and Japan, thus creating the
shortage and the rising price of gasoline.

Was this the plan to repay the oil companies for supporting the Bush-Cheney
campaign ticket?

Maybe, if the media would pay attention to the economy and stock market and hold
Bush accountable for his campaign promises, they might be able to persuade him
to act like a president and not a court jester. Bush is the No. 1 man we have to
depend on. All Americans hope that he is planning to do something that will
measure up to the leadership he expressed while he was campaigning.
NELSON POWELL
Tampa

Like The 1960 Yankees

In reading the letters to the editor on Aug. 19 about the 2000 election, my
immediate response - well, the most immediate response that can be printed in
the newspaper - was that this is absolutely ridiculous. One writer is still
claiming, after all this time, that it was the Supreme Court that gave the
election to George W. Bush.

Let's review the facts. Of the 50 states in the Union, Bush won 30 states. These
30 states gave him the necessary total of 271 electoral votes. By the way, Bush
won Tennessee, Al Gore's home state. In addition, Bush won Arkansas, Bill
Clinton's home state. Bush also won in several other states that normally vote
Democratic (Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri).

Then Gore decided to file a series of lawsuits to overturn this outcome. After
six weeks of legal battles, Gore once again lost and the election result
remained the same. How long is this dispute going to go on?

This situation sort of reminds me of what the New York Yankee fans have said
since the 1960 World Series. For those of you who are unfamiliar with baseball,
that was the one where Pittsburgh Pirate Bill Mazeroski hit a home run in the
bottom of the ninth of the seventh game. This allowed the Pirates to win the
series by a margin of 4-3.

I have heard Yankee fans claim that Mazeroski did not touch home plate, so his
home run should not count. I have also heard them say that the Yankees should
have won because they hit more home runs during the seven games. This is roughly
analogous to comparing the popular vote count with the electoral vote count.
GEORGE FULTON
Tampa

No Intellectual Debate

Although David Yohn was careful to point out 15 "near-criminal" acts of the new
Bush presidency, he neglected to mention that all are the subject of much
current political debate. Please note, I did not say intellectual debate.

He cites the rejection of the Kyoto Protocol with the implied and surprisingly
youthful justification that "if 178 other nations are doing it, it must be
right!" Well, I've been witness to more than a few discussions and news reports
in which the objectivity and veracity of the science attributed to global
warming was called into question.

He also seems opposed to a tax rebate in which the sole purpose is to return
money that the government overcollected. Hmmm. Scary stuff.

Two more observations on his wide-ranging points. First, our present dependence
on fossil fuel places us at the mercy of foreign nations whose vested interests
are at wide variance with our own. With increased access to and availability of
our own natural resources, it becomes far less likely that we will ever be
played as pawns on the global economic stage.

Second, there has yet to be any official or unofficial recount of the votes in
the state of Florida that would reverse the election results which, he
derisively suggests, led to the theft of the White House.

As to the rest of his points, hindsight will determine their ultimate value, or
lack thereof, to the American people and the world at large.
J. BOYDSTON
Sebring

The Blame Game

The left blames the 18-month economic slowdown on a president in office for
seven months. They blame Bush's policies for a worldwide recession. They blame
Bush for near war in the Middle East. They bash Bush on the environment.

The truth is the left just wants to stay mad until 2004 because they feel they
were robbed because Gore couldn't cheat his way into the White House.
STEPHEN BENTLEY
Lakeland

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 16, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Brandon May Get Upgraded Swim Facility

BYLINE: ANDREW BELL, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 480 words


"AQUATIC PLAYGROUND" A DREAM FOR GM

BRANDON - Within the next 5-7 years, the Brandon Swim and Tennis Club may
upgrade its 29-year-old facility.

BSTC general manager Joe Greenwell is determined to update specifically the
aquatics center, citing the pools no longer are state-of-the-art. But he is
apprehensive that the most modern renovations aren't always successful, either.

The BSTC still operates one of the two Olympic-size pools in Hillsborough
County, and Greenwell desperately wants to renovate the pool and diving well.

"I envision one of the best facilities in the world," Greenwell said. "We're
still putting together a development department aside from our community
relations. We hope to solidify plans sometime next year."

Greenwell said the first course of action would be the construction of a new
short-course indoor pool - 25 yards by 25 meters - that is both climate and
temperature controlled. In addition, he would like the pool to contain a
moveable bottom that could accommodate programs for all ages.

Among the expanded programs would be focusing on elderly people, who can benefit
from the therapeutic effects of swimming for arthritis. There is also an
interest in developing programs for the handicapped.

This pool would also alleviate traffic in the current pool and allow all
activities to continue, while the current pool is improved. Greenwell's hopes
for the current pool include adding lanes and depth to the pool, in addition to
3-foot and 71/2-foot diving platforms.

"All of this is contingent on funding, but modifying the diving well is one of
the primary goals," Greenwell said. "It's almost as good as we need it. Leaving
the original shell of the current pool should cut costs for those renovations.
If a new pool can be built within 4 to 6 years, than the one we have can be
improved by 5 to 7 years."

Greenwell's dream is to build an aquatic playground complete with slides and
tunnels. He added that both Brandon and Hillsborough County need something of
this grandeur, and both should have interest in the facility.

Some financial support could be given to BSTC should Tampa receive the bid for
the 2012 Olympic Games, as the club could be named a practice facility for
swimming, diving and gymnastics.

Peter Banks, who coaches Olympic gold medalist Brooke Bennett and the Blue Wave
swim team, said with a change in rules to occur in January - requiring 5-foot
depth for start blocks - not practicing starts could hamper the development of
new swimmers.

"Brandon was smaller 30 years ago and as the community has grown, its needs have
changed," Banks said. "We could always do things better and also more
efficiently. A lot will be determined as money becomes available, but it's a
great idea. You would see more swimmers coming out, but the facility doesn't
make the program, the staff and coaches do."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune file photo by BOB WESTENHOUSER

Brandon Swim and Tennis Club general manager Joe Greenwell wants to improve the
diving well.

NOTES: SPORTS

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 7, 2001, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Tourism In For A Bumpy Landing

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH and TED JACKOVICS, The Tampa Tribune; Reporter Brad Smith can
be reached at (813) 259-7365. Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813)
259-7817.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words


State's Economy Taxis Into Aftershocks Of Terror

TAMPA - After jets hit American icons last month, the attacks have proved even
more powerful than many could foresee.

Now, fast-growing Florida might be a bull's eye for economic problems.

Florida's healthiest cities - Tampa/St. Petersburg, Orlando, Miami - could
suffer if flying-spooked vacationers stay home, experts say.

Ominous signs abound. Hotel occupancy is down, airports are half-full at best,
and layoffs loom - from theme parks to Florida's now-infamous flight schools
where some of 19 suicidal hijackers trained.

Until Sept. 11, the effects of a national recession in manufacturing and high
technology largely were muted in Florida.

"Now, it will have a very direct effect if people aren't going to fly," said
Brian Nottage of Economy.com, a forecasting firm in West Chester, Pa.

In the coming storm, few cities and no U.S. region will escape unscathed,
Economy.com. predicts.

Conventional wisdom has maintained that Florida is one of the last states to
feel the effects of a national economic downturn, and one of the first to
rebound. This time, though, conventional wisdom may not hold true.

Although predicting a poor winter tourism and retail season, Orlando economist
Hank Fishkind offers a more optimistic view about Florida's prospects.

"Our cost structure, lifestyle at a low price, lack of income tax, climate,
excellent road and air access - none was changed by the terrorist attacks,"
Fishkind said.

Florida's economy could be saved by continuing low mortgage interest rates of
less than 7 percent and widespread availability of money.

"That's true, not only for Central Florida, but for regions that provide our
population growth. People in those areas can continue to sell their homes if
they want to make the move to Florida," he said.

Pluses And Minuses

Some of Florida's key industries - such as travel and tourism - are vulnerable,
while other sectors involving national security and homeland defense are poised
for growth, said Robert Atkinson, who heads the Progressive Policy Institute, a
Washington think tank.

The Tampa Bay area and Orlando both are vulnerable to the fallout from the Sept.
11 attacks and the economic slowdown that preceded them.

Both will suffer. But Orlando could hurt more because it is Florida's tourism
center.

The tourism industry employs more people than any other industry in Orlando,
accounting for 26 percent of the jobs there - 245,000 positions that pay an
estimated $5.2 billion in annual wages.

Before the attacks, Orlando was the nation's third-biggest destination for
overseas travelers. It boasts five of the world's top 10 theme parks: Disney's
Magic Kingdom, Epcot, MGM Studios and Animal Kingdom, plus Universal Studios.

The Tampa Bay area's work force is more diversified. Pinellas County has the
state's second-largest manufacturing base, including Raytheon, Honeywell and
Lockheed Martin plants. Those industries complement its mainstay tourism
economy, which employs 47,000 people and generates $2.7 billion annually.

Tampa boasts the University of South Florida and 6,000 jobs at MacDill Air Force
Base in addition to its service and technology sectors, which could cushion it
from worse shocks elsewhere.

But Tampa International Airport clearly remains the economic crown jewel.

Passenger counts for September aren't available yet, but estimates are that
major airlines are filling about half their seats on schedules reduced by more
than 10 percent, compared with filling up to 85 percent of their seats from
Tampa before the Sept. 11 hijackings.
"It doesn't matter if it's Tampa or Orlando, the key to economic recovery is how
quickly travel and tourism come back," said Stuart Rogel, president and chief
executive of the Tampa Bay Partnership, a regional economic planning agency.

"Once again it illustrates how dependent we are on tourism for job creation and
economic development."

Abe Pizam, tourism professor at Orlando's University of Central Florida, said
Orlando and the Tampa Bay area are in a race to see which will more effectively
cope with tourism's downturn.

"If they don't do anything or both do the same things, neither will have an
advantage. The question is, what are they going to do?" Pizam said.

The Orange County Convention and Visitors Bureau is quickly throwing together a
$6 million "recovery" marketing campaign.

The five- to seven-week print and television advertising blitz is pitched at
Southeastern markets and in-state tourists, deemed the most fertile market to
help Orlando ease through the normally slow fall season.

"We've taken our fourth quarter marketing plan and started over," visitors
bureau spokeswoman Danielle Courtenay said.

Likewise, visitors bureaus in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties have begun to
focus on potential visitors who might be interested in staying closer to home
and driving for a getaway.

Although Orlando never paired with its Tampa counterparts in marketing efforts,
"all options are open at this point," Courtenay said. Orlando has done some
joint marketing with tourism officials in Pinellas County where beaches offer a
major alternative.

Being innovative could save Orlando or the Tampa Bay area from economic
disaster.

"The one who doesn't just wait for tourists to come ... will have advantages,"
Pizam said.

Aiming locally, Disney last week began offering special annual passes to Florida
residents that add 100 days to the $289 12-month ticket.

Dozens of smaller attractions dot suburban Orlando, and some, such as
Gatorworld, say they are not hurting because they cater more to Floridians.

Tampa's Florida Aquarium, which caters largely to local clientele as it operates
in the shadows of international attraction Busch Gardens, actually drew 5
percent more visitors in September than it projected for the month.

"We are brainstorming with the visitors bureaus, trying to focus even more on
local traffic," aquarium spokeswoman Sue Ellen Richardson said.

The terrorist attacks are likely to have long-term effects on Florida's economy
beyond its tourism industry.

Economic Ripple

Enterprise Florida, the state's economic development promotional organization,
released a survey last week that predicts more than 30,000 jobs could be lost by
mid-October from Florida's aviation industry because of the attacks.

Excluding major airlines, Florida has 1,500 general aviation and maintenance
companies, including more than 200 flight schools that came under increased
scrutiny after the attacks because several hijackers received training at some
of them.

Most of those operations are in South Florida and on the East Coast, Rogel said,
so the Tampa Bay area is not likely to be affected as much as those areas and
Orlando.

But Tampa and Orlando share one grim fate post-Sept. 11: near zero job growth.

Layoffs in the Tampa Bay area this year have topped 4,500 workers. And employees
at many of Tampa's numerous call centers and back office operations lost their
jobs before the Sept. 11 attacks. The biggest blow came early in the year, when
catalog giant Fingerhut laid off 950 people.

Some of those people have found new jobs, though, as new employers including
Merck-Medco, Home Depot, CP Ships and Cheap Tickets Inc. open new facilities or
expand existing operations here.

"We are real fortunate ... with the new expansion of Merck-Medco and before that
Home Depot," said Kim Scheeler, president of the Greater Tampa Chamber of
Commerce. Those two companies plan to hire up to 2,000 people during the next
few years at their call centers.

Changing Strategy

Some smaller businesses also remain optimistic.

Zeno Office Solutions, a Tampa-based office equipment distributor, last week
added its sixth Florida outlet by purchasing a Gainesville company. Part of its
strategy is to take advantage of the current low interest rates.

"We could not have bought the company if we did not believe the Florida economy
in general will recover sooner than the rest of the nation," Zeno President Tom
Frederick said.

For example, Frederick spent last weekend at a Fort Lauderdale Marriott where
occupancy rose from 13 percent to 60 percent overnight, causing a spate of
service problems for which the hotel manager apologized.

"He explained he had to lay off a lot of staff, then he didn't have enough help
when the hotel began to fill," Frederick said. "If anything, people aren't going
to stop traveling."

Where longer-term layoffs take place, the effects could be balanced to some
extent by an easing of a labor shortage that existed before the attacks, in
Fishkind's view.

"The labor market was so tight over the last three years, employers couldn't get
the staff they wanted. So those are all helpful signs," he said.

People who make winter homes around the Tampa Bay area are still likely to come
here because their annual plans are hard to break.

But the effects of the economic downturn might not strike all at once,
University of South Florida Professor Ken Wieand Jr. said.

"After the Gulf War, Florida was hit later than the rest of the country," Wieand
said. "Layoffs had an impact on travel after a period of time, with people
cutting back on vacation plans."

No one really knows what will occur, Rick Dodge, Pinellas County economic
development director, agreed. Whatever stability the county has achieved in the
past week is dependent upon how the United States responds to the attacks and
whether there's more terrorism here, he said.

"The way we do business may dramatically change in regard to security," Dodge
said.

(CHART) GLOOMY FLORIDA OUTLOOK
Selected metro area forecasts after Sept. 11 attacks
Miami
Nonfarm employment - 2% 2001, -0.2% 2002
Income growth - 5.7% 2001, 3.4% 2002
Unemployment rate - 6.0% 2001, 7.5% 2002
Orlando
Nonfarm employment - 2.3% 2001, 0.1% 2002
Income growth - 6.0% 2001, 2.6% 2002
unemployment rate - 3.2% 2001, 3.2% 2001
Tampa
Nonfarm employment - 3.3% 2001, 0% 2002
Income growth - 6.4% 2001, 3.2% 2002
unemployment ratae - 3.3% 2001, 4.2 %2002

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (C) CHART
Tribune illustration by QVAUGHN HUGHES

(C) (Plane)

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 81 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 17, 2001, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Ceremony to honor doctor who died on world vacation;

BYLINE: RAFAEL GERENA-MORALES, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 337 words


ST. PETERSBURG - A heart attack cuts short a doctor's life during a trip around
the world.

Her shift ended at 5 p.m., but Martha Cebrian would stay periodically until
midnight at All  Children's Hospital to care for kids with vexing heart, liver
or breathing problems.

The former medical director of acute pediatric care would calm nervous children
and family  members by holding her patients' hands and smiling while explaining
the status of a malady or  treatment.

"She got along with everybody," said Jack Hutto, senior vice president of
medical affairs at All  Children's, where Cebrian worked from 1996 until last
year, when she resigned to sail around the  world with her husband.

Cebrian, 50, died of a heart attack Saturday in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A
ceremony honoring her  life is scheduled for noon today in the St. Petersburg
Little Theater.

On the morning of her death, Cebrian was scheduled to fly to Argentina,
continuing a global tour  that began on a 40-foot catamaran in October 1999 and
took her from Italy and Portugal to Singapore  and Hong Kong.

Born in Cuba in 1950, Cebrian immigrated to Miami in 1960. She later moved to
New Jersey, where  she completed undergraduate studies at Fairleigh Dickinson
University and earned a medical degree  from the Robert Wood Johnson School of
Medicine at Rutgers University.

Cebrian moved to Tampa in 1986 with her husband of 16 years, Ralph Campbell, who
owns HLA  Marketing Communications Inc., a 10-employee company in the West Shore
area. In 1996, the couple  moved to St. Petersburg, when she resigned from Cigna
HealthCare to work at All Children's.

Cebrian is survived by her husband and her mother, Angela Cabrera of Tampa.

"She was a warm, compassionate person," said Bea Dreier, executive director of
the Judeo Christian  Health Clinic in West Tampa, where Cebrian volunteered.
"She was very reliable and loyal to the  clinic."  Rafael Gerena-Morales can be
reached at (813) 259-7624 or

rgerena@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
