
                               1 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Cold spell near? Geologist digs deeper on climate change

BYLINE: FRANK WILSON; The Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 769 words



HIGHLIGHT: Smercornish column


On the climate-change front the forecast would seem to be increasing cloudiness.

At least that's the impression a rational observer would get from the latest
report from the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. True,
the report does declare that there is very high confidence that models reproduce
the general features of the global and annual mean surface temperature changes
over the historical period, including the warming in the second half of the 20th
century.

But that would appear to be the only thing the panel remains confident about.

Chapter 2 of the report expresses low confidence regarding the sign of trend in
the magnitude and/or frequency of floods on a global scale, as well as in
observed trends in small-scale severe weather phenomena such as hail and
thunderstorms. Conceding that conclusions regarding increasing global trends in
drought since the 1970s were probably overstated, the report says that in
summary, confidence in large-scale changes in the intensity of extreme
extra-tropical cyclones since 1900 is low.

That's not all. According to figures last year from Britain's Met Office, based
on data from 3,000 measuring points around the world, on land and sea, there has
been no discernible rise in global temperatures since 1992. According to the
National Snow and Ice Data Center, the Arctic ice sheet increased by 533,000
square miles over the summer, to a size roughly half that of Europe.

What to make of this? Well, we laypersons can't make much of it at all, because
we lack the knowledge to place the data in context. Luckily, for those really
interested, a solution is available. It is a book called The Whole Story of
Climate: What Science Reveals About the Nature of Endless Change (Prometheus
Books). The author, E. Kirsten Peters, is a geologist who says that what people
are likely to have gleaned from media reports on climate change is only one
isolated part of a much longer and richer climate story.

Climate science, with its computer models, is a Johnny-come-lately to the
narrative. Not so geology. For almost 200 years, Peters writes, geologists have
studied the basic evidence of how climate has changed on our planet. They work,
not with computer models, but with direct physical evidence left in the muck and
rocks.

Space constraints preclude any detailed summary of Peters' accessible but
jam-packed little book. But some take-aways can be noted.

The first thing to note is that we could be long overdue for a cold spell. In
recent geologic history, which stretches back a couple of million years -
geologists have an expansive view of time - Earth's climate has been
characterized by long periods of bitter cold punctuated by brief episodes of
warmth. The cycle, Peters notes, is always a long period of cold followed by a
much shorter period of warmth. Specifically, the cold intervals last about
100,000 years, and the warm ones about 10,000. The period we are living in,
called the Holocene, began 11,700 years ago, which makes it no different at all
from other brief, warm intervals in the Pleistocene, the previous epoch that
lasted those couple of million years.

Peters uses the analogy of a football field to help visualize all this. We in
the Holocene are positioned at the edge of one of the end zones. The cold
periods average about 5.5 yards, the warm ones about half a yard.

Another point Peters is at pains to emphasize is that climate change can be
quite abrupt. Toward the end of the Pleistocene Epoch, northern Europe
experienced a period of warming called the Allerod Oscillation that lasted about
1,000 years. The pollen record indicates that the shift to renewed bitter cold
took place very rapidly, certainly within a single human lifetime.

Most of the publicity on climate change has focused on temperature, but
precipitation patterns can be deeply worrisome, as well. The prelude to the
so-called Little Ice Age came in the form of torrential rains that swept Europe
in 1316. By the 1340s really cold temperatures had arrived, as well. And, in our
own Southwest, the entire Chacoan Pueblo civilization had disappeared long
before the end of a 50-year period of drought that began in 1134.

Peters is by no means sanguine on human-generated carbon emissions. She's quite
specific:  ... what non-geologists don't generally know is that we have a major
problem on our planet with coal fires that are unwanted and burning out of
control, and she points out that the technical knowledge is in place to put many
of them out; the main thing lacking is commitment.

Frank Wilson is a former book-review editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday

Lawmakers and climate denial

BYLINE: GREG SARGENT; The Washington Post

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 425 words



HIGHLIGHT: Climate denial.


It's long been a source of frustration for environmentalists that expressions of
rank climate denialism are nowhere near as politically toxic as crazy comments
about abortion, birth control or immigration. Climate denialism is not met with
the widespread condemnation that greets the sort of statements on immigration
and abortion you hear from the likes of Steve King or Todd Akin.

Environmentalists are engaged in a long-term campaign to change that.

Case in point: The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) is investing real money -
$2 million - in a TV ad campaign targeting a handful of Republican lawmakers for
their climate denialism.

An ad targeting Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin invokes extreme weather and the
climate-change consensus among scientists, and rips Johnson as a climate change
denier who won't act to prevent the continued spewing of carbon pollution.

The campaign is also targeting three GOP congressmen: Reps. Dan Benishek of
Michigan, Rodney Davis of Illinois and Mike Coffman of Colorado. In the last
cycle, the group spent $3 million more on ads targeting what it called the Flat
Earth Five - a group of Republican members of Congress who also deny climate
change.

What's interesting about the targeting of Johnson is that he isn't up for
re-election until 2016, which is to say this isn't about electoral politics.
Environmentalists are aware that Johnson is unlikely to pay any immediate price
for his denialism. Indeed, Johnson is brandishing LCV's attacks as a kind of tea
party badge of honor, citing them in a fundraising appeal that calls for
donations to fight back against an extreme left group on an environmental jihad.

But environmentalists see this as a long game. Right now, the prospects for
congressional action on the climate are bleak, and the only hope for action
probably rests on whatever President Obama can do via executive authority. In
the near term, environmentalists and Democrats have no choice but to do whatever
they can to generate media discussion of the issue. Obama's political arm,
Organizing for Action, is also targeting deniers in Congress, and as Steve Benen
noted, the real goal here is to give progressives something to organize around.

Attacks on Republican officials over climate change are part of this strategy to
bait them into high-profile exchanges over the issue that will likely command
media coverage.

Making elected officials pay a steep political price for climate denialism may
seem a long way off, but perhaps environmentalists can muscle the issue into the
political discussion.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            September 6, 2013 Friday

Study ties warming, big storms;
It caused about half of 2012's wild weather

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- A study of a dozen of 2012's wildest weather events found that man-made global
warming increased the likelihood of about half of them, including superstorm
Sandy's devastating surge and the blistering U.S. summer heat.

The other half, including a record wet British summer and the U.S. drought last
year, simply reflected the random freakiness of weather, researchers with the
U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the British
meteorological office concluded in a report issued Thursday.

The scientists conducted thousands of runs of different computer simulations
that looked at various factors, such as moisture in the air, atmospheric flow,
and sea temperature and level.

The approach represents an evolution in the field. Scientists used to say that
individual weather events - a specific hurricane or flood, for example - cannot
be attributed to climate change. But recently, researchers have used computer
simulations to look at extreme events in a more nuanced way and measure the
influence of climate change on their likelihood and magnitude.

This is the second year that NOAA and the British meteorology office have teamed
to look at the greenhouse gas connection to the previous year's unusual events.

We've got some new evidence that human influence has changed the risk and has
changed it enough that we can detect it, study lead author Peter Stott, head of
climate monitoring and attribution for the British meteorological office, said.

The researchers said climate change had made these 2012 events more likely: U.S.
heat waves, superstorm Sandy flooding, shrinking Arctic sea ice, drought in
Europe's Iberian peninsula, and extreme rainfall in Australia and New Zealand.

However, the 78 international researchers found no global warming connection for
the U.S. drought, Europe's summer extremes, a cold spell in the Netherlands,
drought in eastern Kenya and Somalia, floods in northern China and heavy rain in
southwestern Japan.

That doesn't mean there weren't climate change factors involved, just that
researchers couldn't find or prove them, said the authors of the 84-page study,
published in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society

All 12 events - chosen, in part, because of their location and effect they had
on society - would have happened anyway, but their magnitude and likelihood were
boosted in some cases by global warming, the researchers said.

The two events where scientists found the biggest climate change connection both
hit the United States.

The likelihood of the record July U.S. heat wave that hit the Northeast and
north-central region is four times greater now than in preindustrial times
because of greenhouse gases, Stanford University climate scientist Noah
Diffenbaugh found in his analysis.

The kind of surge-related flooding that superstorm Sandy brought to parts of New
York City is about 50 percent more likely than it was in 1950, said study
co-author William Sweet, a NOAA oceanographer.

Stott said one of the hardest connections to make is for rainfall. The
researchers were able to connect three of the eight instances of too much or too
little rain to climate change; the five other instances were attributed to
natural variability.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 25, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A state of denial

BYLINE: JERRY KARNAS, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 835 words


BY JERRY KARNAS

Special to The Tampa Tribune

If the Keystone XL pipeline is built, 35 million gallons of tar sands oil --
some of the dirtiest fossil fuels on Earth -- would be sent some 1,700 miles
from Canada to the Gulf Coast, and then much of it would be exported to other
countries.

Scientists offer a grim picture if all of the tar sands oil is burned up: It
will lock us into the deepening climate crisis that's already setting off record
temperatures, epic droughts, wildfires and melting sea ice in the Arctic.

In Florida, that means accelerating predicted sea level rise -- some parts of
the state could be inundated by three to six feet of water by 2100 -- and more
intense storms that, once fairly rare, are beginning to feel commonplace.

The Keystone project relies on a vast expanse of tar sands oil in Alberta,
Canada. Not only does this project pollute and destroy Canada's amazing boreal
forests but it comes at a steep price for our climate.

Developing this fuel produces two to three times more global warming pollution
than conventional oil. If it moves ahead, it will be "game over" for avoiding
catastrophic climate change, according to Dr. Jim Hansen, one of the world's
leading climate scientists.

Keystone isn't a done deal -- yet.

President Obama has the power to secure Florida's future by ensuring this
poisonous oil is never burned. Because this pipeline crosses an international
border, the State Department must declare the pipeline in the national interest
and the president must concur before the pipeline is approved.

The Keystone XL pipeline clearly isn't in the national interest. Florida's story
is just one of a thousand across this country that can teach Americans why. A
low-lying state with more than 1,000 miles of coastline that's firmly in the
hurricane belt can ill afford a tar sands oil boom.

Among the first states where "game over" would become a reality? Florida. We are
the canary in the coal mine for climate impacts.

In the 1970s our coral reefs started to bleach because of rising ocean
temperatures. This bleaching continues to this day. We will be among the most
impacted by more intense storms and storm surges. Our coastal cities will be
among the first decimated by sea level rise.

Each day scientists who monitor the earth see the climate changing faster than
they predicted. It's getting hotter, storms are getting weirder, wildfires and
droughts are becoming more extreme. The past 10 years have been the warmest in
11,000 years. With these facts piling up why would United States enable the
burning of the largest deposit of the dirtiest fuel on the planet?

This notion is even more ludicrous when you consider that the United States is
being asked to shoulder 100 percent of the risk while Big Oil rakes in 100
percent of the profits and much of the oil winds up overseas.

You might think Florida is in good hands if President Obama is making the
decision, right? He knows climate change is a real threat. He believes in clean
energy. He won Florida twice behind an army of young voters who believed in his
promise of a new clean energy future. It's time to make good on those promises
and rejecting Keystone would be an important step.

To do that, though, he'll need to ignore the oil company propaganda on Keystone:

Myth: Keystone XL will make us energy independent. Fact: Much of the oil will be
sold on the world market and not consumed by Americans.

Myth: The Keystone XL pipeline will be safe. Fact: The first pipeline they
built, Keystone 1, spilled 14 times in its three short years of existence,
including 21,000 gallons in 2011. The State Department predicts Keystone XL
could leak up to 100 times.

What to do? Fortunately, there's a growing, grassroots opposition to Keystone
XL. Some 50,000 people marched in Washington last month. Acts of civil
disobedience are sprouting up across the country. Young people are launching
dirty energy divestment campaigns on college campuses. Momentum is building for
a clean energy future.

Floridians need to get in on the action.

Students of Florida's colleges: Launch divestment campaigns. Get our
universities out of the oil business.

Coastal cities: Pass resolutions urging Obama to reject this pipeline.

Young voters: Speak truth to power; tell your representatives to embrace sane,
safe energy policies that will save Florida and our climate.

Gov. Rick Scott: Stop undoing Gov. Charlie Crist's clean energy legacy.

Sen. Bill Nelson: Keep up the good work, but step up the fight. You need to lead
the charge against Keystone XL.

Sen. Marco Rubio: Fight for Florida, not the tea party, and lead on clean energy
and climate change.

Florida is still in many ways the center of the political universe. Now is the
time to use that influence, even on a disastrous project that starts 3,000 miles
from our homes. Our future depends on it.

Jerry Karnas is national field director for the Center for Biological Diversity.

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday

Nature, humans share blame for typhoon tragedy;
Poor construction, growing populations, climate change all matter

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Geography, poverty, construction, population, warming all factor into
making typhoon so bad


Nature and man together cooked up the disaster in the Philippines.

Poverty, poor construction, geography, meteorology, a booming population and, to
a much lesser degree, climate change combine to make the Philippines the nation
most vulnerable to killer typhoons, according to several scientific studies.

And Typhoon Haiyan was one mighty storm.

Haiyan slammed the island nation with a storm surge two stories high and some of
the highest winds ever measured in a tropical cyclone - 195 mph as clocked by
U.S. satellites, or 147 mph based on local reports. An untold number of homes
were blown away, and thousands of people are feared dead.

You have a very intense event hitting a very susceptible part of the world. It's
that combination of nature and man, said MIT tropical meteorology professor
Kerry Emanuel. If one of those ingredients were missing, you wouldn't have a
disaster.

The 7,000 islands of the Philippines sit in the middle of the world's most
storm-prone region, which gets some of the biggest typhoons because of vast
expanses of warm water that act as fuel and few pieces of land to slow storms
down.

Half the storms on an informal list of the strongest ones to hit land in the
20th and 21st centuries ended up striking the Philippines, according to research
by Jeff Masters, meteorology director of the Weather Underground.

Storms often hit after they've peaked in strength or before they get a chance to
peak, but Haiyan struck when it was at its most powerful, based on U.S.
satellite observations, Emanuel said.

Humans played a big role in this disaster, too - probably bigger than nature's,
meteorologists said. University of Miami hurricane researcher Brian McNoldy
figures that 75 percent to 80 percent of the devastation can be blamed on the
human factor.

Meteorologists point to extreme poverty and huge growth in population - much of
it in vulnerable coastal areas with poor construction, including storm shelters
that didn't hold up against Haiyan.

Forty percent of Filipinos live in storm-prone vulnerable cities of more than
100,000, according to a 2012 World Bank study. The population of the
Haiyan-devastated provincial capital of Tacloban nearly tripled, from about
76,000 to 221,000, in just 40 years.

About one-third of Tacloban's homes have wooden exterior walls. And 1 in 7 homes
have grass roofs, according to the census office.

Those factors - especially flimsy construction - are important because a weaker
storm could have caused almost as much devastation, McNoldy said.

You end up with these kind of urban time bombs, where cities have doubled,
tripled, quadrupled in size in 50 years without good building standards, said
Richard Olson, director of the Extreme Events Institute at Florida International
University. It is, I hate to say, an all-too-familiar pattern.

Scientists say man-made global warming has contributed to rising seas and a
general increase in strength in the most powerful tropical cyclones. But they
won't specifically apply these factors to Haiyan, saying it is impossible to
attribute single weather events to climate change.

A 2008 study found that in the northwestern Pacific where Haiyan formed, the top
1 percent of the strongest tropical cyclones in the past 30 years are getting on
average about 1 mph stronger each year - a phenomenon some scientists suspect is
a consequence of global warming.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday

2012 among 10 hottest years on record;
NOAA cites 'remarkable changes' in critical areas such as sea levels

BYLINE: McClatchy-Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Last year was one of the 10 hottest since global average temperatures have been
recorded, according to an assessment of worldwide climate trends by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

The State of the Climate in 2012, released Tuesday, paints a sobering portrait
of vast swaths of the planet transformed by rising temperatures.

Arctic sea ice reached record lows during the summer thaw. In Greenland, about
97 percent of its ice sheet melted in the summer, far greater than in years
past.

Greenhouse gas emissions continued to rise. In early May, the ratio of carbon
dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million in an average
daily reading at Hawaii's Mauna Loa Observatory, thought to be the highest
concentration in millions of years.

The report is a like an annual check-up for the planet, said Kathryn Sullivan,
undersecretary of Commerce for oceans and atmosphere and NOAA's acting
administrator. It documents remarkable changes in critical areas such as Arctic
ice, sea levels and greenhouse gas emissions, she said.

Sullivan said she hoped the report would help businesses, communities, farmers
and governments gauge their vulnerability to climate change and better prepare.

Many of the planning models for infrastructure rely on the future being
statistically a lot like the past, and certainly the data should lead one to
question if that will be so, Sullivan said. Extreme weather events are more
frequent and more intense than what we have presumed.The NOAA report arrives as
climate change contrarians point out that the past 15 years have shown a
leveling off of global atmospheric temperatures. But NOAA researchers cautioned
against looking at a short period and at only one indicator.In the past 150
years, the annual average global temperature has risen sharply and is now about
1.8 degrees Fahrenheit higher than in preindustrial times, NOAA said. Nine of
the 10 hottest years have been recorded since the late 1990s, with 2012 ranking
eighth or ninth, depending on the methodology. In January, NOAA reported that
2012 was the hottest year on record for the lower 48 states.

Heat-trapping greenhouse gases emitted by the burning of fossil fuels are the
primary cause of higher global temperatures.

The NOAA report underscored the effect that oceans have on temperatures. Oceans
store much of the planet's heat, but ocean heat storage is at near-record
levels, the report says.

As oceans trap heat from a warming planet, they change. Surface ocean
temperatures in 2012 were among the 11 highest on record. In a study recently
published in the journal Nature and Climate Change, Australian researchers
reported that warmer seas have led to profound changes in marine life, including
more species moving to the relatively cooler water of the poles.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday

Historic hotels are out of time

BYLINE: JOSH BOATWRIGHT; Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2321 words

DATELINE: DUNEDIN



HIGHLIGHT: Dunedin Commissioners are expected to pass an ordinance allowing a
future developer to raze the 1920s-era Fenway Hotel if they replace it with a
hotel with the same design. Belleair Bluffs last week also made steps that could
lead to the demolition of the old Belleview Biltmore. We look at why it's hard
economically to restore these kinds of properties.


The Fenway, Belleview Biltmore could soon face the wrecking ball

- Many of its windows are boarded or broken and its interior walls are covered
in graffiti, but the beauty of the Fenway Hotel's Mediterranean-style
architecture still shines through to drivers passing along Edgewater Drive.

While optimistic developers have tried in recent years to bring life to this
fading waterfront lodge, like the grander and older Belleview Biltmore just down
the coast, no one can make the numbers work.

City leaders in Dunedin and Belleair Bluffs have taken steps in recent weeks
that could open the door for redevelopment at these vacant, historic sites,
which deteriorate further with each passing year, leaving a hole in their local
tax base.

While preservationists in Belleair still hold out hope that a developer will
secure the more than $100 million needed to restore the Biltmore, the town's
zoning board last week approved a change that would allow it to be razed and
redeveloped.

Those who cherish the architectural flare of the Fenway have taken a different
approach: compromise.

City commissioners unanimously voted in favor of a development code change that
would allow for the 1920s-era hotel to be demolished, provided the hotel that
replaces it is built in the same architectural style.

Nobody has been able to put together a pro forma package to make the building
work in the condition it's in right now, city planning and development Director
Greg Rice told commissioners at a meeting Thursday.

The move followed a proposal by a Pennsylvania hotelier who had hoped to build a
new Fenway from the ground up with 88 rooms and condos that city planners and
preservationists welcomed.

That multimillion dollar plan was stymied when PNC Bank failed to respond to an
offer to buy it earlier this month, but city leaders are hopeful for a reworking
of this project or that another will come along and follow the same path.

It's sad because I'd love to have the actual original building

restored, but Belleair is having the same issue we are, Dunedin Commissioner
Julie Ward-Bujalski said. We've got to find a good way of making that property
possible to be developed.

While there have been historic hotel preservation success stories in the Tampa
Bay area over the past few decades, economic development officials say financing
such expensive and complex projects has become harder since the recession.

A shining example for preservationists is St. Petersburg's Renaissance Vinoy
Resort. The 1923 Mediterranean-style resort had deteriorated into a boarding
house by the 1970s, but residents voted to preserve it in 1984.

After it sat empty for 18 years, New York developer Fred Guest took on a $93
million restoration project in 1990 that expanded the property and added condo
units.

The developer of the Vinoy, he had a passion for preservation, said Will
Michaels, a historian and former St. Petersburg Preservation director.

He had an interest in it and saw the potential for transforming the Vinoy back
to its original glory and pumping the water out of the basement and evicting the
alligators.

Hopeful entrepreneurs also have stepped up to bring back the Fenway and the
Biltmore, but none have prevailed.

Just as the recession began to take hold, developer George Radhert bought the
Fenway with an eye to restore it, but disagreements with neighbors over the
plans and financial difficulties stopped him.

With all those delays, we got into the economic crisis and it all fell apart
said Dunedin Historical Society head Vinnie Luisi.

Numerous plans to save the Biltmore have been floated in the past decade only to
falter.

The nonprofit groups Save the Biltmore and Friends of the Belleview Biltmore
stopped a 2004 bid to level the 116-year-old property.

In 2009, developer Legg-Mason offered to restore the hotel, but a lawsuit
brought by three residents over the plan's layout stalled the proposal until
time ran out on the project.

Preservationists thought victory was at hand last year when South Florida
architect Richard Heisenbottle proposed buying and renovating the property.

But after a major investor backed out at the last minute, his development group,
Belleview Biltmore Partners LLC, failed to gather the necessary funds to move
forward with a project that could cost $130 million to $150 million or even more
to complete.

Heisenbottle says his group is working on a new deal to buy the property. If the
town commission approves the proposed zoning changes, though, the property's
current owners could soon replace it with condos and single-family homes.

In Dunedin, Luisi and other preservationists concluded having a building that
retains the look and spirit of the Fenway is better than the possibility of the
site being completely transformed.

When finally something happens with the Biltmore, it looks like it's completely
gone and whatever's going to be there isn't going be anything like what was
there, Luisi said.

Sometimes in restoration there's some compromise, and this could be one of those
compromises that works out well for everybody.

Diane Hein, who heads the Save the Biltmore Preservationists in Belleair, said
such a compromise would be unthinkable for the old resort nicknamed the White
Queen of the Gulf, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

That is not historic preservation, that is Disney World fantasy and I would not
support it, she wrote in an email.

The reality of hard economic times appears to be the main factor driving the
fate of these hotels, particularly when it comes to obtaining the necessary
funds for restoration.

Banks have tightened lending for all kinds of development and have a high bar
for expensive and risky ventures like preservation projects, Dunedin Economic
Development Director Bob Ironsmith said.

It's much more difficult to borrow on soft costs, so developers have to come to
the table with a lot more money in hand than in the past, he said.

The restoration of the Biltmore could bring substantial state and federal tax
credits, but the coordination of these incentives, combined with a lengthy
construction time extending over 24 months, has made it very difficult to secure
financing, Heisenbottle wrote in an email.

Even in a good financial climate, some properties are in such bad condition
after years of neglect that cost-effective restoration becomes impossible.

Obviously, for many buildings, it doesn't' make sense to try to preserve them
because the cost would be disproportionate to the benefit, said Michaels, the
St. Petersburg historian.

Dunedin city leaders have concluded the Fenway fits that bill. In January, the
Belleair town commission could decide the Biltmore's fate if it approves the
requested zoning change.

Heisenbottle maintains the grand hotel still has a future.

My firm has restored numerous historic structures that were in far worse
physical condition than the Belleview Biltmore, he said recently.

jboatwright@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-1277

FENWAY, Page 10

- Many of its windows are boarded or broken and its interior walls are covered
in graffiti, but the beauty of the Fenway Hotel's Mediterranean-style
architecture still shines through to drivers passing along Edgewater Drive.

While optimistic developers have tried in recent years to bring life to this
fading waterfront lodge, like the grander and older Belleview Biltmore just down
the coast, no one can make the numbers work.

City leaders in Dunedin and Belleair Bluffs have taken steps in recent weeks
that could open the door for redevelopment at these vacant, historic sites,
which deteriorate further with each passing year, leaving a hole in their local
tax base.

While preservationists in Belleair still hold out hope that a developer will
secure the more than $100 million needed to restore the Biltmore, the town's
zoning board last week approved a change that would allow it to be razed and
redeveloped.

Those who cherish the architectural flare of the Fenway have taken a different
approach: compromise.

City commissioners unanimously voted in favor of a development code change that
would allow for the 1920s-era hotel to be demolished, provided the hotel that
replaces it is built in the same architectural style.

Nobody has been able to put together a pro forma package to make the building
work in the condition it's in right now, city planning and development Director
Greg Rice told commissioners at a meeting Thursday.

The move followed a proposal by a Pennsylvania hotelier who had hoped to build a
new Fenway from the ground up with 88 rooms and condos that city planners and
preservationists welcomed.

That multimillion dollar plan was stymied when PNC Bank failed to respond to an
offer to buy it earlier this month, but city leaders are hopeful for a reworking
of this project or that another will come along and follow the same path.

It's sad because I'd love to have the actual original building

restored, but Belleair is having the same issue we are, Dunedin Commissioner
Julie Ward-Bujalski said. We've got to find a good way of making that property
possible to be developed.

While there have been historic hotel preservation success stories in the Tampa
Bay area over the past few decades, economic development officials say financing
such expensive and complex projects has become harder since the recession.

A shining example for preservationists is St. Petersburg's Renaissance Vinoy
Resort. The 1923 Mediterranean-style resort had deteriorated into a boarding
house by the 1970s, but residents voted to preserve it in 1984.

After it sat empty for 18 years, New York developer Fred Guest took on a $93
million restoration project in 1990 that expanded the property and added condo
units.

The developer of the Vinoy, he had a passion for preservation, said Will
Michaels, a historian and former St. Petersburg Preservation director.

He had an interest in it and saw the potential for transforming the Vinoy back
to its original glory and pumping the water out of the basement and evicting the
alligators.

Hopeful entrepreneurs also have stepped up to bring back the Fenway and the
Biltmore, but none have prevailed.

Just as the recession began to take hold, developer George Radhert bought the
Fenway with an eye to restore it, but disagreements with neighbors over the
plans and financial difficulties stopped him.

With all those delays, we got into the economic crisis and it all fell apart
said Dunedin Historical Society head Vinnie Luisi.

Numerous plans to save the Biltmore have been floated in the past decade only to
falter.

The nonprofit groups Save the Biltmore and Friends of the Belleview Biltmore
stopped a 2004 bid to level the 116-year-old property.

In 2009, developer Legg-Mason offered to restore the hotel, but a lawsuit
brought by three residents over the plan's layout stalled the proposal until
time ran out on the project.

Preservationists thought victory was at hand last year when South Florida
architect Richard Heisenbottle proposed buying and renovating the property.

But after a major investor backed out at the last minute, his development group,
Belleview Biltmore Partners LLC, failed to gather the necessary funds to move
forward with a project that could cost $130 million to $150 million or even more
to complete.

Heisenbottle says his group is working on a new deal to buy the property. If the
town commission approves the proposed zoning changes, though, the property's
current owners could soon replace it with condos and single-family homes.

In Dunedin, Luisi and other preservationists concluded having a building that
retains the look and spirit of the Fenway is better than the possibility of the
site being completely transformed.

When finally something happens with the Biltmore, it looks like it's completely
gone and whatever's going to be there isn't going be anything like what was
there, Luisi said.

Sometimes in restoration there's some compromise, and this could be one of those
compromises that works out well for everybody.

Diane Hein, who heads the Save the Biltmore Preservationists in Belleair, said
such a compromise would be unthinkable for the old resort nicknamed the White
Queen of the Gulf, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

That is not historic preservation, that is Disney World fantasy and I would not
support it, she wrote in an email.

The reality of hard economic times appears to be the main factor driving the
fate of these hotels, particularly when it comes to obtaining the necessary
funds for restoration.

Banks have tightened lending for all kinds of development and have a high bar
for expensive and risky ventures like preservation projects, Dunedin Economic
Development Director Bob Ironsmith said.

It's much more difficult to borrow on soft costs, so developers have to come to
the table with a lot more money in hand than in the past, he said.

The restoration of the Biltmore could bring substantial state and federal tax
credits, but the coordination of these incentives, combined with a lengthy
construction time extending over 24 months, has made it very difficult to secure
financing, Heisenbottle wrote in an email.

Even in a good financial climate, some properties are in such bad condition
after years of neglect that cost-effective restoration becomes impossible.

Obviously, for many buildings, it doesn't' make sense to try to preserve them
because the cost would be disproportionate to the benefit, said Michaels, the
St. Petersburg historian.

Dunedin city leaders have concluded the Fenway fits that bill. In January, the
Belleair town commission could decide the Biltmore's fate if it approves the
requested zoning change.

Heisenbottle maintains the grand hotel still has a future.

My firm has restored numerous historic structures that were in far worse
physical condition than the Belleview Biltmore, he said recently.

jboatwright@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-1277

Fenway

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. carbon dioxide pollution decreases;
The 3.8% decline was second largest since 1990, officials say

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Warm winters, more efficient cars, less coal use combine for big drop
in US carbon pollution


 - The United States cut its energy-related carbon dioxide pollution by 3.8
percent last year, the second biggest drop since 1990, the Department of Energy
said Monday.

The only recent year with a bigger percentage drop was in 2009, when America was
in a large recession. American cars and factories spewed 5.83 billion tons of
carbon dioxide in 2012, down from 6.06 billion in 2011. It is the lowest level
for U.S. emissions since 1994. Carbon dioxide is the chief man-made global
warming gas.

Energy Department economist Perry Lindstrom said carbon pollution reduction is
due to warm winter weather, more efficient cars and an ongoing shift from
coal-power to natural gas to produce electricity.

The coal shift is a big factor as is a sluggish economic recovery, said Jay Apt,
director of the Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center. He said in 1994
coal provided 52 percent of the U.S. power and now it is down to 37 percent.
Burning coal produces far more carbon dioxide than burning natural gas.

Some past cuts in carbon pollution were mostly due to economic factors, such as
the 7.1 percent drop in 2009, Lindstrom said. But this drop happened while the
U.S. economy was growing 2.8 percent, as reflected by the gross domestic
product, and its energy use was dropping by more than 2 percent.

Economists measure energy efficiency and how real reductions are in carbon
pollution by calculating carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP. From 2011 to
2012, the U.S. carbon pollution per GDP dropped by a record 6.5 percent,
Lindstrom said.

That shows this drop was clearly not due to a recession, Lindstrom said.

In 2012, America spewed more than 368,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per second.

This latest drop in energy-related carbon emissions is reason for cautious
optimism that we're already starting to move in the right direction, said
Pennsylvania State University climate scientist Michael Mann. But this alone
will not lead us toward the dramatic carbon reductions necessary to avoid
dangerous climate change.

The world is heading in the opposite direction. In 2011, the world carbon
dioxide emissions jumped 3 percent, because of a large increase by China, the
No. 1 carbon polluting country. The U.S. is No. 2 in carbon emissions.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Energy emissions rose to record high in 2012AP Photo LON102, LON101

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NationWorld; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM


- The world's energy-related carbon dioxide emissions rose 1.4 percent in 2012
to a record high of 31.6 billion tons, even though the U.S. posted its lowest
emissions since the mid-1990s, the International Energy Agency said Monday.

In its annual World Energy Outlook report, the Paris-based IEA said top carbon
polluter China had the largest emissions growth last year, up 300 million tons,
or 3.8 percent, from 2011.

Still, the increase was among the lowest seen in a decade as China continues to
invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency.

U.S. emissions dropped 200 million tons, or 3.8 percent, in part due to a switch
in power generation from coal to gas, while Europe's emissions declined by 50
million tons, or 1.4 percent, the IEA said.

The agency said the energy sector accounts for about two-thirds of global
emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases, which scientists say are fueling
climate change.

Global climate talks are aimed at keeping the temperature rise below 3.6 degrees
compared with pre-industrial levels. The IEA found the world's on track for an
increase of 6.5-9.5 degrees.

Climate change has quite frankly slipped to the back burner of policy
priorities. But the problem is not going away - quite the opposite, said IEA
Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven.

Climate scientists have warned that the global temperature rise could have
catastrophic consequences such as flooding of coastal cities and island nations,
disruptions to agriculture and drinking water, and the spread of diseases and
the extinction of species.

The IEA report, presented in London, said emissions could be reduced
significantly by 2020 by improving energy efficiency in buildings industry and
transport, limiting the use of coal-fired power plants, halving the oil and gas
industry's release of methane, and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies.

Some of those measures are being implemented in individual countries around the
world, but governments are struggling to reach a global agreement that would
make such actions binding.

Climate negotiators meeting this week in Bonn, Germany, are haggling over the
content of a global climate pact that is supposed to be adopted by 2015. The
main sticking point is how to divide the burden of emissions cuts between
developed and developing countries.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Carbon dioxide emissions for 2012 hit a record high;
World Energy Outlook finds U.S. cut output

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NationWorld; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM


The world's energy-related carbon dioxide emissions rose 1.4 percent in 2012 to
a record high of 31.6 billion tons, even though the United States posted its
lowest emissions since the mid-1990s, the International Energy Agency said
Monday.

In its annual World Energy Outlook report, the Paris-based IEA said top carbon
polluter China had the largest emissions growth last year, up 300 million tons,
or 3.8 percent, from 2011.

Still, the increase was among the lowest seen in a decade as China continues to
invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency.

U.S. emissions dropped 200 million tons, or 3.8 percent, in part because of a
switch in power generation from coal to gas, and Europe's emissions declined by
50 million tons, or 1.4 percent, the IEA said.

The agency said the energy sector accounts for about two-thirds of global
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which scientists say are
fueling climate change.

Global climate talks are aimed at keeping the temperature rise below 3.6 degrees
compared with preindustrial levels. The IEA found the world is on track for an
increase of 6.5 to 9.5 degrees.

Climate change has quite frankly slipped to the back burner of policy
priorities. But the problem is not going away - quite the opposite, said IEA
Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven.

Climate scientists have warned that the global temperature rise could have
catastrophic consequences such as flooding of coastal cities and island nations,
disruptions to agriculture and drinking water, the spread of diseases and the
extinction of species.

The IEA report, presented in London, said emissions could be reduced
significantly by 2020 by improving energy efficiency in buildings, industry and
transport, limiting the use of coal-fired power plants, halving the oil and gas
industry's release of methane, and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies.

Some of those measures are being implemented in individual countries around the
world, but governments are struggling to reach a global agreement that would
make such actions binding.

Climate negotiators meeting this week in Bonn, Germany, are haggling over the
content of a global climate pact that is supposed to be adopted by 2015. The
main sticking point is how to divide the burden of emissions cuts between
developed and developing countries.

Industrialized countries want emerging economies such as those in China, India
and Brazil to take on bigger responsibilities, and developing countries stress
the historical responsibilities of longtime carbon polluters Europe and the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            September 6, 2013 Friday

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 3424 words



HIGHLIGHT: FEEDERS


BENJARONG THAI, 14402 N. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa; (813) 265-2667. You will
find many good Thai restaurants throughout Carrollwood and Northdale. Benjarong
Thai belongs on that list for its consistent quality and affordable prices.
Start your meal with the Tom Kha Gai soup, a mixture of cream of coconut soup,
sliced chicken, straw mushrooms and lemongrass. Another recommendation is the
noodle dish Pad Thai, which features rice noodles sautéed with eggs, ground
peanuts, bean sprouts and scallions which is served with chicken or shrimp. ($$)

BURGER 21, 9664 W. Linebaugh Ave., Tampa; (813) 475-5921. Ten custom beef burger
combinations range from a basic Bacon Cheesy to a spicy Tex-Mex Haystack with
guacamole and crispy onion strings. Ten non-beef offerings include a Greek
vegetarian patty and non-traditional takes on a Shrimp Po'Boy and Chicken
Parmesan. Sliders, hot dogs and salads round out the just-the-basics menu. An
inventive variety of condiments includes Thai ketchup, mango-scotch bonnet
ketchup, honeycomb mustard, chipotle mayo and toasted marshmallow fluff or apple
cider sauce for your sweet potato fries. The Cheesy Burger is juicy without
being greasy and is served on a delicious, buttery brioche bun. The BBQ Bacon
Burger is topped with cheddar, onion strings, applewood-smoked bacon and a
smoky-sweet hickory barbecue sauce. The spicy Ahi Tuna burger is a lightly fried
panko-crusted, sushi-grade patty topped with fresh avocado and pickled
cucumbers. The vegetarian Black Bean Burger has a sweet flavor and melodious mix
of accoutrements, including salsa, avocado and sun-dried tomato aioli. The
shoestring fries are lightly seasoned and virtually greaseless. Befitting the
restaurant's sleek, stylish retro-diner vibe, an old-school soda fountain-style
bar serves up shakes and floats. ($)

Park in the back and walk through an outdoor patio with a tiki bar that jams on
weekends with live music, including reggae. Inside, prepare to be impressed -
and stuffed. The managers offer some of the ambiance of their native Jamaica,
along with Red Stripe beer and jerk chicken, but the menu is really about
down-home cooking. Lunch choices include a pressed Cuban sandwich with marinated
pork, ham and Swiss cheese and Zelda's Beef Wrap stuffed with steak, olives,
feta and provolone cheeses. The sandwich lineup also includes roast beef, ham,
turkey, tuna and egg salads, hamburgers, hot dogs, and the Reuben - corned beef
or turkey. The 8-ounce Grilled Flat Iron Steak is thinly sliced and stacked
around a mound of mashed potatoes, then topped by mushroom ragout and fresh
green beans, broccoli and carrots. The Seafood Pasta includes shrimp and bay
scallops mixed with broccoli, green beans and carrots covered in a cheesy cream
sauce.

When you have a hankering for a thin crust New York style pizza, then North
Tampa's Pannarano Pizzeria is a good option. Pannarano specializes in Neapolitan
style pizza made from hand stretched dough. Choose from a long list of specialty
pizzas such as Meat Lovers, Funghi, Hawaiian, the white spinach Alfredo or
create your own unique masterpiece. If you're not up for pizza, then choose
either the calzone, Stromboli and rolls which come with a side of pizza sauce
for dipping - you'll want to try the sauce, it's that good.

CHART HOUSE, 7616 W. Courtney Campbell Causeway, Tampa: (813) 289-7773. This
upscale seafood restaurant has one of the best bayside views Tampa has to offer.
You can start with the lobster and shrimp spring rolls which come with chili
dipping sauce that really packs a punch. Entrées include The Bronzed Wahoo,
which is nicely spiced and pan seared with a crab cake on the side. Another is
the mixed seafood grill, bronzed mahi, shrimp scampi and jumbo lump crab cake.
Make sure you save room for dessert, which is made to order (so make sure to
order it when you order your entrée). Dessert is made to order. The hot
chocolate lava cake is filled with Godiva liqueur, warm chocolate sauce, heath
bar crunch and vanilla ice cream. ($$$)

SOHO SUSHI NORTH, 2826 E. Bearss Ave., Tampa; (813) 977-8744. This North Tampa
spinoff of Soho Sushi in South Tampa makes its home in a restaurant-heavy
shopping center on Bearss Ave., but it's the only sushi joint for blocks. You'll
find 15 types of sushi, 18 simple rolls and 20 specialty rolls. Entrees include
steak, chicken and seafood dishes that come with miso soup, ginger salad and
white rice. Happy hour runs from 5 to 7 p.m. everyday where you can enjoy

buy-one-get-one-free on select beverages and reduced prices on appetizers and
specialty rolls. Soho Sushi North is solid enough to provide a satisfying meal.
($$)

ZUDAR'S, 201 W. Platt St., Tampa; (813) 250-6272. This popular South Tampa café
has long been known for its gigantic sandwiches, homemade soups and other tasty
lunchtime fare. But since new owner Eric Weinstein took over, he added breakfast
and dinner to the menu and also added his motto, Why Cook? The eclectic
appetizers consist of three different sliders: Angus Burger, Mojo Pork and Crab
Cake along with the standard Buffalo wings, nachos and chicken quesadillas.
Entrée choices are huge and the Classic Meatloaf is enough for two meals. The
Beef Short Ribs are slathered in a tomato-molasses sauce that is lip-smacking
good. The children's menu is a big hit and kids 12 and younger eat free every
Wednesday night with the purchase of an adult meal. The icing on the cake, no
pun intended, is the Chocolate Fantasy Cake with dark chocolate icing and
chocolate shavings. ($-$$)

BT, 2507 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa; (813) 258-1916. Owner B.T. Nguyen has an eat
local, think global attitude, and it shows in her menu, which features
French-Vietnamese cuisine with an international flair. There is a taste of Spain
in the Cote Basque Inspired Prawns, Africa in the Moroccan Spiced Lamb
Brochettes and India in the Vegetarian Samosas. Entrees that are a sure bet
include the Deconstructed Beef Stroganoff James, a grass-fed filet mignon served
with leeks and chanterelles over a bed of pasta, the Lobster Sous Vide, a Maine
lobster tail served with white mushrooms in a saffron wine sauce, and the
Snapper a la Saigon, a filet cooked in a light lemongrass sauce, curry, garlic,
shallot and bay leaves on a bed of cabbage and cucumbers. The wine list is
nicely varied and goes beautifully with most dishes. ($$-$$$)

PIZZA FUSION, 777 N. Ashley Dr., Tampa; (813) 463-1600. Pizza Fusion is a
welcome addition to downtown Tampa with its oval-shaped, homemade pies, made
with organic ingredients that are fresh, flavorful and prepared with a chef's
attention to detail. Some favorites include the Founder's Pie, a mix of
free-range chicken, kalamata olives, red onion and four cheeses, or the Four
Cheese & Sun Dried Tomato with basil and roasted garlic. Another recommended
pizza is the Sausage & Tricolor Pepper topped with chili flakes for a spicy
kick. The menu also includes sandwiches and a variety of salads. The small bar
features a wine list, a few drafts and a nice selection of bottled beers. ($-$$)

HOLY HOG BARBECUE, 3501 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa; (813) 879-4647.  Barbecue
worshipers need to come hungry and pig out. Holy Hog does a solid job with the
standard pulled pork, ribs, chicken and sausage, all served with a dry rub and
sauce on the side. The nachos are piled high with pork, diced peppers, black
beans, cheese and fresh cilantro. Every Friday they have a special: fried
chicken and waffles, a fish fry with hush puppies, chicken fried steak or shrimp
and grits. Beyond the barbecue, other selections include cheeseburgers and the
BBQ Quesadilla served with chicken or pork loaded with black bean salsa, cheddar
cheese, jalapenos and sour cream. You can choose to dine in or outdoors in the
eating area, and they also do takeout. ($$

EATS AMERICAN GRILL, 4502 S. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa: (813) 835-3287.  Tucked
away in a small building in South Tampa, this eatery serves regional American
food in a casual, fun, family-friendly atmosphere. Start with an appetizer of
thick cut fried pickles or perhaps pineapple fritters. The cheese fries also are
worthy of your attention - they are smothered in chili sauce, melted cheese and
bacon. Entrée selections are blackened chicken, walnut salmon, sirloin, crab
cakes, pork chops or chicken tenders. If you go for lunch, try the classic black
and blue burger that is perfectly cooked, juicy and covered in blue cheese.
Another lunch suggestion would be the Midwest BLT, which is your traditional
bacon and lettuce, but this has fried green tomatoes instead of the red ones. A
great send off to your meal is the Oreo-crusted chocolate cheesecake. ($$)

RESERVATIONS GOURMET-TO-GO, 4703 N. Nebraska Ave., Tampa; (813) 231-6800.
Anthony and Elke Cantania, who own this Seminole Heights eatery, not only
prepare fancy meals to go but also tell you how best to reheat them in your oven
when you get home. For lunch, try Anthony's chunky tomato basil soup with a
fresh green salad that comes with carrots, tomatoes, capers, onions and
artichoke hearts. Or perhaps try a meatball sub topped with Bolognese sauce and
Parmesan & Mozzarella cheeses. Dinner choices include grilled fish with cayenne
pepper, thyme, lemon and butter or meatloaf that is close enough to be Mom's.
The velvety New York cheesecake is a nice way to finish dinner. The Cantanias
offer gourmet meals minus the hard work and the convenience of fine dining
brought home. ($$)

TERRA SUR, 5358 W. Village Drive, Tampa; (813) 269-2694. Terra Sur is fine
Peruvian dining with a touch of the exotic that caters to foodies along with
beer and wine aficionados. This charming, date night kind of place has a warm
décor. The menu features dishes that will get you out of your comfort zone and
trying new flavors. A must is the ceviche, the national dish of Peru, which is a
variety of fish and shellfish marinated in citrus juices, such as Peruvian
yellow pepper sauce, Peruvian red pepper sauce or lime juice and spices, mixed
chilies, cilantro and sliced red onions.  The beer and wine selection is
impressive with about 100 beers from around the world and a variety red and
white wine from around the globe. If you are interested in ethnic cuisine, make
the pilgrimage to Terra Sur. ($$)

FEEDER'S, Page 20

BENJARONG THAI, 14402 N. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa; (813) 265-2667. You will
find many good Thai restaurants throughout Carrollwood and Northdale. Benjarong
Thai belongs on that list for its consistent quality and affordable prices.
Start your meal with the Tom Kha Gai soup, a mixture of cream of coconut soup,
sliced chicken, straw mushrooms and lemongrass. Another recommendation is the
noodle dish Pad Thai, which features rice noodles sautéed with eggs, ground
peanuts, bean sprouts and scallions which is served with chicken or shrimp. ($$)

BURGER 21, 9664 W. Linebaugh Ave., Tampa; (813) 475-5921. Ten custom beef burger
combinations range from a basic Bacon Cheesy to a spicy Tex-Mex Haystack with
guacamole and crispy onion strings. Ten non-beef offerings include a Greek
vegetarian patty and non-traditional takes on a Shrimp Po'Boy and Chicken
Parmesan. Sliders, hot dogs and salads round out the just-the-basics menu. An
inventive variety of condiments includes Thai ketchup, mango-scotch bonnet
ketchup, honeycomb mustard, chipotle mayo and toasted marshmallow fluff or apple
cider sauce for your sweet potato fries. The Cheesy Burger is juicy without
being greasy and is served on a delicious, buttery brioche bun. The BBQ Bacon
Burger is topped with cheddar, onion strings, applewood-smoked bacon and a
smoky-sweet hickory barbecue sauce. The spicy Ahi Tuna burger is a lightly fried
panko-crusted, sushi-grade patty topped with fresh avocado and pickled
cucumbers. The vegetarian Black Bean Burger has a sweet flavor and melodious mix
of accoutrements, including salsa, avocado and sun-dried tomato aioli. The
shoestring fries are lightly seasoned and virtually greaseless. Befitting the
restaurant's sleek, stylish retro-diner vibe, an old-school soda fountain-style
bar serves up shakes and floats. ($)

Park in the back and walk through an outdoor patio with a tiki bar that jams on
weekends with live music, including reggae. Inside, prepare to be impressed -
and stuffed. The managers offer some of the ambiance of their native Jamaica,
along with Red Stripe beer and jerk chicken, but the menu is really about
down-home cooking. Lunch choices include a pressed Cuban sandwich with marinated
pork, ham and Swiss cheese and Zelda's Beef Wrap stuffed with steak, olives,
feta and provolone cheeses. The sandwich lineup also includes roast beef, ham,
turkey, tuna and egg salads, hamburgers, hot dogs, and the Reuben - corned beef
or turkey. The 8-ounce Grilled Flat Iron Steak is thinly sliced and stacked
around a mound of mashed potatoes, then topped by mushroom ragout and fresh
green beans, broccoli and carrots. The Seafood Pasta includes shrimp and bay
scallops mixed with broccoli, green beans and carrots covered in a cheesy cream
sauce.

When you have a hankering for a thin crust New York style pizza, then North
Tampa's Pannarano Pizzeria is a good option. Pannarano specializes in Neapolitan
style pizza made from hand stretched dough. Choose from a long list of specialty
pizzas such as Meat Lovers, Funghi, Hawaiian, the white spinach Alfredo or
create your own unique masterpiece. If you're not up for pizza, then choose
either the calzone, Stromboli and rolls which come with a side of pizza sauce
for dipping - you'll want to try the sauce, it's that good.

CHART HOUSE, 7616 W. Courtney Campbell Causeway, Tampa: (813) 289-7773. This
upscale seafood restaurant has one of the best bayside views Tampa has to offer.
You can start with the lobster and shrimp spring rolls which come with chili
dipping sauce that really packs a punch. Entrées include The Bronzed Wahoo,
which is nicely spiced and pan seared with a crab cake on the side. Another is
the mixed seafood grill, bronzed mahi, shrimp scampi and jumbo lump crab cake.
Make sure you save room for dessert, which is made to order (so make sure to
order it when you order your entrée). Dessert is made to order. The hot
chocolate lava cake is filled with Godiva liqueur, warm chocolate sauce, heath
bar crunch and vanilla ice cream. ($$$)

SOHO SUSHI NORTH, 2826 E. Bearss Ave., Tampa; (813) 977-8744. This North Tampa
spinoff of Soho Sushi in South Tampa makes its home in a restaurant-heavy
shopping center on Bearss Ave., but it's the only sushi joint for blocks. You'll
find 15 types of sushi, 18 simple rolls and 20 specialty rolls. Entrees include
steak, chicken and seafood dishes that come with miso soup, ginger salad and
white rice. Happy hour runs from 5 to 7 p.m. everyday where you can enjoy

buy-one-get-one-free on select beverages and reduced prices on appetizers and
specialty rolls. Soho Sushi North is solid enough to provide a satisfying meal.
($$)

ZUDAR'S, 201 W. Platt St., Tampa; (813) 250-6272. This popular South Tampa café
has long been known for its gigantic sandwiches, homemade soups and other tasty
lunchtime fare. But since new owner Eric Weinstein took over, he added breakfast
and dinner to the menu and also added his motto, Why Cook? The eclectic
appetizers consist of three different sliders: Angus Burger, Mojo Pork and Crab
Cake along with the standard Buffalo wings, nachos and chicken quesadillas.
Entrée choices are huge and the Classic Meatloaf is enough for two meals. The
Beef Short Ribs are slathered in a tomato-molasses sauce that is lip-smacking
good. The children's menu is a big hit and kids 12 and younger eat free every
Wednesday night with the purchase of an adult meal. The icing on the cake, no
pun intended, is the Chocolate Fantasy Cake with dark chocolate icing and
chocolate shavings. ($-$$)

BT, 2507 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa; (813) 258-1916. Owner B.T. Nguyen has an eat
local, think global attitude, and it shows in her menu, which features
French-Vietnamese cuisine with an international flair. There is a taste of Spain
in the Cote Basque Inspired Prawns, Africa in the Moroccan Spiced Lamb
Brochettes and India in the Vegetarian Samosas. Entrees that are a sure bet
include the Deconstructed Beef Stroganoff James, a grass-fed filet mignon served
with leeks and chanterelles over a bed of pasta, the Lobster Sous Vide, a Maine
lobster tail served with white mushrooms in a saffron wine sauce, and the
Snapper a la Saigon, a filet cooked in a light lemongrass sauce, curry, garlic,
shallot and bay leaves on a bed of cabbage and cucumbers. The wine list is
nicely varied and goes beautifully with most dishes. ($$-$$$)

PIZZA FUSION, 777 N. Ashley Dr., Tampa; (813) 463-1600. Pizza Fusion is a
welcome addition to downtown Tampa with its oval-shaped, homemade pies, made
with organic ingredients that are fresh, flavorful and prepared with a chef's
attention to detail. Some favorites include the Founder's Pie, a mix of
free-range chicken, kalamata olives, red onion and four cheeses, or the Four
Cheese & Sun Dried Tomato with basil and roasted garlic. Another recommended
pizza is the Sausage & Tricolor Pepper topped with chili flakes for a spicy
kick. The menu also includes sandwiches and a variety of salads. The small bar
features a wine list, a few drafts and a nice selection of bottled beers. ($-$$)

HOLY HOG BARBECUE, 3501 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa; (813) 879-4647.  Barbecue
worshipers need to come hungry and pig out. Holy Hog does a solid job with the
standard pulled pork, ribs, chicken and sausage, all served with a dry rub and
sauce on the side. The nachos are piled high with pork, diced peppers, black
beans, cheese and fresh cilantro. Every Friday they have a special: fried
chicken and waffles, a fish fry with hush puppies, chicken fried steak or shrimp
and grits. Beyond the barbecue, other selections include cheeseburgers and the
BBQ Quesadilla served with chicken or pork loaded with black bean salsa, cheddar
cheese, jalapenos and sour cream. You can choose to dine in or outdoors in the
eating area, and they also do takeout. ($$

EATS AMERICAN GRILL, 4502 S. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa: (813) 835-3287.  Tucked
away in a small building in South Tampa, this eatery serves regional American
food in a casual, fun, family-friendly atmosphere. Start with an appetizer of
thick cut fried pickles or perhaps pineapple fritters. The cheese fries also are
worthy of your attention - they are smothered in chili sauce, melted cheese and
bacon. Entrée selections are blackened chicken, walnut salmon, sirloin, crab
cakes, pork chops or chicken tenders. If you go for lunch, try the classic black
and blue burger that is perfectly cooked, juicy and covered in blue cheese.
Another lunch suggestion would be the Midwest BLT, which is your traditional
bacon and lettuce, but this has fried green tomatoes instead of the red ones. A
great send off to your meal is the Oreo-crusted chocolate cheesecake. ($$)

RESERVATIONS GOURMET-TO-GO, 4703 N. Nebraska Ave., Tampa; (813) 231-6800.
Anthony and Elke Cantania, who own this Seminole Heights eatery, not only
prepare fancy meals to go but also tell you how best to reheat them in your oven
when you get home. For lunch, try Anthony's chunky tomato basil soup with a
fresh green salad that comes with carrots, tomatoes, capers, onions and
artichoke hearts. Or perhaps try a meatball sub topped with Bolognese sauce and
Parmesan & Mozzarella cheeses. Dinner choices include grilled fish with cayenne
pepper, thyme, lemon and butter or meatloaf that is close enough to be Mom's.
The velvety New York cheesecake is a nice way to finish dinner. The Cantanias
offer gourmet meals minus the hard work and the convenience of fine dining
brought home. ($$)

TERRA SUR, 5358 W. Village Drive, Tampa; (813) 269-2694. Terra Sur is fine
Peruvian dining with a touch of the exotic that caters to foodies along with
beer and wine aficionados. This charming, date night kind of place has a warm
décor. The menu features dishes that will get you out of your comfort zone and
trying new flavors. A must is the ceviche, the national dish of Peru, which is a
variety of fish and shellfish marinated in citrus juices, such as Peruvian
yellow pepper sauce, Peruvian red pepper sauce or lime juice and spices, mixed
chilies, cilantro and sliced red onions.  The beer and wine selection is
impressive with about 100 beers from around the world and a variety red and
white wine from around the globe. If you are interested in ethnic cuisine, make
the pilgrimage to Terra Sur. ($$)

Feeder's

From Page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

Activists walk out of U.N. climate talks;
Discussions 'on track to deliver virtually nothing,' they say

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: WARSAW, Poland



HIGHLIGHT: Activists walk out of UN climate talks, saying they have been
ineffective


 Activists walked out of U.N. climate talks the day before they end, saying two
weeks of negotiations have brought no results.

Wearing polluters talk, we walk T-shirts, hundreds of activists walked out on
Thursday from Warsaw's National Stadium, the venue for the meeting.

In a statement, the protesters said the Warsaw talks of more than 190 nations
were on track to deliver virtually nothing while the actions of many rich
countries ...are directly undermining the U.N. climate efforts.

No deal is expected at talks, which are meant to lay the foundation for a new
agreement on greenhouse gas emission cuts in 2015.

Rich and poor nations are struggling with a yawning rift over developing
countries' efforts to make developed countries accept responsibility for global
warming.

Susann Scherbarth, from the Friends of the Earth Europe, says the walkout was
held out of frustration and disappointment.

Philippine Climate Commissioner Naderev Sano said his delegation shared the
protesters' anger and frustration while political will seems to be going in the
opposite direction of the aim of the negotiations. At the start of the talks
last week, Sano pleaded for efficient talks, pointing to the destruction wrought
in the Philippines by Typhoon Haiyan.

Alerted by scientists over global warming and destructive natural phenomena
believed to be linked to it, the U.N. initiated climate change talks in 1992.
The next round is next year in Lima, Peru.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

Experts: Election won't be harbinger;
Race to fill Young's seat no indicator of nation's mood in 2014, they caution

BYLINE: KATE BRADSHAW; Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1325 words



HIGHLIGHT: The special election to fill Bill Young's seat may not be much of a
bellwether after all, some say.


It's eight months ahead of a rash of elections that could shift political
dynamics nationwide, but don't call the race to fill Pinellas County's open
congressional seat a harbinger of things to come, experts say.

Some have called the upcoming vote to determine who will fill the Congressional
District 13 seat held for more than 40 years by the late U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill
Young a bellwether. The word's been attached to plenty of races recently as some
try to divine the outcome of future races. But those closely observing the
unfolding race say for a number of reasons, the result of the March 11 contest
won't be the fortune-telling tool media and pundits are hoping for ahead of the
midterm elections in November.

It's dangerous to give predictive value to special elections, said Kyle Kondik,
managing editor of DC politics blog Sabato's Crystal Ball. You really can't, and
you really shouldn't.

For one, local issues within a given congressional district might not reflect
the national population.

A case-in-point, Kondik said, is the election to fill the New York seat of
disgraced Democratic U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner. When Weiner resigned in 2011, a
Republican won the seat - not because of some imminent GOP sweep (which never
happened), but because voters within the largely Orthodox Jewish district were
critical of President Obama's Israel policies, Kondik said.

The political dynamics of Florida's 13th has its own characteristics that don't
reflect those on the national level.

About a quarter of the electorate are not affiliated with a party, though
they've mostly sided with Democrats in recent state and national level
elections.

Those who are party members tend not to be extreme.

CD-13 is a unique district in that it does not reflect the partisan tempers of
either side, said Peter Schorsch, the consultant and blogger behind
SaintPetersBlog.

That's why candidates on either side tend to have more nuanced answers to
questions that would elicit hyperbole in more polarized places, he said, even on
the controversial Affordable Care Act.

Schorsch said although January's primary and March's general election might not
be indicators of November's political climate, they could be the first gauge of
public sentiment over the health law's rollout. Whether those results stick
through November is the question.

I still think Obamacare/(The Affordable Care Act) will be a big issue in
November 2014, I just don't know how popular or unpopular it will be compared to
today, said Nathan Gonzales of DC blog The Rothenberg Political Report.

Since the start of the race, the political climate has shifted several times. In
October, Republicans were maligned by the government shutdown.

Democrats soon after were attacked for the HealthCare.gov roll-out.  The water
is calmer on both fronts now, but there's no telling what will happen in the
coming months.

No matter what happens, a lot will change between the special election and the
general election, Kondik said. It's possible that the seat will flip twice in
that time period.

Although it may not be a harbinger for November's midterm elections, the special
election could have other implications, especially for Florida Democrats.

A lot of people in the state would come to the conclusion that Democrats finally
have their act together, said USF St. Petersburg professor emeritus of
government Darryl Paulson. It would help them tremendously in terms of candidate
recruitment and fundraising.

The party has struggled to gain footing over the past several decades, but some
say the State House District 36 special election and the St. Petersburg mayor's
race, which both yielded  Democratic victories, were a boon to them, and the
District 13 seat would be a trifecta for the party statewide, if they win it.

If they don't win, they will continue to look for their proverbial Democratic
Moses to lead them out of the wilderness, Paulson said.

kbradshaw@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-7999

Twitter: @kbradshawTBO

BELLWETHER, Page 8

It's eight months ahead of a rash of elections that could shift political
dynamics nationwide, but don't call the race to fill Pinellas County's open
congressional seat a harbinger of things to come, experts say.

Some have called the upcoming vote to determine who will fill the Congressional
District 13 seat held for more than 40 years by the late U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill
Young a bellwether. The word's been attached to plenty of races recently as some
try to divine the outcome of future races. But those closely observing the
unfolding race say for a number of reasons, the result of the March 11 contest
won't be the fortune-telling tool media and pundits are hoping for ahead of the
midterm elections in November.

It's dangerous to give predictive value to special elections, said Kyle Kondik,
managing editor of DC politics blog Sabato's Crystal Ball. You really can't, and
you really shouldn't.

For one, local issues within a given congressional district might not reflect
the national population.

A case-in-point, Kondik said, is the election to fill the New York seat of
disgraced Democratic U.S. Rep. Anthony Weiner. When Weiner resigned in 2011, a
Republican won the seat - not because of some imminent GOP sweep (which never
happened), but because voters within the largely Orthodox Jewish district were
critical of President Obama's Israel policies, Kondik said.

The political dynamics of Florida's 13th has its own characteristics that don't
reflect those on the national level.

About a quarter of the electorate are not affiliated with a party, though
they've mostly sided with Democrats in recent state and national level
elections.

Those who are party members tend not to be extreme.

CD-13 is a unique district in that it does not reflect the partisan tempers of
either side, said Peter Schorsch, the consultant and blogger behind
SaintPetersBlog.

That's why candidates on either side tend to have more nuanced answers to
questions that would elicit hyperbole in more polarized places, he said, even on
the controversial Affordable Care Act.

Schorsch said although January's primary and March's general election might not
be indicators of November's political climate, they could be the first gauge of
public sentiment over the health law's rollout. Whether those results stick
through November is the question.

I still think Obamacare/(The Affordable Care Act) will be a big issue in
November 2014, I just don't know how popular or unpopular it will be compared to
today, said Nathan Gonzales of DC blog The Rothenberg Political Report.

Since the start of the race, the political climate has shifted several times. In
October, Republicans were maligned by the government shutdown.

Democrats soon after were attacked for the HealthCare.gov roll-out.  The water
is calmer on both fronts now, but there's no telling what will happen in the
coming months.

No matter what happens, a lot will change between the special election and the
general election, Kondik said. It's possible that the seat will flip twice in
that time period.

Although it may not be a harbinger for November's midterm elections, the special
election could have other implications, especially for Florida Democrats.

A lot of people in the state would come to the conclusion that Democrats finally
have their act together, said USF St. Petersburg professor emeritus of
government Darryl Paulson. It would help them tremendously in terms of candidate
recruitment and fundraising.

The party has struggled to gain footing over the past several decades, but some
say the State House District 36 special election and the St. Petersburg mayor's
race, which both yielded  Democratic victories, were a boon to them, and the
District 13 seat would be a trifecta for the party statewide, if they win it.

If they don't win, they will continue to look for their proverbial Democratic
Moses to lead them out of the wilderness, Paulson said.

kbradshaw@tampatrib.com

(727) 215-7999

Twitter: @kbradshawTBO

Bellwether

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

Obama planning push to curb pollution;
Proposals would not require action from Congress, adviser says

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- President Barack Obama is planning a major push using executive powers to
tackle the pollution blamed for global warming in an effort to make good on
promises he made at the start of his second term.

We know we have to do more - and we will do more, Obama said Wednesday in
Berlin.

Obama's senior energy and climate adviser, Heather Zichal, said the plan would
boost energy efficiency of appliances and buildings, expand renewable energy and
use the Environmental Protection Agency's authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate heat-trapping pollution from coal-fired power plants.

Zichal, speaking at a forum hosted by The New Republic in Washington, said that
none of the proposals would require new funding or action from Congress. It has
shown no appetite for legislation that would put a price on carbon dioxide after
a White House-backed bill to set up a market-based system died in Obama's first
term with Democrats in charge.

The plan, with details expected to be revealed in coming weeks, comes as Obama
has been under increasing pressure from environmental groups and lawmakers from
states harmed by superstorm Sandy to cut pollution from existing power plants,
the largest source of climate-altering gases.

Several major environmental groups and states have threatened to sue the
administration to force cuts to power plant emissions. And just last week,
former Vice President Al Gore, a prominent climate activist and fellow Democrat,
pointedly called on Obama to go beyond great words to great actions.

It was unclear whether the White House's plans would include controls on
existing power plants. An administration official, who wasn't authorized to
comment on the plan by name, said the White House was still weighing it.

But since the administration has already proposed action on future power plants,
the law would likely compel it to eventually tackle the remaining plants, or it
would be forced to through litigation.

Obama's remarks in Berlin echoed comments he made in his State of the Union and
inaugural speeches this year.

This is the global threat of our time, Obama said Wednesday. And for the sake of
future generations, our generation must move toward a global compact to confront
a changing climate before it is too late. That is our job. That is our task. We
have to get to work.

Some environmentalists who cheered those remarks when they were made months ago
criticized them Wednesday.

President Obama deserves praise for including climate change among the long-term
threats facing us all, said Ned Helme, president of the Center for Clear Air
Policy, an environmentally friendly think tank. But he should do more than talk
about the problem. The president needs to put the full force of his office
behind new regulations that will truly curb greenhouse gas emissions.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday

Experts: Expect bigger, fiercer wildfires in West;
More heat, drought, fuel, people are reasons

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


- There's a dangerous but basic equation behind the killer Yarnell Hill wildfire
and other blazes raging across the West this summer: More heat, more drought,
more fuel, more people add up to increasingly ferocious fires.

Scientists say a hotter planet will only increase the risk.

More than two dozen wildland fires are burning from Alaska to New Mexico, fueled
by triple-digit temperatures and arid conditions.

In the Arizona mountain town of Yarnell, a blaze apparently sparked by lightning
killed 19 members of an elite firefighting squad who deployed emergency shelters
Sunday when erratic monsoon winds sent flames racing in their direction. While
no wildfire can be pinned solely on climate change, researchers say there are
signs that fires are bigger, more common in an increasingly hot and bone-dry
West.

Twenty years ago, I would have said this was a highly unusual, fast-moving,
dangerous fire, said fire history expert Don Falk at the University of Arizona,
referring to the Yarnell Hill fire. Now unfortunately, it's not unusual at all.

Wildfires are chewing through twice as many acres per year on average in the
United States compared with 40 years ago, U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell
told a Senate hearing last month. Since Jan. 1, 2000, about 145,000 square miles
have burned, roughly the size of New York, New England, New Jersey, Delaware and
Maryland combined, according to federal records.

A draft federal report released earlier this year said climate change is
stressing Western forests, making them more vulnerable to fires.

What's happening now is not new to us, said climate scientist Don Wuebbles of
the University of Illinois, an author of the federal report. We've been saying
this for some time.

Communities near wilderness are used to girding for fire season, which typically
occurs in the summer. But compared with decades past, the fire season now lasts
two months longer.  Rising temperatures in the West have created dangerous, dry
conditions.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

BYLINE: MICHAEL KODAS; Bloomberg News

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 875 words



HIGHLIGHT: Fire column.


Three months ago, I refreshed my firefighting skills in a class created by the
National Wildfire Coordinating Group. I spent most of my week alone in front of
a computer, clicking through various lessons that have been digitized since the
last time I took the course more than 10 years ago.

One new lesson explained what to do if I encountered a meth lab. Another went
over how to identify hazardous waste and chemicals if I happened to stumble upon
an illegal dump. I could only shake my head. The last time I worked on a fire
line such hazards were far from my mind.

But these are the least of the changes complicating the job for today's
firefighters, who suffered the worst U.S. wildfire disaster in 80 years June 30,
when 19 died in Yarnell, Ariz.

When I last trained to fight wildfires, climate change was far from most
firefighters' minds. Today, it's hard to find a veteran firefighter who hasn't
seen firsthand the warming and drying of the nation's forests and how that's
increasing the intensity and frequency of fires.

The first fire I covered last year in my home state of Colorado was in the
waning days of winter, when the forest is normally covered in snow. We're seeing
fire behaviors we've never seen before, an incident commander told me.

Officials have since repeated that phrase like a mantra.

I heard the phrase later at fires outside Fort Collins and Colorado Springs that
destroyed more than 600 homes. I heard it again last fall at a fire in Rocky
Mountain National Park that burned through the winter.

Colorado has broken its most destructive fire record four times in the past four
years. By many measures Arizona, where the Granite Mountain Hotshots died, has
it even worse.

According to research by Climate Central, Arizona is warming faster than any
other state in the U.S., with temperatures increasing by 0.72 degrees a decade
since the 1970s. That warming has brought with it more frequent, severe and
long-lasting droughts.

The warming and drying of the Southwest aren't the only reasons fires now burn
bigger, faster and hotter. Historically every few decades wildfires consumed the
dead wood and grass, small trees and brush crowding the forest. During the past
century, land managers have successfully put out more than 98 percent of the
fires in Arizona forests, leaving natural fuel that would have otherwise burned
away.

Congress is holding hearings about how to thin the overgrown forests. It is
unlikely to make progress. The cost of physically clearing out excess timber and
brush from forests is high, and so is the public resistance to
controlled-burning programs. Timber harvests and grazing, a priority for many
Western legislators, can reduce some fire hazards but often make others worse.

The greatest challenge to firefighters may not be the trees or the tinder, which
have always been there, but the people. Last year I worked on a project to
analyze development patterns in the wildland urban interface, where homes and
human development abut flammable landscapes. In Colorado, we found that from
2000 to 2010, more than 100,000 people moved into the state's red zone, land
bordering the most flammable forests.

Today, more than one in five Colorado residents risk losing their home or their
life to wildfire simply because of where they choose to live.

That population brings with it new fuels to the forest - houses, cars, piles of
firewood and propane tanks. More significant, the people introduce new sources
of ignition. Power lines can arc or snap when overburdened during heat waves.
Vehicles and machinery spark hundreds of wildfires every year. Bullets from
sportsmen's guns and, in a few documented cases, sparks from golfers' clubs
striking rocks have ignited fires.

Wildland firefighters face increasing demand to protect these homes and
communities. That's a job they are far less equipped for than their urban
counterparts. Wildfire crews wear lightweight flame-retardant clothes rather
than heavy fire coats, pants and oxygen equipment. They usually have only an ax,
shovel or chainsaw to fight the fire, rather than a ladder truck with thousands
of gallons of water.

In the 1990s the average cost to the federal government of preventing, preparing
for and fighting wildfires was less than $1 billion annually, according to
Headwater Economics. In the past 10 years, the cost has surpassed $3 billion.

Yet these costs pale when compared with the price paid by Prescott, Ariz., last
week. Of the hundreds of Hotshot crews, the Navy SEALs of wildfire fighting, the
Granite Mountain group is the only one that's part of an urban fire department.

Of the 20 men who marched into the fire, only one - the lookout - survived.

With the homes, drug labs, hidden marijuana fields and dead wood increasingly
filling our forests, and the climate-warming pollutants we continue to emit into
the atmosphere, it's hard to imagine how our safety protocols will ever keep
pace with the hazard.

The only way to prevent the loss of firefighters in the forest is to not have
them there at all. And, increasingly, even when homes and infrastructure are
threatened, leaders of these fire fights have to make the right call - ordering
firefighters to stand down from dangerous situations even when private property
will burn.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

Study: Hot temperatures raise tempers;
Climate can promote conflict, authors say

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- As the world gets warmer, people are more likely to get hot under the collar,
scientists say. An expansive new study finds that aggressive acts like
committing violent crimes and waging war become more likely with each added
degree.

Researchers analyzed 60 studies on historic empire collapses, recent wars,
violent crime rates in the United States, lab simulations that tested police
decisions on when to shoot and even cases where pitchers threw deliberately at
batters in baseball. They found a common thread over centuries: Extreme weather
- very hot or dry - means more violence.

The authors say the results show strong evidence that climate can promote
conflict.

When the weather gets bad we tend to be more willing to hurt other people, said
economist Solomon Hsiang of the University of California, Berkeley.

He is the lead author of the study, published online Thursday in the journal
Science. Experts in the causes of war gave it a mixed reception.

The team of economists even came up with a formula that predicts how much the
risk of different types of violence should increase with extreme weather.

In war-torn parts of equatorial Africa, it says, every added degree Fahrenheit
or so increases the chance of conflict between groups - rebellion, war, civil
unrest - by 11 percent to 14 percent.  For the United States, the formula says
that for every increase of 5.4 degrees Fahrenheit, the likelihood of violent
crime goes up 2 percent to 4 percent.

Temperatures in much of North America and Eurasia are likely to go up by that
5.4 degrees by about 2065 because of increases in carbon dioxide pollution,
according to a separate paper published in Science on Thursday.

The same paper sees global averages increasing by about 3.6 degrees in the next
half-century. So that implies essentially about 40 percent to 50 percent more
chance for African wars than it would be without global warming, said Edward
Miguel, another Berkeley economist and study co-author.

Hsiang said that whenever the analyzed studies looked at temperature and
conflict, the link was clear, no matter where or when. His analysis examines
about a dozen studies on collapses of empires or dynasties, about 15 studies on
crime and aggression and more than 30 studies on wars, civil strife or
intergroup conflicts.

In one study, police officers in a psychology experiment were more likely to
choose to shoot someone in a lab simulation when the room temperature was
hotter, Hsiang said. In another study, baseball pitchers were more likely to
retaliate against their opponents when a teammate was hit by a pitch on hotter
days.  Hsiang pointed to the collapse of the Mayan civilization that coincided
with periods of historic drought about 1,200 years ago.

There's a good reason why people get more aggressive in warmer weather, Ohio
State University psychology professor Brad Bushman said. Although people say
they feel sluggish when they are hot, their heart rate and other physical
responses are aroused and elevated. They think they are not agitated, when in
fact they are, and that's a recipe for disaster, Bushman said.

Experts who research war and peace were split in their reaction to the work.

Joshua Goldstein, a professor of international relations at American University
and author of Winning the War on War, found faults with the way the study
measured conflicts.

Because of positive changes in technology, economics, politics and health
conflict is likely to continue to drop, although maybe not as much as it would
without climate change, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

The journey from hopelessness to action

BYLINE: SAM DALEY-HARRIS; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 739 words



HIGHLIGHT: world hunger


Brinkmanship over the federal budget, the debt ceiling and the Affordable Care
Act has offered an especially harsh backdrop to my recent conversations on
reclaiming democracy. Whenever an interviewer asks about my work to create the
political will to end poverty or ensure a stable climate, I am always sensitive
to the audience's despair about making a difference on these issues and their
deep cynicism about the political process. As a result, I constantly begin by
describing my own journey from hopelessness to action.

When I started that journey more than 35 years ago I was a musician and, like
most people, I was pretty ignorant about environmental issues and problems like
hunger and poverty.  But the death of a friend in 1964 and the death of Robert
Kennedy four years later got me to asking questions of purpose. Why am I here?
What am I here to do? Mark Twain wrote, The two most important days of your life
are the day you are born and the day you find out why. Those two deaths put me
on the quest to answer that why?

Nearly a decade later I was invited to a presentation on The Hunger Project. At
the time I thought that world hunger was inevitable because there were no
solutions. If there were solutions, I reasoned, somebody would have done
something by then. But I quickly realized the obvious. There was no mystery to
growing food or providing clean water or basic health. My hopelessness was not
about the perceived lack of solutions, I was hopeless about human nature - that
people would just never get around to doing the things that could be done.  But
there was one human nature I had some control over - my own. So I got involved.

In 1978 and 1979 I spoke to 7,000 high school students about world hunger.
Before speaking to the first class I read statements from a National Academy of
Sciences Food and Nutrition Study calling for the political will to end hunger.
I asked those 7,000 students to name their member of Congress. Only 200 knew the
answer, and 6,800 didn't.

I started the citizens lobby group RESULTS out of this gap between the calls for
political will to end hunger on the one hand and the lack of basic information
on who represented us in Washington on the other. I realized that real change
would occur only when individuals overcame their fear of stepping outside their
comfort zone to become empowered citizens, well informed and daring to speak
convincingly to their elected leaders. We developed a deep structure to
under-gird them: support groups, national conference calls with guest speakers,
monthly action alerts, and packets for editorial writers. Over the past 29 years
this deep structure of support has allowed RESULTS to be at the center of
advocacy efforts that have prompted a decline in global child deaths due to
largely preventable malnutrition and disease from 41,000 a day in 1984 to 18,000
a day today.

Now other organizations are providing citizens with this kind of support and
empowering them to make a big impact on other issues. For example, Citizens
Climate Lobby (CCL) has enabled their volunteers to have 900 media pieces
published and organize more than 600 meetings with members of Congress or their
staff on a revenue-neutral carbon tax, all in the first eight months of this
year.

This brings us back to the brinkmanship over the budget, the debt ceiling and
the Affordable Care Act. If we want a life that matters then we need to choose
an issue we care about, be it poverty, climate change, peace, or something else,
and learn the facts rather than clinging to unexamined assumptions.

Yes, congressional gridlock can bring despair, but so can hopeless inaction. If
you still need a nudge try this drawing. On the left side of the page is a small
circle labeled your comfort zone. On the right is a much larger circle labeled
where the magic happens. The work of reclaiming our democracy is about helping
us move out of our comfort zones to where the magic happens, whether it involves
seeing our deepest hopes expressed in the newspaper or moving our member of
Congress on an issue we care about. As the unattributed quote asserts, Be
outrageous.  It's the only place that isn't crowded.

Sam Daley-Harris of Princeton, N.J., is the founder of RESULTS, the Microcredit
Summit Campaign and the Center for Citizen Empowerment and Transformation. He is
the author of Reclaiming Our Democracy: Healing the Break Between People and
Government (Camino Books 2013).

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Four numbers say wind and solar can't save climate

BYLINE: Robert Bryce; Bloomberg News

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



HIGHLIGHT: energy story


 This week, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  begins releasing its
fifth assessment report. Like earlier reports, it will undoubtedly lead to more
calls to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide worldwide.

As the discussion unfolds, I would urge everyone to keep four numbers in mind:
32, 1, 30 and 1/2. These are the numbers that explain why any transition away
from our existing energy systems will be protracted and costly. Let's take them
in sequence.

First, 32: That's the percentage growth in carbon dioxide emissions that has
occurred globally since 2002. In the past decade, these emissions have increased
by about 8.4 billion tons. And nearly all of that has happened in the developing
world. In Asia, emissions rose 86 percent; in the Middle East, 61 percent; and
in Africa, 35 percent.

In the U.S., meanwhile, carbon dioxide emissions were 8 percent lower in 2012
than they were in 2002, largely due to a surge in shale gas production, which
has reduced coal use. In Europe, carbon dioxide emissions have been essentially
flat for a decade.

That 32 percent increase in global carbon dioxide emissions reflects the central
tension in any discussion about cutting the use of coal, oil and natural gas:
Developing countries - in particular, fast-growing economies such as Vietnam,
China and India - simply cannot continue to grow if they limit the use of
hydrocarbons. Those countries' refusal to enact carbon taxes or other
restrictions illustrates what Roger Pielke, a professor of environmental studies
at the University of Colorado, calls the iron law of climate policy: Whenever
policies focused on economic growth confront policies focused on emissions
reduction, it is economic growth that will win out every time.

Over the past 10 years, despite great public concern, carbon dioxide emissions
have soared because some 2.6 billion people still live in dire energy poverty.
More than 1.3 billion have no access to electricity at all.

Now to the second number: 1. That's the power density of wind in watts per
square meter. Power density is a measure of the energy flow that can be
harnessed from a given area, volume or mass. Six different analyses of wind (one
of them is my own) have all arrived at that same measurement.

Wind energy's paltry power density means that enormous tracts of land must be
set aside to make it viable. And that has spawned a backlash from rural and
suburban landowners who don't want 500-foot wind turbines near their homes. To
cite just one recent example, in late July, some 2,000 protesters marched
against the installation of more than 1,000 wind turbines in Ireland's Midlands
Region.

Consider how much land it would take for wind energy to replace the power the
U.S. now gets from coal. In 2011, the U.S. had more than 300 billion watts of
coal-fired capacity. Replacing that with wind would require placing turbines
over about 116,000 square miles, an area about the size of Italy. And because of
the noise wind turbines make - a problem that has been experienced from
Australia to Ontario - no one could live there.

There's no question that wind energy is growing rapidly. Last year, global
production of electricity from wind totaled 521 terawatt-hours, a fivefold
increase over 2005 output. That's more than five times the contribution made by
solar, which produced about 93 terawatt-hours of electricity last year. And
although the rapidly declining cost of solar panels that we've seen over the
past few years is encouraging, any major move toward renewable energy would
require installing a staggering number of wind turbines - on vast tracts of
land.

Could wind turbines be moved offshore? Sure. But that's unlikely to make them
less controversial - look at the years-long fight against the Cape Wind project
proposed for Nantucket Sound, off the coast of Massachusetts. Furthermore,
offshore wind turbines cost about three times as much as turbines on land.

Now let's turn to the third number: 30. This represents the massive scale of
global energy use, which is about 250 million barrels of oil equivalent per day,
or the output of about 30 Saudi Arabias. (Since the 1970s, the Saudis have
produced about 8.2 million barrels of oil per day.) Of that 30 Saudi Arabias of
daily energy consumption, we get 10 from oil, nine from coal, seven from natural
gas, two from hydro and 11/2 from nuclear.

That remaining 1/2 - the final number - represents the amount of energy we get
from all renewable sources, not counting hydropower. In 2012, the contribution
from all of those sources amounted to about 4.8 million barrels of oil
equivalent per day, or roughly one-half of a Saudi Arabia. Put another way, we
get about 50 times as much energy from all other sources - coal, oil, natural
gas, nuclear and hydropower - as we do from wind, solar, geothermal and biomass.

The essential truth about energy transitions is that they occur over decades,
even centuries. That can be seen by looking at coal, the world's fastest-growing
source of energy. Yes, coal use in the U.S. is declining. But it's soaring in
the developing world. It's also booming in Europe. Germany - which has more
solar capacity than any other country - is building 11,000 megawatts of new
coal-fired power plants.

Last year, global coal use surged by 2 million barrels of oil equivalent per day
- three times as much as nonhydro renewables grew. That increase in coal use,
more than any other factor, is what is driving the rise in carbon dioxide
emissions.

There are two punch lines here: First, climate scientists can warn us about
carbon dioxide emissions and their effect on the atmosphere and global
temperatures, but politicians cannot ignore the basic physics and math of the
world's $5 trillion-a-year appetite for energy.

Second, if policy makers are committed to reducing global carbon dioxide
emissions, then they will have to get serious about promoting sources of
electricity production that can compete with coal on price. Those sources must
be scalable, meaning they can be deployed all over the world fairly rapidly,
produce fewer carbon emissions than coal, and not take up too much land.

Fortunately, we already have those energy sources. They are natural gas and
nuclear.

Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the author of Power
Hungry: The Myths of 'Green' Energy and the Real Fuels of the Future.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

Earth's ozone hole smaller;
NASA official says main reason is warmer weather

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Ozone hole high over the South Pole shrinks by 6 percent; scientists
credit warm upper air


Warm air at high altitudes this September and October helped shrink the man-made
ozone hole near the South Pole ever so slightly, scientists say.

The hole is an area in the atmosphere with low ozone concentrations. It normally
is largest at this time of year. NASA says on average it covered 8.1 million
square miles this season. That's 6 percent smaller than the average since 1990.

The ozone hole is of concern because high-altitude ozone shields Earth from
ultraviolet radiation.

NASA chief atmospheric scientist Paul A. Newman says the main reason for this
year's result is local weather. The upper air temperature has been almost 2
degrees lower than normal in the globe's southernmost region. That has led to
fewer polar stratospheric clouds. These clouds are where chlorine and bromine,
which come from man-made products, nibble away at ozone.

It's just like watching the Pac-Man eating cookies, where cookies are ozone. The
chlorine atoms are the Pac-Man, Newman said.

James Butler, director of the global monitoring division at the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration's Earth System Research Lab, said Wednesday that
the new figures are sort of encouraging news.

It's not getting worse, Butler said. That's a good sign.

Butler said it stopped getting worse in the late 1990s. But, he added, we can't
say yet that it's a recovery.

Newman and Butler said they can't tell whether the ozone hole changes are
related to man-made global warming.

Last month had the second-highest average temperature on record for September,
NOAA announced Wednesday. Records go back to 1880.

For the entire globe, last month tied 2003 for the fourth hottest September on
record, with an average temperature 1.15 degrees higher than the average for the
20th century.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 25, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Advancing the case for fiscal liberalism

BYLINE: JASON WILSON, Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 900 words


BY JASON WILSON

Special to The Tampa Tribune

President Obama's oratory in the Inauguration and the State of the Union address
has been described as unapologetically liberal. However, the president is
instead advancing a more serious progressive philosophy that even some liberals
struggle to understand. Namely, that social liberalism and fiscal liberalism are
closely knit concepts that depend upon one another to further an equitable and
financially sound democratic nation.

The common refrain that "I am socially liberal but fiscally conservative" is
heard among many liberals to appeal more broadly to conservatives and
independents but demonstrates a lack of understanding of true social liberalism
and unjustly implies that fiscal liberalism somehow makes implicit wanton
monetary waste and misuse of public tax dollars.

Obama is making the case for fiscal liberalism which involves using government
policy to craft social fairness that, in turn, grows a stronger middle class,
creating opportunity for more Americans while generating a tax base to
ultimately pay down the national debt. Republicans, on the other hand, are
supporting a fiscal conservatism that does not imply less waste, but instead
advocates for growth of banks and big business in a top-down manner, through
deregulation and outright direct monetary gifts and subsidies to large
corporations, while explicitly ignoring social issues, thinking these irrelevant
to economic growth.

At their core, health care, equality of marriage, immigration reform, gun
control and climate change solutions all echo a larger philosophical battle of
fiscal liberalism versus fiscal conservatism, with social equality as a key
component of the success of fiscal liberal policy.

If Medicaid expansion, subsidies and the market exchanges can allow individuals
to avoid bankruptcy secondary to a medical illness; if the individual mandate
prohibits a medical illness of an uninsured individual from burdening the price
of health care for others; if individuals can love whom they please and marry
those they love; if those who come to this country to work hard can take part in
our social contract; if individuals can send their children to school without
unreasonable fear of a violent death from a firearm; or if children in every
household can live without threat of accidental shooting, then fiscal liberalism
suggests those individuals have a better chance of participating in the
workforce and joining the middle class.

That middle class, in turn, creates a tax base that funds innovation,
infrastructure and sometimes unavoidable wars while also lowering income
inequality to provide stability and security to the future of this country.
Fiscal liberalism understands that real conversations about our debt and the
burden of that debt on future generations cannot take place without debating not
if climate change is real but rather how we will deal with the ever-increasing
price tag for a comprehensive solution.

The contrast of fiscal liberalism and conservatism can be seen in our community.
Hillsborough County Commissioner Mark Sharpe, a Republican, has advocated for a
long time that we must use government policy in order to enhance economic growth
-- most recently in his support for a domestic partner registry, but beyond this
in his advocacy for transportation (he supported the 2010 transit tax) and
quality of life issues such as his role in helping to keep the Friendship
TrailBridge from a date with a wrecking ball.

Meanwhile, Commissioner Ken Hagan has demonstrated fiscal conservatism through
his efforts to subsidize a big business (Bass Pro Shops) by redistribution of
taxpayer dollars through the form of a large subsidy in hopes that the top-down
approach will bring jobs and economic growth to the eastern portion of
Hillsborough County.

Finally, the assumption that a Democrat or supporter of fiscal liberalism
somehow wastes more public dollars has been challenged and rejected by the
actions of Commissioner Kevin Beckner and, more recently, by Tampa Mayor Bob
Buckhorn.

Beckner, who has a background in financial planning, led efforts to responsibly
cut the Hillsborough budget by about $1 billion without a palpable loss in
social services.

In the city, Democrat Buckhorn (who signed a citywide domestic partner registry
in 2012 and also supports reasonable gun control) fired the division head of
Clean Cities after a pattern of underperformance and poor resource utilization.
Buckhorn also has signed a budget in each of his years in office that protects
the middle class by avoiding lay-offs and pension cuts.

Democrats must stop using the term "fiscal conservative" and instead help the
president advance the case for "fiscal liberalism" as sound economic policy that
focuses on building a strong middle class with opportunities and fairness for
all citizens, as well as on streamlining services to cut waste, thus creating a
smarter, not necessarily smaller, government.

Jason Wilson, M.D., is a clinical assistant professor and associate research
director in the Division of Emergency Medicine, University of South Florida
Morsani School of Medicine. He serves as the chair of the Health Care Policy
Council and the Precincts and Campaigns Committee for the Hillsborough County
Democratic Executive Council.

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

United States needs to fixits flawed disaster plan

BYLINE: DAVID R. CONRAD, Special to the Los Angeles Times

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 834 words


BY DAVID R. CONRAD

Special to the Los Angeles Times

If the highest goal of fiscal reform is to reduce spending and better the lives
of Americans, here's an idea that fits the bill: Improve the way the federal
government responds to the growing number of natural disasters.

Natural disasters have become increasingly costly to the United States,in terms
of the toll they take on American communities and in the direct costs of
mounting a federal response. The federal government spent about $150 billion on
relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina, and has so far committed about $60
billion for superstorm Sandy. The best estimate going forward is that the
federal government will spend in the neighborhood of $50 billion a year (in
constant dollars) on natural disasters, up from less than $10 billion a decade
ago.

What accounts for this increase? In the words of environmental geographer
Gilbert White, "Floods are acts of God, but flood losses are largely acts of
man." Although climate change may be making the occurrence of major storms and
floods more frequent, poor planning and bad development decisions are making
disasters more expensive.

The government does not, and should not, dictate where people can live, own
property or operate businesses. But policymakers could reduce the cost of
disasters by investing more in natural-hazard mitigation and by implementing
measures to discourage development of at-risk areas. Our research estimates that
if the government pursued these policies, it could save some $40 billion over
the next decade.

Part of the problem with current disaster relief policy is that because
taxpayers often foot much of the bill, homeowners, developers and local
governments have little incentive to avoid building or rebuilding in areas that
are at risk. Although the government can -- and should -- continue to offer
services for disaster victims, it must also change its approach to aid, offering
it with an aim of reducing future disaster losses.

This would be a major policy departure. After Hurricane Katrina, for instance,
very little of the assistance the government provided came with incentives to
rebuild in smarter ways that would avert losses in another hurricane.

With Sandy, the government still has a chance to do things better. We strongly
urge that all federal funds apportioned for Sandy recovery going forward be
dedicated to ensuring a safer, more resilient future for the afflicted area,
instead of going toward rebuilding in ways likely to ensure more waste and
misery for disaster victims, taxpayers and the environment.

Because the government makes extensive investment in infrastructure and other
development before disasters, and because it also has the deepest pockets when
disaster strikes, it has the ability to give communities incentives to help
themselves through better zoning regulations, building codes and hazard
management programs.

One policy that achieves this goal is the Community Rating System utilized by
the National Flood Insurance Program. The program, run by the government, makes
flood insurance available to residents of communities that adopt and enforce
minimum federally established flood-plain management standards.

Under the rating system, communities are evaluated on measures they have taken
that go beyond the minimum standards for flood preparedness and risk reduction.
These include incorporating flood-plain open space in planning, and requiring
that buildings be placed above a certain elevation. Communities that meet higher
standards are eligible for discounted insurance through the insurance program.

A similar system could be implemented for other types of natural hazards, such
as earthquake and wildfire, linking incentives to insurance rates, as well as
federal assistance. The government also could encourage natural-hazard
mitigation by eliminating tax deductions for disaster-related losses of those
not in compliance with federal standards, and by tying all forms of federal
assistance to a community's willingness to embrace safe development efforts.

The goal should be to use federal money to prevent disasters, not merely to
clean up afterward. Of course the government should continue to support
Americans who are the victims of natural disasters, but we also need to help
keep them safe from the next one. An effective way to reduce the cost of such
events is to take active steps before a disaster has even occurred.

At a time when the government is looking for ways to trim its budget, this is a
common-sense solution that will save money and, more important, lives.

David R. Conrad is an independent consultant on federal water resources policy.
Edward A. Thomas is president of the Natural Hazard Mitigation Association.
Their paper for the Hamilton Project, "Reforming Federal Support for Risky
Development," is available at www.hamiltonproject.org. They wrote this for the
Los Angeles Times.

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 11, 2013 Thursday

Rail disaster and Keystone XL

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 531 words



HIGHLIGHT: rail disaster


The Canadian train explosion Saturday was a human tragedy and environmental
disaster that should give President Barack Obama and opponents of the Keystone
XL pipeline much to think about.

The derailment and explosion of the 72-car train carrying crude oil destroyed
much of Lac Megantic, Quebec, incinerating more than two dozen buildings and
forcing the evacuation of at least 1,000 people.

The number of fatalities is uncertain. Fifteen people are confirmed dead, but
officials estimate about 40 are missing, and many are likely victims.
Identification will be difficult, as the police told ABC News the victims that
have been found were burned to the bones.

In addition, environmental officials say at least 26,000 gallons of crude
spilled into the Chaudiere River, which flows into the St. Lawrence River.

All this has rightly brought renewed scrutiny to the campaign against the
Keystone pipeline, which would deliver Canadian oil to Gulf of Mexico ports.

The project is depicted as an environmental monster, yet pipelines are more
heavily regulated than trains.

Pipelines are, to be sure, hardly accident-free - what is? - but they provide a
safe alternative to above-ground transport.

As The Wall Street Journal columnist Bret Stephens points out, pipelines account
for about half as much spillages as railways on a gallon-per-mile basis. More
importantly, pipelines tend not to go straight through exposed population
centers like Lac Megantic.

Yet there is fierce opposition to the Keystone pipeline, while little is heard
about the heavy and increasing use of rail for oil distribution.

The Journal reports that in 2008 the U.S. rail system carried only 9,500
carloads of oil. Last year, that number was 233,811. Spills increased from eight
to 69 during this period.

U.S. rail, it should be noted, has a mostly solid safety record. The Canadian
tragedy occurred when an unattended train started to roll, running seven miles
to Lac Megantic, which has 6,000 residents. Police are conducting a criminal
investigation into the tragedy.

Still, underground pipelines generally pose less of a threat to people and
resources - something that appears of little concern to those determined to stop
the Keystone.

Their goal is to discourage all use of fossil fuels in their effort to curtail
climate change, but this is a self-destructive way to achieve it.

We agree the nation should thoughtfully pursue clean alternatives to petroleum
products.  The science is sufficient to take climate change seriously - if not
necessarily every doom and gloom scenario.

But it is dangerously dreamy to think the nation can simply abandon fossil
fuels, which would result in staggering price increases and wreck the economy.
This, you can be certain, would do our planet no good.

Keystone, which would link Canada's oil sands to refineries that now import
crude oil from socialist Venezuela,  is more symbol than threat.

Stopping it won't affect carbon emissions because that oil will go elsewhere on
the world market.

The Obama administration, which has been stalling on deciding the Keystone
pipeline fate, should see that approving it could actually make energy
transportation in the United States safer and cleaner.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 17, 2013 Thursday

We need rational discussion

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1528 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political column from Tim Bryce. PLEASE USE TIM BRYCE SIG


Since moving to Palm Harbor 28 years ago, I have watched it grow from small
roads to major boulevards, from swampland and a quiet little town to a large
bedroom community. Shopping centers have sprung up everywhere, and we now have
some of the best schools in the country - not just in Pinellas County.

When I moved here from Ohio, there was very little on Tampa Road other than the
Oldsmar Flea Market, Heath Signs and the Lockheed Martin plant (which has
undergone several name changes over the years). Back in those days, Boot Ranch
was a real ranch.

The area has changed radically, and Pinellas is the most densely populated
county in Florida. That transformation has brought challenges and opportunities
- a variety of immediate and ongoing issues that deserve thoughtful discussion.

That's what you'll find every week in this column.

v v

As a taxpayer and parent, I am particularly interested in the educational needs
of our children, the safety of our citizens and making Pinellas a thriving
business community, a place where people want to live, work and play.

I'm not a politician, just an average Joe who cares about his country and
community. Yes, I am a misty-eyed patriot who admires and supports those headed
in harm's way to defend our country. I do not look down my nose at anyone who is
willing to work hard, regardless of occupation. And I believe in the dignity of
the human spirit, that everyone should lead a worthwhile life.

v v

As a businessman, I look for pragmatic solutions, not unproven theories, but
realize there will be times when it is necessary to calculate the odds and roll
the dice. It's called risk. Not surprisingly, I believe in substance versus
facade.

Over the years, I have served on more than 50 boards of directors and been
involved in numerous organizations, including Dunedin Masonic Lodge No. 192,
Palm Harbor

Little League, Dunedin Falcons, the North Pinellas Republican Club, along with
groups such as the Center of Academics for Business Administration and
Management and the Future Business Leaders of America and homeowners
associations.

I began my career as a management consultant, specializing in systems.

That has afforded me a rare opportunity to see quite a bit of the world: North
and South America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Australia.

I have worked with just about every type of company imaginable, from the board
room to the trenches and everywhere in between. Like many of you, we moved here
for the climate and lifestyle. Having access to a world-class airport such as
Tampa International was important, as were the fine hotels and golf courses in
Pinellas (particularly for our clients). I am also one of those rare oddities
who has worked for the same company for more than 30 years.

As social animals, I believe we need laws, rules and regulations so we may work
cooperatively and fairly, but not if it leads to a bureaucracy that stifles
progress and productivity. Pollsters tell us we no longer trust our politicians,
we are unhappy with the electoral process and that we cannot fight city hall.
No, we shouldn't give up. We need to rationally discuss the issues and vote
accordingly.

I was particularly proud last year when the Tampa Bay area hosted the Republican
National Convention. As a volunteer, I had an opportunity to meet with many
delegates. Time and again, I heard them say how beautiful our community was and
how nice the people were. We must be doing something right.

In my writing, I try to be straight with my readers. I am less concerned about
being politically correct and more interested in encouraging my readers to think
about things they may have overlooked or taken for granted. Over the years, I
have discovered common sense is no longer common. As such, I am trying to focus
on the right issues as opposed to rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic.
This is why I am concerned with issues such as Common Core, local tax increases
due to new regulations regarding flooding, the number of people being processed
through the county jail and bureaucratic inspections.

You won't always agree with my views, but my objective is to make you stop and
think. This is why I refer to my work as software for the finest computer: the
mind.

I possess the same frailties and frustrations most of you do. I want to be
treated fairly, I worry about the future and despise being cheated or taken for
granted. I want to do more than just survive. I want to succeed and leave this
world better off than when I entered it, but I realize I will have to work and
sacrifice to do so. I am one of you.

BRYCE, Page 4

Since moving to Palm Harbor 28 years ago, I have watched it grow from small
roads to major boulevards, from swampland and a quiet little town to a large
bedroom community. Shopping centers have sprung up everywhere, and we now have
some of the best schools in the country - not just in Pinellas County.

When I moved here from Ohio, there was very little on Tampa Road other than the
Oldsmar Flea Market, Heath Signs and the Lockheed Martin plant (which has
undergone several name changes over the years). Back in those days, Boot Ranch
was a real ranch.

The area has changed radically, and Pinellas is the most densely populated
county in Florida. That transformation has brought challenges and opportunities
- a variety of immediate and ongoing issues that deserve thoughtful discussion.

That's what you'll find every week in this column.

v v

As a taxpayer and parent, I am particularly interested in the educational needs
of our children, the safety of our citizens and making Pinellas a thriving
business community, a place where people want to live, work and play.

I'm not a politician, just an average Joe who cares about his country and
community. Yes, I am a misty-eyed patriot who admires and supports those headed
in harm's way to defend our country. I do not look down my nose at anyone who is
willing to work hard, regardless of occupation. And I believe in the dignity of
the human spirit, that everyone should lead a worthwhile life.

v v

As a businessman, I look for pragmatic solutions, not unproven theories, but
realize there will be times when it is necessary to calculate the odds and roll
the dice. It's called risk. Not surprisingly, I believe in substance versus
facade.

Over the years, I have served on more than 50 boards of directors and been
involved in numerous organizations, including Dunedin Masonic Lodge No. 192,
Palm Harbor

Little League, Dunedin Falcons, the North Pinellas Republican Club, along with
groups such as the Center of Academics for Business Administration and
Management and the Future Business Leaders of America and homeowners
associations.

I began my career as a management consultant, specializing in systems.

That has afforded me a rare opportunity to see quite a bit of the world: North
and South America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Australia.

I have worked with just about every type of company imaginable, from the board
room to the trenches and everywhere in between. Like many of you, we moved here
for the climate and lifestyle. Having access to a world-class airport such as
Tampa International was important, as were the fine hotels and golf courses in
Pinellas (particularly for our clients). I am also one of those rare oddities
who has worked for the same company for more than 30 years.

As social animals, I believe we need laws, rules and regulations so we may work
cooperatively and fairly, but not if it leads to a bureaucracy that stifles
progress and productivity. Pollsters tell us we no longer trust our politicians,
we are unhappy with the electoral process and that we cannot fight city hall.
No, we shouldn't give up. We need to rationally discuss the issues and vote
accordingly.

I was particularly proud last year when the Tampa Bay area hosted the Republican
National Convention. As a volunteer, I had an opportunity to meet with many
delegates. Time and again, I heard them say how beautiful our community was and
how nice the people were. We must be doing something right.

In my writing, I try to be straight with my readers. I am less concerned about
being politically correct and more interested in encouraging my readers to think
about things they may have overlooked or taken for granted. Over the years, I
have discovered common sense is no longer common. As such, I am trying to focus
on the right issues as opposed to rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic.
This is why I am concerned with issues such as Common Core, local tax increases
due to new regulations regarding flooding, the number of people being processed
through the county jail and bureaucratic inspections.

You won't always agree with my views, but my objective is to make you stop and
think. This is why I refer to my work as software for the finest computer: the
mind.

I possess the same frailties and frustrations most of you do. I want to be
treated fairly, I worry about the future and despise being cheated or taken for
granted. I want to do more than just survive. I want to succeed and leave this
world better off than when I entered it, but I realize I will have to work and
sacrifice to do so. I am one of you.

Bryce

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Huge chunkof Highlands, DeSoto for sale

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 424 words


65,000 acres said to be in path ofnorth-southroad

BY WILLIAM MARCH

Tribune staff

TAMPA A company linked to former state Sen. JD Alexander plans to sell about
65,000 acres of land in Highlands and DeSoto counties, much of it citrus groves
and cattle pastures.

The land is in the path identified by the state Department of Transportation as
a "future corridor" for the Heartland Parkway, a highway that would run north
and south from just east of Fort Myers to Lakeland.

The idea for the toll road is criticized by some area residents who say it could
contribute to sprawl, and it's supported by others who say the parkway will be
needed to serve future development.

Alexander, formerly the chairman of the powerful Senate budget committee, has
denied pushing to include the highway in Department of Transportation planning,
as some other legislators have suggested.

Alexander didn't return calls for comment Tuesday.

The company, Atlantic Blue Group, said in a written announcement that it has
engaged a commercial real estate services firm to manage the sale.

It will sell Blue Head Ranch, Blue Head Farms and Tri-County Grove, described by
a company spokesman as extending about 17 miles along the border of Highlands
and DeSoto counties.

The land being sold includes the planned Bluehead Ranch development on about
40,500 acres of the ranch just south of State Road 70 in Highlands County.

Atlantic Blue and a related company, Alico Inc., grew out of the agricultural
empire built by Alexander's grandfather, legendary Central Florida citrus
magnate Ben Hill Griffin. Alexander is CEO of Alico and former CEO of Atlantic
Blue, which is the majority stockholder in Alico.

David Koon, current Atlantic Blue CEO, said in the announcement that the sale is
motivated by "the current business climate, along with recent changes in tax
law."

Alico said in a written announcement that it has been told by Atlantic Blue that
it intends "to explore the potential sale of substantially all of their assets
during the 2013 calendar year" and pursue sale of its Alico stock.

Alico said it was told that's because of changes in tax laws on sales of assets
by corporationssuch as Atlantic Blue.

The Department of Transportation's "future corridors" program, initiated by
former Gov. Jeb Bush, identified corridors for a network of future toll roads
crisscrossing undeveloped areas of Florida to serve development in those areas.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7761

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday

VA workers train to deal with unruly clientele;
Patient mortally shot last week a first for 80-year-old Bay Pines

BYLINE: HOWARD ALTMAN AND STEPHEN THOMPSON; Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3053 words



HIGHLIGHT: Vincent Young had long been simmering when he showed up at the Bay
Pines VA Medical Center Emergency room last week. When he pulled out a knife,
the hospital went into a "Code White," an active-shooter type situation that
employees train for at least once a quarter. Then something went horribly wrong,
something that had never happened at the hospital before. VA police shot Young
dead, an incident that is the center of two investigations, one by the FBI and
the other an internal VA review. While a shooting death at the hospital is
unprecedented, violent incidents took places about once every 10 days acorss the
Bay Pines system, according to records requested by The Tribune under the
federal Freedom of Information Act.


Vincent Young, who had a history of domestic violence arrests and told friends
he was dying of cancer, was one of the more than 100,000 veterans treated
annually by the Bay Pines VA Healthcare System when he showed up at the Pinellas
County emergency room last week.

But at about 5 p.m. on Oct. 25, investigators say Young, 68, set off a series of
events that made his visit unique.

He walked into the lobby of the emergency room carrying a backpack, said Special
Agent Dave Couvertier with the FBI. Young then said he had a bomb, and when
police with the Department of Veterans Affairs confront

ed him, Young brandished a knife and lunged at them, Couvertier said.

Hospital employees train for these types of situations at least four times a
year, says the president of the union representing the hospital system's nearly
3,500 nonmanagerial personnel. Police and mental health professionals respond.
And employees lock their doors and stay inside until the all-clear is given.

Trouble sometimes happens. There are nearly two disorderly conduct incidents
every day and about one assault every 10 days across the Bay Pines system, the
VA's fourth-busiest, according to records obtained by the Tribune through a
Freedom of Information Act request.

If this were a drill, the overhead paging system would have said that, said
Tatishka Musgrove, president of American Federation of Government Employees,
Local 398.

This was no drill.

VA police shot and wounded Young. He was treated in the hospital and died there
from his injuries.

The incident is the focus of two investigations, one by the FBI and one by the
VA. Though it will be awhile before the results are made public, there likely
will be changes to hospital policy, Musgrove said.

Among other things, there will probably be more police presence in the lobby,
she said.

This was the first incidence of deadly force at Bay Pines since it opened in
1933, according to Bay Pines spokesman Jason Dangel. There has never been one at
Tampa's James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, according to spokeswoman Karen
Collins.

Nationwide, however, VA facilities are no stranger to deadly violence. There
have been five cases where VA police have used lethal force since 2010,
according to VA spokesman Randy Noller.

Musgrove said if any Bay Pines employees are worried about their safety, she is
not aware.

No one has expressed it directly to me, she said.

v v

To his neighbors and friends at Harbor Lights Club mobile home park, across the
street from the veterans hospital, Vincent Young only seemed to be troubled in
retrospect, after his death. But Pinellas County Sheriff's Office reports paint
a portrait of a man who fought with his wife until their divorce, and once had
to be taken into custody for psychiatric evaluation under the state's Baker Act
during their troubled marriage.

He was very polite to everybody, said his next-door neighbor Susan Tuskowski. He
was a very nice neighbor and he was just a private person. Others described him
as a hermit interested in fixing computers and making model airplanes that flew
by remote control.

George Gunny Kenny, 63, another denizen of Harbor Lights, said he was Young's
best friend.

Kenny's wife, Carole Langley-Kenny, said Young intimated he was dying of cancer
during a brief encounter in September at a nearby Wawa convenience store, when
she revealed she was on her way to see her daughter, who was dying of cancer,
and that her nephew had recently died of cancer.

Then he looked at me and said, 'Me, too,'  she said. But Young didn't say what
type of cancer he had, Langley-Kenny said, and she didn't press the issue
because she had too much on her mind. Both she and her husband had noticed a
recent precipitous drop in Young's weight, more than 100 pounds in seven months.

Talking to him, I felt it was terminal, she said. Young's wife Judi divorced him
in 2007. The split came after a sometimes rancorous relationship, according to
sheriff's reports.

In 2005, Pinellas deputies responded to a mobile home where the couple were
living, in reference to a domestic disturbance. They found a broken bedroom
door, and Young, drunk, on a side porch watching television. Judi told deputies
Young was getting increasingly hostile over an upcoming girls' vacation she was
taking in Ohio without him, and that he had recently been sleeping in the guest
room.

After she locked him out of the bedroom, he broke the bedroom door, Judi Young
told deputies. Vince Young said she had broken it. She agreed to leave, to go to
her daughter's place, and, since she did not claim she was in fear of her
husband, no one was arrested.

In 2004, deputies found Vince Young lying on his stomach in the driveway where
he was living with his wife, extremely drunk and with cuts on his arms. His wife
had barricaded herself inside a room and wouldn't come out until deputies
arrived. She said he had been drinking all day, watching football, and that he
gets difficult when he gets drunk, the sheriff's report states. He had tried
forcing his way into the bedroom after she barricaded herself in it.

Judi Young said her husband hadn't worked in a while, after he was arrested on a
charge of domestic battery in 2003 in connection with an assault on her. She
said he blamed his inability to find work on her.

Since deputies found Young with lacerations on his arms, likely caused by a box
cutter - he said he got them from fending off an attack from his wife - Young
was taken into custody under the state's Baker Act, which allows someone to be
held 72 hours for a psychiatric evaluation.

v v

Navy veteran Sam Brooks, 66, had come to Bay Pines with his wife Margaret, 65,
to get his medications adjusted.

It was shortly before 5 p.m. Oct. 25.

Daniel Leding, one of the VA's doctors, had just come into a room off the
emergency room lobby where Brooks was on an examining table when the couple
heard the sound of an argument in the lobby.

We heard a ruckus, Sam Brooks said. We heard a person say, 'Put it down!' The
other person cursed at him and said, 'Don't bother me.'

The argument got more heated, Sam Brooks said.

I heard this other person say, 'Put it down now!' Then he says, 'Get on the
floor, I am a federal marshal.' Then we heard rapid fire.

Sam and Margaret Brooks said they heard four shots.

That's when Leding got the couple on the floor and used his body to shield them.

We didn't know if there was a shooter going room to room, Sam Brooks said. This
man was so heroic to shield us like that.

After what seemed like forever, the crisis was over and the couple were led out
through the lobby, where they could see Young, on his back, being worked on
furiously by the hospital's medical staff, before he was eventually taken to the
operating room.

v v

Between Oct. 1, 2012, and Sept. 30, Bay Pines treated more than 103,500
patients, completed 1.3 million outpatient appointments, and admitted more than
10,200 patients at its primary medical center for inpatient specialty services,
according to records obtained by the Tribune. Those figures include the Bay
Pines VA Medical Center and outpatient clinics located in Bradenton, Cape Coral,
Naples, Palm Harbor, Port Charlotte, Sarasota, Sebring and St. Petersburg.

There are 29 VA police officers in the Bay Pines system. Like all VA police,
they go through an eight-week training course and receive about 100 hours of
firearms training, according to VA spokesman Noller.

The Bay Pines VA police investigated more than 3,000 incidents between Oct. 1,
2012, and Sept. 30, according to Uniform Crime Report figures obtained via a
Freedom of Information Act request.

More than half ,1,885, were noncriminal, including responding to customer and
patient assistance requests, false alarms, safety hazards, training events and
vehicle accidents. The next biggest category, with 753 responses, were parking,
moving and nonmoving violations.

There were 594 police responses to disorderly conduct reports, according to the
records, most of which were for complaints of disorderly conduct, disturbing the
peace, patient- to-employee threats and profanity or obscene language,

Officers investigated 70 larcenies, resulting in a loss of about $14,000 total.

Of the 39 responses to reported assaults, only one was for an aggravated assault
- meaning a weapon, or an item intended to be used as a weapon - was involved,
according to Dangel. Most of the offenders, 28, were patients, according to the
report, and most of the victims, 23, were VA employees.

Neither the FBI nor the VA would comment about the investigations into the Young
shooting.

Musgrove, the union president, said the VA launched a full-out investigation to
see if anything could have been done differently.

Each employee, Musgrove said, was talked to by the central office investigation
team, and were offered the chance to seek counseling, if needed, through the
employee assistance program.

Despite the shooting, Musgrove said the people she represents aren't working in
a climate of fear.

The majority of people do feel safe at work, she said.

Sam and Margaret Brooks echoed that sentiment.

I have no safety concerns at all, Sam Brooks said.

haltman@tamaptrib.com

(813) 259-7629

Twitter: @haltman

TRAIN, Page 12

Vincent Young, who had a history of domestic violence arrests and told friends
he was dying of cancer, was one of the more than 100,000 veterans treated
annually by the Bay Pines VA Healthcare System when he showed up at the Pinellas
County emergency room last week.

But at about 5 p.m. on Oct. 25, investigators say Young, 68, set off a series of
events that made his visit unique.

He walked into the lobby of the emergency room carrying a backpack, said Special
Agent Dave Couvertier with the FBI. Young then said he had a bomb, and when
police with the Department of Veterans Affairs confront

ed him, Young brandished a knife and lunged at them, Couvertier said.

Hospital employees train for these types of situations at least four times a
year, says the president of the union representing the hospital system's nearly
3,500 nonmanagerial personnel. Police and mental health professionals respond.
And employees lock their doors and stay inside until the all-clear is given.

Trouble sometimes happens. There are nearly two disorderly conduct incidents
every day and about one assault every 10 days across the Bay Pines system, the
VA's fourth-busiest, according to records obtained by the Tribune through a
Freedom of Information Act request.

If this were a drill, the overhead paging system would have said that, said
Tatishka Musgrove, president of American Federation of Government Employees,
Local 398.

This was no drill.

VA police shot and wounded Young. He was treated in the hospital and died there
from his injuries.

The incident is the focus of two investigations, one by the FBI and one by the
VA. Though it will be awhile before the results are made public, there likely
will be changes to hospital policy, Musgrove said.

Among other things, there will probably be more police presence in the lobby,
she said.

This was the first incidence of deadly force at Bay Pines since it opened in
1933, according to Bay Pines spokesman Jason Dangel. There has never been one at
Tampa's James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, according to spokeswoman Karen
Collins.

Nationwide, however, VA facilities are no stranger to deadly violence. There
have been five cases where VA police have used lethal force since 2010,
according to VA spokesman Randy Noller.

Musgrove said if any Bay Pines employees are worried about their safety, she is
not aware.

No one has expressed it directly to me, she said.

v v

To his neighbors and friends at Harbor Lights Club mobile home park, across the
street from the veterans hospital, Vincent Young only seemed to be troubled in
retrospect, after his death. But Pinellas County Sheriff's Office reports paint
a portrait of a man who fought with his wife until their divorce, and once had
to be taken into custody for psychiatric evaluation under the state's Baker Act
during their troubled marriage.

He was very polite to everybody, said his next-door neighbor Susan Tuskowski. He
was a very nice neighbor and he was just a private person. Others described him
as a hermit interested in fixing computers and making model airplanes that flew
by remote control.

George Gunny Kenny, 63, another denizen of Harbor Lights, said he was Young's
best friend.

Kenny's wife, Carole Langley-Kenny, said Young intimated he was dying of cancer
during a brief encounter in September at a nearby Wawa convenience store, when
she revealed she was on her way to see her daughter, who was dying of cancer,
and that her nephew had recently died of cancer.

Then he looked at me and said, 'Me, too,'  she said. But Young didn't say what
type of cancer he had, Langley-Kenny said, and she didn't press the issue
because she had too much on her mind. Both she and her husband had noticed a
recent precipitous drop in Young's weight, more than 100 pounds in seven months.

Talking to him, I felt it was terminal, she said. Young's wife Judi divorced him
in 2007. The split came after a sometimes rancorous relationship, according to
sheriff's reports.

In 2005, Pinellas deputies responded to a mobile home where the couple were
living, in reference to a domestic disturbance. They found a broken bedroom
door, and Young, drunk, on a side porch watching television. Judi told deputies
Young was getting increasingly hostile over an upcoming girls' vacation she was
taking in Ohio without him, and that he had recently been sleeping in the guest
room.

After she locked him out of the bedroom, he broke the bedroom door, Judi Young
told deputies. Vince Young said she had broken it. She agreed to leave, to go to
her daughter's place, and, since she did not claim she was in fear of her
husband, no one was arrested.

In 2004, deputies found Vince Young lying on his stomach in the driveway where
he was living with his wife, extremely drunk and with cuts on his arms. His wife
had barricaded herself inside a room and wouldn't come out until deputies
arrived. She said he had been drinking all day, watching football, and that he
gets difficult when he gets drunk, the sheriff's report states. He had tried
forcing his way into the bedroom after she barricaded herself in it.

Judi Young said her husband hadn't worked in a while, after he was arrested on a
charge of domestic battery in 2003 in connection with an assault on her. She
said he blamed his inability to find work on her.

Since deputies found Young with lacerations on his arms, likely caused by a box
cutter - he said he got them from fending off an attack from his wife - Young
was taken into custody under the state's Baker Act, which allows someone to be
held 72 hours for a psychiatric evaluation.

v v

Navy veteran Sam Brooks, 66, had come to Bay Pines with his wife Margaret, 65,
to get his medications adjusted.

It was shortly before 5 p.m. Oct. 25.

Daniel Leding, one of the VA's doctors, had just come into a room off the
emergency room lobby where Brooks was on an examining table when the couple
heard the sound of an argument in the lobby.

We heard a ruckus, Sam Brooks said. We heard a person say, 'Put it down!' The
other person cursed at him and said, 'Don't bother me.'

The argument got more heated, Sam Brooks said.

I heard this other person say, 'Put it down now!' Then he says, 'Get on the
floor, I am a federal marshal.' Then we heard rapid fire.

Sam and Margaret Brooks said they heard four shots.

That's when Leding got the couple on the floor and used his body to shield them.

We didn't know if there was a shooter going room to room, Sam Brooks said. This
man was so heroic to shield us like that.

After what seemed like forever, the crisis was over and the couple were led out
through the lobby, where they could see Young, on his back, being worked on
furiously by the hospital's medical staff, before he was eventually taken to the
operating room.

v v

Between Oct. 1, 2012, and Sept. 30, Bay Pines treated more than 103,500
patients, completed 1.3 million outpatient appointments, and admitted more than
10,200 patients at its primary medical center for inpatient specialty services,
according to records obtained by the Tribune. Those figures include the Bay
Pines VA Medical Center and outpatient clinics located in Bradenton, Cape Coral,
Naples, Palm Harbor, Port Charlotte, Sarasota, Sebring and St. Petersburg.

There are 29 VA police officers in the Bay Pines system. Like all VA police,
they go through an eight-week training course and receive about 100 hours of
firearms training, according to VA spokesman Noller.

The Bay Pines VA police investigated more than 3,000 incidents between Oct. 1,
2012, and Sept. 30, according to Uniform Crime Report figures obtained via a
Freedom of Information Act request.

More than half ,1,885, were noncriminal, including responding to customer and
patient assistance requests, false alarms, safety hazards, training events and
vehicle accidents. The next biggest category, with 753 responses, were parking,
moving and nonmoving violations.

There were 594 police responses to disorderly conduct reports, according to the
records, most of which were for complaints of disorderly conduct, disturbing the
peace, patient- to-employee threats and profanity or obscene language,

Officers investigated 70 larcenies, resulting in a loss of about $14,000 total.

Of the 39 responses to reported assaults, only one was for an aggravated assault
- meaning a weapon, or an item intended to be used as a weapon - was involved,
according to Dangel. Most of the offenders, 28, were patients, according to the
report, and most of the victims, 23, were VA employees.

Neither the FBI nor the VA would comment about the investigations into the Young
shooting.

Musgrove, the union president, said the VA launched a full-out investigation to
see if anything could have been done differently.

Each employee, Musgrove said, was talked to by the central office investigation
team, and were offered the chance to seek counseling, if needed, through the
employee assistance program.

Despite the shooting, Musgrove said the people she represents aren't working in
a climate of fear.

The majority of people do feel safe at work, she said.

Sam and Margaret Brooks echoed that sentiment.

I have no safety concerns at all, Sam Brooks said.

haltman@tamaptrib.com

(813) 259-7629

Twitter: @haltman

Train

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday

Justices will review EPA's global warming rules;
Court to decide how far agency's authority extends

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Supreme Court to review EPA rules on curbing global warming gases
from factories, power plants


 - The Supreme Court agreed Tuesday to decide whether to block key aspects of
the Obama administration's plan aimed at cutting power plant and factory
emissions of the gases blamed for global warming.

The justices said they will review a unanimous federal appeals court ruling that
upheld the government's unprecedented regulation of six heat-trapping gases.

The question in the case is whether the Environmental Protection Agency's
authority to regulate automobile emissions of greenhouse gases as air
pollutants, which stemmed from a 2007 Supreme Court ruling, also applies to
power plants and factories.

The case will be argued in early 2014.

The administration's climate change plans hinge on the 2007 decision in
Massachusetts v. EPA, which said that the EPA has the authority under the Clean
Air Act to limit emissions of greenhouse gases from vehicles.

Two years later, Obama's EPA concluded that the release of the six gases
endangered human health and welfare, a finding the administration has used to
extend its authority beyond automobiles to large stationary sources. The
president gave the EPA until next summer to propose regulations for existing
power plants, the largest unregulated source of global warming pollution.

The justices declined to take up even larger questions posed by some of the
appeals, including whether the 2007 decision in Massachusetts v. EPA should be
overturned.

The regulations have been in the works since 2011 and stem from the landmark
Clean Air Act that was passed by Congress and signed by President Richard Nixon
in 1970 to control air pollution.

The administration has come under fierce criticism from Republicans for pushing
ahead with the regulations after Congress failed to pass climate legislation,
and after the Bush administration resisted such steps.

In 2012, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia concluded that the EPA was unambiguously correct in using
existing federal law to address global warming.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Fidel Castro in 'excellent health,' journalist says;
Ex-leader's well-being questioned when he didn't comment on Mandela's death

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


- Fidel Castro was healthy and alert while speaking with a Spanish reporter
about current events for 2 ½ hours last week, the journalist said Monday.

A photo of the discussion appeared in official media Monday after days of
speculation about the former Cuban president's health, fueled when he didn't
comment publicly on Nelson Mandela's death.

The former South African president was a close ally, thanks to Cuba's backing of
Angolan fighters who battled forces supported by the previous pro-apartheid
South African government of the 1980s.

The photo shows Castro, 87, seated and wearing a blue sweatsuit, looking
intensely at writer Ignacio Ramonet and gesturing with his left hand. Ramonet
and the website Cubadebate say the photo was taken Friday.

Ramonet said he and Castro discussed a wide range of topics including Mandela,
Venezuelan politics and climate change and, I found him to be in excellent
health and in a good mood, physically, mentally and psychologically.

Castro left power after 47 years after suffering serious intestinal bleeding in
2006, handing his duties to his brother Raul. Ramonet has written extensively
about Castro and late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who died of cancer last
year.

He's interested in everything. The environment, the climate crisis, Chile,
Venezuela, South Africa, Ramonet said of Castro. Everything interests him.

I found him alert, on top of current events, Ramonet said. We spoke a lot about
Chavez, because Friday was the 19th anniversary of the two leaders' first
meeting.

It's clear that Castro hasn't forgotten him and maintains great affection for
him, Ramonet said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 850 words


Regarding "Jobless rate at 4-year low" (front page, March 9): Your article on
the economy does a disservice to readers. While the official unemployment rate
is, in fact, 7.7 percent, it includes workers who work as little as one hour per
week. Although it is the lowest since December 2008, the labor force
participation rate -- which gets at the universe of jobs actually out there --
is also the lowest since then. And the real unemployment rate is more than 14
percent, including those who have given up looking.

While the article highlights the 236,000 jobs gained, the article does not
mention the 130,000 people who left the workforce. If, as the article says, we
need 200,000 new jobs per month to keep even (i.e., not grow), did we really
only pick up 106,000?

And while the 236,000 is more than expected, it's way down from the trend of
some 300,000. Note that that's per month; we average about 350,000 new
unemployment claims per week. What does that tell us?

Ernest Lane

Trinity

It's your ticket

Working in sales for 35 years, I've taken clients and prospective clients to
countless sporting events and other live events to help build business
relationships. My company holds season tickets for the Tampa Bay Rays, Tampa Bay
Bucs and Orlando Magic, which are accessible to our sales team.

Over the past year, I've read about restricted tickets that limit or prevent
people from giving away or reselling tickets in order to stop ticket scalpers.
I'm a husband, a father, a salesman, a Bucs and Rays fan, but a scalper? I
certainly don't think so.

Season tickets, and even individual game tickets, for a professional sports team
like the Bucs are no small investment, and I should be able to give them away or
resell them if I choose.

Like many other fans, I support legislation that protects the rights of
ticketholders. House Bill 163 and Senate Bill 394 in the Florida Legislature
ensure that when a person buys a ticket, it's their ticket. This is policy that
simply makes sense.

Michael Pounders

St. Petersburg

Enjoy the weather

The article in Friday's Tampa Tribune about the "unprecedented" warming of the
Earth is just another example of the "global warming as man-made disaster"
clique attempting to mislead the public by manipulating data ("Warming
unprecedented, study shows," Nation & World). While the fossil records can
certainly show relative temperature changes over long periods of time,
scientists cannot identify specific fossils with specific decades in past
millennia. Consequently, the claims of the reported study are totally without
merit. As the old saying goes, "Figures don't lie, but liars figure."

It was only about 150 years ago that we escaped the clutches of a 500-year
period of such brutally cold weather that it is known as "The Little Ice Age."
It is astonishing that these people want to plunge us back into another period
of misery. We should count our blessings and enjoy our relatively warm weather
while we can.

Michael F. McQueen

Brandon

Understanding reality

Regarding "The Obama trap" (Your Views, March 8): Betty Dobson's letter states
how clever the president is and how he is ensnaring the governor in a trap.
Imagine the governor actually believing that lie about the federal government
paying 100 percent of the state's cost for Medicaid expansion for three years
and more than 90 percent thereafter. It is interesting to note that while Dobson
doesn't believe the president, lobbyists for Associated Industries of Florida (a
group with very strong conservative credentials and influence) do, and are
pressuring the Legislature to accept the proposed expansion because they feel it
is a good deal for their business clients and for Floridians in general.

What do they know that Dobson doesn't? They know that when the president's
health care plan passed, it ended a federal program that helped hospitals with
the cost of providing care for those who cannot afford to pay. The idea being
that since under the new health care law all people would have health insurance
coverage (private insurance or Medicaid), there would be no further need for
that assistance. Since hospitals cannot by law decline care for people who don't
have the money, what are the options? The hospitals could go broke providing the
care out of their own resources. The state, if it accepted the new Medicaid
funds, could use that money to compensate hospitals for the medical care
provided to these people. The last option would be to have the state compensate
the hospitals out of its own funds to help them care for the more than 1 million
uninsured in this state. Which is the obvious pick?

That is why the governor and Associated Industries of Florida have agreed to go
along with the president's plan. It is not that they are gullible and stupid.
They understand the reality of the situation. Now all we have to do is hope they
can convince the Legislature, especially House Speaker Will Weatherford and his
companions in the House, to go along with reason.

Rene Tamargo

Tampa

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 27, 2013 Friday

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1584 words



HIGHLIGHT: FEEDERS


CAFÉ OLE, 10020 Cross Creek Blvd., Tampa: (813) 907-5242. Café Ole is small on
size, but big on taste. The solid Spanish cuisine is split into tapas and
platos. The tapas selection has about 30 choices such as, tuna & chicken
croquettes, grilled shrimp, a banderillas mixtas, mussels sautéed in lobster
sauce, chorizo salteado, or gambas al ajillo (jumbo shrimp sautéed in garlic
sauce, red pepper and olive oil). The platos menu is equally tasty with choices
from paella, pork, chicken fish and steak. Don't leave without finishing your
dinner with café con leche, a custard with a properly caramelized crust. ($$)

PANNARANO PIZZERIA NAPOLETANA, 8830 N. Himes Ave., Tampa; (813) 930-7900. When
you have a hankering for a thin crust New York style pizza, then North Tampa's
Pannarano Pizzeria is a good option. Pannarano specializes in Neapolitan style
pizza made from hand stretched dough. Choose from a long list of specialty
pizzas such as Meat Lovers, Funghi, Hawaiian, the white spinach Alfredo or
create your own unique masterpiece. If you're not up for pizza, then choose
either the calzone, Stromboli and rolls which come with a side of pizza sauce
for dipping - you'll want to try the sauce, it's that good. ($)

CHART HOUSE, 7616 W. Courtney Campbell Causeway, Tampa: (813) 289-7773. This
upscale seafood restaurant has one of the best bayside views Tampa has to offer.
You can start with the lobster and shrimp spring rolls which come with chili
dipping sauce that really packs a punch. Entrées include The Bronzed Wahoo,
which is nicely spiced and pan seared with a crab cake on the side. Another is
the mixed seafood grill, bronzed mahi, shrimp scampi and jumbo lump crab cake.
Make sure you save room for dessert, which is made to order (so make sure to
order it when you order your entrée). Dessert is made to order. ($$$)

ZUDAR'S, 201 W. Platt St., Tampa; (813) 250-6272. This popular South Tampa café
has long been known for its gigantic sandwiches, homemade soups and other tasty
lunchtime fare. But since new owner Eric Weinstein took over, he added breakfast
and dinner to the menu and also added his motto, Why Cook? The eclectic
appetizers consist of three different sliders: Angus Burger, Mojo Pork and Crab
Cake along with the standard Buffalo wings, nachos and chicken quesadillas.
Entrée choices are huge and the Classic Meatloaf is enough for two meals. The
Beef Short Ribs are slathered in a tomato-molasses sauce that is lip-smacking
good. The children's menu is a big hit and kids 12 and younger eat free every
Wednesday night with the purchase of an adult meal. ($-$$)

BT, 2507 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa; (813) 258-1916. Owner B.T. Nguyen has an eat
local, think global attitude, and it shows in her menu, which features
French-Vietnamese cuisine with an international flair. There is a taste of Spain
in the Cote Basque Inspired Prawns, Africa in the Moroccan Spiced Lamb
Brochettes and India in the Vegetarian Samosas. Entrees that are a sure bet
include the Deconstructed Beef Stroganoff James, a grass-fed filet mignon served
with leeks and chanterelles over a bed of pasta, the Lobster Sous Vide, a Maine
lobster tail served with white mushrooms in a saffron wine sauce, and the
Snapper a la Saigon, a filet cooked in a light lemongrass sauce, curry, garlic,
shallot and bay leaves on a bed of cabbage and cucumbers. The wine list is
nicely varied and goes beautifully with most dishes. ($$-$$$)

PIZZA FUSION, 777 N. Ashley Dr., Tampa; (813) 463-1600. Pizza Fusion is a
welcome addition to downtown Tampa with its oval-shaped, homemade pies, made
with organic ingredients that are fresh, flavorful and prepared with a chef's
attention to detail. Some favorites include the Founder's Pie, a mix of
free-range chicken, kalamata olives, red onion and four cheeses, or the Four
Cheese & Sun Dried Tomato with basil and roasted garlic. Another recommended
pizza is the Sausage & Tricolor Pepper topped with chili flakes for a spicy
kick. The menu also includes sandwiches and a variety of salads. The small bar
features a wine list, a few drafts and a nice selection of bottled beers. ($-$$)

HOLY HOG BARBECUE, 3501 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa; (813) 879-4647.  Barbecue
worshipers need to come hungry and pig out. Holy Hog does a solid job with the
standard pulled pork, ribs, chicken and sausage, all served with a dry rub and
sauce on the side. The nachos are piled high with pork, diced peppers, black
beans, cheese and fresh cilantro. Every Friday they have a special: fried
chicken and waffles, a fish fry with hush puppies, chicken fried steak or shrimp
and grits. Beyond the barbecue, other selections include cheeseburgers and the
BBQ Quesadilla served with chicken or pork loaded with black bean salsa, cheddar
cheese, jalapenos and sour cream. You can choose to dine in or outdoors in the
eating area, and they also do takeout. ($$)

EATS AMERICAN GRILL, 4502 S. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa: (813) 835-3287.  Tucked
away in a small building in South Tampa, this eatery serves regional American
food in a casual, fun, family-friendly atmosphere. Start with an appetizer of
thick cut fried pickles or perhaps pineapple fritters. The cheese fries also are
worthy of your attention - they are smothered in chili sauce, melted cheese and
bacon. Entrée selections are blackened chicken, walnut salmon, sirloin, crab
cakes, pork chops or chicken tenders. If you go for lunch, try the classic black
and blue burger that is perfectly cooked, juicy and covered in blue cheese.
Another lunch suggestion would be the Midwest BLT, which is your traditional
bacon and lettuce, but this has fried green tomatoes instead of the red ones. A
great send off to your meal is the Oreo-crusted chocolate cheesecake. ($$)

RESERVATIONS GOURMET-TO-GO, 4703 N. Nebraska Ave., Tampa; (813) 231-6800.
Anthony and Elke Cantania, who own this Seminole Heights eatery, not only
prepare fancy meals to go but also tell you how best to reheat them in your oven
when you get home. For lunch, try Anthony's chunky tomato basil soup with a
fresh green salad that comes with carrots, tomatoes, capers, onions and
artichoke hearts. Or perhaps try a meatball sub topped with Bolognese sauce and
Parmesan & Mozzarella cheeses. Dinner choices include grilled fish with cayenne
pepper, thyme, lemon and butter or meatloaf that is close enough to be Mom's.
The velvety New York cheesecake is a nice way to finish dinner. The Cantanias
offer gourmet meals minus the hard work and the convenience of fine dining
brought home. ($$)

TERRA SUR, 5358 W. Village Drive, Tampa; (813) 269-2694. Terra Sur is fine
Peruvian dining with a touch of the exotic that caters to foodies along with
beer and wine aficionados. This charming, date night kind of place has a warm
décor. The menu features dishes that will get you out of your comfort zone and
trying new flavors. A must is the ceviche, the national dish of Peru, which is a
variety of fish and shellfish marinated in citrus juices, such as Peruvian
yellow pepper sauce, Peruvian red pepper sauce or lime juice and spices, mixed
chilies, cilantro and sliced red onions.  The beer and wine selection is
impressive with about 100 beers from around the world and a variety red and
white wine from around the globe. If you are interested in ethnic cuisine, make
the pilgrimage to Terra Sur. ($$)

FRESH, 507 N. Franklin St., Tampa; (813) 229-5500. The name alone shines out
like a beacon for health-conscious downtown diners - and so does the giant,
color-coded menu that covers an entire wall from ceiling to floor. In addition
to the usual deli offerings (salads, sandwiches, soups), Fresh also offers a fun
cereal bar and a small selection of frozen treats. Start with one of the
homemade soups, then select a salad from the 30 different varieties or try one
of the sandwiches, which are prepared with - you guessed it - fresh ingredients.
Lunch here is a healthful alternative to the pizza and burger joints that litter
the downtown landscape. ($-$$)

APOLLO'S BISTRO, 6520 Richies Way, Apollo Beach; (813) 641-2685. This
self-described hole in the wall people are glad to find is tucked inside the
Apollo Beach Racquet & Fitness Club. The bistro has something for everyone, from
burgers and french fries to filet mignon and wine. The lineup of appetizers
includes homemade bleu cheese potato chips, bruschetta, calamari, quesadillas
and chicken fingers. Among the entrees is the Seafood Pasta, with shrimp,
mussels, scallops and clams. Another option is the Chicken Caprese with mashed
potatoes and vegetables. The dessert menu includes chocolate cake and pineapple
turnover cake. Both are served warm with the tops slightly hardened. The
chocolate cake has rich chocolate syrup inside. The servers also are sweet and
quick. ($$)

MIKEY'S CAFÉ & BAKERY CO., 6114 N. Central Ave.; Tampa (813) 234-3755. If you
are into nostalgic décor and love watching Michael J. Fox Back to the Future
movies, then Custom Creations is the place to stop by and have a bite to eat.
This fountain shop design includes a jukebox loaded with 45s along with other
antiques available to purchase. Breakfast choices can be pancakes, French toast,
omelet, Cuban cheese toast or biscuits with sausage gravy, all a worthwhile
endeavor. Start lunch off with a homemade bowl of soup. Then choose a hot roast
beef on marble bread, or perhaps a hot reuben on rye with sauerkraut and melted
swiss cheese. The garden salad has to be topped off with the homemade Caesar
dressing, a specialty you will not forget. ($)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

SECTION: GO!; Friday Extra; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1419 words



HIGHLIGHT: FEEDERS


Park in the back and walk through an outdoor patio with a tiki bar that jams on
weekends with live music, including reggae. Inside, prepare to be impressed -
and stuffed. The managers offer some of the ambiance of their native Jamaica,
along with Red Stripe beer and jerk chicken, but the menu is really about
down-home cooking. Lunch choices include a pressed Cuban sandwich with marinated
pork, ham and Swiss cheese and Zelda's Beef Wrap stuffed with steak, olives,
feta and provolone cheeses. The sandwich lineup also includes roast beef, ham,
turkey, tuna and egg salads, hamburgers, hot dogs, and the Reuben - corned beef
or turkey. The 8-ounce Grilled Flat Iron Steak is thinly sliced and stacked
around a mound of mashed potatoes, then topped by mushroom ragout and fresh
green beans, broccoli and carrots. The Seafood Pasta includes shrimp and bay
scallops mixed with broccoli, green beans and carrots covered in a cheesy cream
sauce. Other dinner options include the Grilled Chicken Chopped Salad, Double
Lobster Tail, Crispy Flat Chicken, Grilled Salmon and Grouper Piccata. Homemade
cheesecake and pecan pie highlight the dessert list.

CAFÉ OLE, 10020 Cross Creek Blvd., Tampa: (813) 907-5242. Café Ole is small on
size, but big on taste. The solid Spanish cuisine is split into tapas and
platos. The tapas selection has about 30 choices such as, tuna & chicken
croquettes, grilled shrimp, a banderillas mixtas, mussels sautéed in lobster
sauce, chorizo salteado, or gambas al ajillo (jumbo shrimp sautéed in garlic
sauce, red pepper and olive oil). The platos menu is equally tasty with choices
from paella, pork, chicken fish and steak. Don't leave without finishing your
dinner with café con leche, a custard with a properly caramelized crust. ALPHA
PIZZA PASTA PRIME, 1312 Apollo Beach Blvd., Apollo Beach; (813) 645-4648. Alpha
Pizza will serve you up a pizza with a crust just thick enough and cooked just
right -- not too doughy, not overcooked and with a sauce that tastes homemade.
You might want to get a greek salad to go along with your pizza, but remember a
small salad is still enough for two people. If you're not hungry for pizza, then
you can choose pasta, steaks, seafood, salads or sandwiches from the menu. Save
room and try the baklava for dessert, the taste is authentic and a perfect
ending to the meal. The biggest hit here at Alpha is they know how to keep the
children happy. They get a coloring book and crayons at the door and, if they
behave throughout the meal, they get a prize out of the treasure box. ($$)

When you have a hankering for a thin crust New York style pizza, then North
Tampa's Pannarano Pizzeria is a good option. Pannarano specializes in Neapolitan
style pizza made from hand stretched dough. Choose from a long list of specialty
pizzas such as Meat Lovers, Funghi, Hawaiian, the white spinach Alfredo or
create your own unique masterpiece. If you're not up for pizza, then choose
either the calzone, Stromboli and rolls which come with a side of pizza sauce
for dipping - you'll want to try the sauce, it's that good. BEANIE'S BAR &
SPORTS GRILL, 2002 U.S. Highway 41 S., Ruskin; (813) 649-1700. Trust us; this is
much more than a bar in Ruskin. In addition to showing sporting events on
multiple TVs, they offer a children's menu, large portion sizes and a few
memorable entrees in a friendly neighborhood atmosphere. An appetizer favorite
of loaded homemade potato chips piled high with cheese, shredded bacon and bleu
cheese dressing is enough for three or four diners. Oversized sandwiches include
a tender and juicy Reuben, and the Birdie, a chicken sandwich prepared with mild
Buffalo sauce. Entrées include selections such as Shrimp Baguette, Beanie's Beef
and Sausage Combo, the Hoops Basket of chicken strips and Shrimp Your Way.
Prepare for strong spices, with even the mild buffalo and blackened dishes a
little overpowering; although they're so good, you'll eat them anyway. The
service is great, and children eat free Tuesdays and Saturdays. Reservations are
recommended for large parties. ($)CHART HOUSE, 7616 W. Courtney Campbell
Causeway, Tampa: (813) 289-7773. This upscale seafood restaurant has one of the
best bayside views Tampa has to offer. You can start with the lobster and shrimp
spring rolls which come with chili dipping sauce that really packs a punch.
Entrées include The Bronzed Wahoo, which is nicely spiced and pan seared with a
crab cake on the side. Another is the mixed seafood grill, bronzed mahi, shrimp
scampi and jumbo lump crab cake. Make sure you save room for dessert, which is
made to order (so make sure to order it when you order your entrée). Dessert is
made to order. The hot chocolate lava cake is filled with Godiva liqueur, warm
chocolate sauce, heath bar crunch and vanilla ice cream. ($$$)

SOHO SUSHI NORTH, 2826 E. Bearss Ave., Tampa; (813) 977-8744. This North Tampa
spinoff of Soho Sushi in South Tampa makes its home in a restaurant-heavy
shopping center on Bearss Ave., but it's the only sushi joint for blocks. You'll
find 15 types of sushi, 18 simple rolls and 20 specialty rolls. Entrees include
steak, chicken and seafood dishes that come with miso soup, ginger salad and
white rice. Happy hour runs from 5 to 7 p.m. everyday where you can enjoy
buy-one-get-one-free on select beverages and reduced prices on appetizers and
specialty rolls. Soho Sushi North is solid enough to provide a satisfying meal.
($$)

ZUDAR'S, 201 W. Platt St., Tampa; (813) 250-6272. This popular South Tampa café
has long been known for its gigantic sandwiches, homemade soups and other tasty
lunchtime fare. But since new owner Eric Weinstein took over, he added breakfast
and dinner to the menu and also added his motto, Why Cook? The eclectic
appetizers consist of three different sliders: Angus Burger, Mojo Pork and Crab
Cake along with the standard Buffalo wings, nachos and chicken quesadillas.
Entrée choices are huge and the Classic Meatloaf is enough for two meals. The
Beef Short Ribs are slathered in a tomato-molasses sauce that is lip-smacking
good. The children's menu is a big hit and kids 12 and younger eat free every
Wednesday night with the purchase of an adult meal. The icing on the cake, no
pun intended, is the Chocolate Fantasy Cake with dark chocolate icing and
chocolate shavings. ($-$$)

BT, 2507 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa; (813) 258-1916. Owner B.T. Nguyen has an eat
local, think global attitude, and it shows in her menu, which features
French-Vietnamese cuisine with an international flair. There is a taste of Spain
in the Cote Basque Inspired Prawns, Africa in the Moroccan Spiced Lamb
Brochettes and India in the Vegetarian Samosas. Entrees that are a sure bet
include the Deconstructed Beef Stroganoff James, a grass-fed filet mignon served
with leeks and chanterelles over a bed of pasta, the Lobster Sous Vide, a Maine
lobster tail served with white mushrooms in a saffron wine sauce, and the
Snapper a la Saigon, a filet cooked in a light lemongrass sauce, curry, garlic,
shallot and bay leaves on a bed of cabbage and cucumbers. The wine list is
nicely varied and goes beautifully with most dishes. ($$-$$$)

PIZZA FUSION, 777 N. Ashley Dr., Tampa; (813) 463-1600. Pizza Fusion is a
welcome addition to downtown Tampa with its oval-shaped, homemade pies, made
with organic ingredients that are fresh, flavorful and prepared with a chef's
attention to detail. Some favorites include the Founder's Pie, a mix of
free-range chicken, kalamata olives, red onion and four cheeses, or the Four
Cheese & Sun Dried Tomato with basil and roasted garlic. Another recommended
pizza is the Sausage & Tricolor Pepper topped with chili flakes for a spicy
kick. The menu also includes sandwiches and a variety of salads. The small bar
features a wine list, a few drafts and a nice selection of bottled beers. ($-$$)

PIZZA FUSION, 777 N. Ashley Dr., Tampa; (813) 463-1600. Pizza Fusion is a
welcome addition to downtown Tampa with its oval-shaped, homemade pies, made
with organic ingredients that are fresh, flavorful and prepared with a chef's
attention to detail. Some favorites include the Founder's Pie, a mix of
free-range chicken, kalamata olives, red onion and four cheeses, or the Four
Cheese & Sun Dried Tomato with basil and roasted garlic. Another recommended
pizza is the Sausage & Tricolor Pepper topped with chili flakes for a spicy
kick. The menu also includes sandwiches and a variety of salads. The small bar
features a wine list, a few drafts and a nice selection of bottled beers. ($-$$)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

Add spice to your favorite cook's life;
Cookbooks make a great present for food lovers

BYLINE: JEFF HOUCK; Tribune staff

SECTION: BAYLIFE AND TRAVEL; Baylife; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 756 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jeff Houck's recipes lost & found column


The holidays are a perfect time to give a cookbook to someone who loves making
food. Taking a break from our usual recipe format, I wanted to suggest some of
my favorite books this season for the food lover in your life:

Duck, Duck, Goose: Recipes and Techniques for Cooking Ducks and Geese, both Wild
and Domesticated, By Hank Shaw (Ten Speed Press, $24.99). Shaw, the author of
the blog Hunter Angler Gardener Cook takes a fresh approach with this
under-utilized protein. Cooking a duck or a goose in today's world is ... a way
to find that forgotten feast we Americans once enjoyed, to free ourselves from
the Tyranny of the Chicken and shake our fists at the notion that fat is our
enemy. Here, here!

Suggested recipe: Duck Breast with Black Currant Sauce

v v

Pork Chop: 60 Recipes for Living High on the Hog, by Ray Lampe (Chronicle Books,
$22.95). The pork chop is the finest cut of meat any human could hope to eat.
First, it comes from a pig, always a wise choice of protein. Second, the meat
has a handle. Third, chops taste good and are affordable relative to other cuts
of meat. St. Petersburg-based author Lampe takes the chop and has  with it,
making Pork Chop Noodle Soup, Pork Chop Chili and Tater Tot Pork Chop Casserole.

Suggested recipe: Chicago-Style Pork Chop Sandwiches

v v

Wintersweet: Seasonal Desserts to Warm the Home, by Tammy Donroe Inman (Running
Press, $30). These are the high holy days of baking. Might as well make
something scrumptious. Inman's book is loaded with seasonal recipes that will
have you drooling within the first few pages. Appalachian Whiskey Applesauce
Cake? Come one, now. That's almost unfair.

Suggested recipe: Pecan Praline Bark

v v

Kevin Dundon's Modern Irish Food: More than 100 recipes for easy comfort food,
by Kevin Dundon (Mitchell Beazley, $24.99). You wouldn't expect to find a recipe
for Sticky Glaze Chicken Thighs with Asian Stuffing in an Irish cookbook. But
Dundon is no ordinary Irish chef relaxing on the island's staples of breads,
butter and potatoes. The world is a big place with lots of ingredients to play
with in the Irish palate. He also updates the genre to include delicious
vegetarian dishes.

Suggested recipe: Cherry Tomato Tarte Tatin

v v

Sweet: Irresistible Desserts and Drinks, Cakes and Bakes, by Levi Roots (Michael
Beazley, $29.99). The Jamaican-born and U.K.-raised former musician adds
Caribbean flavors to his favorite sweet treats, including a Jamaican tiramisu.
Think of it like taking your sweet tooth for an island vacation.

Suggested recipe: Banana & Chocolate Rum Sundae

Eat Your Vegetables: Bold Recipes for the Single Cook, by Joe Yonan (Ten Speed
Press, $24.99). Yonan, the Washington Post's award-winning food editor, cornered
the market on solo cooking with his Cooking for One column and Serve Yourself
inaugural cookbook in 2011. For his second book, he takes vegetarian and vegan
readers for a spin through seasonal cooking. Even if you are a meat-eater,
you'll find plenty to love, including a Grilled Almond Butter and Dried Plum
Sandwich that sounds irresistible.

Suggested recipe: Grilled Kimcheese

v v

The Vegan Divas Cookbook: Delicious Desserts, Plates and Treats from the famed
New York City bakery, by Fernanda Capobianco (Harper Wave, $27.99). Capobianco's
Vegan Divas bakery took vegan cooking in Manhattan and transformed it into a
flavorful and fun way to eat. Think of it as blinged-out food that is good for
you from a health and spiritual standpoint. Whether we realize it or not, she
writes, what we choose to eat is fundamentally linked to oru spiritual beliefs
as well as environmental and global issues.

Suggested recipe: Mango Pineapple Cake

v v

Butter Baked Goods: Nostalgic Recipes from a Little Neighborhood Bakery, by
Rosie Daykin (Appetite, $35). Ah, yes, our good friend butter. So maligned by
the current cooking know-it-alls. So beloved by people who remember when great
dairy made great baked goods. Daykin, the owner of Butter Baked Goods in
Vancouver, Canada, takes readers on a nostalgia tour of deliciousness that our
grandmothers used to bake.

Suggested recipe: Banana Chocolate Loaf

v v

L.A. Son: My Life, My City, My Food, by Roy Choi with Tien Nguyen and Natasha
Phan (Ecco, $29.99). Roy Choi invented the Korean taco in Los Angeles and
revolutionized street food in the United States. Before that, he had to reinvent
himself. This book, printed by Anthony Bourdain's publishing house, shares that
amazing story from low-riding to gourmet chef.

Suggested recipe: Cardamom Milk Shaved Ice

jhouck@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7324

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Claiming success, Scott charts new course

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1014 words


His proposals for teachers, Medicaid face opposition from his GOP colleagues

BY WILLIAM MARCH

Tribune staff

In his State of the State address on Tuesday, Gov. Rick Scott took a different
tone from the anti-tax, anti-spending rhetoric of his first two years in office,
speaking instead of rewarding teachers with an across-the-board raise and
"investing" in education.

But Scott's overall message was that his anti-tax, anti-spending policies have
succeeded in reviving the Florida economy and that conservativechanges have
improved public schools.

"It's working," he said repeatedly during the address.

"We eliminated thousands of regulations on job creators. We paid down state debt
for two years in a row," he said. "We invested in priorities, like education.
And now our economy is on the rebound. It's working."

Scott pronounced two major priorities for the coming legislative session: his
proposals for a $2,500 raise for teachers andelimination of the state sales tax
on manufacturing equipment to stimulate the manufacturing industry.

He also defended his decision to accept the federally funded expansion of the
Medicaid system, citing his own family's financially distressed history. He
talked at length about his divorced mother's efforts to take care of her
children.

"As I wrestled with this decision, I thought about my mom and her struggles to
get my little brother health care with no money," he said.

With the federal promise to pay the entire cost for three years and most of it
after that, he said, "I cannot, in good conscience, deny the uninsured access to
care."

The comments drew shouts of approval from Democrats in the back benches of the
state House chamber,but some Republicans in the front benches sat in silence.

Only Monday, a House committee voted not to go along with the expansion, and
House leaders say the idea is dead.

Scott also may face opposition on the teacher raise from legislators who think
raises shouldn't be given except as a reward for good performance.

Still, he contended, conservative educationchanges of the past few years have
resulted in improved performance of public schools, justifying the raise.

"Some say they are afraid raises to all teachers may mean that a teacher doing a
bad job gets rewarded," he said. "But, thanks to our work, we are now in a
better position than ever before to reward good teachers and move bad teachers
out of the classroom.

"We don't want a war on teachers; we want a war on failure," he said.

Jean Clements, a special education teacher and Hillsborough County teachers'
union president, said Scott's speech was "a very different tone from what we've
heard over the past couple of years," but she wasn't convinced it means a better
climate for public education.

"We're all waiting with bated breath to see what kind of leadership he
demonstrates and whether he will move the state in funding public schools in a
way that makes us competitive," she said.

A $2,500 raise, she said, is good but won't close the $10,000 gap between
Florida and national averages.

Teachers don't stay in the profession long in Florida, "and the pathetic level
of funding Florida is known for historically is one of the reasons," she said.

Clements also disputed Scott's contention that improved public school
performance came from changes by Scott andthen-Gov. Jeb Bush, including basing
teacher evaluations on test scores and abolition of the hiring and firing
process commonly called "tenure" in Florida schools.

"Tenure," Clements said, "was never anything but a red herring."

Improvements in student performance, she said, resulted largely from reading and
math curriculum revisions begun years ago, and increased attention under the
federal No Child Left Behind program to groups of students including the
financially disadvantaged and non-English speakers.

Manufacturing interests praised Scott's proposal to end sales taxes on
manufacturing equipment, which Scott's office said produces about $114 million a
year in revenue.

Scott said most states don't impose such a tax.

Many of the state's approximately 18,000 manufacturing businesses already get
exemptions. All equipment for new businesses and expansions is exempt, as is
equipment that a company can show resulted in productivity increases.

Those exemptions were helpful to 82-employee PharmaWorks of Odessa, which
recently expanded, said President Peter Buczynsky. It makes machinery that
produces and packs blister-packs for medications.

But Buczynsky said abolishing the tax would help more.

"There's still a lot of supportive equipment the exemption doesn't apply to.
It's good just to have a carrot," he said.

Democrats, who have exulted in Scott's low job approval numbers as his 2014
re-election battle approaches, blasted the speech, pointing out topics he didn't
mention: electionimprovements, protection of the environment, and the state's
seemingly endless property insurance crisis.

"Gov. Rick Scott is running away from everything he campaigned on to get
re-elected," the state Democratic Party said in a news release. The party noted
Scott began his political career by spending millions of his own money to oppose
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and now wants to participate in
its Medicaid expansion provision.

The party said the speech was "nothing more than a State of Denial about your
record of putting corporations and special interests ahead of middle class
families, and nobody is buying it."

In his response speech, Senate Democratic Leader Chris Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale,
took issue with Scott's comments on teachers, saying, "Let me remind you:You
started the war."

"We truly need leadership when it comes to insurance.We heard nothing from you
today and you've been silent on it for many years," Smith said.

"When it come to elections, please follow through and undo the mistakes you and
the Republican Legislature did two years ago in making Florida once again the
laughingstock of this nation," he said.

wmarch@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7761

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida's economic recovery merits applause and caution

SECTION: VIEWS & NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words


Prospects are once again bright in Florida. The housing crash and recession that
turned the state's economic world topsy-turvy are over.

Once again a warm climate, low taxes and an air of opportunity combine to get
folks moving here.

Now that the economic emergency has passed, we Florida residents would be well
advised to think about how best to accommodate this impressive growth.

State leaders, who jettisoned growth management regulations during the
recession, need to remember those rules were developed to prevent runaway growth
from generating massive bills for taxpayers. The state already has a backlog of
transportation needs and other growth-related challenges.

From 2010 to 2012, Florida ranked sixth among the states in percentage of
population growth. But Florida's gain of 2.75 percent is larger than it seems.
In total numbers, Florida grew by about a half-million people. Only Texas and
California added more. New York was a distant fourth.

The return of growth should be good news -- if the state ensures growth is
accompanied by an adequate transportation network and other services and that
the state's natural resources, which underpin its appeal, are not sacrificed.

Further, the bottoming out of Florida's economy during the recession should
serve as a forceful reminder to lawmakers and other policy-makers that
diversifying the economy is more important than ever.

For too many decades, the state's economy relied on homebuilding. The recession
-- and the ensuing collapse of the housing market, accompanied by a record
number of foreclosures -- proved that the state must not be a one-trick pony.

This is why Gov. Rick Scott and other leaders are right to push manufacturing,
industrial and technical jobs.

The good news for homeowners is that Florida's home values are at their highest
since October 2008. And the unemployment rate is at its lowest since that same
month four and a half years ago.

Florida's jobless rate fell even with the national rate in late winter, and this
spring has edged even lower. Cities are leading the rebound.

The unemployment rate in the hard-hit Tampa metro area is now a little better
than the state rate. The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity reports that
19 of the state's 22 metro areas added jobs from March 2012 to March 2013. This
area added 35,900, which was the largest gain in the state.

Significant wage increases for manual laborers continue to seem unlikely. Like
it or not, the economic future belongs to those with valuable education or
skills.

Still, a variety of opportunities are locally available. Jobs in financial
activities were up, professional and business services were up, education and
health services were up. Now that more people can afford to travel, it's no
surprise that leisure and hospitality jobs were up. Construction even showed
modest gains.

Manufacturing jobs were down (we hope Gov. Rick Scott's new tax break for
manufacturers helps change that), as were jobs in government and information.
But the news overall was extremely encouraging.

Matching the increasing pace of growth must be heightened concern for the many
challenges of prosperity, which the recession reminded us, are the very best
challenges to have.

Copyright © 2013, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday

2 out of 3 people face hunger as Haiti woes mountAP Photo PAP301, PAP304,
PAP305, PAP307, PAP306, PAP303, PAP302, PAP311, PAP310, PAP309, PAP308

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NationWorld; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: BELLE ANSE, Haiti


- The hardship of hunger abounds amid the stone homes and teepee-like huts in
the mountains along Haiti's southern coast.

The hair on broomstick-thin children has turned patchy and orangish, their
stomachs have ballooned to the size of their heads and many look half their age
- the tell-tale signs of malnutrition.

Mabriole town official Geneus Lissage fears that death is imminent for these
children if Haitian authorities and humanitarian workers don't do more to stem
the hunger problems.

They will be counting bodies, Lissage said, because malnutrition is ravaging
children, youngsters and babies.

Three years after an earthquake killed hundreds of thousands and international
donors promised to help Haiti build back better, hunger is worse than ever.
Despite billions of dollars from around the world pledged toward rebuilding
efforts, the country's food problems underscore just how vulnerable its 10
million people remain.

In 1997 some 1.2 million Haitians didn't have enough food to eat. A decade later
the number had more than doubled. Today, that figure is 6.7 million, or a
staggering 67 percent of the population that goes without food some days, can't
afford a balanced diet or has limited access to food, according to surveys by
the government's National Coordination of Food Security. As many as 1.5 million
of those face malnutrition and other hunger-related problems.

This is scandalous. This should not be, said Claude Beauboeuf, a Haitian
economist and sometime consultant to relief groups. But I'm not surprised,
because some of the people in the slums eat once every two days.

Much of the crisis stems from too little rain, and then too much. A drought last
year destroyed key crops, followed by flooding caused by the outer bands of
Tropical Storm Isaac and Hurricane Sandy.

Haiti has had similarly destructive storms over the past decade, and scientists
say they expect to see more as global climate change provokes severe weather
systems.

Klaus Eberwein, general director of the government's Economic and Social
Assistance Fund, said: We are really trying our best. It's not like we're
sitting here and not working on it. We have limited resources.

He attributed Haiti's current hunger woes to decades of bad political decisions
and, more recently, to last year's storms and drought. Hunger is not new in
Haiti, Eberwein said. You can't address the hunger situation in one year, two
years.

In the village of Mabriole, Marie Jean, a 33-year-old mother of six, looked
helpless as her naked son Dieufort sat cross-legged in the dirt, a metal spoon
in hand that was more toy than tool. The 5-year-old boy barely looked 3, his
gaze unfocused and glassy eyes lifeless. His stomach was distended.

Jean said she lost 10 goats and several chickens to Isaac. The goats could have
sold for about $17 apiece, the poultry for about $2.80. She could have used the
animals for food or the money to hold her over until the new harvest season.

You depend on this, because it's all you have, Jean said.

Many people have been forced to buy on credit, or look for the cheapest food
available while eating smaller and fewer portions. Some families have asked
relatives to take care of their children, or handed them over to orphanages so
they have one less mouth to feed, humanitarian workers say.

Political decisions already had hurt the ability of Haitian farmers to feed the
country. One example: Prodded by the U.S. government, Haiti cut tariffs on
imported U.S. rice, driving many locals out of the market.

Eighty percent of Haiti's rice - and half of all its food - is imported now.
Three decades ago, Haiti imported only 19 percent of its food and produced
enough rice to export. Factories built in the capital at the same time did
little to help: They led farmers to abandon their fields in the countryside in
hope of higher wages.

At the same time, Haiti has lost almost all of its forest cover as desperately
poor Haitians chop down trees to make charcoal. The widespread deforestation
does little to contain heavy rainfall or yield crop-producing soil.

With so much depending on imports, meals are becoming less affordable as the
value of Haiti's currency depreciates against the U.S. dollar. Haiti's minimum
wage is 200 gourdes a day. Late last year, that salary was equivalent to about
$4.75; today it's about $4.54 - a small difference that makes a big strain on
the Haitian budget.

One hard-hit area is Ganthier, an arid stretch between the dense capital of
Port-au-Prince and the Dominican border a few miles (kilometers) to the east.
It's among 44 areas identified by the government as food insecure, meaning too
many tables are bare.

Here, villagers tell of an elusive rainfall that stymied crop production and
then the hurricane that followed.

That is when the misery began, said pastor Estephen Sainvileun, 63, as he sat
with friends in the shade of a rare tree.

Hurricane Sandy ravaged the bean crops, leaving a three-month gap until the
harvest resumed in December. With no beans to sell, farmers couldn't buy rice,
corn or vegetable oil.

Some people eat by miracle, said Falide Cerve, 51, a part-time merchant and
single mother of five.

That has hurt education, too. The Ganthier schoolhouse, with its tin walls and
dirt floor, can hold 100 students, but only 43 enrolled. The children are too
hungry to learn.

They're too distracted, and I have to send them home, said Sainvileun, the
pastor who runs the tiny schoolhouse.

Especially hurt are children in Haiti's hard-to-reach villages. Directly south
of Ganthier is one of the most remote zones in Haiti. The area is one of craggy
mountains, the highest in the country at 8,772 feet (2,674 meters). Only the
sturdiest off-road vehicles can climb the steep, twisting and rocky roads.

Some villages, such as Anse-a-Boeuf on the southeastern coast, are solely
accessible by foot or donkey.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday

It's smooth sailing for Norwegian CEO [JUMP]Sheehan helps cruise line through
economic hardship, image crisis;
Sheehan helps cruise line through economic hardship, image crisis

BYLINE: The Miami Herald

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words



HIGHLIGHT: Looking ahead for Norweigian Cruise Lines


On a night in late April, Norwegian Cruise Line President and CEO Kevin Sheehan
celebrated the delivery of his company's new 4,028-passenger ship in Germany
with a low-key, stress-free cocktail party.

What a difference three years had made.

During an inaugural cruise last month aboard the Manhattan-based Norwegian
Breakaway, Sheehan recalled the much different scene in 2010 as the cruise
line's previous ship, Epic, was getting ready to debut in France.

The night before I took delivery of the Epic, I was chasing a thousand Frenchmen
all over the ship trying to get them to work, he said.

The contrasting experiences are symbolic of the transition Norwegian Cruise Line
- previously referred to as NCL - has undergone in the past few years. Since
taking the helm in 2008, Sheehan has resolved long-standing problems, instituted
a new corporate climate, placed a fresh focus on travel agent ties, taken the
company public and launched a new class of ships that he hopes will further
elevate the line's reputation. After this year's Breakaway, sister ship Getaway
will arrive in Miami in January.

His tenure has coincided with the economic recession, which pummeled
travel-related companies, and more recently a stretch of bad publicity for the
cruise industry that started with the fatal Costa Concordia shipwreck last
January in Italy and continued this year with

fires aboard competitors' cruise ships.

There's been obviously some negative press about the industry, but Norwegian,
pun intended, seems to be sailing right through, said Brad Tolkin, co-chairman
and CEO of cruise distributor World Travel Holdings.

Norwegian went public in January with shares priced at $19, but the stock price
hit $30 by mid-February and has generally hovered between $30 and $32. On
Wednesday, it closed at $30.59. Competitors Carnival Corp. and Royal Caribbean
Cruises, by contrast, have seen their stock prices drop by about 11 percent and
7 percent respectively since mid-January.

It's significantly outperformed its peer group, not only since the IPO but also
year to date, said Harry Curtis, senior leisure analyst at Nomura Equity
Research.

And Norwegian - a tiny player in a market dominated by giants Carnival and Royal
Caribbean - has done it all while posting increased adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for 19 quarters in a row and
consistently improving customer satisfaction surveys for the past 40 months.

The early years of Sheehan's tenure were complicated by decisions made before
his time: Norwegian was taking a serious financial hit from its operations in
Hawaii, where three U.S.-flagged ships with American crews were earning a
reputation for poor service and leaving passengers and travel agents with a bad
impression. The company had already redeployed two of the ships when Sheehan
took the CEO job, but he had an image problem to clean up and the existing ships
to improve.

The line was also embroiled in a costly dispute with STX Europe ASA, the
shipyard in France that built the Epic and was under contract to build a second
giant ship in the same mold. Sheehan canceled the order for the second ship and
moved on - right into the recession in 2009.

That first year was complete fixing and getting everything teed up, Sheehan
said. The second year was the economic thing. ... It didn't get to be really
where we started to get all of the stuff going until probably 2010.

That was the year the $1.2 billion Norwegian Epic debuted with a host of popular
new features, restaurants, activities and entertainment - a continuation of the
freestyle model the line had pioneered years earlier that allowed passengers to
pick when and with whom they wanted to dine.

But there were also flops, including the boxy exterior and the puzzling
staterooms, which featured divided bathrooms and sinks in the main room.

I don't think I'm too harsh in saying it's probably the ugliest ship that's been
built in my time in the industry, said Rod McLeod, a former Norwegian Cruise
Line CEO who will retire as a cruise consultant this year. And he had nothing to
do with that. ... It's a wonderful testimony to what Sheehan inherited.

With the new ship, Norwegian has done away with the unpopular Epic elements
(bathrooms on Breakaway are normal) and added new features, including The
Waterfront, an area of outdoor seating for restaurants and bars, and 678 Ocean
Place, the ship's hub on decks six through eight. Venues were placed to create
the best flow, and passengers can check restaurant and entertainment
availability on touch screens throughout the ship - and make reservations right
there.

While refashioning the onboard experience, Sheehan and his team have also worked
to communicate the company's core goals to all of its nearly 20,000 employees:
travel agent advocacy, guest experience, brand communication and employee
engagement.

Since 2011, one of the company priorities has been repairing relationships with
the travel agent community after years of distrust - a crucial step for a cruise
line that makes up just 10 percent of the industry and needs all the ambassadors
it can get. Agents had been soured by customers' poor experiences, especially in
Hawaii, and were wary that Norwegian was trying to undermine them by marketing
directly to consumers.

Partners First was spearheaded byAndy Stuart, a Norwegian employee for nearly 25
years who now holds the title of executive vice president/global sales and
passenger services.  The effort proved Norwegian was serious by improving
training for travel agents, increasing spending on marketing support and
communicating better, said Mike Driscoll, editor of the weekly trade publication
Cruise Week.

Andy Stuart's done a spectacular job with the trade in terms of turning around
the company that was in the toilet six years ago with trade relations, Driscoll
said.

Tolkin said the change is evident internally, as well.

When Kevin came in with the Partners First program, you saw a more inspired
management team, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Bob Van Sickler, retired exec

SECTION: NEIGHBORS/NORTH; Neighbors_N; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words



HIGHLIGHT: Longtime Tampa Palms resident and Ohio retiree reflects on life in
the New Tampa community he chose decades ago.


This week we chat with Bob Van Sickler, retired General Electric executive,
longtime Tampa Palms resident and former Tampa Palms Owners Association
president. He and his wife, Rachel, researched top-ranked retirement cities in
1992 before making a road trip to warm-weather locales that would provide relief
from their many winters in Cleveland. Their itinerary included Fort Myers, Fort
Lauderdale, Pensacola, Jacksonville, even Fairhope, Ala. En route to Sarasota,
an unscheduled overnight stop in Tampa prompted them to explore the city that
was not on their target list. Seeking a community that had endured initial
development and was entering maturity, they chose Tampa Palms, founded in 1986.

Q: You moved to Tampa Palms' Asbury village in the early '90s. How does the
Tampa Palms of today compare?

Answer: It turned out better than we had hoped. It was a well-planned community
with great potential. At the start, our neighbors came together and we solved
our early development problems. That sense of accomplishment continues, so now
our owners association and CDD (Community Development District) have become
efficient management teams that continue to maintain the lush character we
bought into and improve our common areas as they reduce our costs. But what's
really great about our life now are our activities with some of our Asbury
neighbors and our many friends that we've met at the Tampa Palms clubs, like our
Rotary Club, Country Club and Women's Club.

Q: Any regrets or disappointment about changes in Tampa Palms during your
residency?

Answer:  I guess our biggest regret is that the road systems outside Tampa Palms
weren't completed as originally planned - like the east-west connector, so Bruce
B. Downs became more congested than we had expected. Future transportation
outlook is disappointing, too;  no plans for Bearss or a better alternative to
go downtown on I -275, and after all this time ... still no plans for light
rail.

Q: Your neighbors, are they, too, transplants who traded wicked winters for
Florida humidity?

Answer: Yes, of course some came for the climate, but lots of others are
Floridians who chose Tampa Palms because of our convenience to the university
and the hospitals. Excellent housing values, friendly neighbors, our parks,
clubs and good schools are important factors, too.

Q: Although within the city limits, Tampa Palms is home to a variety of
wildlife. What have you encountered during decades of sharing the land with
critters?

Answer:  We love the wildlife.  We're on a conservation lot with some water, so
we've got lots of critter company, and we all get along.  I think we like the
frogs the most. We never realized there were so many different kinds of frogs,
all making a different sound after the rain. Between the frogs, the alligator
and the crickets at night, and the birds and squirrels in the daytime, we enjoy
concerts almost every day.

Q: Bruce B. Downs Boulevard, Tampa Palms' Main Street? Your thoughts?

Answer:  I've already mentioned my disappointment with the city and county poor
planning. But actually, we haven't been bothered too much - yet.  We are
fortunate Tampa Palms has beautiful Tampa Palms Boulevard, several secondary
roads and lots of bike paths so we can reach most places we want to go with very
little contact with Bruce B. Downs.

George Wilkens

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday

SECTION: NEIGHBORS/TAMPA; Neighbors_S; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 329 words



HIGHLIGHT: Things to Do listings for South Neighbors section.


Things to Do

TODAY

Yuletide in July: Santa Claus and toys for needy kids highlight the fourth
annual LEON (Noel spelled backward) family festival from 5 to 7:30 p.m. at Forum
Plaza, 401 Channelside Drive.

Enjoy a winter wonderland experience for $10 or donation of a new toy to
Metropolitan Ministries. Those who donate receive a ticket to the Tampa Bay
Storm game immediately following the festival.

Families can cool off on a giant snow slide, take photos with Santa, and enjoy
food, rides, face-painting, holiday music and more.

For details, go to metromin .org.

SUNDAY

Moulin magic: Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor star in Moulin Rouge! at 3 p.m. at
Tampa Theatre, 711 N. Franklin St.

For the first time, Tampa Theatre adds a modern classic film to its Summer
Classic Movie Series lineup with a film that was an instant hit 12 years ago,
featuring a historical story along with popular 20th century music.

Tickets are $9 general admission or $7 for Tampa Theatre members and are
available at the box office, 711 N. Franklin St. For information, call (813)
274-8981 or go to www.tampatheatre.org.

THURSDAY

Green screening: The second annual Summer Film Series presented by The Bridge
continues with a screening of A Fierce Green Fire: The Battle For a Living
Planet at 6:30 p.m. at The Roosevelt 2.0, 1812 N. 15th St.

From climate change to the promise of transforming the civilization, this film
tells the stories of people who fight for the environment.

Tickets are $5 at the door, or register at www.thebridge tampa.org.

FRIDAY

Ballet bonanza: The Patel Conservatory presents Next Generation Ballet's Summer
Fantasy 2013 at 7 p.m. in Ferguson Hall at the Straz Center, 1010 N. MacInnes
Place.

More than 200 pre-professional ballet students will perform in a suite from the
ballet Le Corsaire alongside contemporary work by international choreographers
and performers.

Tickets start at $15 (plus service charges) and may be purchased at www.straz
center.org or by calling (813) 229-7827.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday

As cable networks nose-dive, it's all Zimmerman, all the time

BYLINE: PETER DYKSTRA; The Sacramento Bee

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 813 words



HIGHLIGHT: Oped about TV news.


A few weeks ago, I flipped on the TV in midmorning, something I don't usually
do. Egypt was on the verge of a coup, and I was in need of an update. I turned
to CNN, where I worked for 17 years, and saw wall-to-wall coverage of the George
Zimmerman trial. Fox News and MSNBC offered the same, and the broadcast networks
offered me The View, Doctor Oz, and The Price Is Right.

Mind you, obsessive coverage of show trials is nothing new. The O.J. Simpson
case hijacked the cable newscasts (then only CNN) nearly 20 years ago and held
them for over a year. But the Zimmerman trial, on the heels of the Jodi Arias
trial, the Casey Anthony trial and dozens more mark a real turning point.

Our news networks have lost their way in covering news. The day for cable news
playing a constructive role in reporting truly important human events is over.
They're now competing to amuse you and me. The amusement takes many odd forms,
from a show trial, to a car chase, to iPhone video of a parking lot slugfest, to
royal babies and the Kardashians.

And it isn't the least bit funny. Neither is it news. It leaves us less informed
as a democracy. It's no coincidence that the decline of our media, from reality
TV to brainless news to shrinking newspaper staffs, is on a parallel path with
our declining quality of government.

TV news executives are terrified of the future they face. The average cable news
viewer comes in at just under 60 years of age - if you were wondering about the
profusion of ads for Viagra, denture adhesive and motorized wheelchairs. Younger
audiences tend to prefer the fake version offered by The Daily Show and The
Colbert Report, or they eschew news viewing completely. So their base isn't just
shrinking, it will soon be dying.

The solution they've mapped out for this is to stay the course, even as both
viewers and journalistic integrity slip away. When a bright, shiny object like
the Zimmerman trial comes along, the cable news nets take a news vacation and
compete for their one-third of a single story.

There's no denying that the elements of the George Zimmerman/Trayvon Martin case
have great social relevance: guns, personal safety, profiling and myriad aspects
of race relations. But something's wrong when everything from the national debt
to our health, from North Korea's nukes to climate change, from the roiling
Middle East to our failing public schools suddenly aren't worth mentioning. That
brings us to a point where calling cable news news is almost as unforgivable as
Fox News' branding its brazenly partisan offerings as fair and balanced.

As for Egypt, I found some fleeting coverage in the early afternoon that day.
The cable nets broke out the live cameras and studio pundits to describe the
turmoil in Tahrir Square for a few minutes because the judge recessed the
Zimmerman trial for lunch. The first democratically elected government to spring
from the remarkable events of the Arab Spring was being run out of town, and
Americans had access to live television reports because George Zimmerman was
eating a sandwich.

All three cable nets went back to trial coverage well before the lunch break
ended, favoring us with commentary from the likes of the odious Nancy Grace.
Shame.

It doesn't have to be this way. I know that many smart, dedicated journalists
still toil in cable news. The sad part is that they're smart enough to know that
pursuing serious news is a bad career move in the current environment.

But consider this: On a good weekday, the combined audience for the morning
shows on Fox News, CNN, MSNBC, is about 2 million viewers, with Fox accounting
for about half of that. By contrast, NPR's Morning Edition, which takes its
journalism far more seriously, can pull in 8 million on a good morning, and its
average listener is a decade younger.

As I write this, the trial has been over for five days. I just randomly turned
on the TV, and CNN and MSNBC were mired in panel discussions, offering nothing
new on the meaning of George Zimmerman's acquittal. Fox News, the exception to
the rule, was in a break, running an erectile dysfunction ad. There's a better
way than competing for the lowest common denominator. NPR is thriving by staying
smart and true to journalism.

Also thriving are The Daily Show and The Colbert Report. One would think a
little introspection is in order when the people who make their living making
fun of your journalism outflank you - and win elite broadcast journalism awards
like the Peabody, DuPont-Columbia and news Emmies.

For the sake of an informed democracy, let's chill out on the obsessive, often
mindless coverage of mega-events and give journalism another try.

For the dedicated journalists caught in the downward spiral of cable news, stand
your ground. And for the sake of the old, departed TV news lions like Edward R.
Murrow and Walter Cronkite, let's hope their graves are in a No-Spin Zone.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday

Pinellas social services win reprieve;
Commission rejects plan to cut $550K in grants

BYLINE: KATE BRADSHAW; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; News; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



HIGHLIGHT: The commission finalizes its proposed millage rate, but not without
restoring money to the Department of Health and Human Services budget to help
fight poverty.


 - Pinellas County commissioners on Tuesday backed away from a plan to cut more
than a half-million dollars in funding to local social service agencies, citing
the ongoing struggle with homelessness and poverty.After commissioners asked for
spending cuts in preparing the upcoming fiscal year budget, the county's
Department of Health and Human Services offered up about $550,000 from its
nearly $3.4 million budget.

The reductions would have eliminated all the department's grants to 15 local
nonprofit organizations, including the St. Petersburg Free Clinic, the Pinellas
County Coalition for the Homeless, The Salvation Army of St. Petersburg and the
Neighborly Care Network, which provides meals and other services to seniors. The
money would have gone back into the county's general fund and might still have
helped those agencies, but in a piecemeal manner.

Commissioners, though, said they didn't want to risk possible impacts to
programs that are providing critical services.You find that it's really the
people who are most vulnerable that seem to bear the brunt of cuts in government
spending, said Commissioner Janet Long, who also sits on the Pinellas County
Homeless Leadership Board. And I'm not sure that that helps to change the
scenario of homelessness and the poor when they're the first to be cut.

Had the funding been eliminated, each agency would have had to compete for grant
dollars from a less-stable funding source. As a condition of restoring the
funds, though, Health and Human Services will have to develop a process that
will ensure grants pay for necessities such as food and shelter instead of
recreation or administrative costs.

These are safety nets, said County Commission Chairman Ken Welch. This is not a
luxury program by any means. It's just folks who need food or shelter, and we
ought to be funding it.

Grant by grant, the money the county doles out to each agency is relatively
small. The average amount is about $30,000 annually, and county grant dollars
typically constitute less than 4 percent of agency budgets.

Regardless, though, nonprofit organizations such as the Young Women's Christian
Association of Tampa Bay, Meals on Wheels and Society of St. Vincent de Paul
rely on those dollars.The St. Petersburg Free Clinic, for example, receives a
total of $55,000 for its food pantry and medical clinic. While that money
represents less than 15 percent of each program's budget, replacing that funding
would pose a challenge, said Beth Houghton, the agency's executive director.It's
not easy to go out and raise the $55,000 between the two programs, she said.
That's a lot of money to raise, in addition to what we already have to raise to
keep the doors open.

Public funding is especially important to nonprofit agencies because, unlike
many private funding sources, which only fund new programs, governments will pay
for ongoing operations, Houghton said.

In some cases, a relatively small grant can open the door to as much as nine
times the funding amount in federal matching dollars, as is the case with some
grants administered under the Older Americans Act, said Health and Human
Services Director Gwendolyn Warren. So pulling funding could be perilous for
certain agencies, some of which have been hurting in light of sequestration and
other budget cuts.We have a homelessness issue here, she said. [The commission]
just couldn't see themselves reducing services in this climate.

Commissioners tasked Warren with coming up with a plan to make the county's
funding more effective. She doesn't yet know how she'll accomplish that, but the
aim is to make the money for meals, for a cot, for a book instead of
administration costs.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday

Lab-grown burger falls short on flavor;
Volunteers get first taste of meat grown from cattle stem cells

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: LONDON


- The food of the future could do with a pinch of seasoning - and maybe some
cheese.

Two volunteers who took the first public bites of hamburger grown in a
laboratory gave it good marks for texture but agreed there was something
missing.

I miss the salt and pepper, said Austrian nutritionist Hanni Ruetzler.

U.S. journalist Josh Schonwald confessed to a difficulty in judging a burger
without ketchup or onions or jalapeños or bacon. Both tasters shunned the
offered bun, lettuce and sliced tomatoes to concentrate on the flavor of the
meat.

Mark Post, the Dutch scientist who led the team that grew the meat from cattle
stem cells, regretted having served the patty without his favorite topping: aged
Gouda cheese.

Post, whose team at Maastricht University in the Netherlands developed the
burger over five years, hopes that making meat in labs could help feed the world
and fight climate change, although that goal probably is a decade or two away,
at best.

Sergey Brin, a co-founder of Google, announced that he funded the $330,000
project, saying he was motivated by a concern for animal welfare.

Scientists agreed that improving the flavor probably won't be hard. Just add
more fat cells.

Post's team made the meat from shoulder muscle cells of two organically raised
cows. The cells were put in a nutrient solution to help them develop into muscle
tissue, and they grew into small strands of meat.

It took nearly 20,000 strands to make a single 5-ounce patty, which for Monday's
event was seasoned with salt, egg powder and breadcrumbs. Red beet juice and
saffron were added to help the burger look more meatlike; Post said the lab-made
patty had a yellowish tinge.

Experts say new ways of producing meat are needed to satisfy growing carnivorous
appetites without exhausting resources. The animal rights group PETA has thrown
its support behind the lab-meat initiative.

As long as there's anybody who's willing to kill a chicken, a cow or a pig to
make their meal, we are all for this, said Ingrid Newkirk, PETA's president and
co-founder. Instead of the millions and billions being slaughtered now, we could
just clone a few cells to make burgers or chops, she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday

Ready or not, here they come;
For the first time since the winter fish kill of 2010, snook season will open on
west coast of Florida

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT; Tribune correspondent

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 655 words



HIGHLIGHT: Outdoors stuff for 08/25


Love it or hate it, Florida's west coast snook season will again open Sept. 1,
after more than three years of closure as a result of the 2010 winter kill. Some
anglers report loads of fish spotted in the well-known spawning locations
between Anclote Key and Everglades City, but others note numbers of slot-sized
fish, between 28 and 33 inches, are down very significantly even after so long
without harvest.

Snook tend to return to the same spawning locations year after year, and so
during the annual gatherings, which take place around the larger passes between
the full moon in May and the one in September in most years, there's a good
opportunity for a seasoned eye to get an estimate of the numbers of fish.

Those who feel numbers have not recovered in a lot of areas point out that the
smallest fish suffered most in the freeze, and that new year classes of fish
spawned after the event have not had a chance to grow to spawning size yet;
snook typically take four to five years to reach the lower end of the slot on
our coast.

Snook are managed under extremely tight harvest limits when regs return to
normal. Anglers are allowed just one fish daily, the legal slot spans a scant
five inches, and the season is closed for some six months. All this plus the
required snook stamp in addition to a saltwater license makes snook one of the
most protected of all Florida fishes. And they're not all that easy for the
average angler to catch, in any case. Their future should be secure.

But nothing can protect this subtropic species from the occasional severe cold
front - extended water temperatures in the low 50s are a death sentence, and the
kills sometimes reach tens of thousands in a single weekend.

And while it seems that climate change is giving us overall warmer winters - a
good thing as snook are concerned - the occasional severe front still finds its
way down to the peninsula. When it does, snook stockpiled over many years can go
belly-up overnight.

That's the reason that many old-time snookophiles say it doesn't make a lot of
sense to manage the fishery as a total catch-and-release like bonefish. Snook
are great on the table, and there's no question that on average every four or
five years, we'll get a freeze that will kill thousands of them - so why not let
anglers who want to take one home to eat do so? Otherwise, they go to waste.

Those on the side of all-release snooking point out that no snook that's caught
and released three or four or a dozen times over a lifespan is wasted - it
provides some of the most exciting gamefish action to be found anywhere in the
angling world, and is a great lure to anglers from all over the globe for visits
to Florida.

An abundant snook population is good for business - it sells tackle and lures,
flats and bay boats and kayaks, outboard motors and guide trips. Snook are the
poster-children of inshore Florida sportfishing, and when the numbers are
strong, more people want to get out on the water and tangle with these
spectacular creatures.

There's no question that, even as tight as the regulations are today, expert
anglers and the considerable number of west coast guides can have a serious
impact on snook numbers. Fishing live sardines in the known snook hangouts
assures that most fish in the slot are going to be caught in any given year. If
all are kept, the quality of the fishery is surely going to be less than it
would be without any harvest.

Figuring out where the sweet spot in managing this species is located is the
prickly task left to the Florida FWC, and no matter which way they go, there are
sure to be some anglers unhappy. On the positive side, when we look at fish
numbers today compared to what they were back in the day when 18-inch snook were
legal game and there was no closed season, it's clear there's been a dramatic
improvement in size and numbers, and that's a good thing whether you like your
snook on the hoof, or on the platter.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Obama lacks broad vision on foreign policy, critics say;
President says U.S. global influence is 'overstated'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly five years into his presidency, Barack Obama confronts a world far
different from what he envisioned when he took office.

U.S. influence is declining in the Middle East as violence and instability rock
Arab countries. An ambitious attempt to reset U.S. relations with Russia
faltered and failed. Even in Obama-friendly Europe, there's deep skepticism
about Washington's government surveillance programs.

In some cases, the current climate has been driven by factors outside the White
House's control. But missteps by the president also are to blame, say foreign
policy analysts, including some who worked for the Obama administration.

Among them: miscalculating the fallout from the Arab Spring uprisings, publicly
setting unrealistic expectations for improved ties with Russia and a reactive
decision-making process that can leave the White House appearing to veer from
crisis to crisis without a broader strategy.

Rosa Brooks, a former Defense Department official who left the administration in
2011, said that although the shrinking U.S. leverage overseas predates the
current president, Obama has sometimes equated 'we have no leverage' with
'there's no point to really doing anything.'

Obama, faced most urgently with escalating crises in Egypt and Syria, has
defended his measured approach, saying America's ability to solve the world's
problems on its own has been overstated.

Sometimes what we've seen is that folks will call for immediate action, jumping
into stuff, that does not turn out well, gets us mired in very difficult
situations, he said. We have to think through strategically what's going to be
in our long-term national interests.

The strongest challenge to Obama's philosophy on intervention has come from the
deepening tumult in the Middle East and North Africa. The president saw great
promise in the region when he took office and pledged a new beginning with the
Arab world when he traveled to Cairo in 2009.

But the democracy protests that spread across the region quickly scrambled
Obama's efforts. Although the United States has consistently backed the rights
of people seeking democracy, the violence that followed has often left the White
House unsure of its next move or taking tentative steps that do little to change
the situation on the ground.

Few foreign policy experts predicted the Arab uprisings, and it's unlikely the
U.S. could have - or should have - done anything to prevent the protests. But
analysts say Obama misjudged the movements' next stages, including Syrian
President Bashar Assad's ability to cling to power and the strength of Islamist
political parties in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

A blow to defense planning certainty

BYLINE: WALTER PINCUS; The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: defense ooped


The last-minute plan to avoid default and reopen the government will prolong
bringing sanity to defense spending.

Defense budget experts are working on their own plan for the 2015-to-2019 Future
Years Defense Program (FYDP) with absolutely no idea what we're going to be
doing in 2014, if and when we end this shutdown and get to start executing 2014
spending.

That's Jamie M. Morin, who testified last week before the Senate Armed Services
Committee as the nominee for director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.
CAPE is the Pentagon's unit that provides independent analytic cost assessments
of current and future military programs, along with development of the FYDP.

His problems won't go away unless Congress by some miracle - before the new Jan.
15 deadline - comes up with a fiscal 2014 Pentagon budget that promises some
stability.

Morin, who is now an assistant secretary of the Air Force, told the senators,
One of the key reasons that our Department of Defense is the envy of the world
and our military establishment is the envy of the world is the really robust
planning, programming, budgeting, execution process that we use.

But, he added, I think the  current instability really puts at risk that entire,
well-articulated, effective set of institutions that strive to squeeze that
maximum amount of combat capability out of each taxpayer dollar. It's doing
enormous and untold damage to the institution.

Michael Lumpkin, slated to become assistant secretary of defense for special
operations and low-intensity conflict, described the sequester - the
across-the-board cuts required in fiscal 2013 discretionary defense spending -
as endangering the projected slowly planned growth of Special Operations Command
from 65,000 to 71,000 personnel. That's accompanied by increases in
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance equipment and other support
elements.

Special operations cannot be mass-produced. It's not one of those things that
you can just run it on and off, like a light switch. It takes time, and there's
a significant process that goes to making a special operator, said Lumpkin, a
former Navy SEAL. I have real concerns about the morale of both our armed forces
and the federal workers, based on the current climate.

Jo Ann Rooney, nominated to be Navy undersecretary, had a different issue. Asked
whether the Navy would uphold its legal obligation to meet financial audit
deadlines set for 2014 and 2017, she said she couldn't make that determination
because there was the inability to make sure that there is the appropriate
hiring to fill those slots. In addition, she noted, it's also the uncertainty
with our people in being able to allow them to sit back and think on a time
horizon that is longer term with certainty.

A personnel specialist, Rooney said that so much doubt among key people could
lead to many decamping for private industry because they just can't face that
uncertainty.

It's not as if the Pentagon was great at handling its budget over the past
decade.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., started the hearing off, however, by criticizing
Congress for providing the government with precious little certainty about
future funding, which has caused untold amounts of scrapped planning,
administrative double work and waste.

He said the sequester is creating budgetary instability that is causing
well-performing programs to be cut, program officials to be furloughed and
readiness accounts to be plundered.

He was just as tough on the Pentagon, referring to systematic departmental
shortcomings which contribute to a 'culture of inefficiency' that is robbing war
fighters of reliable equipment and absolutely failing taxpayers.

No one is as good as McCain when he's warmed up on Pentagon spending.

After more than a decade of profligate spending and lax internal oversight,
senior defense leaders must now impel cultural change throughout the department
regarding procurement practices, financial improvement and business
transformation, he said last week.

He cited the cost - $12.8 billion - of constructing the nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78), and the Littoral Combat Ships, now $448
million each, as only the most recent examples of programs that have been
undertaken without regard for affordability or for what our combatant commanders
and service members actually need.

In an era of declining budgets, McCain said, We simply cannot afford to pour
treasure into programs that underperform, deliver unreliable capability or for
which we are unable to determine life-cycle costs. He finished by adding that
cost estimates prepared by the military services for major weapon systems have
historically proved inaccurate.

There is plenty of blame to pass around for today's fiscal cliff and for
yesterday's Pentagon excesses. The real question is whether this latest crisis
has forced enough people in Congress and the executive branch to settle down and
work out their differences so defense budget planners can get to work.

The public at large is watching.

Walter Pincus reports on intelligence, defense and foreign policy for The
Washington Post and writes the Fine Print column.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.  WASHINGTON  CAIRO  BEIJING  TORONTO


The mastermind of a 15-year kickback scheme that cost the Navy $18 million was
sentenced Friday to 10 years in prison, a sentence a federal judge said was
meant to punish as well as send a message to other government employees.

Ralph M. Mariano, 55, pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy, theft of government
property and tax evasion. He was a civilian employee of the Navy for 29 years
and had risen to be a chief engineer for the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in
Newport.

Obama creates severe weather task force

A year after superstorm Sandy devastated the East Coast, President Barack Obama
signed an executive order Friday to make it easier for states and local
governments to respond to weather disasters.

The executive order establishes a task force of state and local officials to
advise the administration on how to respond to severe storms, wildfires,
droughts and other potential impacts of climate change.

The task force includes governors of seven states, all Democrats, and the
Republican governor of Guam, a U.S. territory. Fourteen mayors and two other
local leaders also will serve on the task force.

TV station pulls plug on Egyptian satirist

A private Egyptian TV station has stopped the airing of the latest episode of a
widely popular political satire program after it came under fire for mocking the
ultranationalist, pro-mililtary fervor gripping the country.

Minutes before the program El-Bernameg was to air Friday night, CBC announced
that it would not be shown because satirist Bassem Youssef and his producer
violated its editorial policies.

The weekly program had been recorded. Last week, Youssef returned to the air
after a four-month hiatus and strongly mocked the wave of popular mania for the
military, including its chief Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, since a popularly
backed coup removed Islamist President Mohammed Morsi.

China blames militants for suicide car attack

China's top security official blamed a little-known militant group for this
week's suicide car crash that killed five people in the heart of the capital,
renewing Beijing's disputed claim that the country faces a significant organized
terrorist threat.

Meng Jianzhu offered no details of the allegations against the East Turkestan
Islamic Movement, and it isn't clear whether the group has the ability to
orchestrate terrorist strikes.

Beijing says the movement is dedicated to the violent overthrow of Chinese rule
in the northwestern region of Xinjiang that is home to the country's Turkic
Muslim Uighur minority.

Toronto police chief, mayor at odds

An attorney for Toronto's embattled mayor accused the city's top cop of acting
as judge, jury and executioner Friday, a day after police said they had obtained
a copy of a video that appears to show Rob Ford puffing on a crack pipe.

Ford's attorney, Dennis Morris, attacked Police Chief Bill Blair for saying he
was disappointed in the mayor, who has not been charged.

From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday

Fools rush in

BYLINE: MARY SHEDDEN; Tribune Staff

SECTION: 4YOU; 4U; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 605 words



HIGHLIGHT: 4U COVER - Tis the season to get back to running. SHEDDEN


Road races are tempting this time of year, but experts say it's best to walk
before you run

Live in a climate where the leaves don't change, and you depend on other clues
that autumn has arrived.

Say, for example, the sound of an air conditioner shutting off, or a window
being cracked open for the first time in months. Or, better yet, the sudden
surge in runners hitting the road.

Debbie Voiles sees it running the Upper Tampa Bay Trail this time of year. She
loves the rush of new people running and walking along the 7.5-mile nature path
in preparation for the annual wave of weekend road races.

The Run Tampa club founder and running coach says this year area residents have
a greater variety of road races from which to choose, including the more social
themed races that value fun over speed. Between now and May there will be more
than 70 races from Pasco to Sarasota counties, and all points in between.

Those opportunities and the less-humid, less-broiling weather make the
invitation to train nearly irresistible to running newbies, she says.

We have more races out there than ever before because of the mud runs and the
color runs, where you really don't have to train at all, she says. They're great
to introduce people to racing.

But don't get too cocky and end up injured, says Nan Klater, owner of Tampa's
Fitness Fun by Nan. Most of her clients aren't runners, and she knows the
temptation to do too much is great when the weather is cooler. A lot of folks
will sign up for a race - especially one that's for a charity - then do little
real training to finish successfully, she says.

Your top priorities should be staying healthy and safe, Klater says. That means
checking with a doctor before setting overly ambitious goals, wearing bright
clothes on the roadway and investing in an appropriate and supportive pair of
running shoes.

Also, don't forget the golden rule of running: hydrate. Cooler temps don't
minimize its importance, Klater says.

They think if it's cool outside, you don't have to drink as much. But you do,
she says.

Voiles is wary of popular Couch to 5K programs that devote eight weeks to
pre-race training. A tremendous number of [people who use them] get injured, she
says. Running rookies who are sedentary, overweight or deal with chronic health
issues should dedicate up to six months to training to do it properly, she says.

Strength training, particularly of the core and legs, can be a huge help to any
race regimen. Have a strong body when you go out there, says Klater, who trains
at her Tampa studio and, this time of year, outside at the Joe Abrahams Fitness
and Wellness Center at Ballast Point.

And don't minimize the value of starting slow. Walk two to three miles every few
days for about three weeks to gradually get your heart and knees ready.

Voiles says that will help transition to the popular walk/run interval style of
race training that allows runners to build distance, stamina and speed with less
stress on the body.

It's a great way to reduce impact, she says. It makes it safer for anybody to
try.

Running can be great year-round, Voiles says. If you can't handle the heat
during summer's 90-degree days, get up earlier. As an alternative to summer
running, she suggests hopping on a bicycle or jumping in a swimming pool with a
kickboard to do some laps.

Or check out some of her favorite locations: the Upper Tampa Bay Trail, Trout
Creek Park and Lake Rogers Regional Park.  They offer shade, bathrooms and water
stations that make them great 365 days a year.

There's really no excuse not to keep on trucking, she says.

mshedden@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7365

Twitter: @MaryShedden

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 16, 2013 Saturday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES  SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. WARSAW, Poland VATICAN CITY TOKYO
LONDON



HIGHLIGHT: Sheriff: Bodies found in California desert believed to be missing San
Diego-area family of 4


MSNBC says it has suspended Alec Baldwin's new weekly talk show for two
episodes.

The cable channel didn't specify why, and in a  post on its website Baldwin said
he is deeply sorry for language he used but didn't offer details.

MSNBC's action followed an encounter Baldwin had with a photographer Thursday in
New York in which the actor was heard on videotape using an anti-gay insult.

Remains found                 in desert ID'd as family

- Four skeletons found in shallow graves in the Southern California desert are
thought to be those of a San Diego County family that vanished three years ago,
police said Friday, resolving one mystery and raising a host of new questions
about what happened to the seemingly happy couple and their two young sons.

The McStay family - 40-year-old Joseph, his 43-year-old wife, Summer, and their
sons Gianni, 4, and Joseph Jr., 3 - were apparent homicide victims, San
Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said.

Japan cuts targets    for gas emissions

- Japan's decision to drastically scale back its target for reducing greenhouse
gas emissions could hurt efforts to craft a global deal to fight climate change,
delegates at U.N. talks said Friday.

The new target approved by the Japanese Cabinet calls for reducing emissions by
3.8 percent from their 2005 level by 2020. The revision was necessary because
the earlier goal of a 25 percent reduction from the 1990 level was unrealistic,
the chief government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, told reporters in Tokyo.

Illness forces pope to cancel appointments

-  Pope Francis canceled his morning audiences Friday because of a cold, the
first time the industrious pope is known to have slowed his busy schedule due to
illness.

The Vatican said the 76-year-old pontiff, who lost most of one of his lungs due
to an infection in his youth, took the morning off to rest at his Vatican hotel.

Kennedy takes up  diplomatic post

- Caroline Kennedy arrived in Japan on Friday to take up her position as U.S.
ambassador with one important strength: She has the ear of the American
president.

I bring greetings from President Obama, she said in a short statement after
deplaning with husband Edwin Schlossberg at Narita airport.

Japan hopes the 55-year-old daughter of late President John F. Kennedy will work
closely with Barack Obama to tackle some urgent U.S.-Japan matters, analysts
said.

Britain issues urgent cyberscam warning

- British officials issued an unusually stark alert about a cyberscam that locks
users out of their computers unless they pay a ransom, saying Friday that tens
of millions of people may soon be targeted.

In a warning headlined URGENT ALERT, Britain's National Crime Agency said they
were aware of a mass email spamming event that is ongoing and urged computer
users to beware of messages purporting to come from their bank.

From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday

Managers should discourage cursing

BYLINE: Marie G. McIntyre; McClatchy-Tribune News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words



HIGHLIGHT: Marie McIntyre column


Q: During business discussions in our company, I have increasingly heard the
F-word being used, even by managers and supervisors. While this doesn't seem to
bother some people, others are noticeably disturbed by it. Personally, I do not
understand when or how this became acceptable workplace language.

As a woman, I sense that men sometimes use profanity as a means of intimidating
female colleagues and limiting their participation in meetings. However, I'm not
sure how to respond when someone throws an F-bomb into the conversation. Do you
have any suggestions for addressing this problem?

Answer: Casual profanity is definitely more prevalent these days, but the degree
to which expletives are tolerated in the workplace depends largely on the
climate established by executives. Apparently, management in your company either
has no problem with such language or is too spineless to tackle the issue.

From a business standpoint, managers who are not offended by profanity need to
recognize that many people are. This group may include important customers, key
staff members and highly recruited job applicants. So regardless of their own
feelings on the matter, wise executives take steps to discourage vulgarity and
promote professionalism.

If your own objective is to create a widespread cultural change, you will need
to recruit allies from the ranks of those who are noticeably disturbed. This
group can then ask to meet with human resources or top management and present
the business case for a language cleanup.

But if you simply wish to stop the offenders from swearing at you personally,
then you must politely, but firmly, make that request. Just be sure to deliver
this message with a smile and a friendly tone.

For example: Bob, even though I'm not a prude, I find the F-word to be very
offensive. I would really appreciate your not using it during our conversations.

This approach should work quite well with reasonable adults who do not wish to
offend anyone. Unfortunately, it will have no effect on those immature folks who
get a secret thrill out of using naughty words.

Q: Last week, I accidently overheard my supervisor talking about me to another
manager. Based on that conversation, it sounds as though my position might be
eliminated soon, and I may have to find another job in the company. This has me
very worried, but I don't know whether I should mention it.

Answer: Since you weren't engaging in deliberate office espionage, you should
have no problem raising this issue. To either ease your fears or confirm your
suspicions, simply ask your supervisor a direct question.

For example: Last week I accidentally overheard a conversation that seemed to
imply that my job is going to be eliminated. Is there any truth to that?

You may learn that the discussion you heard was about something entirely
different.

But if your interpretation is correct, at least you will be in a better position
to begin planning for the future.

Marie G. McIntyre is a workplace coach and the author of Secrets to Winning at
Office Politics. Send in questions and get coaching tips at
www.yourofficecoach.com  or follow her on Twitter @officecoach.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

Airspace spat complicates Biden's Asia trip;
Meeting today with China's leader may be tense

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: TOKYO



HIGHLIGHT: Biden in Beijing: VP to reunite with Xi Jinping day after rebuking
China over airspace spat


In what was supposed to be a warm reunion, Vice President Joe Biden and Chinese
President Xi Jinping meet instead today in a climate fraught with tension over
an airspace dispute that has put Asia on edge.

A day before seeing Xi, Biden stood in Japan and publicly rebuked China for
trying to force its will on its neighbors and escalating the risk of a
potentially dangerous accident.

Although Biden had hoped to focus on areas of cooperation as the United States
seeks an expanded Asia footprint, China's declaration of a new air defense zone
above disputed islands in the East China Sea has pitted the U.S. and China
against each other, creating a wide gulf that Biden will seek to bridge during
his two day trip to Beijing.

Despite Washington's preference not to get involved in territorial spats,
concerns that China's action could portend a broader effort to assert its
dominance in the region has drawn in the U.S., putting Biden in the middle as he
jets from Japan to China to South Korea on a weeklong tour of Asia.

We, the United States, are deeply concerned by the attempt to unilaterally
change the status quo in the East China Sea, Biden said after meeting in Tokyo
on Tuesday with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. This action has raised
regional tensions and increased the risk of accidents and miscalculation.

To that end, Biden said he would raise those concerns with China's leaders with
great specificity during his Beijing visit.

Although the U.S. repeatedly has said it rejects the zone, Biden has avoided
calling publicly for Beijing to retract it, wary of making demands that China is
likely to snub. Rather, the U.S. hopes that with enough pressure, China will
refrain from strictly enforcing the zone, essentially nullifying.

What's more, the U.S. wants to show that the diplomatic consequence for such
actions is severe enough that China will think twice in the future about
asserting its authority in such heavy-handed ways. Already, China has claimed it
has a sovereign right to establish a similar zone over the South China Sea,
where China and the Philippines are locked in a long-running territorial
dispute.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 141 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

USF's bullish research efforts

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 482 words



HIGHLIGHT: USF research


The University of South Florida's increasing stature as a research institution
merits the attention of Gov. Rick Scott, lawmakers and local business leaders.

It underscores the importance of this economic engine, which has a nearly $4
billion annual economic impact, and  illustrates USF's innovative,
business-friendly  approach to its education research mission.

According to the latest federal report, USF's research spending increased from
$394.9 million in 2011 to $443.2 million last year, improving its national
ranking from 53 to 43. As the Tribune's Keith Morelli reports, among public
universities, USF moved from 33 to 27.

USF's impressive improvement came even though Washington has been cutting its
research support.

The reason? USF President Judy Genshaft's team wisely focused on generating more
private research dollars.

Most universities receive about 68 percent of their research funding from
government sources. USF gets about 54 percent, with an impressive 46 percent
from private sources.

This helps buffer the university from Washington's gyrations.

Consider: In 2010, USF received $203 million in federal funds and only $123
million in private research. In 2012, USF received $166 million in direct
federal research funds and $184 million in private research funds.

The university also gets some funding from state and local governments.

If the university had not aggressively pursued private partners, its research
efforts would have languished.

Instead, USF quickly responded to the changing economic climate, one that is
unlikely to change anytime soon.

As a recent Moody's Investor's Service reports: In 2013, federal research
funding was cut by 5 percent due to sequestration and will decline further in
2014 and ensuing years. Even if a budget deal is reached in Washington, we
expect flat funding at best over the medium term.

Moody's noted that among the 107 research universities, research funding
declined while expenses increased, which reflect the difficulties some
universities have in swiftly cutting certain costs to respond to declining grant
revenue.

In contrast, USF reacted boldly, cutting expenses where possible and developing
alternative funding sources.

All this does not mean that public research funds do not remain critically
important.

And it is essential the state also help with research dollars, which often lead
to more jobs and commerce.

For instance, during the next legislative session, USF will seek $16 million to
continue to develop a cypersecurity program and another $16 million for its
Heart Institute. Both have the potential to make ground-breaking discoveries
that will benefit the public and generate new enterprises.

USF's ability to cope with a difficult financial landscape and continue to
strengthen its role as a major research university should give lawmakers
confidence there will be a solid return on any investment in the university.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
