
                               1 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 27, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Study links warming to bigger hurricanes;

BYLINE: JAN HOLLINGSWORTH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words


TAMPA - Global warming could mean more frequent and intense Atlantic storms,
according to a new  report.

Unchecked air pollution that warms the planet may spark an increase in
destructive super-storms  such as Hurricane Floyd, warns a report published this
month by the World Wildlife Fund.

The report sets out to establish a link between rising global temperatures and a
dramatic  increase in the number of storms threatening the Atlantic coast.

According to the National Hurricane Center in Miami:

The late 1990s have seen a period of unprecedented hurricane activity.

A record 33 hurricanes formed between 1995 and 1998.

For the first time in a century, there were four hurricanes churning in the
Atlantic on the  same day, Sept. 25, 1998.

Global warming is thought to be caused by gases from power plants, cars and
industry that trap  heat close to Earth's surface.

The phenomenon has spawned controversy over the degree to which it will affect
life on Earth or  whether it is a phenomenon at all.

Some climate researchers predict global warming will lead to floods, droughts,
severe storms,  blizzards and general climatic instability.

Others challenge the evidence that global temperatures are rising or call the
data an  insignificant blip on the world weather screen.

The number of those challenging the dire prediction is dwindling in the face of
growing  documentation of melting ice caps, dying coral reefs, record
temperatures and dramatic weather  fluctuations.

But it is difficult to establish a direct link between global warming and
present and future  climate trends.

Warm water fuels the formation of hurricanes. And sea surface temperatures have
been higher than  normal during the busy hurricane seasons of the late 1990s,
said Neal Lott, a meteorologist for the  National Climatic Data Center.

"It tends to have its ups and downs anyway, and right now we're in kind of an up
cycle for the  Atlantic," said Lott.

There is little agreement that global warming is responsible for that cycle,
said Michael  Changery, the center's chief of climate monitoring.

If the ocean is warmer in the future, he said, other factors may develop that
could inhibit  storm formation:

Upper air temperatures could warm up more than surface water to stabilize the
atmosphere.

Stronger high-level winds, which could "knock the top off the critter."

But the critters have been coming fast and furious in recent years. "If you look
at the past 10  to 15 years, there's been a definite uptake in the number of
storms," he said.

The World Wildlife Fund report states that the weather patterns speak for
themselves, from the  growing frequency and intensity of Atlantic storms to the
growing force and duration of the El  Nin o/La Nin a cycles during the past two
decades.

"For climatologists, the El Nin o/La Nin a system is the flywheel of the climate
system, an  occasional redistributor of heat and energy that kicks in when the
regular circulation systems  cannot cope," states the report. "Its unparalleled
activity in recent years suggests the regular  system is under severe strain."

Hurricanes will always exist, the report concludes. "But if governments and
corporations take  more decisive action to reduce their carbon dioxide
emissions, they can minimize the risk of  tomorrow's hurricane becoming the
super storms of the future."  Jan Hollingsworth can be reached at (813)
259-7607.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 28, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Governor takes fast track to revamp state agencies;

BYLINE: DAVID WASSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2402 words


TALLAHASSEE - Critics of the Bush administration, and even some allies, say
changes are coming  too fast.

Call it a minirevolution.

With lightning speed, Gov. Jeb Bush is spearheading perhaps the broadest
transformation in  Florida government since Reconstruction. Entire state
agencies are being reorganized, political  traditions challenged and major
policies rewritten.

Approaching the waning days of his freshman year, Bush is causing Richter-
scale movements.

Affirmative-action programs are falling. Growth-management laws are being
rewritten. Children  are attending private schools, including religious ones, at
taxpayer expense.

"No one has ever been able to change the fundamentals as much as Jeb Bush," said
former state  Republican chief Tom Slade. "But then, nobody has ever had this
opportunity."

Partisan control of the Legislature, along with his enormous popularity, enabled
Bush to walk  away from his first legislative session with everything he wanted:
broad education reforms, record  tax cuts and tougher penalties for armed
criminals.

He then set his sights on the inner workings of the state's massive bureaucracy.
Some agencies,  such as Labor and Employment Security, are being eviscerated;
others, such as the Department of  Transportation, are being refocused.

The pace and breadth of the Bush revolution have some people nervous.

"My immediate reaction is he's moving way too fast," said state Rep. Lois
Frankel, D-West Palm  Beach. "I hope that these changes work, but I fear that
they won't."

Charles Pattison, the executive director of the environmental advocacy group
1000 Friends of  Florida, agreed.

"Proposals for change should be approached with caution so unintended, adverse
impacts don't  result," said Pattison, who is most concerned with Bush's desire
to rewrite growth-management laws.  BUSH, HOWEVER, is unapologetic and insists
he's simply fulfilling campaign promises.

"We haven't done anything rash or reckless," said the governor, a Republican
from Miami whose  experience as a development-company executive includes
corporate reorganization. "We have a lot of  talented people with an abundance
of energy ... and I'm comfortable with the pace and level of  activity."

In fact, Bush said he is worried his first-year agenda became bogged down by a
series of  emergencies and other unexpected issues demanding his attention:
Hurricane Floyd and the massive  evacuation of the state's eastern seaboard, the
prospect of Florida's electric chair being ruled  unconstitutional and a nagging
rodent infestation near Orlando.

"These are serious issues that we need to deal with," Bush said.

But his primary focus is on revamping government, finding ways to, as he puts
it, better serve  Floridians more efficiently.

If you're a business owner in a regulated industry, such as food service or
construction, that  might mean a warning instead of a fine or disciplinary
proceedings for code violations considered  not life-threatening. If you're an
individual with a complaint or question about government  benefits, it could
mean getting answers with a single phone call rather than being transferred from

 one agency to the next.

More than anything, Bush wants those changes fast.

Labor Secretary Mary Hooks can attest to that.

Already coping with a legislatively mandated reorganization that shifts five of
her operating  divisions into other state agencies, Hooks is planning even more
changes.

Administrative and other functions are being consolidated, and some services are
being  considered for privatization. That combination, along with the
Legislature's mandate, is expected  to cut the department's roughly
6,000-employee work force in half.

Hooks remembers briefing the governor on her latest plans during a meeting last
month.

"His thing was how soon can you get this done," she recalls. "We told him 18 to
24 months. He said,  "I want to see it done in 12.' "

Another day. Another policy briefing. Another shake-up.

BUSH'S VISION FOR the future of state government is built on what he calls the
"enterprise model."

He says government should be organized and operated much like a commercial
enterprise. That  means every department must have a clear understanding of its
purpose, a method for measuring its  success and a desire among workers
constantly to seek better and more efficient ways to deliver its  services.

The common denominator in each of Bush's initiatives is the ability to measure
change and reward  success.

Perhaps the most obvious examples are found in the broad education reforms he
and Lt. Gov. Frank  Brogan call the "A Plus" plan.

Under the reforms, which are being attacked in court by teachers unions and
others, every public  school is graded by how well its students perform on
certain standardized tests. High-performing  schools get bonuses, and students
in failing schools can transfer to the public or private school  of their choice
at taxpayer expense.

Individual teachers also can benefit.

BRANDON HIGH SCHOOl science teacher Sharon Leto will receive $ 7,000 in bonuses
this year because  of two Bush-backed plans rewarding educators who earn
national accreditation and who serve as  mentors.

"I think it's long overdue, and it's a positive change," Leto said. "It seemed
to me the first time  teachers have been offered an opportunity to advance."

Having adopted a wait-and-see attitude during the early months of the
administration, the  governor's critics now are organizing.

His desire to rewrite the state's 15-year-old growth-management laws to give
cities and counties  greater control over land-use decisions has horrified
environmental activists. Bush and his  advisers argue the laws aren't working,
but environmentalists contend Florida's history is ripe  with examples of local
governments being unable to control development.

A chief concern is the speed with which it is happening.

"These policies were 25 years in the making," said Tom Pelham, the legislative
chairman for the  Florida chapter of the American Planning Association. "To
suggest they can and should be revamped to  a whole new process in a few short
months is preposterous."

Just a few months ago, many in the environmental community were hailing Bush's
appointment of  Eva Armstrong, the chief lobbyist for the Florida Audubon
Society, to a job supervising state  conservation lands.

Other carefully crafted political alliances also are threatening to unravel.

State Sen. Daryl Jones, D-Miami, chairman of the Florida Conference of Black
Legislators,  withdrew his support this month for Bush's plan to end racial
preferences in state contracting and  university admissions.

Jones said his change of heart came after he took the time to fully consider the
ramifications.  Florida's old approach to affirmative action may be imperfect,
Jones said, but the governor's  pledge to increase minority participation
without quotas or set asides would rely too heavily on  nothing more than good
intentions.

Jones isn't the only one looking for the brake pedal.

THE STATE BOARD of Regents this month was asked to adopt the portion of the
governor's plan to  abolish racial quotas in university admissions. Called the
"One Florida Initiative," the plan was  drafted with the help of Chancellor Adam
Herbert, the first black to lead Florida's public  university system.

But when it came time to vote, the board gave only conceptual approval, delaying
until January a  formal decision on the plan. Regents said they want more time
to study the proposal that would  scrap racial preferences in favor of a plan
that guarantees enrollment to the top 20 percent of  graduates in every Florida
high school.

Recent polls have found voters generally approve of ending racial quotas in
Florida. It's  proving to be a popular idea even among high school students - at
least among those who care.

Cassandra Denten, whose mother is Brazilian, is a senior honors student at King
High School in  east Tampa. She gives the Bush plan high marks.

"I totally agree with it," she said, explaining she wants to know she is
accepted into college  based solely on her credentials rather than because "they
want someone who is half-Hispanic to meet  their quota."

SUSAN MACMANUS, a political science professor at the University of South Florida
and member of  Bush's transition team, said it has been clear from the beginning
that the governor intended to  move fast.

"The Bush administration will be judged by how it reorganizes state government,"
said MacManus,  who has studied gubernatorial transitions nationwide. "And if
you're going to do that kind of  cleaning house in agencies, you've got to do it
quick - no more than two years."

Bush came armed with an advantage.

Following his 1994 loss to the late Gov. Lawton Chiles, he formed a think tank,
in many ways a  shadow campaign and administration, that spent the next four
years studying and developing public  policy. Along the way, he and his
supporters kept detailed lists containing names and telephone  numbers of people
they met with an interest in government issues.

In 1998, when Bush cruised to a landslide election victory, staffers had only to
begin sifting  through the lists to assemble teams of policy experts to assist
in the transition.

Moreover, many of the key players in his think tank quickly assumed policy
positions on his  gubernatorial staff. Others were appointed to posts in state
agencies.

"He had those four years to study," said MacManus. "He met a whole lot of people
and basically  learned who had good ideas and who didn't."

He also has learned he can't expect his policy juggernaut to automatically win
over every  powerful political leader in Tallahassee, even in his own party.

"In the race of the tortoise and the hare, we're the tortoise," said state
Senate President Toni  Jennings, R-Orlando.

The state Senate sued Bush this year over his attempted use of a partial
line-item veto as he  slashed his way to a record $ 313 million in budget cuts.
The state Supreme Court sided with the  Senate, handing Bush his first major
setback.

Jennings said she and other Senate leaders tend to support Bush's approach to
state government.  She said the Senate, however, will continue to review the
governor's plans rather than allow him to  rush them into law.

Meanwhile, Bush said he expects to slow his pace a bit next year.

WHILE POLLS SHOW Bush continues to enjoy broad support, his base of strength is
rooted firmly  within the business community.

And business operators at all levels are encouraged.

Louis Miller, the executive director of Tampa International Airport, is eager to
expand cargo  facilities and will receive more than $ 500,000 under a Bush plan
that gives the Transportation  Department a greater focus on economic
development.

"Cargo is extremely critical to our operation," Miller said. "We handled 180
million pounds last  year, and it's growing at a rate of 6 to 8 percent per
year."

For surveyor David Hurley, who owns Landmark Engineering and Surveying Corp. of
Tampa, it's the  little things that matter.

He said that when he forgot to mark a box on a form he sent to the state this
year, he got a  call from a helpful worker who offered to check the appropriate
box for him. Under the previous  administration, Hurley said, the document would
have been mailed back to him, which he called a  waste of time and money.

Bush won't hazard a guess as to when the transformation of state government will
be complete.

"My dream is to hold up high the things that work, and fund them, while creating
a climate where  the basic ingredients for that success can be transferred to
where it's needed," he said. "It will  profoundly change how state government
serves people."    (CHART) Want to contact the governor and voice an opinion?
Write: Gov. Jeb Bush, The Capitol, Tallahassee FL 32399-0001  E-mail:
fl_governor@eog.state.fl.us Call: (850) 488-4441  Fax: (850) 487-0801    (CHART)
Bush's changes  Since taking office Jan. 5, Gov. Jeb Bush has put his stamp on
Florida government, rolling out new  policies and retooling agencies in the
image of a commercial enterprise. He calls it "the enterprise  model."  New
policies   Affirmative action: Racial preferences in state contracting are
eliminated by executive order - a  first for a governor anywhere. Bush's office
will oversee contracting. He's also pushing to end  racial preferences in
university admissions.   Vouchers: Sutdents in failing public schools are able
to attend the private or public school of  their choice at taxpayer expense, the
first such statewide voucher plan in the nation.   Growth management: The
state's 15-year-old growth-management law is about to undergo its first  major
revamping, with the state set to turn over to cities and counties greater
control over  land-use decisions.   Budget reform: Looking to impose order on a
chaotic funding process, the governor slashed a  record $ 313 million in
lawmakers' pet projects from the budget, angering legislators accustomed to
steering money to their districts. He promises to do it again next year.  Agency
changes   Transportation: Bush is introducing private-sector involvement in
spending decisions and putting  more stress on projects that enhance economic
development.   Business and Professional Regulation: There's less emphasis on
regulation and enforcement and  greater attention to education and cooperation
with such industries as home building and horse  racing tracks.   Labor and
Employment Security: More than 2,500 employees are expected to be cut through
consolidation, privatization and transfer of operating divisions. The changes
could leave the  department so eviscerated that lawmakers may seek to abolish
it.   Corrections: Business functions are transferred from prisons to regional
service centers to save  $ 10 million a year.   Child and Family Services: Bush
continues to shift the delivery of most social services to  private firms
through contracting, giving communities greater control over expenditures.
Source: News reports  Staff writers Michelle Pellemans, John Wark and researcher
Heather Fields contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5(1C); CHART 2,
 (C) "We haven't done anything rash or reckless," says Gov. Jeb Bush about the
pace of governmental reforms.  COLIN HACKLEY, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 29, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

State of disaster;

BYLINE: GEORGE A. MAUL;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 798 words


At a time when changes in global weather patterns are blamed for everything from
catastrophic  hurricanes to droughts, it is easy to overlook a basic truth about
natural hazards: Human beings -  not just nature - are the cause of mounting
disaster losses.

This is certainly true in Florida, where the consequences of coastal development
have  contributed to the destruction caused by large hurricanes. For the near
future, local  decision-making on land-use management and construction practices
will have far more impact on  reducing disaster losses than will global efforts
to avert climate change.

Given our recent history, one of the recurring enigmas is how doomsday scenarios
about extreme  weather and rising sea levels from global warming can divert
attention from the risks people face  now. The number of people residing in
coastal counties subject to hurricanes is growing rapidly.  Florida grew from 3
million people in 1950 to more than 13 million by the early 1990s, and 80
percent of that growth was in "coastal areas." From a hurricane perspective,
however, all of Florida  is a "coastal area."

MORE PEOPLE mean greater exposure to extreme weather. But population growth is
only part of the  story. Inequality in personal incomes also makes many people
more vulnerable to hazards and less  able to recover from them. And development
of all kinds - homes and office buildings,  communications, utilities and
transportation systems, infrastructure in general - is growing in  density,
making the potential losses from natural hazards larger.

One central problem is that the public increasingly looks to insurance to
compensate for losses  from many types of risk-taking behavior. And even when
insurance is available, most property owners  do not buy coverage against
special perils, notably earthquakes and floods. For example, nationwide  only
about 20 percent of the homes exposed to floods have flood insurance. Many
people assume that  federal disaster assistance will function as a kind of
hazard insurance, but such aid is almost  always limited. And even when larger
amounts are available, they are usually offered in the form of  loans, not
outright grants.

No one really knows how large future disasters could be. A new study by the
National Academy of  Sciences says that a conservative estimate of total dollar
losses from natural disasters during the  past 20 years is $ 500 billion. It
says that only 17 percent of the losses were insured.

Clearly, there is a limited amount the federal government can do about it.
Indeed, subsidies  built into federal insurance and relief programs probably
help account for the massive increase in  development in hazard-prone areas. My
own house is covered by flood insurance - a requirement of the  mortgage lending
institution; without it we would not have built our home where it is!

There is a degree of personal responsibility we must assume, too. We need to
educate ourselves  regarding natural hazards and to insist that the homes we buy
or build are constructed properly  according to known risks. Clearly, a safe and
comfortable residence is worth the extra dollars.

More efficient use of land and space is also essential. There must be greater
emphasis on trees,  parks and open space. Mixed-use environments that are more
amenable to walking and less dependent  on automobiles are part of the solution.
We have, in fact, traded cheap land for expensive  transportation.

But there is another step we can take to reduce exposure to hazards besides
placing limits on  the number of people living in hazard-prone areas. That is to
strengthen local government by an  inclusive process that gathers all interests.
Development in hazard-prone areas requires wise  land-use management -
especially controls to protect natural environmental resources that mitigate
damage, such as mangrove stands, wetlands, coastal vegetation and sand dunes.
The best way to do  this work is to rely on - and to hold accountable - local
government and its communities of  interested citizens.

FLORIDA'S EXPERIENCE shows that everyone has a stake in seeking to forge local
consensus on  disaster resiliency. We must advance the idea that each locality
controls the character of its  disasters, forcing people to take responsibility
for natural hazards and to realize that the  decisions they make today will
determine future losses.  George A. Maul is professor of oceanography and
director of the Division of Marine and Environmental Systems in the College of
Engineering at Florida Institute of Technology in Melbourne.  He recently
chaired a United Nations-sponsored study of climate changes in the region that
includes

Florida and the waters off both coasts.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 11, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Information age artifacts in danger of disappearing;

BYLINE: MARK JOHNSON, of Media General News Service;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words


WASHINGTON - History's antiques are holding up well, but artifacts of our more
recent past are  slipping into technological oblivion.

The National Archives preserves the 200-year-old Constitution and Declaration of
Independence in  a climate-controlled glass case with security guards nearby.

It's the 5- and 10-year-old documents, the ones written on computers, that are
in danger.

For example, the National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., maintains
satellite weather  data dating from the mid-1970s that researchers use to study
global climate change. The information  prior to 1996 is stored on an outdated
tape system called the U-Matic that is no longer  manufactured.

"We're down to only a couple of machines that can read the data," said John
Jensen, chief of the  climate services division.

In 1985, technicians at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.,
began transferring  data recorded from the 1976 Viking probe to Mars to a
sturdier type of computer tape. They found  errors in 10 percent of the original
recordings because of deterioration.

Even compact discs are vulnerable to deterioration, or "laser rot."

The onward march - sprint, really - of technology has brought innumerable
capabilities and  conveniences to society but also made it more complex to store
valuable scientific and historic  information for the long term. As computer and
Internet usage continues to spread, the human record  is caught between the
paper era and the electronic era, while bits of history slip through the gap.

Words on paper have seemed eternal, even if yellowed and rigid with age.
Critical documents,  from the Gutenberg Bible to the Gettysburg Address, still
can be read centuries later. The National  Archives and other repositories,
however, also hold countless microfilms, audiotapes, films,  videotapes and
other media for recording. Not only do those materials deteriorate, but also
their  format and the technology for playing them may become obsolete, like the
Betamax video or 8-track  tape.

"Using tapes as a transport media or an archival media is problematical," said
Michael Martin of  the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He said the lost data from the
Viking probe was recovered only  through a labor-intensive process.

The National Archives maintains a climate-controlled laboratory that houses
several machines  capable of playing outdated types of recordings.

Such losses may seem inconsequential because they involve obscure data, but
archivists caution  that problems could emerge for all sorts of crucial
information, such as: Where did we bury the  plutonium?

Many institutions are transferring older papers, tapes and films to digital
formats: computer  tapes, floppy discs and laser discs. Every 10 years, the
Archives transfers the documents in the  permanent collection to a more current
technology, most recently copying from 9-track computer tape  reels to more
compact and advanced tape cartridges.

Increasing amounts of data now originate and are stored in these forms. The
federal government  is rapidly moving to a paperless world, according to Roger
Baker, chief information officer for the  Department of Commerce and a member of
the CIO Council, which includes the technology chiefs of  major government
agencies.

"The intent over the next few years is for everything to be kept
electronically," Baker said.  Government technologists want to create "a
searchable set of documents so people don't have to  relearn the lessons of the
last administration and can respond to (Freedom of Information Act)  requests."

The digital revolution presents two enormous problems: the overwhelming amount
of information  that can be saved and the short shelf life of the media on which
the data are kept.

At the National Archives annex in College Park, Md., the amount of incoming
digital information  is at least doubling every year, said Michael Carlson, the
director of electronic and special media  records.

"It will way more than double in years to come," Carlson said. "We're at a point
where I think (the  amount of data) is going to explode."

Notes that once were scribbled on a yellow pad and later thrown away are now in
computer files.  Water cooler conversations are documented in office e-mails.
Raw statistics that used to require  reams of paper now reside in a database.
All of these are easily and cheaply stored, at least for a  while.

Saving information for future generations requires not just the physical
preservation of data  but also preserving the ability to retrieve it, to read it
or play it. While 8-track tapes managed  to hang around for a few years,
computer formats can be obsolete in a matter of months.

Researchers at the National Media Lab, a joint venture between the government
and high-tech  corporations, concluded that technical obsolescence is now the
greatest threat to the permanence of  electronic records. According to the lab's
John Van Bogart: "A significant data storage technology  is introduced to the
market every few years. It can be more cost-effective to migrate to the newer
technology."

Librarians and archivists worry about preservation because that's their
business.

"Unfortunately, computer science, as a field, has not had very much interest in
this problem,"  said Jeff Rothenberg, a senior computer scientist at the Rand
Corp., in a recent television  interview. "We're in the business of charging
ahead into the future and dropping the past behind us.  ... People are more
interested in what's the new paradigm. How are we going to create new, more
exciting hypermedia with new capabilities that have never existed. But those new
capabilities,  those paradigm shifts, leave old documents stranded in the past."

The Census Bureau is working with the National Archives on how to store
questionnaires from the  2000 Census, documents that are not made public for 72
years because of privacy concerns and that  in past years were saved on
microfilm.

"We have to guess what is going to be readable 72 years from now," said Jay
Waite, an assistant  director of the census. "Will people even know what a
microfilm reader is?"

There's a bit too much hand-wringing, said William Barrow, a special-collections
librarian at  Cleveland State University. He maintains a host of rare documents
and books but suggests the fuss  over digital preservation is the archival
equivalent of stockpiling water bottles for Y2K.

"There's tons of stuff being "saved' that no one seems to want as it is now.
Survival of the  Fittest may apply here," Barrow wrote in a recent online
discussion group.

In the past, it wasn't necessary for the public to decide what information it
wanted to keep,  said Margaret Hedstrom, a professor at the University of
Michigan's school of information. Papers  could sit around for 50 or 100 years
before a researcher discovered some startling evidence in  them. The digital age
requires a cultural shift.

"We really have to decide when records are being generated, or very shortly
after they become  available, whether or not we're going to keep them," Hedstrom
said.

Like purging boxes from the attic, such an approach is easier in concept than
practice. It's  impossible to predict who's going to be a great author or who's
going to be president in 2040,  Hedstrom said. It could easily be somebody who
right now has his or her own Web page.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Michael Carlson directs electronic preservation for the National Archives.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 21, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Seas of change rocked utility and its crew;

BYLINE: CHERIE JACOBS LANE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2293 words


How did the hometown utility become a diversified company looking to sell? The
transformation  was astonishingly fast.

The tenor of Florida Progress Corp. has changed with its leaders, beginning with
down-to-earth  Andrew Hines and ending with down-to-the-bottom-line Richard
Korpan.

The company's climate also has been influenced by trends in the utility
industry. It bought  companies unrelated to utilities during the 1980s, and
later sold them off.

Today the parent of Florida Power isn't what it used to be, having lost nearly
all of its other  subsidiaries, much of its personality and a big portion of
employee loyalty.

That change is not unfamiliar to the rest of corporate America. Once Florida
Power was one of  those companies where employees stayed until retirement. But
those days are gone there, as  everywhere else.

At Florida Progress, the evolution was accelerated and condensed into a single
decade.  The glory days

Longtime workers and retirees still sigh when they discuss how things used to be
before there  was a Florida Progress - when there was just a utility called
Florida Power Corp.

It was the place to work in Pinellas County. Employees accepted jobs there as
young adults,  planning to retire some day. Company picnics and clubs were
common.

"The company was like a big family. It really was. It sounds kind of maudlin,
but it was," said  Ray Irwin, who retired early in 1992 after 39 years with
Florida Power.

In the 1970s, Andrew Hines was at the helm.

He had started his 39-year career at the company as an assistant production
engineer, an  entry-level professional job. He took a 12 percent pay cut to take
the job, which brought him back  to Florida after he had worked for General
Electric Co.

He worked his way up through jobs in sales and marketing for the utility, and
operations, ending  up as president of Florida Power.

He was a beloved leader. He called workers by their first names. He valued
customer service  above all else. He was a hands-on president who was intimately
involved with the day-to-day running  of the company.

Hines always kept a hard hat in his car. During storms he would frequently wear
the hat and a  rain slicker as he visited line crews working in a downpour.
Sometimes he would hand them tools  they needed, other times he would just stop
by and say hi.

"Andy Hines," said Dick Literaty, who left the company in April 1998 after 17
years, "was the kind  of guy you'd walk through hell in a gasoline suit for."

Hines, who still lives in St. Petersburg, declined to be interviewed for this
article, saying he  had closed the Florida Progress chapter of his life.

But retirees and other former workers, many whom still consider Hines their
friend, spoke of  Hines' era.

In the early 1980s, Florida Power's board of directors faced a dilemma. The
company's growth had  slowed.

"There was concern that the utility, the Florida Power utility, wouldn't grow
like it had.  Therefore, its earnings wouldn't grow, and shareholders needed
constant growth," said Lee Scott, who  replaced Hines as president of Florida
Power.

So Florida Progress was created in 1982, to provide a structure for bringing
some  income-producing companies into the mix. Hines was appointed chairman of
the new corporation.

Under Hines' tenure, Florida Progress began a frenzy of acquisitions, mostly
unrelated to  electric utilities: a window and door manufacturer; citrus groves;
a life insurance company;  airplane leasing. At its peak, Florida Progress had
more than 70 subsidiaries, with only a handful  related to electricity.

Major utilities throughout the United States were doing the same thing at the
time. Utilities'  growth everywhere had stagnated, and boards of directors
wanted to exploit chances to make money  from businesses that wouldn't fall
under state regulators' authority.

No one intended to build Florida Progress into something that would be sold
someday, Scott said.  The "total idea was to grow and build a diversified
company, and that was the only idea. Never to  sell the company," Scott said. "I
don't think that entered his (Hines') mind or any of the senior  staff."

Some former employees say they began to see the company's attitude change in the
late 1980s, as  Hines looked toward retirement. The utility industry was
evolving, Hines told several people, and  they needed to be prepared to change.

But as Hines looked about his disciples for a successor, he saw only men like
him: 60-somethings  preparing to retire. So he picked an unlikely outsider to
groom: a former president of Rollins  College in Winter Park, where Hines had
served on the board of trustees.

He knighted Jack Critchfield.  A new era

Anyone replacing Andy Hines would have had a bumpy road because Hines was so
well-liked. And  Critchfield, though an extrovert like his predecessor, was no
Hines.

Critchfield had spent two decades in education, first as a teacher and later as
an administrator  and college president. He left education to run the small
Winter Park Telephone Co., which later  became United Telephone Systems. He
began working for Florida Power in 1983 as vice president of  the Eastern and
Ridge division of the utility.

"He's got a keen mind, absorbs facts and works in a decisive manner," Hines told
The Tampa Tribune  in 1989.

Critchfield's forte was community involvement. He served on more than a dozen
boards, and helped  lead the effort to build the dome that became Tropicana
Field and land the Devil Rays as its  tenant.

He was a schmoozer. He was polished. Stockholders loved him.

Employees weren't as gracious. Some liked him, some didn't. Some ignored him.
Many felt like  Critchfield didn't know who they were.

"Andy used to go to a power plant and say, "How's the No. 3 pump, it always had
a bad vibration,'  " said a mid-level manager who has worked at Florida Power
for two decades. He spoke on condition of  anonymity because current employees
are not allowed to talk to the media.

Not so, he said, with Critchfield.

"There was probably a little resentment because he was not one of the boys," the
manager said.  "When they talked to him about a turbine, he didn't really know
what they were talking about."

Critchfield, who still lives in St. Petersburg, did not return repeated phone
calls to his home  in recent weeks.

Employees who worked under his reign call Critchfield a hands-off leader who
concentrated on  community outreach, especially for causes such as education and
economic development. He delegated  much of the company's operations to a
hand-picked newcomer named Richard Korpan.

Korpan brought big changes.

"It was family in those (old) days. Then it got to be kind of, I don't know,
kind of blood and  guts kind of thing," said Ed Smith, who was forced into
retirement in February 1994 after 29 years  of service. "It was a dollar, bottom
line. That was all they were looking for."

Korpan was a finance man. He worked as a lawyer before securing a job with the
Public Service  Commission of Colorado as senior financial analyst. Then he
spent 10 years with a subsidiary of San  Diego Gas & Electric Co.

Korpan was hired in 1989 as executive vice president and chief financial officer
for Florida  Progress.

Employees buzzed over a rumor - albeit an inaccurate tale - that Korpan had cut
jobs in San Diego.

"The minute he showed up here with us, everybody was like, oh, uh-oh, it's going
to happen here,"  Smith said. "And they were right. It did."

Workers say the corporate atmosphere became more impersonal and factorylike.
Employees began to  fear for their jobs.

"The minute Hines left and those monkeys took over, the company lost its soul,"
said Literaty, who  left last year. "Camelot's over. Camelot was blown to bits."

In 1992, a new federal rule spurred a change in the utility industry. The Energy
Policy Act  allowed more companies to produce and sell wholesale electricity, to
compete with existing  utilities.

Power companies across the country began shedding baggage, getting leaner to
compete.

Critchfield, likewise, dismantled the empire Hines built, selling all but a few
subsidiaries.

Like many utility holding companies at that time, Florida Progress fared poorly
when selling its  subsidiaries. Critics blasted management for its poor
decisions. On average, one in four of the  subsidiaries made money for the
company, an analyst said.

Then came the layoffs, a severe bloodletting.

In all, the company pared more than 1,000 jobs between 1993 and 1995. Many of
those laid off had  long histories with the company. Some were forced to retire
early. Some were cut just before they  were vested in the pension plan.

It drove some employees to court: three lawsuits against the company were based
on age  discrimination. One has been settled for an undisclosed sum, one was
thrown out of court, and a  third is still pending. Many former employees
declined to be interviewed for this article because  they are involved in the
pending suit.

About the same time, other costs were cut. Florida Power built a call center, so
when customers  had questions or problems, instead of reaching their local
Florida Power representative in a branch  office, all calls were routed to a
central location. The setup was more efficient, but customers  hated it. It was
too impersonal.

Florida Progress still feels the pain of that period. Many departments do the
same work as 10  years ago with drastically fewer staff members.

Customer service suffered for years. For example, power outages happened more
frequently and  lasted longer because Florida Power had fewer crews to perform
repairs and maintenance. The company  has worked to improve that. Outages have
recovered slightly, but not completely.

"Did it affect loyalty the last couple of years? Sure it did." said Rick
McCollum, who retired in  January 1995 after 23 years at Florida Power.

Some workers were unhappy but didn't have any place else to go, so they stayed.

"I don't think what happened at Florida Power is any different than what
happened to any (of the)  other Fortune 500 companies," McCollum said. "But when
it hits you personally, it's hard to swallow."

The employees who survived that period walked on eggshells for several years,
nervous about  their futures. In recent months they have again, as rumors of
takeovers swirled repeatedly.

Former and current employees say the worst of that period has passed. Customers
have become  accustomed to less-personal service. Employees worry less about the
future of their jobs, about the  futures of their colleagues, though the concern
exists daily.

"I'm angry with the company," said Smith, the retiree, "for what they did to my
friends."  Grow or die'

Richard Korpan is a far different leader than his predecessors. When Critchfield
retired last  summer, Korpan took over as chairman of Florida Progress.

He is gruff and intimidating. He's more introverted and less personal. He looks
at the bottom  line, he focuses on shareholders. He is efficient but not as
polished as earlier leaders.

He is not there to make friends. He is there to run the company.

Korpan has not kept secret his desire to expand Florida Progress.

Korpan has said publicly Florida Power needs to grow tenfold - from its current
1.3 million  customers to more than 10 million - by 2003, either through
acquisition, merger or a partnership. He  predicts there will be only a dozen
utilities serving the United States in years to come.

"Florida Progress remains committed to growing our business for the benefit of
our shareholders,  and we will continue to explore varied opportunities for
achieving growth, including mergers and  acquisitions," Korpan wrote in his
letter to shareholders, published in Florida Progress' 1998  annual report.

Korpan has also said he wants to provide shareholders with 5 percent growth
every year.

Across the United States, deregulation has forced utilities to merge.
Deregulation means  consumers can choose which company provides them
electricity, similar to the airline and  long-distance telephone industries.

Florida lags behind the deregulation curve - it is one of only two states that
have not yet  addressed the issue - but Korpan sees it as inevitable.

In a deregulated world, industry experts believe only the mega-utilities will
survive. Right  now, Florida Power is considered medium-sized.

Last year, Scottish Power pursued Florida Progress, but that deal fell apart,
reportedly because  the two sides could not agree on price. Florida Progress'
price tag was reportedly $ 4.9 billion.

Florida Progress executives have talked to several potential suitors since then,
they have told  analysts, but would never say who.

Then this year, executives instituted a hiring freeze at Florida Power.
Employees say there was  also a freeze on projects. Internet service for the
bulk of employees was eliminated, as a  cost-cutting move. Some workers lost
their jobs - no massive layoffs this time, but one, two, three  workers at a
time packed up their desks and were asked to leave, signs that a sale was
imminent.

Among employees, morale has sunk because they fear for their jobs.

"This is not just (at) Florida Power. It's every utility in the country. The
thing called  deregulation is knocking us for a loop," the mid-level manager
said.

"The people that you work with here make it a wonderful place to work," he said.
"The confusion of  not knowing your future with the deregulation process and the
turmoil make it an uncomfortable  place that keeps you up at night."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP; PHOTO 2,
 (MAP) Florida Power Corp.  ESSEX JAMES, Tribune map

NOTES: FLORIDA PROGRESS DEAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 19, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Hot Times In The Old Town;

BYLINE: PAM IORIO, for the Tribune;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1830 words


When we survey the last century in Tampa, we cannot help but be struck by the
dark landscape of  Tampa's elections. As Tampa transformed itself from frontier
town to modern city, elections were  often raucous and fraudulent affairs -
controlled by political bosses and gambling interests - while  passions were
fueled by the rhetoric of the daily newspapers. If elections are the lifeblood
of  democracy, then Tampa was a patient in constant need of transfusions. Yet at
the same time,  elections were times of heightened citizen engagement. Voters
were actively involved in political  campaigns, and candidate rallies drew huge
crowds.

In 1900 Tampa was a growing city of 16,000. Another 20,000 residents lived in
the unincorporated  part of Hillsborough County, which included a portion of
what is present-day Pinellas County. Tampa  - with a brisk port trade, railroad
lines and a booming cigar industry that provided jobs for a  vibrant Latin
community - was poised to become a center of commerce for the state.

"Dull times are unknown," a writer from The Florida Times Union reported,
commenting favorably on  Tampa's economy, financial stability, ethnic vibrancy
and climate. He might well have been  referring to elections.

"For two or three days before the election, whiskey was dispensed free by some
of the saloons,"  reported The Tampa Weekly Journal in 1887. "On election day
the streets were lined with drunken men,  the most obscene, vulgar, and profane
language could be heard, not only on the streets, but in the  room in which the
election was held. Frequent rows and fights occurred, and during the entire day

 and night a drunken and riotous mob held possession of the town."

The job of Tampa mayor was a focal point. The Tampa Morning Tribune in 1900,
pinpointed this  major cause of fanatical political engagement: "According to
the street-corner gossip, there are  about four thousand five hundred jobs to be
dished out, and the exalted position of the mayor of  Tampa is as important as
being chief ruler of the United States.

"Every man who casts a vote today wants a job and he wants it bad, and if he
don't get it he will  want to know the reason why. Just listen for howls from
all parts of the four wards of the city."

When Frank Wing was elected mayor in a 1908 election against William Frecker,
The Tampa Morning  Tribune reported: "Every musician in the city who could
muster an instrument was marshaled into  bands, and from early morn until the
last ballot had dropped into the boxes, blasts of "A Hot Time  In The Old Town
Tonight' and other melodies added to the din of cheering around the polls. The
bands were transported from one precinct to another in carry-alls, and after
regaling the workers  at one voting place would hasten to another to cheer with
their lively airs.

"Even after the polls closed last night there was much betting on the result,
and more money will  change hands on this election than on any other previous
one in Tampa."

The issue of "purchasable" votes was an underlying theme in Tampa politics.
Blacks were often  accused of selling their votes during the brief period in the
first decade of this century when  they were allowed to vote in municipal
elections. White candidates would visit the "Scrub," that area  of Tampa where
many blacks lived, and lock up their support with money. But the truth was, the

 "purchasable" vote included whites. The $ 2 poll tax was paid in blocks for the
promise of a vote. And  the paper ballot - a ballot printed with the candidate's
name and a place for the voter to mark an "X"  - made fraud easy. Corrupt
officials would print additional ballots and give them to poll workers  who
would fill them out and replace the voted ballots.

In 1910 D.B. McKay made his first successful run for mayor (the mayor was
elected for two-year  terms until a change in 1912 to four-year terms). His two
opponents were W.H. Frecker, a veteran of  the 1908 race, and James Holmes. The
race was intense.

On election day, the Tribune reported: "The streets were crowded through the
entire day with  people moving about in every possible kind of conveyance
excepting balloons and airships, and the  thoroughfares were congested at all
the polling places."

A runoff election between McKay and Frecker was bitter, but the election was
peaceful - at least  by Tampa standards. A recent ordinance kept the saloons
closed on election day to prevent disorder.  Enthusiasm was "excited by brass
bands, processions, shouters at the polling places, badge pinners  and by other
means."

On election day, the Tribune reported: "Thirty automobiles with banners will
parade the street  during the entire day for D.B. McKay besides a large number
of carriages. Twenty-five automobiles  have been engaged by W.H. Frecker and all
the carriages that could be secured. Besides this there  will be a large number
of canvassers at the polls for both candidates and it will be an absolute
impossibility for the voter to dodge them. Every brass band in the city has been
engaged to  represent one or the other candidate. Tonight a tremendous crowd
will gather at the Court House  Square to see the returns flashed by
stereopticon."

McKay won that race by 136 votes.

Elections through the 1920s continued to be dominated by fraud, gambling
interests and political  bosses. But the 1930s seemed to bring greater intensity
to election day.

The 1930s started off with a bang, literally, when "three masked bandits raided
a Hyde Park  precinct and shot two election workers in an apparent attempt to
steal the ballots before they  could be officially certified."

By 1931 Tampa elections had "come to resemble a banana republic," in the words
of one author.  Political boss and state Sen. Pat Whitaker pushed through
legislation that created an election  board for the City of Tampa, with the
sheriff, a Whitaker man, as the law enforcement official over  the election. To
counter this, his political rival, D.B. McKay, hired his own special police to
watch over the polling places, armed "with shotguns and baseball bats."

Election fraud peaked in the infamous city election of 1935. McKay, for the
fifth time, sought  the mayor's position, this time hoping to unseat Robert E.
Lee Chancey. The election culminated on  a September night when a tropical storm
whipped through the Tampa Bay area packing 65-mile-an-hour  winds that drove
voters back to their homes. But the fraud had started earlier in the day. The
stuffing of the ballot boxes was so pervasive that poll workers were arrested at
their precincts.  Though hurricane warnings had been hoisted from the federal
building, the Tribune reported that  people were less concerned about the storm
than the election - and hoped the rains might "wash out  and seep out some of
the bitterness which was calculated to end in bloodshed after the polls were
closed."

The election was such a debacle that the national press reported on it
extensively.

The New York Times described a "bitter, skull-cracking election." All the
national newspapers  "stressed the presence of state troops with machine guns at
the stormier precincts, and made the  most of how city employees had their heads
cracked," reported The Tampa Morning Tribune.

"Poll officials from eight city election precincts were taken from their tables
yesterday by  flying squads of sheriff's deputies and hustled to jail on charges
of stuffing ballot boxes," the  Tribune reported.

"The wholesale arrests of poll workers was without parallel in Tampa's political
history. At the  precincts raided, late voters found the polling places closed
for sometimes more than an hour  before new officials were appointed by the
election board.

"Under orders from the governor, the full force of the 116th field artillery was
called out about  9 in the morning for patrol duty.

"There never had been anything just like it in Tampa, even with all the evidence
of crooked  voting in the past."

Chancey won that election by 4,241 votes. Whether he really won, we'll never
know. But some of  Tampa's citizens had had enough. Election board member Arthur
Hale resigned, declaring that the  board members had "loaded him up with hooey."

John Dekle, a World War I veteran, had been elected supervisor of registration
just three years  earlier. His first task was an examination of the voter
registration rolls, and it didn't take him  long to discover he had problems.

"Probably half of the 50,000 names on the county registration books represent
illegal  registration," Dekle told the Tribune.

Though Dekle didn't have much support for weeding out the fraudulent names in
1933, the 1935  election caused such disgust among citizens that he soon had all
the help he needed. The Tampa  Civitan Club decided to push for the elimination
of the paper ballot. In the fall of 1937, a  referendum was conducted for voters
to decide if they wanted to switch to a mechanical voting  machine (the old
lever style machines).

"A voting machine which shuts out every form of ballot box skullduggery except
the repeater was  demonstrated yesterday before a group of public officials,"
reported the Tribune, days before  voters, weary of the "ballot box
skullduggery," approved the use of the machines. Hillsborough County  would
become the first county in Florida to use mechanical voting, which stayed in use
until 1976.

Voting machines did bring cleaner elections in Tampa. Other changes also shifted
the nature of  elections. Postwar suburbanization shifted both population and
power. A political system based on  political machine bosses - whose supporters
received jobs and contracts - was disappearing in favor  of a professional
administration of government.

While the fraud was thankfully gone from elections, gone too was the personal
attachment and  emotional fervor that many voters felt at election time. In the
first half of the century,  elections had personal meaning to citizens. And that
involvement translated into popular support  for candidates and local
government. Today, the enthusiastic rallies and blaring of loudspeakers  down a
busy street have been replaced with modern and more efficient means of
communication.  Ironically, the public feels less attachment to the candidates
and thus to government. We may have  made elections more efficient, more
rational and more honest, but we have also lost some of the  robust and vigorous
dialogue of political discourse.

As we survey this last century, we can look to our election history as part of
Tampa's unique  character and culture. While we reflect on the vast social and
technological changes of the century  that have altered our way of life, we
cannot exclude the election changes that have altered our  civic involvement and
attitudes.  Pam Iorio is Hillsborough County's supervisor of elections.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO 4 (2C),
 (Collage of Tribune front pages with election stories)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 4, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Power broker;
No longer plugging along in obscurity, TECO Energy's new chief executive is
charging ahead with;
his goals for the utility.;

BYLINE: CHERIE JACOBS LANE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1802 words


On one level, Bob Fagan is easy to figure out.

Work is work. He enjoys it, he's good at it, and he usually leaves it at the
office.

And fun, well, fun is sailing. And golf.

So, his friends say teasingly, it wasn't a huge shock when Fagan left Fairfax,
Va., to become  the new chief executive of TECO Energy Co., the Tampa-based
parent of Tampa Electric Co.

"We always used to kid him about he had three things on his mind for any
project: Was it close to  a golf course, was there sailing, and was there warm
weather at the right time of year?" said Paul  Champagne, who worked for Fagan
for 10 years before replacing him as president of PP&L Global in  Fairfax.

Even Fagan jokes that he considered the job because a recruiter called on a cold
December day.

But behind the simple pleasures, Fagan is more complex.

He needs to be.

Fagan, 54, is TECO's third chief executive in three years. He leads a company
whose stock has  dropped about 30 percent in the past year and now trades around
$ 21, where it did three years ago.  Despite 30 years of experience in the
utility industry, he is practically unknown among analysts.

TECO's board hired Fagan to give the company direction. Fagan makes it clear
that the direction  is not to find a buyer.

"Bigger is not better," Fagan said. "We can't distract ourselves with that."
Help wanted

The search for a TECO leader actually began several years ago, when Tim Guzzle
fell terminally  ill with cancer. There was no clear plan of succession and no
long-term answer internally.

"We were in a situation you never like to find a company or an institution in,"
said DuBose "Duby"  Ausley, a Tallahassee attorney and TECO board member since
the early 1990s.

Out of near desperation, the board turned to company veteran Girard Anderson,
who was 65 years  old in late 1997.

"He had wanted to retire," Ausley said. "When this situation arose, the board
asked him to stay,  and he did."

But the board knew it wouldn't be a long-term commitment. Months into Anderson's
reign, the  board began seeking his replacement. Fagan surfaced during the
national search, conducted by an  executive search firm. He was one of five
finalists, and the only one offered the job.

"I thought he was a very able gentleman with a very fine track record," said
H.L. Culbreath, a  former TECO CEO who has served on the board since 1980. "He
had a wonderful reputation of listening,  being technically qualified,
emotionally qualified, psychologically qualified."

His key attributes: experience in both the regulated and nonregulated sides of
the utility  industry. Fagan has spent much of his professional life developing
independent power plants around  the world that are like TECO's TECO Power
Services unit.

Because of his extensive experience in deregulated markets, his hiring could be
a signal that  TECO - long considered to be in denial - finally thinks Florida
may see competition.

"I think that this is an era in which all utilities are undergoing
reconsideration (because of)  deregulation, and I think in that period there's a
lot of opportunity," said Jim Ferman Jr., the  president of Ferman Motor Car Co.
and a board member since 1985. "Our mission is to see how to grow  the business
that we have and the business that we can become. He's got a lot of global
experience."

TECO officials would not reveal Fagan's salary, but it will become public
information when the  company releases its proxy statement early next year.

He has a three-year contract that includes options to buy 140,000 shares of
stock for $ 21.40 to  $ 23.55 a share. The shares are vested after three years.
He also was given 14,015 shares of  restricted stock, worth about $ 294,300 now.

Last year, as president of PP&L Global, Fagan was paid $ 648,160 in salary,
bonus and restricted  stock.

When Fagan was hired in the spring, he was virtually unknown on Wall Street.
Because most of his  experience was on the unregulated side of the utility
business, most state regulators didn't know  him either.

For months, Fagan sat silent. Company spokesmen said he was learning about
TECO's 66  subsidiaries and creating his strategy.

At first, his silence annoyed Wall Street, which dubbed a September presentation
to analysts his  "coming out party." But its opinion of him since has softened.

"If you don't have anything to say, you shouldn't come out and manufacture it,"
said Greg Gordon,  the managing director of CIBC World Market in New York. "You
can't expect a new CEO to have a magic  potion to turn it around overnight."

At that first public appearance, a Sept. 16 closed meeting with investors, Fagan
announced a  $ 150 million stock buyback and the intended sale of its TeCom
subsidiary, which sells software and  equipment for electronic energy
management. Fagan also said he expects earnings to grow 7 percent  in 2000 and
2001 - ambitious in an industry where the average growth is 4 to 5 percent.
Small town start

Robert DeWan Fagan was born Feb. 12, 1945, the youngest of three sons, in
Danville, Pa. His  parents, Edward and Lucille Fagan, owned the only hotel and
restaurant in Hometown, Pa. - population  400. He grew up playing football,
rugby and other sports because there wasn't much else to do.

In fact, his old sports injuries still affect him. In his conference room, at a
table surrounded  by comfortable leather chairs, his is straight and
hard-backed. His back can't handle the other  ones.

In high school, he rode the bus every day to the "big city" of Tamaqua, Pa. -
population 8,000 -  where he was valedictorian of his class. That's where he met
Cynthia Zimmerman, now his wife of 31  years. He was a football player - on the
undefeated team that was recently inducted into the high  school's hall of fame
- and she was a cheerleader.

His first jobs were hands-on and dirty: clearing for construction, burning
brush, digging  ditches.

"My parents wanted me to be a doctor because my grandfather was a doctor, but
that wasn't the way  I wanted to go," Fagan said. He loved science at an early
age, and he followed his middle brother  into engineering.

He attended Dartmouth College on a Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps
scholarship. After  college, he served in the U.S. Navy, under Vice Adm. Hyman
Rickover. He designed, built and  maintained components for nuclear-powered
ships.

Because the Navy paid for his schooling, he had to serve for five years. He
stayed for seven.

"I was in the middle of a new program, which was the building of the Trident
submarine," Fagan  said. He was responsible for one of two major components. "I
felt obligated to see through the task."

He stayed until his job was done, beating the man responsible for the other part
of the project.  In doing that, he won a bet. The prize was a bottle of Chivas
Regal, which colleagues helped drink.

Fagan calls it his first bonus.

Twenty-two years later, in 1998, his bonus was $ 252,000.  Paying dues

After the Navy, Fagan took on the daunting task of helping General Electric Co.
resolve major  problems with its steam systems. It was hands-on work that reaped
him a patent for a piece of  mechanical hardware and saved the company millions
of dollars.

He worked his way up GE to become manager of business development - a
cutting-edge job at the  time, in the early 1980s. That job evolved into what is
now called independent power. He worked in  that field for four companies until
this year.

"He's the only person I hired more than once - and I hired him three times,"
said Bill Reed, his  former boss who now runs his own business consulting firm
in Danville, Calif.

"I think a lot of people who worked for Bob consider Bob a friend," Reed said.
"You don't always  accomplish that."

Fagan is most proud of the plants he's created in the utility industry.

"(I) take pride in having built them," Fagan said. "There's one near where I
grew up, called  Panther Creek. When I look at that plant I say, "Well, that
wouldn't be there if it weren't for  me.' And there are jobs with it. It's a
standalone business.

"You get a lot of self-worth from that."

Most recently, Fagan created PP&L Global, which accumulated $ 3 billion in power
plants and  transmission lines in seven countries during five years.

"He empowers the people who work for him," PP&L Global's Champagne said. "As
long as they are  making good, prudent decisions, his style has been to let them
do their job."

Fagan is easygoing, Champagne said, and his work with making deals for
independent power plants  has shown his creativity.

"Utilities tend to be conservative and have the tendency to want to do things
the way they've  done things in the past," Champagne said. "Bob's always been
able to look at it and say, "Have you  tried this or done it this way.' (He has
an) ability to think outside the box."

Fagan's work with independent power makes him a smart choice for CEO, analysts
say. To reach the  7 percent growth target, TECO needs to concentrate on
expanding TECO Power Services and other  subsidiaries, said CIBC's Gordon.

Fagan says he does not plan to sell any more of TECO's subsidiaries, and he has
three simple  goals for the company:

Focus on growth in Florida, for customers of both the electric company and the
natural gas  subsidiary, TECO Peoples Gas.

Expand TECO Transport, the company's barge business.

Expand TECO Power Services.

"I've always had in my background building businesses, building power plants,
creating jobs. I  saw this as an opportunity to continue in the same vent, at a
higher level," Fagan said.

With Florida Progress about to be acquired by Carolina Power & Light Co., TECO
is rumored as the  next takeover target - maybe even by its new rival across the
bay. Not so, says Fagan.

He said he's happy Florida Progress struck a deal - mostly because it means the
uncertainty is  over for customers, shareholders and employees. But TECO, he
says, is not putting out a for-sale  sign. He didn't come all the way to Tampa
to do that.

"It really was a big career move for me," Fagan said. "As far as I'm concerned,
it could be the  last job of my life."    (C) (CHART) Robert D. Fagan  CEO of
TECO Energy since June 1   Age: 54   Family: wife of 31 years, Cynthia
Education: bachelor's degree in engineering science, Dartmouth College, 1967;
master's degree in  chemical engineering,Dartmouth College, 1969.   Hobbies:
golf, sailing   Quote: "We're not putting out a for sale sign."    (C) (CHART)
TECO Energy  (Stock)  Source: Bloomberg News Services  CH WRIGHT/Tribune chart
Cherie Jacobs Lane covers utilities and can be reached at (813) 259-7668 or
cjacobslane@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C); CHART (2C),
 (C) Jim Ferman, Jr., TECO board member

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 14, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Clock is ticking on global warming crisis;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 508 words


"Is It Hot In Here Or Is It Just Me?"

Excerpts by Jonathan Lucin, 17,

Mr. Woosley's Chemistry Honors class, Wesley Chapel High School

Global warming should never be taken lightly and should not be ignored. Today it
is a serious  threat to our planet and its population. It will be many years
after our generation is gone that  man will see the implications of the
temperature rise. Even so, it still is a threat that needs to  be recognized. It
is our responsibility to make sure our planet survives for our children and
their  children after that.

The rise in Earth's temperature because of man must be dealt with before it gets
out of hand.  There are many causes for the temperature rise. Like all problems,
there are certain things we can  do to stop it or at least slow it down.

The energy we use to run our lives is the main man-made cause of the rise in the
Earth's  temperature. Eighty-five percent of our power plants burn coal, oil or
gas which create vast  amounts of greenhouse gases. We are also in the habit of
killing our trees which "breathe" carbon  dioxide. With this mass deforestation
we are destroying the world's filtering system.

Theoretically the temperature increase will raise the sea level higher than
normal and will  cause many plant and animal extinctions as the temperature
shifts. The weather will be altered by  occurrences of warmer winters and drier
summers and more frequent severe storms.

Even with an increase of a few degrees, the weather may change. The winters will
be warmer and  prone to more storms. Summers will be uncommonly dry and prone to
devastating droughts. For  instance, it is predicted that by the year 2020 the
death toll as a result of heat will have risen  by 145 percent in New York City
alone. It is also predicted that the rise in temperature will spawn  more
frequent and brutal tropical storms such as hurricanes and typhoons.

Global warming cannot be fixed or reversed. Our fixed way of life inhibits our
ability to repair  the damage we have created. The only possible way to slow
down the damage is to try to use our  energy more efficiently as a country. Our
power plants could convert to burning gas, which is dirty  yet far cleaner than
coal or oil. Cars which go farther on a gallon of gas need to be developed and
distributed. We also need to start considering if renewable resources such as
wind and sunlight are  viable energy alternatives.

In conclusion, the temperature rise due to global warming is inevitable.
However, we can delay  it if we work responsibly to conserve energy. If we don't
clean up our act, the temperature will  rise, causing the oceans to rise to
possibly damaging levels. It will also change the weather and  cause worldwide
plant and animal extinctions as a result of not having the time they need to
adapt  to the rapidly changing temperatures.

Unless we make certain changes, one day we will wake to find the Gulf of Mexico
in our backyards  and level seven hurricanes breathing down our necks.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WRITE STUFF HOME ROOM

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 1, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Nuclear Y2K:;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 389 words


The nation's 103 nuclear power plants are not expected to be interrupted by the
computer-glitch  problem beginning Jan. 1. Nuclear plant safety systems are not
date-driven and won't be  compromised, says Jim Davis, director of operations
for the Nuclear Energy Institute. The nuclear  industry has undergone an
extensive analysis of the computer problem to reach what it calls "Year  2000
readiness."

"No facility has found a Y2K problem that would have prevented safety systems
from shutting down  a plant," Davis says. "The Y2K problems in nuclear
facilities do not represent a public health or  safety issue."

Warm or cold blooded? People continue to disagree whether dinosaurs were warm
-blooded like us or  cold-blooded like reptiles. Now, a researcher from Oregon
State University throws more fuel on the  fire by analyzing fossil impressions
of a small theropod called Scipionyx.

Working in Salerno, Italy, John Ruben found evidence of muscles, intestines and
a liver - soft  tissues almost never preserved in rock or petrified material. He
also studied a respiratory system  that was too simple to support a warm-blooded
creature.

Ruben and colleagues suggest that the dino respiratory system had tweaked and
enhanced the  capabilities of cold-blooded physiology to an astonishing degree,
according to a report in the  Washington Post. This tweaking gave dinosaurs "the
metabolic capacity for the kind of high levels of  sustained activity more
common to birds and mammals. They were like turbocharged reptiles."

The system worked as long as the Earth was warm enough to provide the
prehistoric critters with  body heat, Ruben told the Post. With the global
cooling that preceded dinosaur extinction, he  theorizes, the turbo-reptiles
could no longer compete against animals that made their own heat.

Body story: What happens deep inside the body when you catch the flu? How can a
fatty plaque the  size of a grain of sand lead to a heart attack? Find out by
going beneath the skin in a new series  "Body Story," Sunday from 9 to 11 p.m.
on the Discovery Channel.

This innovative documentary explains the everyday functions of the body, using
sophisticated  computer animation to illustrate the areas coping with sickness
and healing, pregnancy,  intoxication, heart attack and death.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); SIGNATURE (2C),
 (C) Computer imagery enhances the documentary "Body Story," airing Sunday.
Image from the Discovery Channel

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 10, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Burden of too much debt;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 540 words


The Tribune implied that the average Tampa resident pays only $ 96 a year in
city fees and taxes  (front page, March 6). On the contrary, we regularly pay
nearly $ 200 a year just on our TECO bill  alone. In fact, it's the city's fees
that almost always push our electric bill over the $ 100 mark,  and all for a
two-bedroom, one-bath house in West Tampa. Our water charges have also increased
over  the last two years - charges that have nothing to do with water usage.

Mayor Dick Greco has turned out to be just another tax and spend
goober-smoochin' yuppie with a  taxpayer-supported credit card. It's a shame
that my children and our future mayors will have to  figure out a way to pay for
all of these tourist attractions. Debt always looks good at the outset,  but
it's going to catch up with Tampa in the near future.

- WESLEY M. NOLAND

Tampa  Exaggeration of warming

Like most environuts, Tom Cunilio (Letters, March 6) has to distort the truth to
further his  agenda. This self-appointed scientist states that 99 percent of
scientists worldwide agree with his  hysteria regarding CO2-induced greenhouse
warming.

He should know, that there are considerable bodies of knowledge and expertise
worldwide which  don't see a connection between the so-called greenhouse effect
and climate changes.

While 1998 was the hottest year in many parts of the world in 600 years, what
was the cause of  the long hot summers in the 14th century? Over the past
century, the earth's average temperature  has risen less than 1 degree
Fahrenheit. In the next, it could either rise or decline, as it has  done over
the time for which we have supporting scientific data. The scary prediction that
the  average July temperature in the Deep South will soon be 100 degrees
Fahrenheit would require a rise  in average temperatures of more than 15
degrees! Worldwide temperatures have risen only about 9  degrees Fahrenheit
since the end of the last ice age 12,000 years ago!

Yes, there is some melting of the polar ice caps, but it remains uncertain
whether this is the  result of cyclic global weather and warming patterns.
Either way, I wouldn't start building boat  docks in your back yard.

I don't question the fact that we have to address water and air pollution
issues, and I, for  one, believe considerable progress has been made in reducing
both air and water pollution in the  United States over the past two decades.
However, we have a long way to go, especially in China,  eastern Europe and
other developing countries.

The Kyoto Protocol, negotiated by Al Gore, was a sellout of both American
interests and the  worldwide cause of a cleaner environment. While the United
States must reduce greenhouse-gas  emissions by 7 percent below 1990 levels by
2012, China, former Soviet states and other developing  countries - which now
create more than twice as much CO2 emissions as the United States - can limit
their emissions "voluntarily."

It is this kind of political hypocrisy and the deception of "scientists" like
Cunilio that will  eventually cause loss of credibility for a vitally important
issue - the safe (not zero risk)  environment of the future.

- MICHAEL N. CANTWELL

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 29, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Tolerant bacteria:;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 422 words


Remember the cheesy 1950s sci-fi flick "Them!" in which nuclear fallout creates
a giant, mutant  race of ants? Well, back in 1956 scientists actually discovered
a life form that was tolerant to  extremely high doses of radiation - 3,000
times the amount that would kill a person.

It isn't a monster ant, but a strain of pink bacteria that can survive 1.5
million rads of gamma  radiation, enough to shred the bacteria's genome to
pieces, according to researchers with the U.S.  Department of Energy. But the
organism's ability to repair DNA damage completely within 48 hours  offers
scientists "tantalizing clues to better understanding the mechanism of cellular
repair."

The bacteria Deinococcus radiodurans was originally isolated from samples of
canned meat that  were sterilized by gamma radiation. Colonies growing on the
spoiled meat turned out to be the most  radiation-resistant organism known.

Advances in this kind of research could lead to new techniques in battling
cancers that are  caused by unrepaired DNA damage. A detailed report on the
gamma-loving bacteria appeared in the  Nov. 19 issue of the journal Science.

Mars landing: about 3:30 p.m. on a frozen section of the south pole of Red
Planet, say officials  with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
As the robot sets on the surface, two small  probes attached to the lander will
eject and slam into the tundra to take electronic soil and ice  samples. Updates
on the mission's progress can be seen on the NASA channel on cable television or

 on the Internet at www.jpl.nasa.gov/marsnews/

Thin ice: dramatically over the past three decades can could be a sign of global
warming. Or,  scientists say, it could be a natural variability of climate.
Researchers used sonar data from Navy  submarines that recorded ice thickness
over two periods, from 1958 to 1976, and from 1993 to 1997,  according to an
Associated Press report. They found that the average thickness of the ice floes

 decreased by about 40 percent between the two periods.

The decline was about 4.3 feet, scientists report in December's issue of the
journal Geophysical  Research Letters. The study fits with some previous work
that found warming in the Arctic. Andrew  Rothrock of the University of
Washington in Seattle, one of the authors, said Wednesday that the  result
"could be a sign of global warming, but it could also just be a sign of the
natural sort of  five-to-10-year cycling of the climate system. That's the big
question."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) The planet Mars

NOTES: FAST FORWARD NEWS AND INNOVATIONS SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 29, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Pasco looks over the rainbow;

BYLINE: NICOLE RUDAY, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPECIAL PASCO, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1366 words


Better infrastructure, a growing population and leaders with vision. They all
add up to big  things on the horizon for Pasco County.

Poised.

That's the word used by business, economic development and government types when
talking about  Pasco County's outlook over the next few years.

All the indications are there, they say. The county is growing residentially,
catching the eye  of retailers; industrial park activity is picking up; the
transportation network is being laid.

"We're growing up to the point that we've got some things to offer," said Kathy
Small, an area  manager with Florida Power and board member with the Pasco
Economic Development Council - the  county's primary industrial recruitment
group. "We're in an area where it's going to happen. It's  just a matter of
timing."

The residential growth in central Pasco is a good example. Development pushing
north from  Hillsborough County has caused communities to spring up around the
State Road 54 corridor.  Historically the sleepy part of the county, central
Pasco for the first time in 1997 overtook west  Pasco in the number of building
permits issued for single-family homes.

"There has been a very steady shift from the west," said Marvin Rose, a
Pinellas-based real estate  consultant who publishes Rose Residential Reports.

Through November of 1998, Rose recorded 922 new home closings on the east side,
vs. 673 on the  west side, with U.S. 41 being the divider.

Five years ago, Rose said, the eastern half of the county accounted for less
than 30 percent of  new home closings.

"It's switched dramatically since the opening of Meadow Pointe in 1992," Rose
said of the  community just north of the Hillsborough County line off Bruce B.
Downs Boulevard.

And with the proposed Saddlebrook Village community approved for 4,500 units,
New River planning  another 3,000 and the recently opened Lexington Oaks
anticipating 1,500 homes - all near the  intersection of Interstate 75 and S.R.
54 - that shift is not expected to change, Rose said.

What's less certain is whether central and east Pasco can keep pace as a
business community. Can  Pasco be more than a bedroom community to Tampa and St.
Petersburg?

Their challenges include indifference, attachment to tradition and overcoming
the county's image  as a backwater, said Judith Rochelle, board president of the
Pasco Economic Development Council -  formerly known as the Committee of 100.

Rochelle pointed to west Pasco's more aggressive approach to cultivating
business, such as  Business Development Week. By contrast, she said those
settled alongside and east of the I-75  corridor have not made a firm decision
to be a business community.

"People are reluctant to change, reluctant to embrace new people coming in,"
said Rochelle, who  also is assistant vice president for institutional
advancement at Saint Leo College.

Part of that reluctance comes from the area's contentment as a bedroom community
and feeling  secure in all the rooftops popping up, Rochelle said. Nevertheless,
the area needs the tax base  that a healthy business community provides, she
said.

"In order to maintain (strong residential growth), you must provide services for
people," Rochelle  said.

That effort would be helped with more proactive, high-profile companies like
Zephyrhills Spring  Water Co., which in 1998 received the Governor's Business
Leadership Award, she said. However, the  I-75 corridor has not developed
industrially as economical leaders had envisioned.

"We had hoped Saddlebrook Corporate Park would be the flagship," Rochelle said.

High land prices, a reluctance of park owner Pittway Real Estate to build
speculative space and  simple timing, however, combined to doom the park's
future as an industrial hub.

There is good news, however.

Development of One Pasco Center, the industrial park located just off I-75 on
State Road 52, has  remained steady. Several build-to-suit and speculative
facilities were constructed there in 1998,  and the climate looks good for 1999.

Also encouraging was Soule Co. Inc.'s recent announcement that it wants to build
up to 200,000  square feet of manufacturing space near I-75 in Wesley Chapel.
The Tampa-company has applied for $ 6  million in industrial revenue bonds
toward that end.

A growing labor pool, less expensive land and room to expand are what edged the
area ahead of  Hillsborough County, said Soule President Jerry Flatt.

As Pasco's population continues to grow, more chief executive officers with
Flatt's point of  view are inevitable, said Assistant County Administrator Bill
Munz.

"When you approach a large enough labor pool, you'll have people who need that
kind of employee  relocating," he said. "It's a question of numbers and talents,
and the numbers are certainly there."

Can Pasco attract higher-paying jobs? That's a question still to be answered.

Part of the problem is a perception battled by Pasco's eastern half that
anything cultural stops  at the county line. Rochelle says such an image gives
an advantage to Pasco's southern neighbors  for recruiting businesses whose
employees want the accouterments of a metropolitan area.

Working in Pasco's favor, however, is an emerging transportation network that,
when complete,  will ease access between the two areas.

Construction has already begun on the Suncoast Parkway, which will provide
another north-south  artery through the county. And work on State Road 56 is set
to begin this summer that would create  another interchange at I-75 in Pasco.
State Road 56 will connect S.R. 54 in Land O' Lakes to I-75  just north of the
Hillsborough-Pasco line before continuing to Bruce B. Downs and eventually U.S.

 301.

In addition, U.S. 41 and S.R. 54 are being widened.

Though completion dates for some of these projects are several years off, the
upgrades bode well  for Pasco's economic outlook.

"The pieces are being laid," Small said.

Helping in that respect are business-oriented government leaders, Rochelle said.

State and federal legislators are eager to help existing businesses grow, and
county  commissioners are cooperating with businesses seeking relocation, she
said.

Local governments are are in a position to approve various tax-exempt bonds to
help businesses  with relocation or start-up costs. New job training programs
can be created, or existing ones  tweaked toward a specific industry's needs.
Local impact fees can be waived. Enterprise Florida can  step in with access to
road repair money.

"There's tons of inducements," said the county's Munz.

The challenge is to apply them wisely, in proportion to the benefits a business
brings to the  community. And those can sometimes be hard to measure, Munz said.

"I'm not sure you can quantify it. It's like a sports franchise," Munz said,
referring to  Hillsborough County's using tax dollars to build Raymond James
Stadium. "Is that worth it? It's a  hard question."

And perhaps not the most important issue.

"Let's not kid ourselves," said Tom Gola, business development manager for the
Pasco Economic  Development Council. "Everybody offers the programs. All things
being equal, affordable land and a  cooperative government are the big
inducement. It comes down to relationships and working with  these people -
whether it's 5,000 square feet or 50,000 square feet.

"That's what it's all about up here, business-friendly government," Gola said.
"Just in terms of  walking out and saying hello, giving answers."

Too much focus on west Pasco is one possible shortcoming of local government,
Rochelle said.

"They need to understand (business) development would also be possible on the
east," she said.

Given that area's population projections, available resources and lower cost of
living, there is  certainly plenty to market.

"This county is a reservoir of resources," Rochelle said. "There are lots of
good people willing to  commit their time."

"It's coming," she said. "Either lead, follow or get the hell out of the way."
Staff writer Nicole Ruday covers business and development in Pasco. Reach her at
(813) 949-9310.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PASCO '99 OUTLOOK GROWING PAINS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 21, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GOP has big tax-cut plans;

BYLINE: MARGARET TALEV, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words


TALLAHASSEE - With the economy thriving, Republicans say they can afford to cut
taxes and appeal  to businesses while spending on social programs.

When state lawmakers convene in Tallahassee March 2 for their annual lawmaking
session,  Republicans will put their new-found power to the test.

For the first time since Reconstruction, Republicans have a lock on state
government and a  unique chance to deeply imprint their philosophy on Florida.

They start with the luxury of a huge budget, thanks to a strong economy and
windfall from the  state's lawsuit against tobacco companies.

Gov. Jeb Bush's proposed $ 46.8 billion budget calls for more spending in
programs usually  identified with Democrats.

Bush wants to spend more for education, the child welfare system and services
for the  developmentally disabled. At the same time, he's offering $ 1.2 billion
in tax cuts to businesses  and individuals.

The governor calls it "compassionate conservatism," a term also used by his
brother, Republican  Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.

To maintain their hold on power, Republicans realize they must appeal to a broad
base of  Floridians, deliver on their promises and distinguish themselves from
Democrats.

Bush, Senate President Toni Jennings and House Speaker John Thrasher - the
Republican troika that  wields most of the power in the Capitol - all want to
improve public education, offer tax cuts to  individuals and corporations, and
create a thriving business climate that will yield more  high-paying jobs.

But they differ on the details.

The question is whether they can compromise while holding Republicans together.

Already, lawmakers have filed more than 1,100 pieces of legislation, and more
bills are on the  way.

If only some of this year's high-profile proposals become law, this is how the
1999 Legislature  will change your life:

You'll get a $ 50 rebate on your electric bill and pay a little less in property
taxes. You'll  pay $ 60 more per year for telephone service, but no longer pay a
tax on investments up to $ 100,000.  You'll also get a week of sales-tax-free
clothes shopping.

You'll have a much harder time filing a lawsuit if you are injured by a
defective product, in a  car accident or on someone else's property. If you own
a business, you'll spend less time and money  defending yourself against product
liability lawsuits.

You and your doctor will be able to sue your managed care provider if it blocks
you from having  medical tests or receiving treatment you need.

Standardized testing will dominate an even larger chunk of your child's school
curriculum - even  before he or she starts kindergarten. School will go a month
longer each year. And you'll be able  to put your child in a private school,
with the state paying the tuition, if the public school he  or she goes to fails
to perform up to new state standards.

Your children will ride in school buses equipped with seat belts. You'll be able
to purchase a  "Choose Life" license plate for your car. Certain late-term
abortions will be banned. And your  teenage daughter will be required to notify
at least one parent before she has an abortion.

The scrub jay at your backyard sunflower feeder will replace the mockingbird as
the state bird.

If you're going back to work for the first time after receiving welfare
benefits, you'll get  better access to training and public transportation.

Finally, if you fret that wealthy corporations control the political process,
you might see  limits on their big-money donations. Underline the word might.

SOME MEASURES ARE spurred by campaign promises, some by special projects that
lawmakers want to  take home to their districts. Others are pushed by special
interests that contribute big money to  campaigns. Still others are prompted by
tragedies lawmakers feel compelled to respond to.

Republican leaders say this session will prove they are not beholden to anyone,
including some  of their most loyal corporate and religious backers. They also
claim this will be a year of sound  and moderate policy-making, both fiscally
and socially.

House Speaker Thrasher's first priority is to cut taxes. He said he's not paying
much attention  to so-called family values legislation, although he does support
the anti-abortion measures  proposed.

"There's a lot of talk nationally that Republicans are not a lot different than
Democrats," he  said. "To me, tax cuts are the defining thing for us."

Thrasher likes Bush's proposed $ 1.2 billion in tax cuts, but Bush's tax plan
does not include  targeted breaks that Thrasher and other lawmakers want.

Bush's budget also does not include some spending on agriculture and cultural
items wanted by  some lawmakers. Bush also has pledged a "no turkey" budget,
meaning he doesn't want lawmakers to  spend money on frivolous projects for
their individual districts.

But "turkeys" fuel political careers, particularly in rural Florida. Some
wrangling is inevitable,  as is the passage of turkeys.

SENATE PRESIDENT Jennings has a list of nine priorities. They focus mainly on
education,  election reform, the management of environmentally sensitive lands
and job creation. Tax cuts are  not necessarily her top priority.

She wants to spend more to reduce class sizes than either Bush or Thrasher. Bush
wants a limited  school voucher program, while Jennings does not.

Bush and Thrasher also dislike the campaign finance reform Jennings says she
will champion.

Democrats, especially in the Senate, are poised to side with Jennings in most of
the foreseeable  political battles among the top three leaders.

Their leverage, particularly in the House, is limited, so Democrats will have to
pick their  fights carefully this year.  Michelle Pellemans contributed to this
report. Margaret Talev can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; SIGNATURE (C),
 Gov. Jeb Bush, shown here in January, says there's room in the state budget for
the Legislature to cut taxes by $ 1.2 billion.  COLIN HACKLEY, Tribune file
photo

NOTES: '99 FLORIDA LEGISLATURE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 28, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Soccer challenge of lifetime awaits Paris;

BYLINE: IRA KAUFMAN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1228 words


NEW PORT RICHEY - Local soccer coach Tony Paris is traveling 5,000 miles on a
sentimental journey  back to the Faroe Islands.

For the next seven months, Tony Paris won't be thinking about Little Road
construction,  3,000-mile oil changes or the price of groceries at the local
Publix.

When he boarded a flight out of Orlando International Friday evening after a
tearful farewell to  his family, the Pasco County soccer coach left it all
behind. Dead ahead are the Faroe Islands in  the North Atlantic, halfway between
Iceland and Norway, where the Northern Lights beckon and summer  temperatures
rarely crack the 60s.

Until he returns home in October, Paris will focus on coaching in Klaksvik, the
second-largest  town in the Faroes with a population of 5,000. In returning to
his former professional soccer home  after a 20-year absence, Paris is expected
to lead Klaksvik to a first-place finish in a men's  professional league.

The season starts April 1 and Klaksvik will play 28 matches throughout the
Faroes, a string of  18 islands dominated by the fishing industry. Paris, whose
living quarters and automobile are  provided free by the soccer club, will coach
four national team players and an international roster  in a quest to qualify
for the European Championship.

"I'm going for the challenge, to prove I can go back to that harsh climate and
survive," said the  43-year-old assistant men's soccer coach at Saint Leo
College. "I'm testing myself and moving  outside my comfort zone. It'll make me
a much better coach when I come back."

In accepting this challenge, Paris put his busy professional life on hold for
seven months.  Besides working successfully with Saint Leo head coach Fran Reidy
since 1996, Paris just completed  his second year as director of coaching at
Azalea's Youth Soccer League in St. Petersburg.

Paris also offers private soccer lessons in Pasco County and has worked as a
commercial real  estate agent for Prudential Tropical Realty.

While keeping all those soccer balls in the air, he finds time for Maria, his
wife of 21 years,  and three sons: David, 18, Josh, 16, and 8-year-old Jack
Paris, who is turning into a terror on  the fields of the West Pasco Youth
Soccer Association.

Paris broke into the pro ranks at age 16 as an apprentice for Ipswich Town
Football Club and  also played in Rhodesia and Holland before a two-year run as
player-coach in the Faroes.

"I was 23-years-old, coaching players who were 30," he said of his first Faroes
stint. "I would  never tell anyone my age. Over the years, they kept in touch
with me. I've got 18 players making  between $ 25,000-$ 60,000 and the news is
all over town that I'm coming back."

Paris hardly had a European excursion on his mind last November, when the
president of the  Klaksvik club called to chat and inquire about his
availability. After 90 minutes, Paris hung up  the phone and turned to his wife.

"I told Maria you're not going to believe what just happened," he said.

Her response was short and anything but sweet.

"I don't believe we're having this conversation," she said.

Three days later, Klaksvik made an offer, but Paris turned it down. The
president asked him to  fax over his ideas on an equitable compensation package
and once again, the phone rang at Paris'  New Port Richey residence.

"The president told me he was about to go into a board meeting," Paris recalled.
"He wanted to know  one thing - if they met my demands, was it a yes? What could
I say?"

Several days passed and Paris figured the issue was dead. He wasn't even sure if
he wanted to  hear the club president's voice again.

But he did, while sitting in Reidy's office one afternoon.

Reidy handed his assistant the receiver and Paris will never forget the next
four words coming  over the phone:

"When can you come?"

Paris covered the phone with a trembling hand and turned to Reidy.

"What have I done?"

That night, Paris told the soccer association in Azalea he would be leaving for
seven months.  The tougher part came when he pulled into his driveway.

"Maria was just devastated," he said. "She never thought I'd even consider
leaving the family for  so long, but she knew it was what I wanted."

Maria, Jack and Josh are planning a visit this summer and there's always E-
mail to keep in touch on a daily basis. There isn't much else to do in Klaksvik,
where the standard  of living is high, but the night life is minimal.

"Any time you have a chance to coach a pro team, you have to consider it," said
Reidy. "Tony's team  will be in the UEFA Cup, and if they pull a big upset,
everyone will want to know who's coaching  that team. It could open some big
doors for him and he deserves it.

"There's no doubt in my mind that Tony Paris is absolutely one of the best at
what he does."

Paris will miss half of Saint Leo's soccer season this year, but he may make
some recruiting  inroads for Reidy's program in Europe. He plans to return as
overseer of Azalea's soccer program in  the fall, armed with some new coaching
techniques.

It would have been so easy for Paris to turn his back and staple his passport
shut on the  Faroes. That's probably why he's going.

"I feel a little selfish, but this opportunity is not going to come around
again," he said. "The  rewards are huge. It will either be a wonderful
experience or a nightmare. This is life or death  for the public over there; for
them to get me back is considered a big coup."

When Paris kicks that first soccer ball on the Astro Turf field at the Klaksvik
club, he doesn't  expect a smooth roll. The climate is rough, it gets dark by
mid-afternoon and, ultimately, how much  fish can you eat?

"You can go three or four weeks with constant rain and the winds are brutal," he
said. "It is the  harshest weather you could wish for, but I've gotten soft in
my old age. I want to prove myself. I  can remember the club president telling
me, "Tony, come back and live in the real world.' For a  long time, I've been
living in the land of abundance in America."

Expectations are high in Klaksvik, where the prior head coach was tossed despite
a second-place  finish. Paris plans to live, eat and breathe soccer and Reidy
isn't betting against him.

"He's all about winning," Reidy said. "He has a very understanding wife who
understands his drive.  Whether Tony's working with a couple of 9-year-olds or a
group of college players, his intensity  level remains high. This is obviously a
blow to our program, but he's worth every penny he gets.  They're lucky to have
him."

As a player-coach in the Faroes 20 years ago, Paris earned a reputation for
aggressive soccer.  He was called Mr. Concrete and The Man With No Heart for his
no-nonsense approach.

There's another side, however, and Jack Paris touched it.

"It's tough when your 8-year-old looks at you and says, "Daddy, I don't want you
to go,' " Paris  said.

Maybe Jack will grow to understand his father didn't think he had much of a
choice in the  matter. After opening some professional doors, Paris will be back
in October to open his front  door.

"I'm in and out and then it's back home to Florida," he said. "I'll be working
with some very  skilled players and testing myself in the process. I want to see
what I'm capable of doing."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Tony Paris will resume working with youngsters as director of coaching at
Azalea's Youth Soccer League in St. Petersburg upon his return from Alaska in
seven months.  Tribune file photo

NOTES: SOCCER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 28, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Risk, research shouldn't mix, experts warn;

BYLINE: GRACE FRANK, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1925 words


TAMPA - Allowing James Rowsey broad leeway in his work earned his university a
boatload of  trouble, hindsight shows.

In all things research, beware needless risk.

That, experts say, is how eye surgeon James Rowsey, and by extension the
University of South  Florida, came to be the focus of federal and professional
scrutiny amid allegations that he  experimented on people without their
knowledge.

Doctors across the state and the country have been questioned since February by
The Tampa  Tribune regarding ethics in medical discoveries.

They have spoken about the key role of intended and chance discoveries in
advancing physician  knowledge and patient care. Some note the harsh sanctions
that might be brought to bear on an  individual and an institution for improper
research, regardless of outcome.

A Los Angeles veterans hospital just last week was stripped of federal research
privileges and  money because of repeated research without patients' informed
consent or in defiance of their  requests. Such practices are much worse than
any evidenced or even hinted of at USF.

Still, "that's why we take it so seriously," said David Korn, a former Stanford
University medical  school dean now with the Association of American Medical
Colleges. "We stand to be badly damaged if  people think they were misused or
harmed."

Doctors declined to comment on specific troubles that are coming to a head soon
at USF.

But they disapproved without exception of cutting corners where patient welfare
might be  involved. Most rejected the idea of a doctor unilaterally deciding a
new tool he proposed - and  sought institutional approval to study - would be
used on patients before the study even began.

"If a person applies to an (Institutional Review Board), I think that person is
obligated to wait  until the IRB makes a decision," Korn said. "I don't think
you apply and then decide, "The hell with  it.' "

George Rosenwasser, a Penn State University ophthalmologist considered an expert
by the National  Eye Institute, called the change of direction "particularly
tasteless."

Rowsey requested - then later rejected - a comparative human study to test a
surgical knife he  helped invent, although comparative research is a staple of
good science. Such a study also  requires patient consent.

USF's independent board that oversees human research approved the project in
July 1995 but later  learned Rowsey began using the tool in surgeries months
earlier. Board members met again in October  1995 and accepted Rowsey's
explanation that the surgeries were not experiments in the first place.  No
formal study - no informed patient consent - was needed.

The USF board relied heavily on Rowsey's depiction of his Tampa Trephine as a
minor improvement  on standard practice. The tool's unusual cut of donor cornea
simply meant fewer stitches for a  patient, and possibly quicker healing with
less astigmatism, USF officials remember the doctor  saying.

Gone were claims made worldwide only months earlier of a potential
"revolutionary change" in  surgical technique and projected five-year sales
revenue totaling $ 112.5 million.

Rowsey went on to use the trephine in at least 80 cornea transplants between
March 1995 and  March 1998, when Tampa General Hospital forbade its use outside
a formal study. Today the device  appears abandoned.

"THERE WAS NO QUESTION of safety," said Camille McWhirter, USF's health sciences
lawyer, of the  October 1995 pitch to the review board. "Rowsey was saying it
not only was safe but better."

USF, however, already had documents - including Rowsey's own budget proposals -
that undercut  those assurances.

"Phase II funds are requested ... to complete the safety and efficacy studies,"
Rowsey wrote in a  June 1995 request for a second installment of a U.S. Energy
Department grant for the project  totaling nearly $ 764,000. He wanted the money
for comparative trephine studies on cats.

That budget request was made to a university office separate from the office
concerned with  human research. Rowsey limited his federal grant applications to
animal and eye bank eye studies  only. His patient work, in contrast, was to be
supported with internal ophthalmology department  money, USF records show.

Rowsey controlled the department's budget as chairman from October 1991 until
his forced  resignation in October 1997. The department was $ 370,000 in the red
during his last year in charge,  records show.

"This is the type of thing that, as chair of an IRB, gives me the chills," said
Robert Wears, who  heads the University of Florida review board at its
Jacksonville medical complex. "IRBs are based on  trust."

Wears doubts his board would support a researcher arguing after the fact that a
device approved  for human research was not experimental. The school, he said,
still smarts from a sweeping 1993  U.S. Food and Drug Administration audit of
practices at its campus in Gainesville.

"Our IRB is very conservative," Wears said. "We don't want to be caught in
(another) FDA audit."

The FDA is one of two federal agencies now reviewing Rowsey's case.

Korn said USF left itself open to questions by letting Rowsey draw such a line
between his  animal and human work.

"That's an institutional distinction, and I think that's unfortunate," Korn
said. "Since we're so  dependent on federal money, I would apply the common rule
for all research involving human  subjects. I think most institutions go that
way for their own protection."

That common rule, part of the federal codes, defines research requiring an
IRB-approved study as  any "systematic investigation, including research
development, testing and evaluation, designed to  develop or contribute to
generalized knowledge."

The government only enforces the definition where federal money is involved,
though.

USF clearly understood the fine line Rowsey was drawing.

"If you don't say it's a research study and people aren't enrolled ... it's case
studies, and  case studies are not research," said Richard Walker, USF's
research compliance chief, just before  The Tampa Tribune began reporting on
Rowsey's trephine work last month.

"When Dr. Rowsey submits an IRB protocol, we review and approve or reject,"
Walker said of his  office's obligations. "The execution of the document is Dr.
Rowsey's responsibility."

Walker was being questioned regarding his July 1997 audit of Rowsey's proposed
human study. The  audit was initiated by trephine-related complaints from a
former colleague, surgeon Robert Urban,  to Tampa General Hospital. Those
complaints also initiated the hospital review that shut down  Rowsey's use of
the trephine at TGH.

Walker's office, in contrast, simply reported that Rowsey would close the
never-used research  study without reference to the trephine's continuing use in
patient surgeries.

Congress in recent years has contemplated defining all human studies as
research, regardless of  funding, Korn said. But a unified health industry
opposes any expansion of federal regulations.

IN ADDITION TO inquiries by the FDA and National Institutes of Health, Rowsey's
trephine work  also is being reviewed by the American Academy of Ophthalmology's
ethics committee.

Ethics panel members decline to discuss their work or reports of an April
hearing on Rowsey. But  a Washington, D.C., hotel confirms the academy has
reserved rooms April 21-22 and a Dr. James  Rowsey is among confirmed guests.

Correspondence from ethics panel member Charles Zacks to Rowsey is highly
critical of the USF  professor, dismissing the argument that patient consent
wasn't needed because the trephine did its  cutting only on cadavers.

Rowsey publicly downplays the significance of a peer-group ethics inquiry.

USF differs.

"If a professional organization raises questions of ethics, it seems like we'd
like to know that,"  McWhirter said.

Rowsey and his attorneys, meanwhile, are weighing results of a USF inquiry begun
last month into  his professional conduct.

USF declines to say when his response is due, and Rowsey has refused to speak
with the Tribune  since October, when the newspaper reported on a federal
discrimination lawsuit filed against him by  former colleagues, including Urban.

Martin Silbiger, the medical school dean, plans to consider Rowsey's response
before his  impending announcement as to whether discipline, including
termination, is justified.

Among the factors likely to figure in Silbiger's considerations:

USF's inspector general found last year that Rowsey broke state law and
university policy by  helping a close friend, USF eye doctor Bradley Fouraker,
divert grant money for myopia research to  their private company, Tampa Eye
Instruments, so Fouraker's wife might be paid for work on the  project for
KeraVision Inc.

University nepotism policy prevents supervisors from hiring spouses because of
the control it  gives over their household income, and state law bars public
employees from procuring goods or  services when they stand to gain financially.

Fouraker, with chairman Rowsey's support, tried repeatedly in 1997 to get his
wife hired as an  assistant for the myopia project he led. USF rejected the
efforts, although it recognized Vicki  Fouraker's qualifications.

Rowsey and Fouraker ultimately had Tampa Eye Instruments hire Vicki Fouraker,
then got USF to  agree to a grant revision directing as much as $ 273,390 to
their company. By May 1998, USF had  concluded Bradley Fouraker "successfully
"manipulated the system' to accomplish his objective."

USF officials pleaded repeatedly with Rowsey and Fouraker to reclaim the entire
$ 701,000  KeraVision grant. Finally, they threatened the doctors' malpractice
insurance coverage. In  September, Rowsey returned about $ 29,110 of the $
88,390 known to have been paid his company.

The ophthalmology department's residency program - its training for young
doctors wanting to  specialize in eye care - was placed on accreditation warning
and then full probation under Rowsey,  in part because so many full-time faculty
quit.

Rowsey is a fervently evangelical Christian. His public expressions of faith -
encompassing  anything from patient care to equipment purchases, colleagues say
- are the subject of federal  religious discrimination lawsuits filed by Urban
and another former USF doctor, Steven Gross.

The residency program is recovering under new guidance, USF officials said.
Director Lou Grodin  predicts good news when accreditation is reviewed again
this fall. If not, though, USF risks losing  its three-year training program and
perhaps the ophthalmology department.

KORN SAID HE remembers well the hard lessons Stanford University had to learn
when he was  medical dean before the right procedures were firmly in place.

He said he has no recommendations to help steer USF, which he agreed is a young
school with a  promising future in research still ahead.

"All I would say is that because of the tremendous financial support that we as
a community get  from the federal government, and because of the current climate
of concern about human subjects in  research," he said, "every institution
should bend over backward (to ensure) procedures are good and  are adhered to.

"And if you have to choose, go to the safe side, not the risky side."  Grace
Frank covers higher education. She can be reached gfrank@

tampatrib.com or (813) 259-8285.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
 Association of American Medical Colleges member David Korn said USF left itself
open to questions.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 3, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Self-storage offers room for your stuff;

BYLINE: SUSAN H. THOMPSON, of The Tampa Tribune ;

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words


TAMPA - Your garage is overflowing, the closets are packed and you don't have an
attic.

Time for a self-storage unit?

If the answer is yes, you have a lot of choices. Self-storage units come in all
sizes. And  facilities range from sparkling new towers, complete with amenities,
to basic buildings that still  use chicken-wire dividers.

Note the word "self" in self-storage and you'll understand how these facilities
are similar to  apartments in the way they are rented.

Of course, no one lives in them, and they're unlikely to require a lease. But if
they burn down,  or a thief breaks in, the renter is responsible for losses.
That's just like when an apartment  building burns - the owner doesn't pay for a
tenant's destroyed furniture.

Most times, you'll supply your own lock to a unit. You'll be able to visit or
retrieve goods.  And, generally, no one will ask for a specific inventory of
what you are storing, although you  should be told what items are off-limits
(think propane tanks and such).

A good self-storage facility manager will help you determine what size unit you
need. Most  people want to rent bigger units than they really have to, says Mark
Hunt, a self-storage industry  consultant. That's because they don't know tricks
of packing.

Self-storage units should have high ceilings - some are up to 10 feet - so sofas
and beds can be  upturned in corners, and lightly packed boxes stacked high.

Leaflets from self-storage facilities recommend surprisingly small units for
large amounts of  things. For instance, units the size of a small walk-in
closet, 4 by 6 feet, can hold one room's  worth of furniture, the amount that
can be carried in a 4-by-8-foot trailer.

A 10-by-10-foot unit can hold up to three rooms of furniture, the equivalent of
a one-bedroom  apartment or what can be hauled in a 15-foot moving van.

Prices? They vary, according to the location of the facility and whether the
unit is  air-conditioned. Climate control commands nearly twice as much rent.

For instance, at The Hide-Away Self Storage on 34th Street South in St.
Petersburg, a  10-by-10-foot, nonair-conditioned unit rents for $ 83 a month or
$ 2.93 a day. A climate-controlled  unit of the same size is $ 152 a month or $
5.07 a day.

At the new Storage USA in south Tampa, where all units are air-conditioned, a
5-by-10-foot unit  costs $ 79 a month; a 10-by-10-foot unit is $ 159 a month;
and a 10-by-20-foot unit is $ 259 a month.

However, rates can change, and sometimes discounts may be offered. And don't be
surprised if  managers won't tell you the cost of units right away over the
phone. They want to use their sales  technique of helping you decide what size
unit you actually need. And they want you to visit their  facility.

When choosing a storage facility, consider:

Insurance: You are responsible for losses, such as fire or theft. Some insurance
companies  specialize in policies for self-storage renters; information is
usually available at the  facilities. Your homeowner insurance may cover items
stored elsewhere, so check with your company.  Or decide to just risk it and
forgo insurance.

Security: Examine how facilities keep track of who comes and goes and if there
are security  gates or ways to keep people who shouldn't be there off the
property or away from your unit. Codes  may be required to access elevators and
security gates, with computer records kept of who used them  and when.

Access: Know when you'll be allowed to visit your unit. Facilities vary as to
what times they  are open. Some are open only during weekly business hours;
others have 24-hour access.

Cleanliness: A good facility is swept, painted and cleaned regularly, with no
stains that  indicate leaks in units. It also employs regular pest control
service.

Fees: This is where renters can be socked if they aren't careful. Some
facilities have stiff  penalties for being late with the rent, even charging up
to two late fees in a single month.  Because most don't send out monthly bills,
you could forget, even if you usually pay bills on time.  Also, compare whether
deposits or check-out fees are required.

Service: Check whether there is a manager on the property. Some facilities sell
supplies such  as boxes and tape. Note whether there is a loading cart you're
allowed to use.

Daily vs. monthly rates: Some facilities will allow you to rent by the day.
Plus, they'll  refund any rent if you move out before the end of the month,
without penalties.

Locks: Invest in one that's sturdy and won't easily yield to bolt cutters.
Resist that cheap  padlock you can pick up for a few bucks at a drugstore.

Air-conditioning: Decide if you really need it, because it's costly. A
nonair-conditioned  unit, protected from the sun, windowless and built so air
can circulate, may get less hot than you  think it might. Furniture may be fine
there; computer equipment or electronics, not.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 1, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Tort reform passes; injury lawsuits curbed;

BYLINE: Margaret Talev, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 565 words


TALLAHASSEE - Lawmakers on Friday passed a sweeping package limiting personal
injury lawsuits and  sent it to Gov. Jeb Bush, who is expected to sign the bill
into law.

The House passed the tort reform measure 84-33.

The Senate was thought to be nearly divided, which kept tensions running high
throughout the  final day of the legislative session. But under heavy lobbying
by businesses, the opposition  crumbled and the measure passed, 26-14.

Supporters said the bill would create a better business climate, increasing the
tax base and  lowering insurance rates.

"It's not fair to collect from somebody just because they have deep pockets,"
said Sen. John  McKay, R-Bradenton.

Sen. Tom Lee, R-Brandon, said he decided to support the measure because "for
every individual  that's unable to be made whole, there's someone paying
dramatically more than they should be made  to pay."

But critics contend that the measure would mean that automobile manufacturers
and pharmaceutical  companies would have no incentive for recalling defective
products.

Sen. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Spring Hill, had earlier supported tort reform but
voted against it.

On Friday, she described to senators the "audacity" of a tort reform advocate
who told her if she  was afraid people would be hurt, "You need to encourage
people to buy disability insurance."

"Is this a let them eat cake mentality?"

Brown-Waite balked. "I can't go home and tell people who work at the 7-Eleven to
go buy  disability insurance when they can't even afford health insurance."

Sen. John Grant, R-Tampa, had been a critic of the measure but told colleagues
he had to vote  for it because he promised Senate President Toni Jennings he
would in exchange for his placement on  two key committees.

"It's not without a great deal of trouble in my soul," he said, noting the
measure went "too far."

Tort reform has been the top goal of Florida businesses for three years, and a
goal to a lesser  degree since the mid-1980s.

The business community, and their opposition, the state's trial lawyers, poured
millions of  dollars into lobbying efforts, including negative television ads
aimed at unseating candidates and  forcing votes on the measure.

The Legislature last year passed an even stronger tort reform package than this
year's, but it  was vetoed by then-Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat.

This year, the House wanted an equally strong measure, but senators resisted and
held out until  the final week of the session, forcing House lawmakers to agree
to more moderate changes.

"I've got to look at it, but I'm pretty sure I'm going to sign it," Bush said.

The legislation, crafted by Sen. Jack Latvala, R-Palm Harbor, limits how much in
punitive  damages victims can collect from companies in nearly all cases.

It also protects those with only a minor share of responsibility from being
forced to pay for  co-defendants' share of damages.

Rental car companies and individuals who loan their cars to others would get
some protection.

People injured by most defective products could not sue unless the product was
less than 12  years old. Airplanes would be exempt after 20 years.

People who developed diseases from products that were on the market longer than
12 years could  not sue.  Margaret Talev covers state government and can be
reached at (850) 222-8382.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Sen. Jack Latvala, R-Palm Harbor, had plenty to smile about Friday after the
Legislature passed his tort-reform bill limiting punitive damages for victims.
COLIN HACKLEY, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   June 30, 1999, Wednesday, FLORIDA EDITION

Gore takes aim at Bush brothers;

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words


TAMPA - At a fundraiser, Al Gore promises a tough campaign in Florida and takes
on the Bush  brothers over gun control.

To the delight of Tampa Bay area supporters Tuesday night, Vice President Al
Gore vowed to fight  to win Florida despite the influence of the Bush brothers
and condemned Republicans, including  Texas Gov. George W. Bush, for opposing
gun control.

Although the crowd and the money raised at a dinner were small compared with the
financial tidal  wave George Bush generated here last week, backers said it was
enough to prove Gore has support and  a chance to win the state.

"Yes, I'm running in Florida, and I'm running to win Florida - write it down,
mark my words," Gore  proclaimed loudly to cheers from people who may have
wondered if he thought it worth the money and  time to fight for the state
against the influence of a popular governor, Jeb Bush.

Earlier Tuesday in Miami Beach, Gore addressed a union crowd and called for a $
1 increase in the  minimum wage during the next two years and vowed to defend
Medicare.

The $ 1,000-a-plate chicken dinner in Tampa raised about $ 150,000. The luncheon
in Miami - a more  congenial location for Democratic fundraising - brought in
about $ 200,000, said a Gore campaign  spokesman.

In comparison, George Bush on Friday made four Florida stops, including one in
Tampa, and took  in around $ 2.5 million.

Gore's Florida finance chairman, Fort Lauderdale lawyer Mitchell Berger, said
the comparison is  not what's important.

"Bill Clinton raised $ 15,000 in Tampa in 1996 and we won the state," Berger
said. "Al Gore just  raised $ 150,000 here. This state is going to be
contested."

In his speech, Gore hit hard the traditional Democratic themes of support for
public schools and  full participation in society for minorities and the
disabled.

He talked at length about his family and small-town background, as if to
distinguish himself  from the Clinton administration scandals.

"I will take my own values of faith and family to the presidency," he said.

But he has made gun control a focal point of his campaign recently, seeking to
capitalize on the

refusal by Republicans in Congress to accept new regulations on gun show sales
following the  Columbine High School shootings.

Gore also made the Bush brothers a target on the gun control issue. Jeb Bush
recently signed  legislation allowing visitors to Florida to carry concealed
weapons, and George Bush signed a law  preventing local governments in Texas
from suing gun makers for the costs of gun violence.

"There are others who, believe it or not, have fought for more concealed weapons
and to shield  gun manufacturers," Gore said. "I think we should shield families
from gun violence."

Further emphasizing the point, Gore was introduced by state Rep. Les Miller of
Tampa, a gun  control advocate whose son, now a Tampa police officer, was shot
and nearly killed in a 1997  mugging.

Miller, who has endorsed Gore, took the opportunity for a shot at George Bush.

"He says he has compassion. But if criminals can still get guns and you won't do
anything to keep  guns out of our schools, it seems to me compassion is what
you're lacking."

Gore called for "truly revolutionary change in public schools."

"Right here in Florida, I have been in schools so overcrowded they have to serve
lunch in shifts  starting at 9:30," he said. Children in public schools "are
sweating in those portables with teachers  overwhelmed and exhausted and
(out-of-date) textbooks ... that say, "One day, children, man will  land on the
moon.' "

Gore's speech was short on the environmental issues he has sometimes identified
with, but he did  promise an announcement to come this week about the Everglades
restoration program.

Republicans faxed material to reporters Tuesday accusing Gore of "extreme views"
on energy policy  and the environment.

The GOP bashed his support of the Global Climate Treaty, which calls for
international efforts  to reduce use of fossil fuels and cut emission of
greenhouse gases that some scientists say are  changing the global climate.

Based on a study by a widely known economic consulting firm, the Republicans
charged that  carrying out the treaty would raise prices of energy-dependent
consumer goods and cause job losses  in Florida, to the tune of costs of $ 271
per person per year in Florida.

But advocates, including the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, say that the
study was paid  for by a consortium of oil companies and is incorrect.

White House environmental officials have said the study involved is based on
worst-case  assumptions and doesn't take into account several cost-cutting
mechanisms.

Some Democrats are still concerned, however, about whether Gore can generate the
excitement  necessary to overcome the intense Republican enthusiasm generated by
Bush, who leads Gore in polls.

Hillsborough County Public Defender Julianne Holt said, "It's too early - people
are still holding  cards close to their vest."

"I think he's growing," said former Tampa City Councilman Scott Payne, not yet
decided between  Gore and his main Democratic rival, Bill Bradley. "He's always
had good ideas, and he's getting  better at getting them across."

County Democratic Party Chairman Monty Belote dismissed the difference in
enthusiasm and scale  between last week's Tampa visit by George Bush and Gore as
"bandwagon" jumping. People who are  embracing Bush may not know much about his
stands, Belote said.

In Miami, Gore stopped between campaign fundraisers to make an appeal to union
workers. He  congratulated the 2,000 members of the Union of Needletrades,
Industrial and Textile Employees on  their membership gains and ran through
issues designed to appeal to workers.

"Let us remember that at the dawn of this new century, we have a fundamental
choice. ... Do we  invest in our families and our future, or do we go back to
the (policies) of the '80s?" Gore said.  Information from the Associated Press
was used inthis report.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO(2C),
 (C) Gore reaches to hug Cynthia Cino of Citrus County after arriving in Tampa.
He first had an afternoon fundraiser in Miami Beach. ROBERT BURKE, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

It's a living;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3453 words


They tap at computer keyboards, wait on customers, answer the telephone, roll
down the  Interstate. But what do working people in Tampa Bay really do? How do
they feel about it? As the  millennium draws to a close, will their jobs become
obsolete?

Staff writer Jerome R. Stockfisch talked to people in several different lines of
work about the  ups, downs, rewards and frustrations of earning a living. Here
are their stories in their own  words.  The hacker

I can wreck your life from a keyboard.

I can destroy your life from a telephone.

I can be anywhere on the planet and make your day really miserable.

I can declare you dead, wipe out your bank accounts, turn off your power, turn
off your water,  turn off your phone so that when you come home you can't even
call the utility companies (laughs).  And then when you go to the bank, you no
longer have any money, and your credit cards don't work,  and suddenly, you're a
nonperson.

That's a fun part of my job. Well, it's not a job, it's an adventure.

You go to a brain surgeon when you have a brain tumor. You come to a security
expert when you  have a security problem. The corporations come to me and they
go, "What ... do we do?" and I go, "Just  watch." Problem solved.

I'm known as "Captain Zap" because I was hacking and phone-freaking before any
of you knew what a  telephone was. I'm in my mid-40s. I'm a fat old man in this
industry.

People have more power in their hands today and can do more destruction - or
more good - with  these damn little boxes. But nobody seems to understand that
yet.

My job comes down to something quite simple. You hire an expert who understands.
Even though I'm  a criminal, according to those in law enforcement, I'm an
expert. I'm considered one of the  nation's leading experts in industrial
espionage. I can show you ways to walk through an alarm  system or a bank vault
or any secured facility on the planet. And they'll sit there and go, "How the
hell did you do that?" Well, I go, "Because you were too dumb to do this."

The only democratic thing I've ever done in my life was adjusting the clocks in
AT&T switches.  So at 11 a.m., you got the 11 p.m. rate, and vice versa.

Wake up. We all don't go to a factory any more, to the office. We sit with our
little boxes and  communicate with people who we have never seen in our lives
through electrons, and it's time to  grow up.

If anything, I am the poster child of what will be the coming existence for all
of us. We've  become more of a service industry, we've become more of an
information-based society. We don't make  anything anymore in this country, and
(what) ... we do make is pure crap. We import everything, and  we export
computers.

Working out of your home is what it's going to be, at least for knowledge-based
workers,  whether it's a software engineer or it's the telemarketer or whatever,
because communications have  come down to such a cheap point.

The technology's coming to the people. The people are afraid of the technology;
the same way  that you have people who are afraid of getting on airplanes,
afraid of nuclear power. I'm sorry, if  you're afraid of the technology and you
want to be left back, then that's your own choice.

These boxes give you power. These boxes give you access. These boxes give you
control over your  life, and, at times, millions of other lives. And all from a
keyboard and a mouse.

Yeah, it's a weapon; but a weapon for peace or a weapon for destruction. Take
your pick. In the  hands of a 14-year-old who wants to go out and destroy NT
servers or put out the latest computer  virus it's a weapon. In my hands, it's a
weapon of peace.

I'm a warrior. I'm one of millions of warriors out here. God forbid we all ever
get together.  People should be able to vote, literally, from their machines.
People should be able to send  messages to the morons in Washington as they're
standing there up on C-SPAN trying to look pretty  for the cameras and taking
PAC money and not listening to their constituents. And these little  boxes give
the people the power. These things give you your rights back. God forbid
somebody comes  in my door and says I can't have it because then I will pick up
a weapon.

When I was hacking and phone-freaking, we were not destructive. We were part of
a culture; we  explored. We went out exploring into these vast networks. And
played in areas where, literally, men  in white lab coats stood at the Holy
Grail. "Oh, I'm sorry, you can't come in here, because it's the  Computer
Center." It was the ability to sit there and go, "Wow, look at this." I mean,
I'm 17 years  old and I'm playing in an HP3000, which at the time was a $ 10
million machine. And I understood how  it worked - and was able to manipulate
data. It was the control of data that really got me."

There are many people who will tell you that I act like I'm 3 years old when I'm
doing a hack.  And I do! I mean, I'm this little kid, and I've got my sandbox,
and I'm running rampant through  your thing throwing dirt bombs at you and
going, "Nyah, nyah, got you!" And then I write these really  vicious reports
that spell out just how bad it is. And they read them and they're horrified.

It's great. I do the little dance. "How are you? I just beat the pants off you.
You and your $ 50  million data center just got taken out by me and a 56K modem
from a hotel room down the street. And  a cheap hotel room, to boot." And if you
really want to aggravate 'em, do it from a pay phone with a  laptop (laughs).
That's what really galls 'em.

I have a farm. While I'm down here, I actually have these strange thoughts about
working on one  of these day-fishing boats, cutting bait and looking at these
people who, to them, this is  relaxation and family fun and the whole nine
yards. It gives you kind of a Dali viewpoint of either  how bad it is or how
good it is or how they flow in their lives and don't understand the things  that
I see and understand. Maybe I'm a visionary and maybe I'm a madman.

- Ian Murphy,

Treasure Island  The waitress

You have to like people to stay in this business. If you don't like people,
forget it, because  you aren't gonna last.

Since I started - and I started when I was 17 in this business - I have been
everything from a  dishwasher to a salad prep to a manager to a chef and back to
waitress again. I have worked in  every aspect of this business. And it's hard.

I found a job as a waitress in a little diner in Bath, N.Y. And I loved it. Most
people are very  friendly; they love to tell jokes, they like to be fooled with.
You noticed this morning as they  were coming in they were a bunch of little
comedians. I have met a lot of nice people over the  years. Couples that come
back and want their picture taken with you, they somehow just click with  you.
Just like that, you're a long-lost friend, and they come back every year, year
after year  after year.

I've got some Canadian friends. Their tea is so much stronger than ours, right?
She gave me a  cup when she was here this last year, and I said, "God, that's so
good." Well, every time she'd come  in, she would bring me these little round
bags of tea. She asked me for my name and address when  she left, and it wasn't
even a week after she left, I had this great, big, huge ... it must have  been
500 bags of tea, in the mail to me. It's just little things with these people.

And then you get some you want to strangle and you can't wait for them to leave.
You know, the  ones that come in and no matter what you do, it doesn't satisfy
them. I've had some real run-ins  with people where they call you names. This is
a weird business, it really is.

I do fine dining, too, at the Don CeSar. It's a totally different atmosphere.
You have to be two  different people. You have to carry a wine key with you, you
have to say just the right thing.

When I started waitressing, it was $ 1.15 an hour, and it's only $ 2.13 an hour
now. So it has not  increased any, and sometimes, people just don't tip. I had a
party in here one night, eight people,  almost a hundred-dollar check, and they
didn't leave a penny. Big places, like the ones where you  dress up in a monkey
suit, they add it. But our boss doesn't believe in that.

I think years ago they tipped more than they do now. I just think they turn
their noses down to  waitresses because they think, "Oh, they're too stupid to
do anything else." I had somebody say this  to us. "You're too stupid to do
anything else." Excuse me? I'm just as educated as you are. If I  wasn't here to
serve you, you'd have to do it at home all by yourself.

We're not just waitresses. Some of us are very smart. I know how to run a
computer. I raised  five children. I did my fair share in life.

What I would like to see is where waitresses would get good pay like anybody
else. Because we  work hard. We give up holidays. Christmas. Easter. New Year's.
Weekends. So people can go out and  enjoy themselves, and not have to do it
themselves at home and clean up the mess. I've always said  we've been
underpaid. Underpaid and overworked.

My mom warned me, when I was 17 years old, not to get into this business when I
told her I was  gonna be a waitress. Because that's what she was. She says
there's something about it, it gets in  your blood, and it's like being an
alcoholic, you can't stay away from it.

I was a secretary for two years. For a carpet store. I was bored to death.

Right now, I have been kind of what you'd call depressed lately because we have
been so slow. It  has been really terrible, and I'm thinking, how am I gonna
keep my head above water? You have to  enjoy it.

Like that sign we have up here says, "I'm a damn good waitress. If you want an
actress, go see a  movie." But it's kind of like you have to be an actress, too,
because if you don't feel good, you  can't let them know you don't feel good.
Some of my customers know me real well because they see me  day in and day out.
They'll look at me and say, "You don't feel good, do you?"

I'll pull through, I'll be all right.

They know this.

- Jonita Bergeron,

St. Pete Beach  The car hauler

I haul cars for a living. It's not for everyone. You gotta have it in you.

You're walking up and down the trailer. You're dealing with heights. You're
dealing with the  weather. You have to build the load mentally. You load it, you
tie it down, then you have to make  sure it's legally within height, then you go
out and deal with the traffic congestion.

You get to your dealer, you unload it, you gotta deal with the customer. He has
to inspect it,  he might find something you missed, he'll write it up. And you
go back into traffic, you go back to  the terminal, you do it all over again,
sometimes two, three times a day.

Our industry's riddled with injuries - big-time. They tear up their shoulders,
their knees, their  backs. It's a strain. Something gives. They say in car haul,
if you put 25 years in, it's like 30  or 35 in another industry because of the
physical demand. A lot of guys don't walk away from the  job physically fit.

We make what we haul. Pay is relative to what we put on the truck. Back in the
late '80s, when  cars were small, we used to haul nine, 10, 11, 12 units on a
load. And it's all figured out by a  formula, how many units you have on the
truck, how many drops you have, how many miles you go, and  that's where you see
your pay. Now, everything's big trucks, sport utilities, we're down to seven,
eight and nine units. So, actually, with all the raises over the years, we've
stepped back a little  bit.

It has its toll on family life because you're gone a lot. You may go out today,
and you get to  Fort Myers and they'll say, "Well, go to Fort Lauderdale." "Now
pick up a load and go to Orlando." You  gotta call home and say, "I'm not gonna
be home tonight, you know them plans we had?" Well, you  mostly don't make plans
any more. Holidays, Christmas, Thanksgiving, that's the busiest time of the
year. Car sales are at an all-time high right now, so we've been working six and
seven days a week  to keep up with it.

There's a lot of stress on the job. I had one this morning, pulled in front of
me in the rain.  Pouring like hell on the Skyway, and they come around you
flying, 60 to 70 mph, pouring down rain,  I couldn't see 10 feet in front of me.
Then they lock it up in front of you. You've got 80,000  pounds of steel; where
you gonna go? But people just can't stand being behind a truck. I don't know
what it is. They gotta get in front, and then when they get in front, they
realize why you were  going so slow.

It's provided me with a good living, good benefits. I just try to pace myself so
that when I do  get my 25 or 30 (years) that I can be physically fit and
hopefully be able to walk away from it.

I like it. Every day's different. I guess that's why I never took a job sitting
behind a desk. I  could never do that.

Some guys don't know how this got here. You just don't walk out on the job and
make "X" amount of  dollars a day because it was there and the company's good to
you. It took the blood, sweat and  tears of your forefathers to get you there. I
always held that dear. I always felt that what they  did for us, we need to pass
on to the next generation. That's one thing that was said about us in  the last
strike, was, "Those guys make too much money." Well, c'mon and do our job some
day. C'mon  and ride with us and see if you want to do it. Put in a 10-, 12-,
15-hour day.

I take pride in my work. I'd like to know that if I ordered an expensive car
that it's gonna get  there in good shape and it's not gonna have to be worked on
when it gets there. I try to deliver to  the best of my ability. You figure any
of these loads going down the road any more are up to a half  a million dollars,
sometimes, on a truck. And you're getting it there without a scratch on it.

When you buy a new car, you don't want any miles on it when you get it.
Otherwise, it'd be a  used car to you. I guess that's what has kept us secure. I
think you'll always see 'em on trucks. I  hope so.

- Gary Glowiak,

Tampa  The farmer

The piece of the farm that I operate has been in my husband's family since the
late 1800s.

When I first met my husband and we got married, we had 50 acres of strawberries,
the family as a  whole. Now we're up to over 500 acres, and it's all in
strawberries.

We've always worked in the field. My mother-in-law, my sister-in-law, myself.
When the crew was  out setting strawberry plants, we would be out with them.
When they were harvesting, we worked the  packing shed. I've put in Rain Birds,
I've driven tractors, I've done a little bit of everything.

A lot of things have changed. We have computers that run our irrigation system
and put out  fertilizer. We set strawberries by hand, still. We always have.

We have a lot of people who have been with us a lot of years, and they are very
loyal to us. But  a lot of the general people coming in, they want to do it the
way they want to do it or they'll go  somewhere else. We hear all the time when
we have a problem with quality or something like that,  the workers will say,
"We can go over here and get this amount of money and not have to do this." I
don't know if that has to do with the change in the economy or just a change in
the amount of  workers available for the jobs that we have to do.

We've lost a lot of our workers to hotels, restaurants, that type of stuff. I
think that in  agriculture, we're gonna see a lot of guest-worker type
employment, because there's just not enough  domestic legal labor to do the
agricultural jobs.

I do a lot of ag-in-the-classroom and that type of stuff. I like doing that
because I think that  there's a lot of people in this country now that don't
realize there is a person or a group of  people that are providing the food that
we eat. When this country was formed, it was an agrarian  society. Now, less
than 1 percent of the population provides the food to feed everybody in this
country and several other countries.

I guess I've always kind of grown up around strawberries - I don't know, if you
ever do it and  you really like it, it gets in your blood and it doesn't matter
whether you make money at it or  not. It's nice if you do, but there's just
something about it, you can't stop doing it. I guess an  old farmer never dies.

If I meet people out, they always ask, "Where can we find your strawberries at?"
We don't sell 'em  out on the roadside or anything like that, but I always tell
them what label we're under. And if  it's during the wintertime, if they go to
any of the grocery stores around here and they buy that  particular label, then
they're gonna get our strawberries. And they come back and tell you that  they
were good - most of the time (laughs). It's kinda neat to have people want
something that  you've done.

I don't think Hillsborough County wants agriculture in here any more. I don't
know if I would  (sell). A piece of property that's been in your family for a
hundred years and had berries on it,  it would make it kind of hard to do
something like that.

This was a bad year. Last year was a good year. With agriculture, there are so
many things that  you have absolutely no control over. I mean none. It's like
rolling the dice every time. In  Florida, everything is different because our
climate and our weather is just so erratic.

We sit down and we try to plan and to budget and this kind of stuff, but you
never know what's  going to happen. We don't even have control over the prices
we get for our products. That's  probably one of the hardest things, going into
the grocery store and seeing fruit that you know  came from one of your farms,
and it's going for $ 3 a package, a little 1-pound package. And you  know that
what you got $ 10 for, they're retailing for $ 30. That's kind of hard.

During (the winter season), we know that we can do something that no one else in
the country can  do. And growers are real proud of being able to do that. All
over the place, no matter where you  go, people do know that Plant City is where
they grow strawberries, and Dover is where they grow  strawberries.

- Michelle Williamson,

Dover  The cigarmaker

This is an industry in which mechanization has been replacing the man.

There's no successors here. This is an era that, in my perception, within the
next 15 years,  we'll be talking about it like we talk about a blacksmith. You
may see them in fairs, if you see  them.

What they do is an art. To transform those leaves from raw materials to a
masterpiece of a cigar  - whether you smoke it or not, it's a masterpiece.

We make cigars because for four generations my family's been making cigars. For
me, it's the  tradition. I grew up in the industry. It's good to see that we can
make a good product, but still  make it like in the good old days. Like my
father said, sometimes it's just the personal  satisfaction rather than the
economic satisfaction.

When we go for a show, people who see us go, "Wow, this is the greatest, are
they still making it  like that?" The last great question I heard was, "How much
time does he spend making the head? And  what's the first thing you're gonna
cut?" That comes from a 12-year-old. In all my years in cigars,  I never
realized that (the cigarmaker) spends most of his time making the head, and when
you smoke  that, that's the first thing you're gonna chop. You don't pay
attention to it. But that's his  craftsmanship, his talent, his artistry.

In Tampa, sadly to say, even though we have the quality and the standards that
the major  companies have - all the product, the presentation, the craftsmanship
- we are not supported in our  own town. Like the old saying, "No one in his
land is king." That applies to me. Tampa is not a  supportive town. They like
anything except what is made locally. That's why the industry's going  down, and
in his case (points to roller), he might lose his job one day.

The one day we don't come (in), we feel guilty. "Dang, we didn't go by the shop
today." We have to  come! The other day, I got home from Chicago, it was about
11 in the evening. I went home, took  supper, and said, "I have to go the the
shop." Even to open the door, get in, look. "Everything is  fine. I'm here."
It's very rewarding, when you get attached to something that you know every
square  inch, and it's yours, and you worked for it.

- Wallace Reyes,

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C),
 (C) (Michelle Williamson) JOCK FISTICK, Tribune photo

NOTES: THE MILLENNIUM AND BEYOND

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   August 18, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

"There's no new news here';

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


Following are comments by Gov. Jeb Bush on his plans to review the state's
affirmative action  policies:

Q. You have said you'll eliminate "overt forms of quotas or preferences that
discriminate." Does  that mean you intend to abolish affirmative action in the
state?

A. There's no new news here. This has been my position ... as a candidate and as
governor when  consistently asked. And we are reviewing every aspect of
employment and contracting policies. ...  Should there be overt forms of
preferential treatment by price or set-asides by race that  discriminate one
group against the other, we will eliminate it either through executive order or

 going to the Legislature and making a suggestion of change.

Q. So that is essentially abolishing affirmative action?

A. No. Because affirmative action also means making sure you have a system where
you reach out,  as we have done in the hiring of the top people of our
administration, that you reach out and  ensure that there is access to
employment and contracting, access to opportunity. And there are  many elements
of state programs right now that are defined under the rubric of affirmative
action  that do not discriminate and those are the ones that we will emphasize
and make work better.

Q. How is this different from what Ward Connerly's anti-affirmative action
initiative would do?

A. Connerly's initiative is an initiative. I'm governor of the state. I have the
responsibility  to lead and to carry out the things that I think are important.
... The problem with the initiative  is, despite good intentions, it will
divide, it will create confusion, it will create a divisive  climate that'll be
harder for us to accomplish other things.

Q. Are you trying to avoid a public debate?

A. No, I'm more than happy to debate our position. I think the third way, the
middle ground, is  the place to be. People want a state where there is access to
opportunity. And I am passionate  about that. ...  If you look at our
appointments, and I would encourage you to seek out what we've  done in terms of
appointments in boards and commissions, more women, more African-Americans, more

 Hispanics, than any, I believe any governor before and certainly any Republican
governor. ...  So  this is a personal commitment on my part to say we need to
make sure that there is access to  opportunity and that what we do reflects the
diversity of this state. Having said that, overt forms  of discrimination are
intolerable and we will change them.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 21, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Can you help?;

BYLINE: Beth Dolan;

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


Like plants? Have some free time?

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens, 811 S. Palm Ave., Sarasota, is looking for
volunteers. Among the  spots open are:

greenhouse plant groomers

bookshop sales people and inventory monitors

interpreter for educational displays at the Learning Center

school tour guide for children in grades kindergarten through middle school

guide for Tropical Display House and grounds

Hours are generally 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. or 1 to 5 p.m. but may be determined by
staffing needs.  Training is provided. Call Pam Eisele, volunteer coordinator,
at (941) 366-5731, Ext. 36, for  information.  Tip of the week

Use a hair dryer to blow dust off fragile objects such as flower arrangements,
suggest the  authors of "Reader's Digest Household Hints and Handy Tips"
(Reader's Digest Association, 1988).  Christie's honors 20th century decorators

The top interior decorators of the 20th century will be honored by Christie's
auction house of  Los Angeles with "Innovators of Twentieth Century Style" on
Sept. 15.

The approximately 200 works to be auctioned were created by decorators such as
Rose Cumming,  Billy Haines, Tony Duquette, Sister Parish, Tommi Parzinger and
James Mont.

Highlighting the sale will be custom pieces and decorative works by and for
Elsie de Wolf, known  as the "Founding Mother of the Decorating Profession."

A collector's catalog, which costs $ 35, is available by calling Christie's
publications  department at 1-800-395-6300. The preview exhibition is scheduled
for Sept. 10-14 at the Los  Angeles gallery.  Cool and green

Want to beat the heat yet be environmentally responsible?

"Heat wave conditions give us a taste of what the future could be like if global
warming  continues unabated," Janine Bloomfield, a senior scientist with the
Environmental Defense Fund, says  in a news release.

"Fortunately everyone can get relief from the heat and save money by taking
steps now to reduce  energy use and cut the greenhouse gases that are warming
our world."

Among the New York-based nonprofit group's suggestions for staying cool while
saving energy are:

Change your air conditioner's filter regularly; check the unit's coils to keep
them clean.

Install room units in areas where they will be shaded.

Pull down shades and close curtains during the day.

Use dishwashers and washing machines for full loads only. Try drying clothes on
a clothesline  rather than in the dryer.

Water lawns early in the morning or in the evening on designated watering days.

 Browsing for bath supplies

Now you really can buy everything on the Web, including the kitchen sink.

BathWise.com, the largest Internet supplier of kitchen and bath fixtures, has
introduced its new  Web site at www.bathwise.com. More than 20,000 products for
the kitchen and bath from 200  manufacturers including Kohler, Delta, Moen and
Grohe are offered at discounted prices.

There's also an Ask an Expert section for free information and advice on
remodeling.  Compiled from staff and wire reports by Beth Dolan. Reach her at
(813) 259-7619 or bdolan@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C),
 (C) (clothesline)

NOTES: ODDS & ENDS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 24, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

To those who have to work outside, Florida's summer heat is more than
uncomfortable: It's;
downright dangerous.;

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words


TAMPA - On a sweltering day at Snug Harbor, workers allowed the boat's owner to
install a part up  on the deck while they finished a standard bottom job.

The crew at the Madeira Beach boat yard found the man a couple of hours later,
groggy from heat  stress.

"He was stretched out under his boat," says Allen Yergovich, the yard's general
manager. The boat  yard workers applied cool rags to their patient and brought
him around. "We finished the job for  him," Yergovich says with a wry smile.

Florida's oppressive summer heat and humidity can take a psychological toll on
all of us this  time of year. But for people who work outdoors, there is also
the potential for life-threatening  physical disorders.

From boat yards to construction sites to summer entertainment venues, workers
are taking more  breaks, drinking more fluids and adjusting their schedules as
the dog days intensify.

Those are the common-sense strategies for beating the heat. But in the words of
Yergovich, "You  just get used to suffering through it."

Steven Field, a physician and assistant professor of public health at the
University of South  Florida, says the state has "one of the worst climates in
the country for laborers."

People at work aren't the only ones at risk for heat syncope, heat exhaustion,
cramps or heat  stroke.

"It can occur in laypeople like us who are exercising during the daytime, or
playing golf in the  heat, or walking around at Busch Gardens," Field says.

He suspects that many of the people trudging around Tampa's flagship theme park
in August are  running core temperatures of 102 degrees or above.

That's not likely to elicit much sympathy from members of the Mystic Sheiks of
Morocco, a Busch  Gardens marching band that puts on eight shows a day under the
blazing sun.

"It's a conditioning thing," says trombonist Roderick Carter. "We're
well-conditioned, and we drink  plenty of fluids. That's how it's done."

The Sheiks are in tune with the advice that health professionals offer outdoor
workers. Donnie  Parker, the band's percussionist and drum major, has his own
strategy.

"You just try not to think about it," he says. "The heat's there. It's hot. You
can't say it's not.  But we've been doing it for years, and you kind of
condition yourself for it."

Heat-related illnesses received renewed attention this summer as much of the
northern part of  the nation suffered through record temperatures. More than 200
deaths in 20 states were blamed on  the heat wave.

"Don't think you can outsmart the heat," Labor Secretary Alexis Herman said in a
statement  distributed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
"Heat stress can kill ... so take  a break and drink plenty of water."
(CHART) Heat hazards  Outdoor workers face the following hazards:   Heat
syncope, which occurs when pooling of blood in the lower extremities is
exacerbated by the  heat. Can cause increased pulse rate, balance problems, or
loss of consciousness. Sometimes seen in  soldiers standing at attention for
extended periods.   Heat exhaustion, which occurs during exertion in the heat.
Core body temperature becomes  elevated; can result in loss of consciousness,
though the individual typically maintains normal  mental status. Caused by water
and salt depletion, usually occurs in those not acclimated to heat;  think of
football players, especially those from northern climates playing in the South.

  Heat cramps, related to heat exhaustion, are painful muscle contractions
caused by depletion of  fluids. Commonly occurs in construction work where
employees are "too busy" to drink enough liquids  or are in a location or
position where they can't get at the water jug for long periods of time.   Heat
stroke, the "big one," according to Steven Field, a USF physician who
specializes in  occupational medicine. Marked by rapid rise in core body
temperature. Fluid depletion prompts body  to begin burning off its own water,
even at the cellular level: "In other words, you're cooking your  body," Field
says. Affects brain, heart, and kidneys, which begin to shut down. Symptoms
include  confusion, irrational behavior; treatment may require dialysis.  The
Occupational Safety and Health Administration doesn't have specific standards
for controlling  heat stress on the job, though employers are required to
provide a safe and healthy working  environment under OSHA's so-called general
duty clause. The agency offers these tips for workers  and employers:   Drink
cool water. In small amounts, and frequently - a cup every 20 minutes. Sports
drinks are  also recommended, because they contain salt, which is also depleted
in the heat.   Dress appropriately. Wear lightweight, light-colored,
loose-fitting clothing and change if it  gets saturated. Use sunscreen and wear
a hat.   Work in ventilated areas. Good air flow increases evaporation of sweat,
which cools the skin.   Work less, rest more. Supervisors should assign a
lighter workload and longer rest periods during  periods of intense heat.   Ask
how workers are feeling. Supervisors should monitor workplace temperature and
humidity and  check workers' response at least hourly. Allow workers to stop if
they become extremely  uncomfortable.   Know the signs, and take prompt action.
Employees and employers should learn to spot the signs of  heat disorders listed
above. Get emergency medical attention immediately if symptoms occur.   Train
first-aid workers. Be sure that all workers know who is trained to give first
aid.   Reduce work for anyone at risk. Lack of acclimatization, age, obesity,
poor conditioning,  pregnancy, inadequate rest, previous heat injuries, certain
medical conditions and medications are  some factors that increase
susceptibility to heat stress.  Sources: Steven Field, Occupational Safety and
Health Administration  Jerome R. Stockfisch covers manufacturing and workplace
issues and can be reached at (813) 259-7850 or at jstockfisch@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART; PHOTO (2C),
 (C) Allen Yergovich, general manager of the Snug Harbor Boat Yard in Madeira
Beach, sands the rudder housing of a boat. "You just get used to suffering
through it." GARY RINGS, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 30, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Laggard storm season hits stride;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 711 words


More than 80 percent of the hurricane season's storms usually come between late
August and Oct.  10.

After lollygagging for almost three months, the tropics punched a time clock and
got to work for  the second half of this year's hurricane season.

The season is unfolding pretty much according to the script the experts
described back in the  spring and continued to predict earlier this month: a
hyperactive season with more storms and more  powerful storms than normal.

"While some folks were wondering where the hurricanes were, we weren't," said
Chris Landsea, a  hurricane researcher in Miami.

Landsea and other scientists work with William Gray, professor at Colorado State
University, to  predict hurricane activity.

Gray expects 14 tropical storms, with 10 becoming hurricanes and four of those
to be major  storms with winds of 111 mph or greater.

Also, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration at the National
Centers for Climate  Prediction called for an active season with at least three
major storms.

A typical season has 10 tropical storms, with six becoming hurricanes and two of
those being  major.

Though the season stretches from June 1 through Nov. 30, most of the work is
done between Aug.  20 and Oct. 10, Landsea said.

That period produces about 85 percent of the tropical storms and hurricanes.

"There really is a limited window of opportunity for tropical waves to form and
become  hurricanes," Landsea said.

The window is now open.

After Tropical Storm Arlene frittered away far in the Atlantic in June, there
was a long lull  until Hurricane Bret formed in the Gulf of Mexico and quickly
grew into a major storm.

Then came the triplets, Cindy, Dennis and Emily.

"It's characteristic of a busy season to have a cluster of storms like this,"
Landsea said.

Even three weeks ago, conditions weren't exactly ripe for storms, said Gerry
Bell, meteorologist  at the Centers for Climate Prediction who helped put
together the NOAA forecast.

"The initial part of the year has no impact on the heart of the season," Bell
said. "In June and  July, the large-scale atmosphere does not want tropical
storms."

Come August that changes, especially in a year like this that meteorologists say
will produce a  large crop of storms.

A whole series of conditions, some as far away as Indonesia, lock into place for
an active  season, Bell said.

"All these conditions are in place. We've seen these conditions since March,"
Bell said. "It's just  as we get into August and September, they can produce
hurricanes."

Things such as abnormally heavy tropical rainfall around the globe help create
the type of  active hurricane season experts predict.

A jet stream flowing high in the atmosphere off Africa shifts slightly north.
This lets more  tropical moisture move farther north so more is available for
growing storms.

Moisture is one raw material for hurricanes; another is heat, and by September
water across the  entire Atlantic is warm enough for storms.

Also, an area of high pressure over the Atlantic shifts northward. That reduces
winds that blow  in different directions than hurricanes move and can shear the
tops off developing storms.

"During an inactive year, virtually nothing is favorable for storms," Bell said.
"During an active  year, virtually everything is favorable. With these active
years, it really requires all these  things to come together."

These conditions affect the classic midseason storms that start as clusters of
thunderstorms -  one every three or four days - moving off Africa. Some form
storms that build on the long journey  past the Cape Verde Islands to the United
States.

The conditions that create an active year don't seem to have much impact on
storms that develop  in the Gulf of Mexico, Bell said.

"On the average you have about the same number of storms forming in the Gulf,"
Bell said.

That means one or two.

Once the meat of the season passes, the Atlantic quiets slightly and more storms
form in the  Caribbean, Bell said.  Neil Johnson covers water issues and the
weather and can be reached at (352) 544-5214.  Get the latest news, tracking
maps and preparation tips at hurricane.

weathercenter.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 2, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

The right climate;
The West Shore business district combines convenient location with a small-town
atmosphere.;

BYLINE: JANIS D. FROELICH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NORTHWEST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words


WEST SHORE - West Shore 33607: It's one of the top 50 places to work in the
United States.

The business district near Tampa International Airport is also just a 10-minute
drive to reach  any client in the world, said Ron Rotella, director of the
Westshore Alliance.

"When you want to look at corporate America of the future, look at West Shore,"
said Rotella,  whose alliance works for the betterment of its 350-company
members.

The business district, which runs north from Kennedy Boulevard to Hillsborough
Avenue and east  from Rocky Point West to Himes Avenue, is Florida's largest
market for office space outside of a  downtown area.

More than 83,000 mostly white collar workers labor in a forest of mirrored
buildings.

It's not the corporate park atmosphere that workers find appealing. It's the
qualities typically  associated with a small business district.

Mark Stokes, a salesman at Automatic Data Processing, likes the convenience. He
is just a short  distance - even by foot - to banking, dining and shopping
options. He's even close to a shoe repair  shop and drug store.

"Right now, it's not too congested. I can run errands during the week," said
Stokes, who worked  downtown for two years before moving to his firm's Lemon
Street complex six months ago.

Other West Shore pluses: Car detailing at WestShore Plaza. A 24-hour post office
at Tampa  International Airport. Quick lunch spots. And fine dining, such as
Ruth's Chris Steak House and  Shula's, for those leisurely business deals.

The Westshore Alliance Preschool revolves around the needs of working parents,
opening at 6:30  a.m., closing at 6:30 p.m. and offering a discount.

Ample parking is another plus.

Sandee Castellanos, with the court reporting firm of Klein, Bury & Associates,
views a covered  walkway from a free parking deck as a business necessity.

The company, at Westshore Place I on West Cypress Street, has constant walk-in
traffic.

Attorneys bring clients for videotaped depositions. And while her dozen court
reporters do most  transcribing at home, they drop into the office regularly for
supplies. "It would be too much of a  hassle to validate (parking)," Castellanos
said.

Although her company recently considered relocating to downtown Tampa to be near
a major client,  it was ultimately no contest in the downtown vs. West Shore
look-see, she said. "It's a different  atmosphere."

She likes West Shore's elbow room and would hate to see too much construction
change that.

"Our buildings aren't so close together," she said. "There's a sense of space."

She especially likes the lunch table patio at Westshore Place I with its
cascading fountain.

The business district's location also appeals to Castellanos, who lives in
Odessa. By hopping on  the Veterans Expressway, she can be at work in 20 minutes
in the morning, and home at night in a  half hour.

WestShore Plaza is also in a prime spot.

"We have an A-1 location," said Tom Miles, the mall's general manager.

Even when it maxed out its space in 1974, the mall stayed put - going through
metamorphosis after  metamorphosis on its 52 acres.

Now in the midst of another transformation, the mall is growing again. This time
it's adding  height.

The latest changes will be unveiled just before Christmas 2000: The food court
will double in  size to 521 seats, 25 new stores are coming and an upstairs
14-screen AMC theater will open.

Miles said he stays "ahead of the curve" by routinely chatting with office
workers in the food  court to find out what they want. That's why the mall has
its $ 15 auto detailing service.

Market surveys reveal there are 8,000 office workers within a 2-mile radius of
the plaza. They  make up 40 percent of the mall's customer base.

Office workers are expected to make up an even larger share of the mall's future
clientele, as  the number of area residents declines and the number of area
employees goes up.

About 9,100 people lived in the roughly 10-square-mile area in 1995, according
to figures  supplied by Jim Hosler, director of Research and Economic
Development for Hillsborough County  City-County Planning Commission. By 2020,
the number is expected to decrease to 8,800.

By comparison, the number of area workers is expected to grow from about 71,300
in 1995 to about  123,100 in 2020.

"This isn't a negative," Hosler said. "It just reflects the area's changing more
and more to a  business center."

This growth could spoil what Stokes now enjoys about Westshore, the salesman
said, as he lunched  with ADP colleagues at the mall's food court.

Stokes also wonders if WestShore Plaza will be hurt by International Plaza, a
mall under  construction on the 150-acre former Hall of Fame golf course.

As growth continues, Stokes, who commutes from Carrollwood, doesn't want to see
more traffic  heading toward West Shore via North Dale Mabry Highway.

"It's a little easier to drive here than to downtown. But there are days when
that isn't true,"  Stokes said.

But co-worker Nelson Misturini said he sails from his Manatee County home to
West Shore. "It  takes 45 minutes to cover 45 miles," he said. The straight
Interstate 275 commute makes the  Westshore destination ideal.

There are so many goods and services in the West Shore area, Misturini brings
his wife along  with him occasionally, so she can shop.

"And we live right by Ellenton," he said. "But we like it here."  Janis Froelich
covers Hillsborough County and can be reached at (813) 885-5437 or
jfroelich@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); MAP (C),
 (C) Tom Miles, WestShore Plaza general manager, visits the food court filled
with customers. The food court is scheduled to expand to 521 seats by Christmas
2000.  FRED FOX, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 11, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Bad conduct is universal;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1402 words


In response to Scott Layden Jr.'s letter under the heading "On Clinton's
influence, his trial,  the need for witnesses and resignation" (Jan. 17), there
is no doubt that there is a great deal of  corruption in Washington and also
among military personnel.

However, immoral and unlawful conduct is not confined to any individual or group
but is indeed  characteristic of human behavior and is universal in nature.

If anyone is in doubt about this, there is a splendid article concerning abuse
of women in the  October issue of The Atlantic Monthly by Stephen Schulhofer.
According to statistics he gathered,  approximately 22 percent of American women
have been raped.

Assuming that these figures are correct,and there seems to be no reason they are
not, then it  appears that we all have a lot more to worry about than the
current scandal in the White House.  - JAMES KALAS Sebring  The managed care
trap

Your article by Vickie Chachere regarding the U.S. Department of Justice
breaking up an  organization of surgeons in an anti-trust case fails to tell the
correct story (Florida/Metro, Jan.  27). This courageous group of 29 physicians
actually responded to a unilateral, arbitrary change in  their contracts by
managed care companies that reduced their rate of reimbursement. The terms of
the contracts were so repressive that they had individually elected to resign.

Physicians have no bargaining power with managed care contracting. They are
routinely forced to  "take it or leave it," and in this instance, they elected
to leave it. All physicians have the right  to resign from exceedingly bad
contracts, and this is what happened with the Federation of  Certified Surgeons.

These billion-dollar managed care companies have huge advantages over
physicians. They control  and market through exclusive contracting, and they
have access to expensive legal advice. When they  fail to control a physician's
practice, the next step is to misuse antitrust laws and manipulate  the Justice
Department to bludgeon doctors into submission.

The very antitrust laws that were originally formed to protect individual
consumers against  monopolistic firms, such as Rockefeller's Standard Oil and
Carnegie's U.S. Steel, are now being  used by insurance companies to intimidate
individual practitioners. Independent physicians, and  small groups of
physicians simply do not have the financial resources to seek justice. The
Justice  Department acts as prosecutor, jury and judge, guaranteeing that there
is no justice.

These physicians did not receive increased payments in 1997. They simply refused
to accept  decreased reimbursement. It is alleged that employers had to pay
higher rates to cover this  nonexistent increase in reimbursement. It is a fact
that Florida has the lowest rates of  reimbursement for physicians in the
country and at the same time has the highest rates of premium  costs.
Thereforethere is obviously no relationship between physician reimbursement and
the rates of  health care insurance. These rates are set by managed care
companies to guarantee excess profits,  which are often used to pay obscene CEO
salaries.

In order to have a fair and equitable playing field, it is necessary to support
legislation such  as the Norwood and Campbell bills that are being introduced in
Congress to correct the abuses of  managed care.  - MICHAEL A. WASYLIK Tampa

The writer is a medical doctor and vice president of the Hillsborough County
Medical  Association.  Daniel Ruth - what a gem

I wonder if you realize what a gem you have in columnist Daniel Ruth. I live in
North Carolina,  but every year I spend five or six weeks in Tampa with my
sister. One of the highlights of my visit  is reading Ruth's columns. He is an
absolute master of the put-down and his name-calling sometimes  equals
Shakespeare's.

In fact, one of Ruth's best columns (which I clipped and took home with me last
May) was the one  comparing local "newsworthies" with characters from
Shakespeare's plays. It was truly delightful!  Even though I didn't know the
locals in the article, I could still appreciate the wit and finesse.  This year
I am enjoying the columns on the minister of mistresses, the Rev. You-Know-Who
(or  perhaps more accurately, the Rev. You-Know-What. Yes, we read about him in
North Carolina, too.).

If Ruth ever feels underappreciated in Tampa, he can just move to North
Carolina. We have a  great state, a great climate and a great governor, but we
also could provide plenty of writing  material in our intellectually challenged,
chronically abrasive Sen. Jesse Helms. Just imagine the  wealth of columns from
that one source! Besides, I wouldn't have to wait all year to enjoy his wit  and
wisdom. Tampa really doesn't need Art Buchwald or Andy Rooney!  - BILLIE H.
LYNDON High Point, N.C.  About the Forrestal

I'm just an ordinary citizen who thinks the Forrestal is a huge monstrosity that
should not be  parked, probably forever, in the confines of our downtown harbor.

She's a lovely ship out on the sea. I've walked her decks years ago, but I care
more for the  aesthetic qualities of the harbor that would be lost if the
Forrestal comes to Tampa.  - R.G. UPTON Tampa  Photo opportunity

Talk about unmitigated gall: Hillary and Billary flying to St. Louis at our
expense on Air Force  One to appear with the pope and grab some publicity!

The pope came as the advocate for the poor and the helpless, pleading for help
for those who  cannot help themselves; the two late-term abortion advocates who
have neither honor nor shame waved  and paraded like a loving couple - typical
hypocrites. Is there no end to their hypocrisy?

If they were genuine leaders of the free world, they would have the decency and
the propriety to  have invited the pope to Washington and entertained him as
befits the greatest leader who lives  today.

But we cannot expect much from the denizens of the White House. As Hillary is
quoted as saying  triumphantly: "We are the president."  - J.N. L'HEUREUX Largo

 Polls are a smoke screen

The partisanship of the Democrats in Congress is sickening. They blindly follow
their party,  their president and public opinion polls and ignore what's best
for the country - namely, the  removal of President Clinton.

Perjury and obstruction of justice are clearly "misdemeanors" for which the
Constitution says a  president can be impeached.

Let's face it. A grave matter such as this should not be decided on the basis of
party or public  opinion polls. Our congressmen are elected to represent us, not
to put their fingers to the wind  each and every day and read opinion polls
before voting on tough decisions.

If public opinion polls next year said the people wanted a president elected for
life, would our  congressmen jump through the hoop just like that?

Our Founding Fathers gave us a representative republic, not a democracy. They
hoped - and we hope  - that the men and women elected would have the backbone to
do their jobs and not worry about what  some imaginary 60 or 70 percent of the
voters thought about a particular matter on a particular  day.

Besides, come 2000, the economy could be in the tank, and the disgraced Bill
Clinton will be the  last thing on anyone's mind.  - LOUIS E. GELLERMAN
Englewood  Bring the trial to a close

At this stage of the impeachment trial, the solution that will cause less damage
to the  Constitution, the country and the presidency will be for the Democrats
to force Clinton to resign  or face removal. To turn him loose will leave a dark
spot on the whole impeachment procedure and  will be hard to defend in the
future.

Even the Democrats want to censure Clinton to show their disgust for his
conduct.

The 27 Democratic senators who voted in 1989 to impeach federal Judge Walter
Nixon for lying to  a grand jury would repudiate their oath of office by voting
not to impeach Clinton, who lied to a  grand jury, his family, his Cabinet and
the American people.

Now the Democrats have the opportunity to bring this matter to a close, as they
have so long  advocated, in the most dignified and least harmful way.

This is higher and more important than the wishes of any man who caused this
great problem.

The Walter Nixon impeachment shows this to be true.  - ELSWORTH HERCHIBEE
Lakeland

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 13, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

NEW TAMPA;

BYLINE: AMY LELAND;

SECTION: UNIVERSITY/NEW TAMPA, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 636 words


Pet resort to open next month: For those who hate to leave lovable Rover home
while you work,  relief is coming.

Pebble Creek Pet Resort will offer doggie day care when it opens March 13 at the
Pebble Creek  Collection Center. Grooming and boarding services also will be
provided. The resort will feature a  controlled climate environment, large dog
runs and kitty condominiums.

Cats can lounge in miniature living areas ranging in size from so-called town
houses to  condominiums, said veterinary technician Kristin Thomas.

"There will even be a fish tank for them to watch," Thomas said.

The center will be affiliated with the Pebble Creek Animal Hospital, housed two
storefronts away  at 19651 Bruce B. Downs Blvd.

A grand opening celebration is planned for 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. March 13, complete
with a petting  farm.

Store hours will be 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and 8
a.m. to noon  Wednesday and Saturday.

For information, call 973-4994.

BNI meeting: The New Tampa chapter of Business Network International will meet
at 7:15 a.m.  Wednesday at the Tampa Palms Golf & Country Club, 5811 Tampa Palms
Blvd. Cost for the breakfast  meeting is $ 9 per person. State Farm agent Joyce
Coleman will discuss "Securing Your Future." For  information, call Mike Leslie
at 654-0833.  NORTH TAMPA

Chamber names director to board: Toni Riggs was recently named to the board of
directors for  the North Tampa Chamber of Commerce. She is director of Student
Resources at Tampa Technical  Institute. She was a member of the Town 'N Country
Chamber of Commerce board for five years and  also served as their Chamber
president.

New chamber members are James C. Barnett of JC Barnett Insurors Inc.; Tom Smith
of The Quality  Business Network and Kay Briant of Carrollwood Community News.

Free yoga class: Yogassage, 1913 E. Bearss Ave., will offer a free yoga class at
2 p.m. Feb.  27. For information, call 977-7434.  TAMPA

Small business training: University of South Florida's Small Business
Development Center will  offer training seminars during the next two weeks:

"Red Hot Marketing Tips;" Tammy Gail of FloriData Market Research will give
marketing tips 6-8  p.m. Tuesday at the SBDC office, 1111 N. WestShore Blvd.,
No. 101 B. Fee is $ 30.

"Going Global II: Cross Cultural Success;" presented by SBDC and Nordie Norwood
of Norwood &  Associates Global Consulting Services, will be 6 to 9 p.m. Feb. 22
at the SBDC office. The seminar  addresses cultural awareness and cross-cultural
communication. All who attend will receive a copy  of the book "Going
International" by Lennie Copeland and Lewis Griggs. Fee is $ 40.

"Starting a Small Business: The Necessary Steps;" Learn the ins and outs of
starting a business  1-3:45 p.m. Feb. 19 and 6-8:45 p.m. Feb. 23 at the SBDC
office. All attendees will receive a copy  of the book "Steps to Small Business
Start-Up" by Linda Pinson and Jerry Jinnett. Fee is $ 30.

"How to Write an Effective Business Plan;" Learn how to develop and implement a
business plan  that will help you to achieve your business goals 6-8:30 p.m.
Thursday at the SBDC office. All  attendees will receive a copy of the book
"Business Planning Guide" by David Bangs Jr. Fee is $ 40.

The SBDC will offer the following free workshops: "Business Taxes," 10 a.m. to
noon Feb. 16 and  "SBA Loans" 1-3 p.m. Wednesday. Both will be held at the SBDC
office.

For information and registration, call 554-2351.  Send news of promotions,
awards, new businesses and other business events, at least two weeks in advance,
to Business Notes, Amy Leland, The Tampa Tribune, 15310 Amberly Drive, Suite
102, Tampa,  33647, send fax to 975-9488 or e-mail her at
aleland@tampatrib.comQuestions? Call 977-2854, Ext. 24.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE 2

NOTES: BIZ BRIEFS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 2, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Lebanese, Israelis brace for more attacks;

BYLINE: Compiled from Tribune wires;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 589 words


BAALBEK, Lebanon - Israeli warplanes roared overhead Monday while Shiite Muslim
fighters sealed  off the remains of a former base destroyed by Israeli
airstrikes the night before.

Fears that Israel was about to embark on a bombing campaign kept crowds smaller
than usual at  the main market Monday in Baalbek, a city of 200,000 about 60
miles north of Israel's border.  Parents also kept their children home from
school.

In the northern Israeli town of Kiryat Shmona, residents who would have been
celebrating the  Jewish holiday of Purim were crowded in bomb shelters, fearing
more fighting with Hezbollah  Lebanese guerrillas.

The fear of war that took over both sides of the border Sunday began after a
roadside bomb  killed four Israelis in south Lebanon. Two rockets, fired from
unidentified guerrillas in Lebanon,  also hit an Israeli neighborhood.

No new Israeli bombing runs were reported Monday.  Iron filings to help
Antarctic plankton

WELLINGTON, New Zealand - Researchers have dumped iron filings into the ocean
near Antarctica,  hoping to boost plankton growth and eventually cut down on
greenhouse gases.

A research team returned Monday from its 30-day scientific expedition into
Antarctic waters  2,500 miles southwest of New Zealand.

The researchers want to replenish phytoplankton, the primary food source in the
food chain for  global fish stocks.

The scientists say the phytoplankton will capture excess carbon dioxide, thus
slowing its  accumulation in the atmosphere. Many scientists blame carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases for  contributing to global warming.

A California oceanographer, the late John Martin of Moss Landing Marine
Laboratory, theorized in  1995 that the ocean's microscopic plants,
phytoplankton, needed iron in order to take nitrogen and  phosphate from
seawater, just as farm crops need trace minerals such as zinc and manganese.
Balloonists begin round-the-world flight

GENEVA - Switzerland's Bertrand Piccard celebrated his birthday Monday by
lifting off from the  Alps on his third round-the-world balloon attempt.

Drifting south toward North Africa to pick up the jet stream that will hopefully
sweep him  across Asia, Piccard, 41, was chasing his former partner and now
rival Andy Elson, whose balloon  was floating toward Myanmar on Monday.

Elson and Colin Prescot, who departed from Spain Feb. 17, crossed the Bay of
Bengal at an  altitude of 9,700 feet Monday. They hoped to drift across Thailand
and Vietnam before rising to  rejoin the jet stream in the evening.

Saturday, Elson broke the endurance record he set last year with Piccard of 233
hours and 55  minutes in the air.

But Piccard's Breitling Orbiter has permission to fly over southern China, which
the Cable and  Wireless team had to avoid. This will enable the Orbiter to pick
up fast winds to speed it over the  Pacific Ocean to California.  Violence
continues in Indonesia

AMBON, Indonesia - A Christian mob attacked a mosque and burned a dozen
Muslim-owned houses  Monday on an Indonesian island, while a new military force
was set up in the nation's capital to  suppress riots.

Troops fatally shot at least four Muslims in Ambon, the capital of Maluku
province, a city  officials said.

More than 150 people have been killed this year in fighting in and around Ambon,
on an island  1,400 miles east of Jakarta. The riots have mainly been between
Muslim and Christian gangs, but  ethnic and economic factors are also behind the
unrest.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF NEWS OF THE WORLD

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 6, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CO2-induced warming is on;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 223 words


There is little doubt on the part of 99 percent of scientists worldwide, and I
am one of them,  that the heat from carbon dioxide-induced greenhouse warming is
on. PBS just aired a program on the  melt-down of the western Antarctic ice
sheet, which could wreak havoc to our coastlines, especially  here in Florida.

There are and will be an increasing number of extreme climatic events which
unfortunately will  descend upon our state. They are related to the ever-so-
slight increase in average global temperatures. National Geographic's issue of
last May clearly  states that the average temperature in the month of July for
the Deep South will soon be 100  degrees Fahrenheit!

The average citizen must become educated on this topic. Our elected
representatives are most  responsible for informing us on these issues.

Carbon dioxide emissions from the combustion of coal to produce electricity in
Jacksonville,  Gainesville, Orlando and Tampa contribute a significant portion
of the 150 million tons of CO2 we  emit nationally. Recently a cement plant
owned by Florida Rock was blocked by the Alachua County  Commission from burning
coal and tires to produce electricity. This, we hope will ignite a  statewide
trend.  - TOM V. CUNILIO  St. Leo  The writer is with the Center of Sustainable
Agroforestry Inc.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      March 8, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Plane contrails;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words


The wispy trails of condensation left in the wake of high-flying airplanes have
a larger impact  on the atmosphere than once believed, according to a report
from the World Watch Institute in  Washington, D.C. Researchers studying
satellite data tracked jet contrails as they expanded over  thousands of square
miles. Rather than dissipating, the contrails evolved into cirrus clouds, the
same clouds that trap heat in the upper atmosphere.

One study by a research team at the University of Colorado tracked a single
contrail that spread  4,000 square miles over six hours. With more than 62
million commercial and military flights in the  United States alone each year,
NASA scientists believe the problem has led to a 5 percent increase  in
cloudiness since the 1960s. The agency plans to include jet contrails in new
climate studies.

Lights from sand: Scientists are working on a way to make fluorescent lights
from beach sand. A  class of chemicals that is virtually identical to sand may
one day be the basis not only for more  environmentally friendly lights in homes
and offices, but televisions and computer laptop displays.

Chemists from the University of California in San Diego found that these
so-called  photoluminescent silicates are easy to make and glow for as long as
it takes grains of sand to  degrade. They also are cheaper than conventional
phosphor materials used in today's fluorescent  lights and tubes, according to
the Science Coalition in Washington, D.C.

Living Sea: Explore the colors and critters of the deepest oceans in the new
Imax film "The  Living Sea," which continues through September at the Museum of
Science & Industry, 4801 E. Fowler  Ave., Tampa. The film takes the raw beauty
of the world's marine environment as its theme, and  includes spectacular
footage from Palau, a string of islands in the Central Pacific.

"We've crafted a movie that is not overbearing and critical of man's use of the
ocean," notes  director Greg MacGillivray. "I believe the message is more
powerfully felt when the audience can  draw its own conclusions about how
fragile the global system is, and how we must protect it." The  museum has
planned related science activities for children. For details call (813)
987-6300.

Hearing loss: One reason older people detest rock music is because it sounds too
loud, according  to a new study by researchers at Ohio University. The study
included 10 students ages 18 to 21 and  10 faculty members ages 51 to 58. All
listened to the Led Zepellin song "Heartbreaker" and were asked  to judge the
music's volume.

"Those subjects over 50 years old perceived the music as being louder than did
the subjects who  were in the younger group," the researchers note in the
journal Perceptual and Motor Skills.  "Possible changes in their hearing might
have caused them to perceive the music in a different  manner than the young
subjects."

The researchers believe older people can develop a condition known as
presbycusis - an inability  to hear high frequencies and certain low
frequencies.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO (C),
 (C) "The Living Sea" includes shots of the diverse marine life found off the
islands of Palau, including these colorful corals.

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Internet access served at cafe;

SECTION: UNIVERSITY/NEW TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 486 words


USF AREA - The Website Cafe, an Internet-themed restaurant and bar, is slated to
open Monday at  2811 E. Fowler Ave., across from University Mall.

The cafe will feature private, high-speed "Internet booths" where patrons can
relax while surfing  the net on 17 state-of-the-art computers, each with a
17-inch color monitor.

The venue will feature eight gaming stations and four virtual reality stations,
said cafe  designer Nick Gallo. The 6,800-square-foot facility will seat 250
people.

Website Cafe will offer a full menu of soups, salads and sandwiches, plus a wide
array of  desserts and specialty coffees. It'll have a full liquor bar, Gallo
said, and live entertainment on  weekends.

The decor centers around a "worldwide" motif, Gallo said, with images and
scenery from around the  globe. Website Cafe also has restaurants in Germany and
Canada, he said.

For more information, call the Website Cafe at (813) 903-8844, or check out the
cafe's Web site  at wwww.vrcafe.com  SouthTrust plans branch near USF

SouthTrust Bank wants to build a branch location on Bruce B. Downs Boulevard,
across the street  from the University of South Florida campus.

The Birmingham, Ala.-based bank has applied for a zoning change of 1.6 acres on
Bruce B. Downs  at 29th Street and 132nd Avenue, just south of Fletcher Avenue.

The bank is allowed under the current zoning, but the company wants an
additional access on  132nd Avenue, SouthTrust executive vice president Jed
Wilkinson said.

The request is necessary "to allow the development of this project as a bank
with five  drive-through windows," said the zoning request filed by attorneys
David M. Mechanik and T. Truett  Gardner on behalf of SouthTrust.

If approved, Wilkinson said the bank is expected to open at the end of the year
or early 2000.

Wilkinson said the banking institution, which is expanding in Hillsborough
County, has  "identified the key area we are not currently serving. The
University area is No. 1."

The Hillsborough County Commission will consider the request at 1:30 p.m. April
13 at the County  Center, 601 E. Kennedy Blvd.  Storage going in near Bearss

A Jacksonville-based company is building a mini-storage facility on Bearss
Avenue, within a mile  area on Bearss Avenue.

Site preparation began recently for the creation of Best Way Self Storage at
12th Street and  Bearss Avenue.

Frazer Tremblay, owner of Best Way, said he hopes to complete construction in
June. The Bearss  project is the company's first mini-storage venture in
Florida; its other facilities are in  California.

The facility will house a two-story building and several single story
structures, Tremblay said.  The buildings will be climate-controlled and each
door will have its own security system.

Storage units will range from 5-by-5 feet to 20-by-30 feet. Rental fees have not
been  determined, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: WHAT'S DEVELOPING

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 23, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Choice rally raps abortion proposals;

BYLINE: MICHELLE PELLEMANS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words


TALLAHASSEE - Legislative efforts to curb abortion create a climate that breeds
violence, a  priest claims.

Though it's often used to argue the antiabortion side of the debate, religion -
and the moral  dilemma of abortion - united in favor of a woman's choice on the
steps of the Old Capitol Monday.

The Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice, a 26-year-old group of more
than 40 national  organizations from 15 denominations, went on the offensive
against pending abortion bills in the  Florida Legislature.

"We are here because we see our religious liberty being threatened by people who
erroneously  purport to speak on behalf of religious Americans," said the Rev.
Katherine Hancock Ragsdale, an  Episcopal priest and chairwoman of the
Washington-based group. "And we are here because we see the  lives of young
women being endangered, and so we must speak out."

Asserting that most religious Americans favor some form of abortion rights,
Ragsdale and  coalition member Nan Rich, former National Council of Jewish Women
president, said the abortion  issue "has become a violence issue."

Since 1993, Florida has seen a number of attacks against abortion providers,
most recently the  vandalism last year of abortion clinics in St. Petersburg and
Clearwater.

According to Ragsdale, legislation now under consideration, such as parental
notification if a  minor seeks an abortion and registration of doctors providing
abortions, is "dangerous."

Ragsdale said, "Teens, sometimes for good reasons and sometimes for stupid
reasons, refuse to  talk to their parents. ... And so they find ways to get an
abortion anyway. And too often these  illegal methods spell their death."

She dubbed a bill that would require the licensing of abortion clinics and
doctors "antichoice  harassment."

The group has also targeted the sale of the controversial "Choose Life" vanity
license plates.  Supporters promote the plate as a pro-adoption measure. "Women
making the hard choice for abortion  are choosing life," Ragsdale said.

John Dowless, head of the Christian Coalition of Florida, a Florida group behind
the state's  anti-abortion movement, said that he had never heard of the
Religious Coalition for Reproductive  Choice until Monday.

He warned the group's stance against parental notification and doctor
registration are  extremist. "These are needed changes to the laws in Florida,"
he said.  Michelle Pellemans covers state government and can be reached at (850)
222-8382 or pellemans@nettally.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 The Rev. Katherine Hancock Ragsdale says pending abortion bills in the Florida
Legislature threaten religious liberty and endanger the lives of young women.
COLIN HACKLEY, TRIBUNE photo

NOTES: LEGISLATURE '99

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 27, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Commission divides development into 2 separate zoning districts;

BYLINE: Tom Brennan;

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words


The Hillsborough County Commission approved the following rezoning and land-use
changes Tuesday.

In Apollo Beach:

Separating the Apollo Beach development of regional impact into two separate
zoning districts,  one each for the Apollo Beach and Harbor Bay planned
developments. It also allowed South Shore  Properties Partners Ltd. to rezone
718 acres at the southwest corner of Leisey Road and U.S. 41 to  add 107 acres
to the southern boundary of Harbor Bay. The consolidated project will have 1,750

 residential units, 260,000 square feet of commercial space and 40,000 square
feet of offices.

In Balm:

Extending an existing subdivision east onto 4 acres at the northeast corner of
U.S. 301 and  Estates Del Sol Drive and dividing it into acre lots for
conventional or mobile homes.

In Brandon:

Installing 3 speed humps on Village Place between Climate Drive and Kings
Avenue.

Installing 4 speed humps on Westbrook Avenue between Kingsway Road and Mason
Street.

In Gibsonton:

Installing 3 speed humps on Midway Street between Nundy Street and Gibsonton
Drive.

In Orient Park:

Rezoning 211/2 acres on the northeast corner of U.S. 301 and Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Boulevard  so an existing heavy equipment and tool rental center can
continue to operate and letting the land  owner build a 151,400-square-foot
semi-trailer leasing facility that can also be used for other  intensive
commercial uses.

In Palm River:

Installing 4 speed humps on 76th Street between E. Broadway Avenue and E. 23rd
Avenue.

In Riverview:

Rezoning 6 acres about 300 feet west of U.S. 301 and 50 feet south of
Riverview-Boyette Road,  for the open storage of boats and trailers for an
adjacent boat sales operation.

Granting a special vested rights use permit letting Greenleaf L.L.C. and Copher
Equities  continue to operate a vehicle recycling and used automobile parts
store at 5015 Causeway Blvd.

Rezoning 9 acres at the southeast corner of 90th Street and Palm River Road,
about 300 feet  west of U.S. 301, for a truck rental, leasing, maintenance and
repair facility of 11,584 square  feet.

The commission denied the following rezoning.

In Thonotosassa:

Building an auto parts store on 2 acres on the south side of U.S. 301, about 50
feet west of  Bradley Road.  Tom Brennan covers development and can be reached
at 685-4581 or tbrennan@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ZONING UPDATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      April 2, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Worth the rent Steve Martin;

BYLINE: Bob Ross;

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1520 words


He was born Aug. 14, 1945, in Waco, Texas. His family soon moved to Southern
California, and  Steve Martin caught the show biz bug early.

"At a very young age," he said in a 1991 interview, "I realized I wanted to try
and be funny. I was  probably 5 or 6. I'd watch movies on TV and go to school
and try to imitate what I saw. Only later  did I realize I could create it or be
original with it.

"I've always made a living from it," he added, "from at least age 17 on. I never
had any  non-show-business jobs. My first job was at the Birdcage Theater in
Knott's Berry Farm for $ 2 a  show. But we did four shows a day. That gave me
great training."

In 1968, Martin started writing for the Smothers Brothers television show. He
also wrote a lot  of stand-up material and became a super-successful comedian:
His live tours sold out huge halls and  the titles of his two Grammy-winning
albums became national catchwords: "Let's Get Small" and "A Wild  and Crazy
Guy."

Then he tried making movies, ranging from crowd-pleasing slapstick to literate
satire to daring  experiments. With more than 30 features to his credit in 20
years, Martin remains a reliable name  for film fans: Even his lesser efforts
tend to be worth watching.

Martin's latest romp is a remake of "The Out-of-Towners." (Review, Page 4.) On
the home video  front, our favorites would include:

The Jerk (1979) Fans expected outrageous excess from Martin's first full-length
film, and he did  not not disappoint them. Director Carl Reiner, in the first of
his four Martin movies, made bawdy  sparks fly around Martin's portrayal of an
incredible dimwit who goes from sharecropper's son to  eyeglass-frame
millionaire, with stops along the way as a gas station attendant and carnival
roustabout. The crude humor undoubtedly contributed to the film's popularity.

Pennies From Heaven (1981) Martin boldly followed his first success with this
challenging,  offbeat musical drama. But his fans weren't ready to follow into
such fresh turf, and film  cognoscenti missed the movie because it starred a
common comedian - or so they mistakenly assumed.

Martin plays a down-and-out sheet-music salesman who betrays his wife (Jessica
Harper) and  devastates his new girlfriend (Bernadette Peters). But this
downbeat tale is played out to a lively  1930s score, complete with Busby
Berkeley-type production numbers. Beautifully filmed by Gordon  Willis, the
Depression-era tale includes some startling Edward Hopper images transcribed to
the  screen. A groundbreaking work from director Herbert Ross.

Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid (1982) Martin stars as a '40s detective in this clever
parody-pastiche  from director Reiner. The plot is less important than the
jokes. Conversational clips of golden-era  stars are stitched into a pastiche of
hard-boiled detective-movie cliches. Fantastic editing lets  Martin interact
with bygone stars such as Humphrey Bogart and Alan Ladd, creating new scenes
from  old favorites. A natural for home video enjoyment.

The Man With Two Brains (1983) Martin stars as brilliant surgeon Michael
Hfuhruhurr (the  pronunciation is a running gag), who is stuck in a miserable
marriage to a vicious "scum-queen"  (Kathleen Turner, who makes the movie worth
watching all by herself). The good doctor falls in love  with a detached brain
(don't ask) and tries to find a body for his beloved soul mate to inhabit.
Reiner directed this lowbrow sci-fi spoof, which features a great trivia moment
when we discover  the identity of the "Elevator Killer."

All of Me (1984) Martin proved his physical comic skills with this demanding
performance as a  young lawyer whose body is occupied by the ghost of a
misanthropic millionaire (Lily Tomlin).  Martin and director Reiner received
strong support from Tomlin, Victoria Tennant and Richard  Libertini. The vision
of Martin struggling with himself for control of his own body - in a men's
room, for example - lingers long after the conventional body-switching plot has
passed. A nearly  perfect - and surprisingly romantic - slapstick fantasy.

The Lonely Guy (1984) Martin and Charles Grodin star as fellow losers in the
game of love. When  Martin gets dumped by his girlfriend, Grodin introduces him
to the single life, New York style. We  love this slightly twisted urban comedy,
possibly because it's about a middle-age nerd who has  problems relating to
women. Based on Bruce Jay Friedman's dryly comic manual, "The Lonely Guy's Book

 of Life." The laughs are as subdued as the characters: Check out the party with
cardboard cut-out  guests.

Little Shop of Horrors (1986) Martin took a relatively small role in this daffy
adaptation of  the off-Broadway hit musical, which was loosely based on a
low-budget Roger Corman comedy. It's  about a mean, green alien plant species
that devours humans. Martin's short but memorable  appearance as a sadistic
biker-dentist is a highlight.

Three Amigos! (1986) Three unemployed silent film actors go to Mexico. They
think they're making  a promotional appearance. The townsfolk expect them to
fight off vicious bandits. There are some  laughs here, but not as many as you'd
expect from Martin, Chevy Chase and Martin Short.

Roxanne (1987) Martin came into his own as a creative force by writing and
starring in this  intelligent update of Edmund Rostand's classic "Cyrano." Daryl
Hannah, in the title role, plays the  stargazing sweetheart who is blissfully
unaware that her boyfriend's love poems were actually  penned by a
self-conscious, long-nosed fire chief (Martin in a performance that won him rave

 reviews and a couple of acting prizes).

Planes, Trains and Automobiles (1987) The inspired pairing of Martin with John
Candy gave us  this hilariously ill-fated road trip, which careens to a
surprisingly poignant ending. Director  John Hughes, best known for teen
comedies, charmed us with the grown-up comedy. Martin plays a  put-upon
businessman, desperate to get home for the holidays, who finds himself saddled
with the  most boorish, graceless and ultimately pathetic traveling companion
since the ancient mariner met  the albatross.

Dirty Rotten Scoundrels (1988) Seldom does a remake improve on an original, but
this update of  1964's "Bedtime Story" does the trick. In a slick, smooth slide
along the gorgeous Riviera, Michael  Caine stars as a Continental con man who
hates competition, especially the American upstart  (Martin) who plans to move
in on his woman-chasing territory. The two become uneasy partners in  crime,
while Glenne Headly provides the last laugh in this charming romp from director
Frank Oz.

Parenthood (1989) Director Ron Howard ("EDtv") helped write this pleasingly
scattered ensemble  piece about the comic aspects of child-rearing. Martin leads
the pack, which features Mary  Steenburgen, Dianne Wiest, Jason Robards, Rick
Moranis, Tom Hulce, Martha Plimpton and Keanu  Reeves. One of the finer examples
of humor based on real life.

Father of the Bride (1991) Martin plays the Spencer Tracy role in this update of
the 1950 comedy  about a protective dad who can't bear to lose his daughter to
another man, even if he is her  fiance. Plenty of physical comedy keeps the
predictable plot moving. The 1995 sequel ("Father of the  Bride Part II," based
on 1951's "Father's Little Dividend") adds a modern complication: Not only is
Daddy's darling daughter in a family way, but so is his own wife (Diane Keaton).
This gives the  nervous guy twice as much reason to act foolish, and he does.

L.A. Story (1991) Martin stars as a disgruntled TV weatherman who hates his
hometown's  predictable climate as well as its phony, trend-following upscale
populace. Martin wrote the  script, which is packed with pithy put-downs of
Angeleno chic: We love the snooty, stainless steel  restaurant named L'Idiot.
Excellent cast includes Victoria Tennant, Richard E. Grant, Marilu  Henner,
Sarah Jessica Parker (hilarious as a voluptuous free spirit) and Patrick
Stewart. In the  end, it's an adorably inventive romantic comedy.

Leap of Faith (1992) Martin plays a cynical traveling evangelist whose assistant
(Debra Winger)  helps him pass off petty scams as minor miracles. Both these con
artists start to have a change of  heart when they are stuck among the sincere
folks of a small farm community. Liam Neeson, Lolita  Davidovich and Lukas Haas
play the villagers who help adjust their visitors' selfishness. Well made  drama
with light but not frivolous touch.

The Spanish Prisoner A con-game conundrum forms the shadowy center of this dry,
droll stumper  from filmmaker David Mamet, a master of dialogue who can create
an illusion of suspense without  revealing much information. The less you know
ahead of time, the more intrigued you'll be.

Campbell Scott portrays an ultra-cautious inventor whose smirking boss (Ben
Gazzara) flies him  to a fictional Caribbean island for an important meeting
with potential investors.

Martin is amazing as a smug millionaire type with unclear motivations.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO (2C),
 (2C) Above: Martin goes on an ill-fated road trip in "Planes, Trains and
Automobiles." Right: Martin is a con man in "Dirty Rotten Scoundrels." Tribune
file photos

NOTES: WORTH THE RENT VIDEO

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 11, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Sightseeing, fine dining and sports lure visitors;

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 890 words


How to get there: By air, the best bet is via St. Martin, just a 10-minute hop
in the  20-passenger planes of Air Guadeloupe, Air St. Barthelemy or Windward
Islands Airway.

Round-trip air fares run $ 93. American Airlines offers daily flights from San
Juan to St.  Martin. Tiny Gustave II Airport is not equipped for night arrivals.
Daily ferryboat service is also  between Marigot and Gustavia on the Voyager for
about $ 50 plus tax round-trip.

How to get around: Vehicles are available from major car rental companies at the
airport of  Gustavia at rates of $ 350 a week in winter. Rates fall in summer.
Advance reservations are advised  in winter.

Wheels are a must unless you plan to camp out at your hotel or don't mind
hitching rides (an  unacceptable practice on St. Barts).

Taxi service is available but pricey. There is no public transportation.

Where to stay: Maybe it was the island's Swedish connections that brought Greta
Garbo to visit  in the 1950s. She stayed at the Eden Rock, which still reigns
above St. Jean Bay from its regal,  rocky perch. Its 13 double rooms cost from $
275; its suites from $ 780. Its cozy bar with  wrap-around vistas is a great
place for a meal or drinks.

The Carl Gustave Hotel, high above Gustavia, boasts fine cuisine and glorious
views of the  harbor. Suites range from $ 730 to $ 1,330 in winter. Drinks and
dinner are a must here for early  evening panoramas of the storybook harbor.

The beachside Hotel Guanahani resort has lovely amenities and 76 rooms, which
begin at $ 400.  Village Saint-Jean has studios and chalets with kitchenettes
from about $ 150. Jardins de St. Jean  has double rooms and cottages that range
from about $ 150 to $ 350. Manior de Saint-Barthelemy also  in Lorient is a
seven-room guest house with kitchens from $ 75 for a single to $ 140 for a
double.

Other small, reasonably priced inns include Islets Fleuris, Normandie and Les
Mouettes, all in  Lorient. All prices quoted are for the winter high season. Low
season begins April 16 through Dec.  14 when hotel prices can drop from 30
percent to 40 percent. Check with your travel agent about  low-season packages
that can include bonuses such as meals, a car and airport transfers. Some
hotels close in September and October.

Renting a place of your own: Villas, beach houses and apartments are available
by the week or  month and make great economic sense, especially for families or
other groups of people. Sibarth/  Wimco lists several hundred properties ranging
from $ 1,300 to $ 10,000 for one week in winter.  Prices drop in spring, summer
and fall from 25 percent to 45 percent. Call the company in the  United States
at 1-800-932-3222.

Where to eat: Le Rivage near St. Barth Beach Hotel has an array of tempting
dishes including  fresh lobster and hot goat cheese salad plus Creole
specialties. Inexpensive.

La Marine, waterside in Gustavia, boasts sweeping harbor views and trade winds
in addition to  fine seafood and chicken dishes, pizza, burgers and salads.
Thursday is fresh mussels day. Lunch is  moderate, dinner is moderate to
expensive.

Le Repaire on Quai de la Republique is a popular brasserie specializing in
chicken,  bouillabaisse and fresh lobster. Moderately priced.

People watchers love Bar de l'Oubli and Le Select, both downtown. Also in
Gustavia are  Cheeseburger in Paradise, La Creperie and La Saladerie, all
reasonably priced.

Vincent Adam, in the hills above St. Jean, features great food in a magical
setting. Try the  tartare of mahi-mahi or lobster tabouli. Three courses are
about $ 40. Dinner only and reservations  are a must.

Francois Plantation, a small 12-bungalow hotel, in its own lush gardens in the
hills of  Colombier, serves excellent dinners in a superb terraced dining room.
Expensive.

Water sports: Surfboarding, water skiing, scuba diving, snorkeling and deep sea
fishing are  big in St. Barts. Equipment rentals are available at hotels and
water sport centers. The island  also hosts major trans-Atlantic racing events.

Climate: Average temperatures range from 72 to 86 degrees. Coolest months are
December through  February; the hottest, July through September.

What to bring: Cotton, linen and other natural fabric resort wear are suggested
along with  sunglasses, a hat and UV skin cream for sun protection. Insect
repellent also is a good idea.

Currency: The French franc is the official currency, but U.S. dollars are
accepted most  everywhere. Most hotels, restaurants and other businesses honor
credit cards and travelers' checks,  but not personal checks.

Shopping: Gustavia retains its free-port status with good buys on clothes,
crystal, tobacco,  jewelry, perfume, cameras, wine, leather goods and more.
Locally made items include woven hats and  baskets, sandals and beauty products.
Other shopping areas are in St. Jean and at La Savane.

Other activities: Helicopter excursions, horseback riding and tennis are popular
things to do  on the island. Sightseeing tours by minibus can be arranged
through the Tourism Office on Quai  General de Gaulle or at Saint Barth Voyages
and Agence Charles Greaux, among others.

To find out more: Contact the French government Tourist Office, 444 Madison
Ave., New York NY  10022, or call (202) 659-7779.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 The cafes, shops and other businesses nestled around the waterfront in the St.
Bart town of Gustavia are made for exploring on foot. Photo from Suzanne
Murphy-Larronde

NOTES: SPECIAL SECTION ON THE CARIBBEAN

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 18, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

How "Yankee strangers' lured newcomers to Florida;
After the Civil War, transplanted Northerners encouraged migration in an effort
to moderate the;
state's attitudes.;

BYLINE: LELAND HAWES, of The Tampa Tribune ;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1268 words


Harriet Beecher Stowe is well-remembered as the author of "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
the novel that  helped marshal sentiment against slavery before the Civil War.

But a new book credits Stowe and a core of relatives and transplanted
Northerners with bringing  about significant changes in Florida after the war.

John T. Foster Jr. and his wife, Sarah Whitmer Foster, collaborated in writing
"Beechers, Stowes  and Yankee Strangers: The Transformation of Florida,"
recently published by University Press of  Florida.

The couple - he a professor of anthropology and she a professor of sociology and
anthropology -  developed their account over 15 years. It began with an 1866
pocket diary found in an inherited  ebony table.

The diary was that of a Methodist minister, John Swaim, drawn to Florida by
religious and  altruistic motives, hopeful he could make a difference in the
lives of liberated slaves.

As the Fosters followed up references to Swaim's writings, they discovered his
articles printed  in Northern publications took an unexpected twist.

Instead of dealing with religious topics, Swaim essentially made "chamber of
commerce" pitches  urging readers to come to Florida. Of course, the
abolitionist pastor had his reasons for wanting  more Northerners in the state.

SO DID HARRIET Beecher Stowe, who came to the Jacksonville area from Hartford,
Conn., in 1867.  Her articles in Northern publications helped start a tide of
tourism that made the St. Johns River  a focal point for visitors.

Stowe's writing about her orange grove at Mandarin, south of Jacksonville, was
credited with  spurring the spread of citrus-growing in northeast Florida.

Of course, Stowe and the other "Yankee strangers" made no secret of their hopes
to moderate the  traditional Southern conservatism that remained from the
Confederacy. They wanted to assist blacks  in their new roles as freed men and
women.

As early as the fall of 1862, with the war in full sway, a young teacher from
Syracuse, N.Y.,  Chloe Merrick, had volunteered with the National Freedmen's
Relief Association to teach on the  South Carolina coastal islands occupied by
Federal troops.

She soon came to Fernandina, also under Union control, to teach and to start an
orphanage for  black children. A federal tax commissioner, Harrison Reed, aided
her in buying a three-story house  for the orphanage.

Little did Merrick know then that Reed would become her husband - and a
Reconstruction governor  of Florida.

Meanwhile, "a prominent Methodist Episcopal minister" from New Jersey, John
Swaim stopped in  Fernandina in July 1864 en route to a chaplaincy in
Jacksonville.

In Jacksonville, he would meet Col. James C. Beecher, a brother of Beecher
Stowe. Col. Beecher  had organized a regiment of former slaves in New Bern,
N.C., and had accompanied the troops to  Florida.

With a theology degree himself, Col. Beecher would preach as a fill-in for Swaim
on occasion.

Swaim, in poor health, had acquired a house large enough to bring in boarders.
The house proved  to be the way Swaim came to know Harrison Reed, Chloe Merrick
and her brother-in-law, Ansel Kinne.

In an interview, John Foster compared the cast of characters in the book to
"passengers on a  railroad club car, arriving at different times - unlikely
people who got together" in Florida.

Swaim was developing a vision of postwar Florida that would prove influential.

AS EXPLAINED by the authors, the minister decided, "If the rate of immigration
to the South could  be considerably hastened, then a very different South could
be created in Florida."

They add: "Swaim's plan required an influx of Yankee residents from which to
recruit permanent  residents. ... With the addition of new Yankee residents and
enfranchised blacks, Florida could be  controlled democratically."

His idea was to out-vote traditional Southerners.

Swaim started writing letters to the Newark (N.J.) Sentinel of Freedom. He
suggested newcomers  could grow cotton, sugar, oranges, lemons, bananas,
pineapples and "early garden vegetables" in the  St. Johns River area.

One of Beecher Stowe's sons, Frederick, had joined a cousin in renting a cotton
plantation south  of Jacksonville.

His presence brought a visit from his mother and an uncle, Charles Beecher, in
March 1867.  Impressed with the countryside, Beecher Stowe bought land at
Mandarin and "became aware of John  Swaim's vision."

Soon she was writing: "We are very anxious for New England men to come among
us." And she followed  with articles on "the state's climate and beauty as well
as its economic attractiveness."

The pitch for tourists began paying off by January 1869, when the St. James
Hotel opened in  Jacksonville. Other hostelries would follow. Bay Street was
attracting visitors from "all over the  world."

A Republican congressman even described Jacksonville as "an enterprising Yankee
town in the  South."

In 1868, after considerable maneuvering among Reconstruction politicians,
Harrison Reed became  governor and Republicans gained heavy majorities in both
houses of the state Legislature.

A new state constitution created a new cabinet position - commissioner of
immigration. Gov. Reed  appointed a New Englander, J.S. Adams, to the position.
State pamphlets pushed Florida's appeal to  newcomers.

In 1869, the widower governor married Chloe Merrick, the dedicated teacher.
According to the  authors, Beecher Stowe met Chloe Merrick Reed sometime in 1870
when "the author came to Chloe's  assistance."

A key state office - superintendent of public instruction - stood vacant. And
the governor's wife  still was keenly interested in education.

Beecher Stowe's brother, Charles Beecher, who had returned to Florida to live at
Newport, became  the new superintendent. He would work with Chloe Merrick Reed
to shape public education in Florida,  the historians relate.

BEECHER HAD TO start from scratch, appointing local school boards. There were
"shortages of every  kind" - few buildings, textbooks or supplies.

Schools had increased from 250 to 444, and students from 7,500 to 16,258, by
September 1872.

Beecher began efforts that led to the formation of Cookman Institute, a college
for blacks.  Florida's literacy rate would lead the South within a few years.

Another Beecher brother, Henry Ward Beecher, bought a New York newspaper that he
renamed the  Christian Union. It provided another outlet for Beecher Stowe's
analytical articles on Florida.

She discussed everything from the need for fertilizer in Florida soils to the
hardships that  would be faced by settlers in a raw countryside. But basically,
Stowe painted a favorable picture  of life in Florida.

Her articles were compiled in a book, "Palmetto Leaves," that further spread the
Florida story.

After leaving the governorship, Harrison Reed edited a new magazine, The
Semi-Tropical, which  used more articles from Stowe and her brother, Charles.
Complimentary copies drew comments in  Northern newspapers.

Stowe also wrote Florida features for the Atlantic Monthly magazine and the
National Review.

Former President Ulysses S. Grant further focused attention on Florida when he
toured the St.  Johns on a steamer, going as far as Sanford.

The authors make a case that the "Yankee strangers" laid the groundwork for
Florida's advancement  well before the advent of railroad developers Henry
Flagler and Henry Plant.

"Beechers, Stowes, and Yankee Strangers: The Transformation of Florida" is
available in bookstores  for $ 24.95.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3,
 Stowe family members were pictured on the veranda at their home in Mandarin.
Note the roof running around the oak tree.  Photo from Florida State
Photographic Archives

NOTES: HISTORY & HERITAGE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 29, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Pastor opposes bar show;

BYLINE: BILL THOMPSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words


DADE CITY - A bar owner and a preacher don't see eye-to-eye on a dance show,
while a county  commissioner tries to figure out what's at stake.

Picture this:

A crowded, dimly lit bar; taut, muscular bodies writhing in rhythm to the tribal
BOMP BOMP BOMP  of a disco-dance beat; those same torsos glistening with sweat,
beads of which also pop out  profusely on the foreheads of patrons, eagerly
waiting to stuff portraits of dead presidents into  lingerie that looks rather
like the eye patch on an Oakland Raiders helmet.

Yes, watching a troupe of gyrating, bikini-clad dancers seems like fun to some.
To others, like  erstwhile Tampa City Council candidate Joe Redner, it's a
business.

It's neither to Ken Woodard.

He thinks such a display: is immoral, even if the dancers are only semi-nude;
affects patrons  and even those who don't attend because it encourages drinking
and driving and a host of other  corruptive activities; and detracts from the
aesthetic value of the city.

"A semi-nude review doesn't improve the image of Dade City as a
country-but-sophisticated village  that's a good place for your family," Woodard
said. "There's nothing profitable for our community, or  in harmony with
building a good image."

For the past 13 years, Woodard has been pastor of the 100-member Temple Baptist
Church on  Clinton Avenue, and for the past few months he's noticed that the
Happy Days bar on U.S. 301 South  in Dade City has sponsored such dance shows.

And while Happy Days has trumpeted male - yes, male - dancers, Woodard says that
makes no  difference to him. It's embarrassing, he said, when one of his four
young children asks what  "Chippendale" means.

Come Friday, however, Happy Days promises the return of a "Chippendale-type"
review, as bar owner  Roy Randall calls it. His only other show two months ago
attracted roughly 125 women.

He expects the four hoofers from Orlando-based World Class Male to draw about
the same number  this time.

Still, Randall said, this show will be the last for awhile because he's not
looking to ruffle  feathers in the community.

Most likely, Happy Days will feature male dancers about every six months, just
to offer people -  women, because no men are allowed in during the shows - a
change of pace from the usual  stop-and-drink, said Randall, who in February
1998 took over what was once Brockzy's and later  Flowers Cocktails and Grill.

That Randall, a semi-retired engineer who spent 18 years working on offshore
oil-drilling rigs  for a Houston company, takes a different view than Woodard is
no big surprise. Randall thinks the  shows are a good time, good business and
good for Dade City.

The women the shows attract, Randall said, enjoy themselves and may spur the
local economy by  buying new clothes, gas, cigarettes or dinner at a local
restaurant as part of their night out.

As for what the dancers do on stage: "They put on a good show without going over
the line. I  think it's done in good taste," Randall said.

What's striking between Woodard and Randall is how they perceive the way such
exhibitions affect  the women who view them.

Woodard believes having male dancers instead of women is more damaging to
traditional values  because "women tend to set the moral climate in an area."

Randall, however, calls it "just a good time for the girls."

THEIR OPPOSITE VIEWS aside, the future of such shows is in doubt.

Pasco County Attorney Karla Owens said she's preparing a new ordinance
addressing exotic dancing  - specifically which areas of the body it would be
illegal to expose - and sex shops. She said she  hopes to have it ready for the
commissioners in May.

Pasco's land development code says any bar that features dancers who don't cover
sex organs,  buttocks and breasts, or that advertises with such words as
"topless" or "adult," qualifies as an "adult  entertainment business."

Such establishments are restricted to areas more than 1,000 feet from churches,
parks, schools  and other adult businesses.

Owens said deciding whether dancers like those who appear at Happy Days would
violate that  ordinance is up to county Zoning Administrator Fred Lowndes.

Lowndes is also the person to whom Commissioner Sylvia Young, in whose district
Happy Days sits,  directs any questions or complaints about the show.

Lowndes couldn't be reached to talk about it.

Young declined to comment on the situation, saying she would deal with it when
the revamped  ordinance comes before the commission. But, she added, if there's
a code violation at Happy Days on  Friday, county officials will deal with it.

"I don't even know what a Chippendale is," said Young.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 23, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

USS Forrestal;
Tampa can look to other cities for lessons as it considers a plan to bring an
aircraft carrier;
to downtown.;

BYLINE: MICHAEL FECHTER, GEORGE CORYELL and JACQUELINE SOTEROPOULOS, of The
Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2836 words


They knew an aircraft carrier museum would work in Tampa.

Such a museum would save a piece of naval history, create an irresistible
tourist magnet and  energize the waterfront.

It would be Shangri-La.

More specifically, it would be the USS Shangri-La, a World War II-era carrier.

The cost to taxpayers? Nil. Backers would finance it with private bonds
supported by ticket  sales; consultants predicted more than a million visitors a
year.

The year was 1985. The proposal sank like a lead canoe.

A July 1985 editorial in The Tampa Tribune called the proposed USS Shangri-La
Sea, Air, Space  museum "a screwball idea," and questioned who would come see
it. "Our periscope sees a 44,000-ton,  900-foot-long, 150-foot-  wide white
elephant."

Fourteen years later, Jack Martin still believes, but this year his ship is the
USS Forrestal,  the nation's first "super carrier" and named for the first
secretary of defense, James V. Forrestal.

Martin hopes six months from now to have custody of the Forrestal. He and fellow
organizers want  to bring the 12-story ship to Ybor Channel as a museum.

On Wednesday, the Forrestal group makes a presentation to the U.S. Navy. That
meeting triggers a  six-month clock for other interested communities to submit
their bids.

It will take an act of Congress and a lot of money to make Tampa the Forrestal's
home, perhaps  early next year. Supporters say none of that cost will be borne
by the taxpayers.

Martin's building support. Mayor Dick Greco is on board, as are several
prominent area  businessmen. And so is the Tribune editorial board, led by Edwin
A. Roberts Jr, who has written  extensively about the ship.

That's not all. The Tribune has given the Forrestal group $ 15,000 worth of free
advertising as  well as a cash donation of $ 1,000.

While the Tribune's involvement has raised some eyebrows, it also has created a
reluctance to  question the Forrestal project, which some say, privately, that
they don't think will work. They  cite over-hyped expectations, inflated
consultant reports, and subsequent public debt with the  Florida Aquarium, the
Tampa Convention Center and other recent major civic projects as reasons for
skepticism.

Even Greco's support is qualified. The mayor says he backs the boat as long as
no public money  is involved.

And Florida Aquarium Director Jeff Swanagan offers a word of caution: "When we
look ahead we make  a conscious effort to use more conservative numbers than
what consultants give us," he said. "I'm not  saying inflate the costs as a
planner, ... I'm saying know them very, very well." The experience of  other
cities with carrier exhibits offers some evidence of the pitfalls Swanagan is
talking about.

The record is, at best, mixed.

? The USS Lexington has been a major tourist draw since it opened in 1992 near
the Texas State  Aquarium in Corpus Christi.

? In New York City, the oldest of the privately run carrier museums has been
bailed out of  bankruptcy by a billionaire benefactor. The Intrepid had secured
millions in government money, but  nonetheless was in debt for the first 14 of
its 16 years.

? The USS Hornet in Alameda, Calif., is struggling in its first year. Officials
underestimated  renovation costs and overestimated revenue, said spokeswoman
Patrizzia Griffin.

? The USS Yorktown in Charleston, S.C., is exhibited at Patriots Point, a
state-owned tourist  attraction, and last year a legislative audit found the
ship in critical need of renovation, but  without the money or manpower to carry
it out. For years, the complex has barely broken even - but  only by ignoring
expensive maintenance on the ships, the auditors said.

The park operators dispute the audit findings.

"Really, the ships weren't in as bad shape as the legislative audit said we
were," said Patriots  Point spokeswoman Angela Thomas.

Most of the work was needed on the attraction's vintage submarine, Thomas said.
The Yorktown  required a new paint job, which has since been completed.

Patriots Point is owned by the state but independently operates financially off
ticket revenue,  vending and an on-site golf course.

Maintenance delays cited in the audit, she said, were caused by the lengthy
procurement process  required because the tourist site is an arm of the state
government.

The Yorktown's annual operating budget is about $ 4 million, she said. Much of
that is consumed  by costly maintenance. No state money is used, and Patriots
Point is self-supporting.

In addition to admission fees, vendors and the golf course, the site benefits
from being able to  lease property parcels to private developers, Thomas said.

The Yorktown and three other World War II ships at Patriots Point need $ 4.1
million in  back-logged repairs - the deterioration a possible hazard to both
visitors and employees.

A World War II-vintage ship, the Yorktown has a storied history, which is part
of its appeal.  The Yorktown earned 11 battle stars in the Pacific and later was
an anti-submarine carrier in  Vietnam. The Yorktown also recovered the crew of
Apollo 8, the first manned spacecraft to orbit the  moon.

The Intrepid also boasts of a dramatic 30-year record. Targeted by Japanese
torpedoes and  kamikaze pilots in World War II, it was part of the blockade
during the Cuban Missile Crisis, and  it was NASA's prime recovery ship in the
1960s.

The Forrestal is a newer, larger carrier. It does not have a similar combat
record. It was a  Cold War creation, best known for tragedy when, on July 19,
1967, a devastating fire broke out on  deck that claimed 134 lives.

Now, the giant Forrestal is not the carrier it once was. Significant portions of
the ship's  machinery are missing, and the interior has been left largely
untended since the carrier was  decommissioned in 1993. The ship's new owners
will have to address potential problems with PCBs and  asbestos before it can go
on public display.

Although it was retired in the midst of an overhaul, six years of hot summer sun
and cold  northern winters have caused the mighty steel ship to expand and
contract, leaving most of the  interior lead paint curled and flaking off walls
and ceilings.

Inside the cavernous hangar bay, white paint flakes cover the floor like a
dusting of snow,  crunching under foot.

Before the Forrestal was towed last summer from Philadelphia to its current
berthing in Newport,  R.I., its hull was given a cosmetic coat of gray paint.
But areas of the ship not visible from  shore are pitted and rusting.

The Forrestal group budgeted $ 12 million to fix up the carrier, outfit it with
displays and  repair the Tampa Port Authority dock the group wants to lease.

A CORE GROUP of energetic volunteers buoys the Forrestal effort. But they have
had trouble  translating that enthusiasm into money. Less than $ 200,000 came in
through the beginning of the  month, including a $ 100,000 from Outback
Steakhouse.

While private fundraising for the ship crawls along, the group awaits word from
underwriters  about a desired $ 12 million in private bonds backed by projected
museum revenue to pay for ship and  dock repairs and exhibits.

Consultants hired by the Forrestal group say the ship should make enough money
to pay for  itself, but their reports are not being made public.

The carrier would float into a tourist market that may be stretched thin. As the
aquarium moves  toward self-sufficiency, some wonder if the Forrestal might draw
customers away. A second naval  attraction, the American Victory Ship, already
has title and a lease with the city to serve as a  floating museum attraction
adjacent to the aquarium.

The Forrestal group has spent the past 10 months building its support, with an
advisory board  featuring local businessmen and a host of retired naval
officers.

There's Greco, and U.S. Rep. Jim Davis, D-Tampa, wrote an endorsement letter.
This has been  declared Forrestal Week by the Hillsborough County Commission and
Tampa City Council.

It's a good idea, if the optimistic expectations are rooted in reality, port
director George  Williamson said. Greco agrees, but only if it doesn't cost the
city any money.

Martin, a businessman and interim executive director of the Forrestal group, is
certain the  project will succeed. If it does, Tampa will "end up with an icon."

Bond specialist Charles Sands of Ormond Beach's Kosan Associates said the
high-end projection of  550,000 annual visitors provides more than enough money
to pay the debt and expand the ship's  exhibits. The mid-range projection,
450,000 visitors, also covers projected costs.

The break-even point, Martin said, is about 375,000 visitors.

But Sands' projection doesn't match that floated by Martin in October when he
used a 1985 study  for the Shangri-La to say he anticipated 1.1 million annual
visitors. That's conservative, the  proposals said, because the area has grown
since 1985.

Keeping ticket prices affordable is a priority, Forrestal organizers say.

For area residents, adult admission is projected at $ 8 and area kids get in for
$ 2.50. Tourists  would pay about $ 2 more.

Those ticket sales, however, won't come if the dock repair can't be done in the
six months  projected by the Forrestal group. Port officials are skeptical that
can happen in time and want  assurance the ship could be taken away if the
venture fails.

Plus, there's already a tenant in the slip the Forrestal group covets.

International Ship Repair & Marine Services signed a two-year lease for the site
in February;  100 jobs could be lost if the Forrestal displaces it. Martin wants
the port to give the repair  company six months to vacate, as specified in its
lease, if Congress gives the Forrestal to Tampa.

Williams sees no reason to break the Ship Repair lease.

While the work at Ship Repair isn't pretty, the company generates $ 350,000 in
rent, Williamson  said. "It's real important to the community."

If the Forrestal group wins custody of the ship, it may have to wait until
Williamson and  International Ship find a suitable place to move and build
what's needed.

AS A CARRIER EXHIBIT, the supercarrier Forrestal will dwarf its competitors. But
one museum  official said a ship's history counts for much as well, and on that
score the Cold War vessel may  have trouble.

"The Forrestal has a slightly tougher row to hoe," said Intrepid curator Jerry
A. Roberts. The  ship didn't serve in World War II, and "people don't care that
much about Vietnam."

Of all the carrier museums, only the Lexington, which has an extensive World War
II history, can  be considered a thriving attraction.

Nicknamed the "Blue Ghost" because of repeated false reports by the Japanese
that it had been  sunk, the Lexington had a legendary reputation during the war,
surviving both torpedo attacks and a  kamikaze strike.

And now it thrives as a museum in a Texas beach town. The Lexington is a case
study in making a  carrier museum work.

The Lexington exhibit is in a Sun Belt climate similar to Tampa's, and, like the
Forrestal, the  ship is located next to a large aquarium. But the town is
smaller and more isolated than West  Central Florida's international tourist
environment.

"Our disadvantage is Corpus is not easy to get to," said F.W. "Rocco" Montesano,
executive director  of the Lexington Museum on the Bay. "The advantage is once
you get to Corpus, that's not a large  amount of competition."

It draws school groups, foreign tour groups, and plenty of locals. It is used
for weddings,  reunions, and other events such as a July 4 dinner with
fireworks.

The Texas State Aquarium is nearby, drawing 450,000 visitors annually, compared
to the  Lexington's 320,000. Each is among the state's top tourist attractions
and Texans comprise almost  70 percent of Lexington visitors.

The two attractions can help each other, said aquarium director Steve Ordahl.
But he does not  see much overlap in their crowds, and thinks they draw mostly
from different audiences.

He offers Tampa this advice: "Look at your attendance projections and cut them
by 50 percent. If  the carrier can sustain itself then it will come through.
Debt will kill it every time."

To succeed, Ordahl said, the Forrestal needs a professional staff and to be "run
like a business  instead of a pet project."

Martin understands that message. He said he would leave the Forrestal group the
day the ship  opens, and the museum will hire a professional director after a
national search.

Based on the Corpus Christi experience, Florida Aquarium's Swanagan said he's
not anticipating  much change in his plans because of the Forrestal. It's
possible the carrier, with similar  admission prices, could create an
"either-or" proposition for area residents, he said. Forrestal and  aquarium
leaders say they're interested in joint ticketing deals, but no detailed
discussions have  taken place.

Size matters on the Forrestal, Montesano said. It offers a lot more room for
both exhibits and  for public festivals that feed money to the Lexington. It
also means more work.

"There's that much more square footage to maintain," he said. "You can do a lot
more and bigger  events on the Forrestal, conventions even, if you wanted."

Maintenance consumes about 70 percent of the Lexington's budget, "well over $ 2
million," Montesano  said. Painters, electricians, welders and plumbers work
year-round on the exhibit.

"I think it's mandatory you start making money from the start," Montesano said.
"You've got to  concentrate on programs, bring people in early while you're
still building exhibits. That way the  skeptics get put to rest early."

Ticket sales generate 45 percent of the revenue. The ship's store and various
programs provide  the rest, for a total of about $ 3.6 million a year.

Sleep-aboard programs for Scouts and other youth groups to stay overnight on the
Lexington are  among its strongest. Those stays bring in much more money than
regular admissions.

While the Lexington pays its own way, only government money and millions of real
estate tycoon  Zachary Fisher's dollars keep the Intrepid afloat. Without
Fisher, curator Jerry Roberts said, he  doubts the museum would have made it.

All carrier museums struggle, Roberts said, and even "financed by a billionaire,
it was a  struggle" for the Intrepid.

Fisher's connections helped land a $ 4.5 million federal grant in 1981. Later,
the city kicked in  $ 2.5 million to renovate the pier and floated $ 15.2
million in tax-exempt bonds.

Still, the museum went bankrupt in 1985, and Fisher rescued it. Museum officials
estimate he  poured $ 25 million into the ship.

Recently, New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani forgave $ 595,000 in back rent owed by
the museum and  decided to waive the $ 252,000 annual rent for the city pier.

In 1997, a $ 13 million federal grant engineered by U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill Young,
an Indian Rocks  Beach Republican, went to resurface the Intrepid's crumbling
flight deck. Young stuck the money in  the budget at the last minute; the next
year, Fisher family and friends contributed more than  $ 40,000 to Young's
campaign.

No carrier discussion would be complete without the USS Cabot, brought to New
Orleans in 1989 by  a group interested in drawing tourists to the waterfront.
The World War II light carrier was seen  by a Louisiana group as a cheap way to
draw tourists.

It now sits in Brownsville, Texas, while debts and its fate are sorted out.

"It was doomed before it ever got in this river," said Port of New Orleans
President Ron Brinson.

A Mardi Gras promoter brought the ship to New Orleans over port objections. It
never had Coast  Guard approval to dock near the French Quarter, and it spent
more than seven years sitting tied  away from tourists.

As the ship sat neglected and rusting, the foundation running the Cabot went
bankrupt.

"It's headed to the scrap yard once we sort out the management issues," Brinson
said.

The Cabot didn't go through a Navy review, which screens out untenable plans. If
they doubt  Tampa can support the Forrestal, Navy officials won't recommend
sending it here, Martin said.

He's certain that won't happen.

"It's not going to fail if we forecast it under the very lowest scenario,"
Martin said. "How can we  go wrong? That's what we've done here."    (CHART)
Other ships  A look at how other former Navy warships are faring as tourist
attactions.  Ship Lexington Intrepid Hornet Yorktown  Location Corpus Christi
New York City Alameda County Charleston Texas New York California  South
Carolina Attendance 20,000 534,000 81,269* 288,000  Admission  ? Adults $ 9 $ 10
$ 9 $ 10  ? Seniors $ 7 $ 7.50 $ 7 $ 9  ? Active military $ 7 free $ 7 $ 9  ?
Children $ 4 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5  *After eight months of operation.  The Intrepid admits
students, veterans and reservists for $ 7.50.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (2C); CHART,
 (FINAL) (3) There's room enough on the Forrestal's hangar deck, above, to stage
conventions. But paint peeling from the ceiling, below left, gives an indication
of how much maintenance the supercarrier requires. At night, Robert McDougall,
the carrier's Newport, R.I. site manager, checks part of the crews' sleeping
quarters.  DAVE GEIGER, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    July 28, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

On safe ground;

BYLINE: MILTON D. CARRERO, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words


TAMPA - Freddy Pardo has watched his native Colombia disintegrate into a
maelstrom of massacres,  kidnappings, murders, civil war and economic chaos.

A psychologist, Pardo knows Colombia needs him. Orphans and widows, people he
was trained to  help, need consolation.

But they will have to cope with the turmoil without him. Colombia's problems
have become so  complex that, like many other professionals, Pardo felt his only
choice was to leave.

Tampa may soon be his home.

"One leaves the country because there are no resources to grow at the human or
professional  level," he said. "I wish I could work with needy children, mothers
or others who are at risk, but  this violent situation (the civil war in
Colombia) disables you from entering certain towns because  it is not safe.

"Life is not eternal, and we had certain goals that we wanted to achieve."

At first, Miami seemed the best destination, as it has a similar climate, a
large group of  Colombians in the area and, more important, Spanish-speaking
people can live there without speaking  English.

Pardo wasn't alone; thousands of other Hispanics have had the same idea. That
flood of  Colombians to Miami seeking a haven has saturated the area. A number
of Colombians are looking in  Tampa for what they couldn't find in southeast
Florida.

During a recent visit to Tampa, Pardo distributed re'sume's and tried to make
contacts. If he  finds a job, he will move here from Miami with his wife. Like
many others, they arrived with a  tourist visa. Pardo hopes a local company will
hire him and help him get permanent residency in the  United States.

Myriam Angulo is also trying to move to Tampa and has scheduled her first two
job interviews  here. Her husband works in Miami but is willing to move here
with their three children if she finds  a job.

Tampa, she said, is the next step for Colombians who want to assimilate to the
American  lifestyle. The movement from Miami to Tampa is likely to continue, she
said.

"This city has good corporations, it has a lot of opportunity for growth,
because people are  constructing more and more every day. So the Hispanics who
want to learn English and work in a less  competitive market are going to want
to come here," she said.

That's no secret to Dilia Pinto, an art dealer from Colombia. She stops in Tampa
when she visits  the United States four times a year.

"I know the Colombian community in Tampa is growing," she said.

Esther Lutz, president of the Colombian American Association of Florida, is
trying to help  recently arrived Colombians find jobs and obtain permanent
residency.

U.S. immigration policies, however, make it difficult for recent Colombian
immigrants to gain  permanent status. Many need political asylum to stay, and
most Colombians are having a hard time  proving they would be persecuted if they
went back home.

The threat of random violence or drug-related crimes isn't enough to claim
political protection  in the United States, said Mike Hammer, spokesman for the
National Security Council at the White  House.

"Colombians, like any other citizens, have to prove that the government is
persecuting you for  who you are," Hammer said.

Colombians are encouraged to record threatening phone calls and save documents
to validate  political persecution.

Juan Carlos Zapata, president of the Colombian American Service Association in
Miami, helps  immigrants obtain visas. He has witnessed the drastic increase in
the number of Colombians coming  to Miami.

"It started early last year, it slowed down during (President Andres) Pastrana's
election, and it  has intensified during the last six months," Zapata said. "A
great majority of them are college  graduates."

He said many Colombians hoped Pastrana would stabilize the social, political and
economic  crises. Yet, unemployment has risen, inflation has soared, and
massacres have intensified. The  people are disillusioned and choosing to leave,
he said.

Only the professional elite can leave Colombia, Zapata said, but when they get
here they don't  have much to do. Lawyers need extra training to pass bar exams;
physicians need to pass board  exams.

Cesar Tiuso faces that dilemma. A judge who condemned both guerrillas and
paramilitary forces,  he left his family in Colombia and came to Miami a month
ago, chased out by the civil war and two  death threats.

One of his cousins, a lawyer, was killed in front of his house. Another was
kidnapped by the  guerrillas, and the family paid for his rescue.

"Remember that you are made of bones and flesh. Don't put yourself in the same
situation as your  relatives," these are the last words he remembers from the
threatening phone call that caused him to  escape his country.

"The phone call said that I was using the law to punish them," Tiuso said,
adding that he feared  the guerrillas could kidnap him or recruit his
16-year-old son.

The Colombian American Service Association recently organized a rally in front
of the  Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in Miami, asking the U.S.
government to provide a  temporary protection status to Colombians fleeing the
civil war. They want the same treatment given  to Cubans who escape Fidel
Castro's regime. They also want protection for Colombians who arrived  more than
five years ago and want to stay.

"We are asking the U.S. government to provide us with the temporary protection
status so that  they are allowed to work here and see how the situation in
Colombia unfolds," Zapata said. "I don't  see how the U.S. government can expect
these families to go back to a country that is in the midst  of a civil war."

Right now, there's no U.S. policy to provide political asylum to Colombians. El
Tiempo, a  Colombian newspaper, reported that only 19 percent of those who seek
asylum receive it.

While applying for protection helped some people, it could also accelerate
deportation for those  whose requests are denied.

The United States doesn't want to encourage illegal immigrants, Hammer said, and
those who come  here and don't receive asylum "will be deported to your country
of origin. Colombians should not be  under the illusion that there is a program
that will give them asylum."

Zapata said Colombians' greatest challenge is to change the policy.

"I don't see how the U.S. government cannot make the connection. They are
kidnapping people to  finance a political activity."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (2C),
 Tampa helps Colombians assimilate American lifestyles, says Myriam Angulo.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 20, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

In Business;

BYLINE: Compiled by Sarah A. Knupke;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 435 words


Buy-out: CX Systems Inc. has bought out IMFAS's share of the African Art Gallery
Museum and  expanded the furniture store's products to include home accessories,
fine art and greeting cards.

Renovations: Harbour Island Athletic Club is spending $ 70,000 to renovate its
facility and add  a 2,300-square foot spa that will open in late September.

Executive changes: Travel Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: IFLY) of Tampa said that
Jerrold P. Sendrow  has resigned as chief financial officer. Frank Zhao, vice
president and controller, will serve as  interim CFO until a replacement for
Sendrow is named.

Acquisition: Boyle International (OTC Bulletin Board: BOYI) has acquired the
West Hastings  Group, a Vancouver-based public relations firm.

Extended services: SunTrust Banks (New York: STI) has announced the expansion of
its Internet  banking service to consumers and small businesses in Florida,
Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama.

Honors: The office of Richard M. Weiss, Polk County Clerk of the Circuit Court,
has been  awarded the 1999 Diversistar Award from the Mid-Florida Society for
Human Resource Management.

New division: The Financial Engineering Alliance has established a new division
called Capstone  Capital Management providing fee-based investment management
services.

New tenant: Thomasville Home Furnishings will open a store in late December or
early January at  the Brandon TownCenter. Thomasville sells upscale furniture.

Product licensing: Sarasota-based Spectrum Research has been licensed for
assembly and  distribution of the virtual surround technology TruSurround by SRS
Labs of California.

Contract: Creative Contractors has been awarded a $ 1.4 million contract to
build a new  sanctuary and administrative building for the George F. Young
Memorial United Methodist Church.

Web site: St. Petersburg-based Boyle International (Over the Counter BB: BOYI)
has introduced  its Web site at www.showantell.com

New business: Bloomingdale Air Conditioned Self Storage has opened at 912 E.
Bloomingdale Ave.,  Brandon. The storage units are climate controlled and offer
fire, pest and theft control systems.

Honors: Accent Business Products has been awarded a 1999 Elite Dealers Award
from  OfficeDealer99 Magazine. Accent is a Savin dealer based in Lakeland.

Acquisition: Progressive Business Solutions has purchased Tampa-based Integrity
USA. Integrity  will move its staff to Progressive's Tampa headquarters.

New Business: The Koury Fine Art Gallery has opened in the Imperial Christina
Cove at 6700  South Florida Ave., Suite 30, Lakeland.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BUSINESS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 25, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Volunteers find true satisfaction in homes;

BYLINE: DONNA KOEHN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words


CLAIR-MEL CITY - Two families will move into their dream homes in time for
Christmas, thanks to  some local builders and volunteers.

The high-end builders are more accustomed to fashioning multimillion-dollar
homes with six  bathrooms, two sets of three-car garages, walnut floors and
climate-controlled wine rooms.

These two houses are on a more modest scale.

But for future homeowner Beverly Britt, her house on Carolton Circle in
Clair-Mel City might as  well be one of the "Street of Dreams" mansions.

"I'm so happy to be moving into this neighborhood," she says, beaming. "I just
can't wait."

While their upscale homes are on display during the "Street of Dreams" tour in
the tony StillWater  community in northwest Tampa, workers with three local
builders were pounding nails into the  1,000-square-foot dream homes of Britt,
Mable Ashford and their children.

The two families are the latest recipients of homes from Habitat for Humanity, a
nonprofit group  that coordinates volunteers to build affordable houses for
those who otherwise might be stuck  paying rent for substandard or crowded
living quarters.

The families work side by side with volunteers, putting "sweat equity" into the
homes that will be  theirs with $ 500 down.

The builders with the "Street of Dreams" tour became involved when Jason Wolfe
of ML Development,  who worked on the StillWater project, suggested that they
devote a weekend to helping out in the  community.

"It just mushroomed from there," says Wolfe, who volunteers with Habitat for
Humanity in his spare  time.

Jay Fechtel is owner of The Fechtel Company, which built the $ 2.9 million,
Mediterannean-style  "Villa d'Alme" for StillWater. On a recent Saturday, he was
helping at the site in Clair-Mel City,  just off 78th Street.

"I really am excited about the idea of building homes that weren't the same as
we're used to," he  says. "We serve the highest end of the housing market, but
it is a real blessing to serve a client  who couldn't afford that but who really
deserves a nice home."

Scott Luttrell, one of the developers of StillWater, says his workers were
enthusiastic about  the opportunity.

"It's really cool. They were excited. It definitely feels awfully good to have
the opportunity to  give back," he says. "A lot of these guys are competitors,
but they've come together and are having a  great time together."

Participating in both the "Street of Dreams" and the Habitat project are Alvarez
Homes, Bayfair  Custom Homes and The Fechtel Company.

In addition to the builders, student volunteers from the YMCA, Young Life and
the Sigma Lambda  Beta fraternity at the University of South Florida are
pitching in. The homes should be ready  before Christmas.

"This is helping a family out in time for the holidays," says Jessica Floyd, 17,
with Young Life,  a Christian youth group from Gaither High School in
Carrollwood.

"I think it's great to get this many people out here," says April Griffith, 16.
"First thing on a  Saturday morning, we'd just be sleeping anyway."

Camilio Soto, 20, of Sigma Lambda Beta, says that one of the goals of his
fraternity is  providing community service.

"People have a misconception about what fraternities are all about, and we're
trying to change  those stereotypes," he says. "Working with the people who will
move in puts a personal touch on  everything, too. It makes you want to work
harder."

Britt was working with her children, Raman Hall, 9, and Bianca Griffin, 6,
placing sod in her  future front lawn.

"We're in an apartment now, with snakes right outside the front door," she says.
"The children are  so excited."

Bianca has dreams of decorating her room in her favorite colors of purple and
pink, she says.

The families already know their future neighbors, as they helped them build
their own homes in  October. Those five Habitat for Humanity homes were built on
the same stretch of Carolton Circle  near Clair-Mel Elementary School.

"We all met each other, and this is such a nice, clean neighborhood," says
Ashford. "I like it that  it's a mix of races."

Ashford says her children, Shaquilla, 11, Wayne, 10, and Malcolm, 6, are ready
to move out of  their duplex, which is in an area of Tampa with lots of illegal
drug activity.

"My oldest son is excited because he's always wanted a dog," she says. "Now,
he'll have his dog."

For more information about Habitat for Humanity, call (813) 239-2242. For more
information about  the "Street of Dreams" tour, which runs through Dec. 5, call
(813) 792-8073 or visit  www.streetofdreams.com  Donna Koehn can be reached at
(813) 657-4535.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C),
 (3C) (South Tampa) At top, Drew Davis, top of Bayfair Properties and volunteer
Hassan Wajd help build a home on Carolton Circle in Clair-Mel City. Other
volunteers, top, and Ryan Derriman, at left, also helped build the house.  KATHY
MOORE-LENGELL, Tribune photos

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 6, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Fixing Hubble's troubles;

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 790 words


Astronauts are set to ride high on a mission to fix the ailing space telescope.

CAPE CANAVERAL - Seven astronauts will conduct cosmic surgery this week on the
world's most  sophisticated eyeball, the orbiting Hubble Space Telescope.

The crew of Discovery is set for liftoff at 12:13 a.m. Saturday  from Kennedy
Space Center on a 10-day mission to replace old or broken parts on the $ 2
billion  observatory, helping restore its health for another decade of service.

The Hubble is hobbling. Its joints don't work, its brain is fatigued and the
rigors of space  have burned its protective skin. No wonder: Circling the planet
year after year 350 miles up has  taken its toll, says Douglas Duncan, an
astrophysicist at the University of Chicago who conducts  research using the
telescope.

"It's a really tough environment up there, and things wear out," Duncan says by
telephone. "It's  less a matter of getting plastered by micrometeorites than the
transition of going from direct  sunlight to complete shadow, when temperature
changes about 300 degrees. It's a constant cycling,  like taking something out
of a hot oven every 45 minutes."

NASA SHUT DOWN the telescope in mid-November because only two of its six
gyroscopes were  working, and the observatory needs at least three to be
operational. These units provide a frame of  reference as Hubble moves relative
to certain target stars. The telescope has been in a "safe hold  mode," a sort
of hibernation, until the repair mission is complete.

Along with new gyros, astronauts will install a guidance sensor, transmitter,
data recorder,  battery kits, blankets of thermal protection and a new central
computer 20 times faster than the  original. Replacing this equipment requires
four spacewalks totaling 24 hours, beginning Dec. 13.  As with previous service
missions, astronauts have conducted exhaustive rehearsals of every detail,
training on special simulators and in a giant underwater tank containing a
full-scale Hubble model.

If all goes well, the astronauts will snap on all the new equipment and give
Hubble a clean bill  of health until the next servicing mission in 2001.

Including parts, ground activities and cost of launching the shuttle, the
service mission bill  will be about $ 700 million. Astronauts will concentrate
almost exclusively on repairing the  observatory. NASA has fully stocked the
shuttle with tools and parts for the job, Duncan adds,  "because it's a long way
to Ace Hardware to get a new bolt."

The telescope is named after Edwin Hubble, the American astronomer who in 1929
discovered that  the speed at which a galaxy is speeding away from us is
proportional to its distance. The telescope  so far has done his name proud.
Since its launch in 1990, the observatory has pushed the boundaries  on a number
of important areas of astronomy: the processes of stellar evolution; the climate
of  planets in our solar system; analyzing evidence of the early universe;
studying the concept of dark  matter that some scientists say makes up 90
percent of the mass of the universe; monitoring the  chemical makeup of
galaxies; and measuring the rate of the universe's expansion.

HUBBLE IS THE MOST famous part of NASA's "great observatories" program, a series
of telescopes  above the Earth's atmosphere that study the complete
electromagnetic spectrum of radiation flowing  through space. Combined, these
"fingerprints," from microwave to gamma radiation, provide clues to  the origin,
evolution and possible future of the cosmos.

"The Hubble telescope really has been a boost to astronomy," says Joseph Carr, a
retired  University of South Florida professor of astronomy. "We've found some
amazing answers to things. For  instance, we're getting closer to confirming the
concept of black holes, which have got to be  what's causing so much commotion
at the center of galaxies."

This is the third servicing mission since Hubble was launched, and two more are
scheduled over  the next three years. If all the machinery holds up, the
telescope is expected to deliver valuable  science through 2010. At that point,
NASA either will boost it into a higher orbit, bring it home  to put in the
National Air & Space Museum in Washington, D.C., or let it burn up in the
atmosphere.

Many who have worked on the telescope want it in a museum because Hubble's
discoveries aren't  just for scientists in white coats.

"It's truly a public telescope," Duncan says. "All of Hubble's archives are on
the Web and  available to anyone. It's been very impressive and groundbreaking
in that way."

For images and general information on the telescope, try this Web site:
http://hubble.gsfc.nasa.gov/

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C),
 (4C) Astronauts trained underwater, above, in preparing for two previous Hubble
repair missions, left and center. A third visit to the telescope begins this
week.  Photos from NASA

NOTES: SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 17, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Florida enters digital competition;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 580 words


No palm tree has ever been so exasperating to Florida leaders as was the one the
Wall Street  Journal placed on the Sunshine State last month. Right there, on a
national map indicating the  hottest high-tech regions, was the tree and nothing
more.

THE BALMY PALM said in no uncertain terms that the fourth-largest state isn't a
serious  contender in the new information-age economy. South of the Research
Triangle in North Carolina, the  Journal's high-tech map was a blank, except for
the bucolic palm tree that tagged Florida a good  place to visit but nowhere to
start a state-of-the-art business.

The palm tree image should not be surprising, says Julia Johnson, former head of
the state's  Public Service Commission, because Florida spends $ 22 million a
year to promote its sun and fun  image, and nothing promoting its great climate
for high-tech business.

And there is much to promote. Florida ranks third nationally in electromedical
equipment  manufacturing, fourth in both the manufacture of communications
equipment and defense electronics,  fifth in communications services, and eighth
in the the number of high-skilled workers.

At last count there were 1,650 high-tech manufacturing companies in Florida.

Gov. Jeb Bush named Johnson to head the Information Service Technology
Development Task Force,  called ITFlorida for short, to look into a range of
issues, including how to recruit and retain  e-business, what changes need to be
made in public education, and how to provide the state  infrastructure that the
communications and technology industry needs.

The mission of the task force is to gather information early next year and again
in 2001 "make  recommendations to the Legislature on how Florida can become a
commercial and educational center  for emerging technologies and attract
high-tech companies to the state."

Today Bush will preside over the state's first cyber town meeting, to be held in
Fort Lauderdale  from noon until 5:30. Bush will start the discussion, which
will be broadcast live over the  Internet, with a speech on the state's growing
digital economy. Floridians will be able to  participate in the teleconferenced
discussion from several sites, including one in Tampa, in the  Park Trammell
Building, 1313 Tampa St.

Among the many issues requiring state leadership is the question of what
investments need to be  made to keep the state competitive for
communication-intensive business. One need is obviously for  adequate cable to
carry digital signals.

The Department of Transportation is seeking bids to lay 2,000 miles of
fiber-optic cable along  public rights-of-way, Johnson says. The plan is to
trade use of state right of way for 36 strands  of cable that the state could
use for public purposes. The state's share would represent less than  1 percent
of the cable's total bandwidth. Is that enough or too much?

THE CORRECT ANSWER to such questions will position the state to keep attracting
high-paying,  fast-growing companies. Location is very important to high-tech
pioneers, both in terms of economic  support for their businesses and the
quality of life available to them and their workers.

Florida's goal shouldn't be to erase the palm tree from the map, but to put
alongside it a  national presence, perhaps the I-4 High-Tech Corridor. Gov. Bush
correctly realizes that for the  state to fulfill its potential, it must be
known for silicon as well as for sand.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  December 22, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

County ready for rollover, firm says;

BYLINE: WILL RODGERS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words


NEW PORT RICHEY - Officials expect no major disruptions on New Year's Day, but
approve  precautionary measures anyway.

Pasco County has done a good job of protecting its critical computer systems
against the  potential bite of the Y2K bug, said an independent consultant.

"This is actually quite a positive report," said Pete Armstrong of the auditing
firm KPMG, in an  appearance Tuesday before county commissioners.

County Administrator John Gallagher hired the firm in November to assess the
county's exposure  to problems expected to hit computers worldwide when the new
year arrives next week.

The Y2K bug, as it is known, is a computer's inability to understand the last
two digits of the  new year as 2000 rather than 1900.

KPMG assessed the county's readiness by interviewing county employees, looking
at the methods  employees used to analyze and test computer systems, and
determining how far along the county's  process was.

County employees have done a good job evaluating, repairing and testing their
computer systems,  Armstrong said. A few minor changes still must be made, and
systems or programs not essential to  the county's operations still could have
problems Jan. 1, he said.

KPMG's report says 10 major county departments have reviewed all their systems,
tested the  systems and prepared contingency plans.

"The county appears to have achieved an adequate level of consistency and due
diligence within  all the departments we evaluated," the report states.

Upgrades still needed include a system that monitors the county's water and
waste-water  equipment and climate control devices in two county buildings.

But overall, residents should not have to worry about essential county services
not being  available after the new year.

That includes the 911 emergency system. Sheriff Lee Cannon and other law
enforcement officials  across the county said in a news release that all
communications and critical equipment have been  been checked and rechecked.

"We are confident that there should be no disruption or reduction in law
enforcement functions or  capabilities," the release said.

However, on Tuesday, commissioners approved a precautionary state of local
emergency.

The declaration, effective Dec. 30, gives Gallagher authority to "take whatever
action is  necessary to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the community."

"We believe we are ready for the millennium rollover," said Michele Baker, the
county's emergency  management director. She then quipped: "And we're ready for
the rollover being over."  Will Rodgers can be reached at (813) 948-4220 or
wrodgers@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Michele Baker, Pasco's emergency management director, believes the county
is ready for the year 2000 rollover.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 26, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Favorites of 1999;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2755 words


Editor's Note: Editor's Note: Over the past 12 months, the Tribune has received
more than  15,000 letters to the editor. Most were delivered from the folks in
the tri-county Tampa Bay area.  Some crossed borders from neighboring states -
and countries - to reach our offices. And the  increasing popularity of online
services meant that still others traveled the information  superhighway. Topics
ranged from Tampa's rich history to community events that make Tampa such an
interesting place for news. We hope you enjoy this look back and we'll look
forward to hearing from  you in 2000.  Aisenbergs' privacy

At first thought, taping the Aisenbergs would seem to be an invasion of privacy,
but after  careful thought, I believe it had to be done. With no communication
between law enforcement and the  Aisenbergs, it seems necessary.

Remember, there are two more children in the family, and how would anyone know
if they were also  at risk? Without cooperation from the parents and family, how
could anything more have been done?  Perhaps the attorney is also to be blamed!

 - MARY S. THOMAS Tampa  Originally published Sept. 17.  Many good stories to
tell

It was very refreshing to read your editorials titled "Northward on the Snowball
Express" (Feb.  25) and "The angels who walk among us" (Feb. 26). Normally the
paper is filled with criminal  activities, political scandals and other articles
that portray the undesirable activities of  people. These editorials showed that
there are still people who really care unselfishly about  others and are ready
and willing to do what they can to make someone's life a little bit better.

I applaud the editor for publishing these editorials and challenge the Tribune
to devote more  space to articles of this kind. There are so many people and
organizations that volunteer their  time and talent and should be recognized for
it.  - KENNETH R. MUZYK Brandon  Originally published March 8.  A better state
fair

Our Florida State Fair has never in the 50 years that I have attended been as
good as this year.  Under the leadership of George Steinbrenner, we have a state
fair to be proud of.

I constantly observed employees cleaning up litter even on the midway, where you
could always  see trash everywhere. The entertainment was good, as were the new
exhibits, food and many extra  attractions. We look forward to attending the
fair again this year.  - SYLVIA TAYLOR Temple Terrace  Originally published Feb.
10.  Working definition of love

Tom Jackson's wonderful article "In a newborn's gaze" (Commentary, June 20)
surpassed anything he  has ever written for the Tribune.

I've read him three times a week ever since he first started as a columnist -
now I feel as  though I know him, or rather he has let me in.

We all talk about family values and what is wrong with the way we raise our
children.

When Jackson speaks of the things he calls a "working definition of love,"
that's all he needs to  write. That tells me what is in his heart.

Christopher is a lucky little boy.

I had the pleasure of meeting Jackson when he attended a Democratic fish fry and
picnic two days  before election day in November. He was working and talking to
people and he spoke to us. I knew of  his family tragedy after reading of it in
the news. I couldn't imagine anything like that happening  to me. Certainly not
in the manner that Jackson and his wife have taken such a blow.

Jackson writes beautifully - with words like butterfly wings: exquisite, precise
and delicate.

My congratulations on the Jacksons' beautiful boy!  - JENNIE G. KRANAK Port
Richey  Originally published July 4.  Children speak truth

Thank you, thank you! The Saturday Forum page (May 22) had the best article in a
long time. It  was called "Smiles," and the opinions of children on marriage
actually made me laugh out loud!

Please have more of this - it was great!  - AUDREY BRANDON Sun City Center
Originally published May 27.  Smells like Vietnam

Kosovo is starting to smell more and more like Vietnam.

Willie Clinton remembers Vietnam. He watched it on TV.  - HAROLD DAY Wimauma
Originally published April 5.  On conserving water

I have been learning about water this summer in summer school at Mintz
Elementary School. Some  people have been turning on their sprinkler systems
even when it rains. There is no need to do so.  Also, people are using plants
that need way too much water. If you would like to use those plants,  you can
use mulch or reclaimed water - or you could xeriscape.

Try not to buy cypress mulch. When you buy cypress mulch, it requires that our
cypress swamps be  cut down, and we need those swamps.  - MEGAN JOHNSON Brandon

 Originally published July 18.


There are some things about conserving water that adults don't know.

One of them is to water at night. The reason to water at night is so water won't
evaporate.  Install rain gauges on sprinkler systems so your sprinkler will turn
off when it's raining.  - MICHAEL PHILLIP MALAKOFF Brandon  Originally published
July 18.  Low flow isn't low

Regarding the letter by David L. Tippin of the Tampa Water Department (Aug. 29):
It puzzles me  that someone who is supposed to know what he is writing about can
be so ill-informed.

I was in the plumbing wholesale business for more than 20 years, including the
years when the  government first implemented the 1.6-gallon-flush toilet.

There were some major problems and some changes were made, but our government,
in all its wisdom  and wanting to keep import business coming in, didn't
regulate foreign-made toilets as far as  proper function - only that they used
1.6 gallons per flush.

I, like thousands of people across this country, live in a mobile home, and not
an older one,  either; it is a 1999 home. That shoots the idea that the new ones
work - mine doesn't, hasn't and  won't. The mobile home industry as a whole
doesn't care. Manufacturers purchase from the cheapest  supplier and care only
that they comply with Big Brother's 1.6-gallon mandate. My fixture has no  brand
name - only W/C, which I assume is for water closet, and an ASMEA sticker and
the statement  that it will work on 1.6 gallons or less. So who can I complain
to? No one. It takes three flushes  and a johnny mop to get the job done, so
three flushes times 1.6 gallons is more than 4 1/2 gallons  per flush.  -
FREDERICK HEICHELBECH Zephyrhills  Originally published Sept. 9.  Adopt-a-Sister
program

The article on the front page of The Tampa Tribune (May 6) was one of the finest
that has been  written about our Adopt-a-Sister program. I find it particularly
relevant that your newspaper has  been a leader in this presentation because the
program was born in Tampa under the inspiration of a  fellow Tampa resident,
Fortune Bosco. We administer and staff three schools in the Tampa area  (Villa
Madonna, Christ the King and St. Joseph), and we also administer and run the
Salesian Youth  Center Boys & Girls Club; therefore, we are no strangers to
Tampa. We have a long history in the  area and have had the joy and privilege of
educating many of Tampa's finest present professionals.

Our Adopt-a-Sister program was given a real shot in the arm by your article.
Since the inception  of the program, we have come into contact with so many
wonderful people, and they, too, have told  me how pleased they were to see it
acknowledged. The follow-up TV presentation on "20/20" was another  wonderful
part of the publicity we have received. We like to think of ourselves as a
family, and we  thank you for being part of this family. As a Tampa native
myself, I am justly proud! Thank you.  - SISTER MARY RINALDI  North Haledon,
N.J.  Staff should trade places

I wonder what would happen if the entire staffs (principal, counselors,
teachers, etc.) were  taken from the "high-performance schools" and assigned to
the "low-performance schools" and vice versa.

I encourage the governor to try this exchange before spending millions of
taxpayers' dollars to  "fix" education in the state of Florida.  - JOHN W.
BERLEKAMP Sun City Center  Originally published May 22.  Daniel Ruth, what a gem

I wonder if you realize what a gem you have in columnist Daniel Ruth. I live in
North Carolina,  but every year I spend five or six weeks in Tampa with my
sister. One of the highlights of my visit  is reading Ruth's columns. He is an
absolute master of the put-down and his name-calling sometimes  equals
Shakespeare's.

In fact, one of Ruth's best columns (which I clipped and took home with me last
May) was the one  comparing local "newsworthies" with characters from
Shakespeare's plays. It was truly delightful!  Even though I didn't know the
locals in the article, I could still appreciate the wit and finesse.  This year
I am enjoying the columns on the minister of mistresses, the Rev. You-Know-Who
or perhaps  more accurately, the Rev. You-Know-What. (Yes, we read about him in
North Carolina, too.)

If Ruth ever feels underappreciated in Tampa, he can just move to North
Carolina. We have a  great state, a great climate and a great governor, but we
also could provide plenty of writing  material in our intellectually challenged,
chronically abrasive Sen. Jesse Helms. Just imagine the  wealth of columns from
that one source! Besides, I wouldn't have to wait all year to enjoy his wit  and
wisdom. Tampa really doesn't need Art Buchwald or Andy Rooney!  - BILLIE H.
LYNDON High Point, N.C.  Originally published Feb. 11.  Cynthia Henderson

Congratulations to David Wasson on his very fair, profound and cerebral
assessment of Cynthia  Henderson's credo and approach to her task
(Florida/Metro, Aug. 29).

Besides, what possible fault could there ever be in someone who bears such an
astonishing  resemblance to the late Susan Hayward, likewise intelligent and
beautiful in the highest degree?  - TED EDWARDS Tarpon Springs  Originally
published Sept 3.  Area's rich history

The editorial in The Tampa Tribune titled "A rare hero called John Horse" (Feb.
11) was superb and  educationally refreshing. For me to learn that the famed
Indian scout and black Seminole leader,  John Horse, was a past resident of
Hillsborough County made this year's trip to the Tampa Bay area  well worth my
travel.

Your paper has done Florida a tremendous service by quoting from Canter Brown
Jr. of the Tampa  Bay History Center when he stated, "I think that when we
memorialize great Hillsborough County  residents of the past, his (John Horse's)
name should be at the top of the list." In addition to the  Feb. 11 editorial,
Philip Morgan's piece titled "A forgotten leader" in the BayLife section (Feb.
3)  gave amateur historians like myself a fresh perspective on what really
happened during the Second  Seminole War in 1835 near what is now Bushnell.

In addition to the book, "The Black Seminoles: A Freedom Seeking People," by
Kenneth W. Porter,  which is referred to in Philip Morgan's article, I would
highly recommend the reading of "Freedom on  the Border: The Seminole Maroons in
Florida, The Indian Territory, Coahuila, and Texas" by Kevin  Mulroy.

Since I was born in Oklahoma (former Indian Territory) and a resident of
Wichita, Kan., these  articles have provided several missing links to my own
historical research and narrative writings  about black Indians in Oklahoma.

Thanks for the excellent articles and community TV seminars during Black History
Month.  - BILLY Q. McCRAY Sun City Center  Originally published Feb. 26.  Moving
in snappy fashion

Oh, my goodness, did we have such a nice time visiting your shiny city recently!
The  invigorating sunshine, the clean and bright neighborhoods - all marvelous!

I hope you will not mind too awfully much if I point out just one really teeny
thing, which  actually could be a kind of bothersome thing if you drive around a
lot in your car while you're in  Tampa, which is what we did do, actually. The
thing is this: A rather lot of people in your city  drive pretty slowly in the
left-hand lane of the roadway. Did you know that in some cities I have  driven
in the left-hand lane is designated for vehicles that are moving rather fast?
Yes! And that  means, if you don't mind my pointing it out, that the right side
of the roadway is for  slower-moving vehicles. Isn't that a good idea? We here
in Ohio find this is actually a really fine  system for keeping the traffic
moving along in a snappy fashion. I'll just bet that if some Tampa  drivers
would give it a try, they will find it's darn clever!  - DUKIE YONKERS
Vermilion, Ohio  Originally published Feb. 25.  Go north young man

I would like to point out a teeny thing in response to the man from Ohio
(Letters, Feb. 25) who  claims some of the residents of our area drive "rather
slowly" in the left-hand lane. Did he know  that in this city most of the
drivers on the road are actually not even from Florida? The majority  of them
are transplants from northern points of departure such as Canada, Michigan, and
yes, even  Ohio.

The thing is this: The traffic you so sarcastically describe is the result of
these transplants  and tourists such as him, inundating our home, jamming our
roads, littering our yards and causing  various other problems for those of us
who must live here year-round.

If he doesn't mind me pointing it out, not all of us here in the Sunshine State
are as eager to  welcome the "snowbirds" as the board of tourism would have you
believe, especially those who have the  audacity to make such a statement as he
made. My formula to keep traffic moving is to give him  directions to Interstate
75 north. No offense to anyone in particular, but Florida is my home. I  love it
here. If you don't, stay in Ohio. Wouldn't that be darn clever!  - SEAN BROWN
Tampa  Originally published March 8.  Mandatory reading skills

Regarding your editorial on the illiterate (Feb. 15) where it was stated that 60
percent of  prison inmates and 80 percent of juvenile inmates are illiterate:
Why don't they teach them to read  in jail? Don't let them out until they can.

Also, I don't agree with privi  leges of phone, mail and marriage while in
prison. They are supposed to be having punishment.  - ANNE C. MOOD Sebring
Originally published March 15.  Forgive Columba

Although an American, I lived in Montreal, Canada, for 20 years and can attest
to the fact that  when it comes to shopping in foreign countries, women are born
smugglers.

A German friend came to Montreal and purchased a very expensive fur coat,
wearing it over the  border with a German label sewn inside.

Thirteen years later, she had the coat remodeled in Paris, and when she brought
it back into  Germany, the customs officials deemed it a "new coat!" The duties
and fines were horrendous.

Please forgive Columba.  - CAROLYN YOVIC Lutz  Originally published June 27.
Listen to Krell's inmates

The Tribune says there will be disciplinary charges for guards' treatment of
inmates in the  death of Florence Krell (Florida/Metro, March 5). This woman had
written letters asking for help,  and I, like others, believe there is more here
than meets the eye.

There should be a panel to listen to all inmates before deciding what to do to
the guards. I'm  sure if inmates' names weren't used, we would probably hear
what has been going on behind closed  and locked doors. No one who has any
involvement with prisoners, including the warden, should be  present. Krell was
serving 18 months, which is too short to cause her to want to end her own life.

I have a feeling some of the guards should be behind bars. Then maybe they would
know what  mistreatment is all about.  - SYLVIA PELLUM Tampa  Originally
published March 9.  Regarding Bernice Bowen

I was in shock to read that Bernice Bowen was sentenced to 21 1/2 years in
prison (Nation/World,  July 7). I believe she was used as a scapegoat for the
situation and because the Tampa Police  Department could not convict Carr, they
would be certain that Bowen would never see daylight again  in her life.

Aren't we a proud society? I hope the judge reads this - probably not. And I
hope the families of  the detectives and trooper are happy now. This really
replaces those men. I guess in their minds,  she should have been sentenced to
death.  - REBECCA NELSON Tampa  Originally published July 11.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5,
 Steve and Marlene Aisenberg

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 11, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Juneau ready for free agency dollars;

BYLINE: A Tribune wire report;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words


DALLAS - Buffalo Sabres forward Joe Juneau said free agency in the NHL is a
once-in-a-lifetime  proposition, and he plans to take full advantage of it after
the season.

Juneau, 31, can become an unrestricted free agent for the first time in his
career after the  season, and he plans to auction himself off to the highest
bidder.

"You're in this situation, obviously, probably only once in your life," said
Juneau, who earned  $ 2.2 million this season. "It's a great chance to finally
make the right decision for you as a  player and as a person."

Only players 31 or older can sign with other teams as free agents without their
original teams  being owed compensation.

Juneau said he would like to remain with the Sabres, but they haven't approached
him about a new  agreement.

"I've love to have a chance to stay in Buffalo," he said. "This team's going to
be good for a long  time."

Though Juneau has never won the Stanley Cup, this is his second consecutive trip
to the finals.  Last spring, his Washington team was swept by the defending
Stanley Cup champion Detroit Red Wings.

Juneau's five-year stay with Washington ended at the March 23 trade deadline
when he was traded  to Buffalo with a third-round draft pick for defenseman
Alexei Tezikov. Juneau was dumped along  with Washington veterans Dale Hunter,
Craig Berube, Tom Chorske and Brad Shaw, all potential  unrestricted free agents
the team decided it wasn't going to re-sign.

Juneau had only a goal and an assist for Buffalo before suffering a concussion
and missing the  last three regular season games and the first playoff game.

Juneau, who has 114 goals and 429 points in his seven-year career with Boston,
Washington and  Buffalo, said he'll be looking for a four-year contract.

"Chances are it's going to be the last four years of my career, so its got to be
somewhere where  I can win, somewhere I can be happy with everything," he said.

 Cup tidbits

How hot is it?That's not the opening line to a joke, it's a common question at
the Stanley Cup  finals in Dallas.

It's not about the temperature on the streets, which is warm enough, it's about
the temperature  within Reunion Arena.

Players have been talking about it, particularly Buffalo goalie Dominik Hasek.
He said he was so  exhausted from the heat at the conclusion of Game 1 Tuesday
night that he could not skate across  the ice to celebrate the 3-2 overtime
victory with his teammates.

The temperature during the day in Dallas was in the high 90s, and one league
official said it  could have been as high as the 70s inside the arena by the end
of the game.

NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said the league had chipped in with the Stars to
purchase a new  refrigeration unit.

Perspective:Thursday's game marked the 99th game for the Buffalo Sabres since
the start of the  regular season.

A long season? Not for Sabres captain Mike Peca.

"A lot of people in the world work 111/2 months a year," Peca said. "This is
what we do. This is not a  big deal."

Waiting game:Fans started lining up early for tickets to Thursday's game. One
said he had been  standing in line since 11:30 a.m. in the humid Dallas weather,
and the group had expanded  considerably by 1 p.m.

None of them knew when the box office would open, or if there were any tickets
available.

"We hope so," said one young woman who was sprawled on the concrete.

Going global:The Stanley Cup finals gets around. It is being telecast live to
most areas of the  world, including Africa, the Caribbean, Central and South
America, Asia and the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   August 28, 1999, Saturday, FLORIDA EDITION

Small-town lessons helped woman on global adventure;

BYLINE: ELAINE MORGAN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: POLK, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1307 words


MULBERRY - Hazel Bowman remembers coming close to the enemy in 1944 in a
little-known World War  II front in India.

"All I really needed to know I learned in Brewster, a phosphate mine in
southwest Polk County,  Florida."

That is a favorite saying for Hazel L. Bowman, 82. She makes it sound as if she
never set foot  outside Polk's phosphate territory, where she grew up and now is
known for her historical research  efforts. This year Bowman was selected one of
the "Top 10 Women in Polk County" by the Polk County  Women's History Coalition
after being nominated by two organizations.

But the Mulberry resident spent the last two years of World War II far from Polk
County. As an  American Red Cross volunteer, she operated social clubs in
several locations in India to entertain  homesick American troops.

Bowman said that her poor eyesight prevented her from joining the military, and
she was so eager  to have some kind of wartime duty that she deliberately
avoided mentioning the fact that she had  been treated for an attack of malaria
when she was a young child.

She had studied law at the University of Florida in Gainesville and almost had
her master's  degree in linguistics from UF when she was accepted for work -
then top-secret - with the U.S. Signal  Corps.

"After Pearl Harbor, you couldn't keep me out of Washington," Bowman said. Her
Signal Corps work  involved code-breaking.

"We swore we would never tell what we did, but books have been written about it
now," said Bowman.  "A lot of it was pure routine stuff, highly visual work and
very nerve-wracking. We did some of the  first work that made it possible for
the Americans and Russians to work together.

"That was a very interesting group of people. They were all doctors except me,
and a woman  chiropractor was my pal. But so much of the work was purely
clerical. It didn't require any brains.  I wanted to feel that I was really
contributing something."

She discovered that she had to leave the Signal Corps and switch to Red Cross to
qualify for  overseas duty. Soon she was on her way to the site of a
little-known front against the Japanese in  India.

"We left California in November 1943, and we broke down and repaired the ship,
the USS Hermitage,  at Bora Bora, where we stayed about a week," she recalled.
"A submarine net kept out any Japanese  subs."

Bowman said the ship that carried her across the Pacific had been a luxury liner
at one time.  After being scuttled in the Panama Canal, it had been converted to
a troop ship by having its upper  decks removed.

As a Red Cross worker, Bowman concluded that her safety was not a top priority
when she was  issued one of the oldest life belts on the ship. The rubber was
cracked, and it still bore the  imprint of the name of the luxury ship, "La
Giaconda."

She shared the ship with about 1,000 first-class passengers and several thousand
American  military troops. The vessel was leased to the Army but had a Navy
crew, she recalled, and since she  had her trombone with her she signed up to
play in the Navy band.

"When we crossed the equator going out to India, we had the usual initiations,"
said Bowman, "and I  have a certificate signed by the captain showing that I had
left "polliwog' status."

She remembers that when they first saw Bombay, the view was exactly what she had
imagined from  the description in the book, "Lord Jim."

After a week there, the group took a three-day railway trip to Calcutta, where
Bowman  volunteered for the most remote available job - assistant director of an
off-post servicemen's club  located in Dibrugarh, Assam. The workers lived in a
tea planters' compound.

"We were at the place where the Air Force took off for China," said Bowman.

She remembers that servicemen produced moonshine between large drums of aviation
fuel, but she  and the other Red Cross workers found that they had to scrounge
for needed supplies.

"We lived by moonlight requisition," said Bowman. "You couldn't get anything
without stealing. You  couldn't get Clorox for the Lister bags."

Lister bags were containers for disinfected water, Bowman explained, and she
also remembers  having to hunt for "mosquito bombs" to combat hordes of biting
insects.

"We fought for the sugar, and we fought for the coffee," said Bowman, "but we
got them and we ran  that club. Sugar came in 150-pound bags, and it was hard to
lift. We worked like dogs."

Red Cross rules stated they could not serve anything free, so they charged 2
cents for a cup of  coffee. The women also served bananas and walnuts -
considered safe to eat because of the peels and  hulls - and also baked cakes.

Bowman said that another task that fell to them was packing supplies to be
dropped in zones  where American pilots had bailed out in the mountains between
China and India. In addition to  supplies such as warm socks, they would pack
costume jewelry that could be traded to natives.

"A lot of guys made it out of there because they got those supplies," she said.

Bowman said that the women's only vehicle was a creaky station wagon which had
been painted with  the words, "El Digaboo" (a parody of Dibrugarh) and "Leaking
Lena" because the roof had holes.

She recalled having to stop every 30 miles to clean sand from the gasoline waste
trap, and she  also remembers that their tires often went flat after running
over discarded, razor-sharp oxen  shoes left in the rutted roadway.

Bowman said that their vehicle broke down in numerous isolated locations, once
in head-high  grass in the vicinity of a hungry tiger. Another time, Bowman
managed to replace spark plugs in the  dark without so much as a flashlight.

In 1944, Bowman and the other women learned that the Japanese were likely to
invade.

"There was a time there for two or three weeks that we didn't know whether we
would survive or  not," she said. "We acquired a gun, and we were planning to
take to the jungle rather than be taken  prisoners by the Japanese."

Bowman said that the club director had an extensive collection of beautiful
saris, and she was  afraid that the Japanese would confiscate them.

"I was just worried about my hide," Bowman said. "We thought we were goners, but
the Indian police  held the Japanese at Imphal until the Air Force could get in
there and take care of the situation."

Eventually the group had to leave Dibrugarh because of damage to the clubhouse.

"Our club gave up the ghost when the birds carried away the thatched roof,"
recalled Bowman.

She and her fellow workers were transferred to Chabua, headquarters of the 48th
Air Depot. They  later served in Burma, and Bowman recalled that they almost
never got there because their plane  caught fire and had to make a crash
landing.

Before returning to the United States, Bowman became assistant purchasing agent
for the Red  Cross in Calcutta. The final chapter of her story came when a storm
nearly sank the ship on which  she crossed the Atlantic Ocean to return home.

In spite of the stifling heat, insects and "mud like you have never seen
anywhere," Bowman loved  India and dreamed of returning to the country for many
years after coming back to the States.

Instead, she was a public school teacher, welfare worker, phosphate laboratory
technician and  newspaper writer and editor. She also served as a faculty member
or registrar for a number of  colleges in Florida and New England. She never
married.

She explained that when she was in school her father told her that women were
taking over the  world and that in the future men would have difficulty in
getting jobs.

"He told me, "You can't get married until you can afford to support a husband,'
" she said, "and I  didn't."  Elaine Morgan can be reached at (941) 683-6538.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3(1C),
 Hazel Bowman stands outside her Mulberry home. A native of Brewster, she served
with the Red Cross in India during World War GREG FIGHT, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 20, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

How much is that in dog years?;

BYLINE: Compiled by Carole Tarrant;

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words


What once was an enduring Japanese fad has gone global: Tykes, teens and
twentysomething  hipsters love the smiley-faced, hot-pink feline of Hello Kitty
products.

Japanese manufacturer Sanrio this year celebrates the cool cat's 25th birthday
by offering  commemorative accessories that include a beaded Hello Kitty cell
phone case with belt clip ($ 15).

Sanrio, founded in 1960, got its start producing such trinkets as stationery and
little purses -  inexpensive, small gifts that are traditionally exchanged
between friends in Japan. The Hello Kitty  line was launched in 1974, with
similar cartoon characters (including Badtz-Maru and Pochacco) soon  to follow.

Hello Kitty products are sold at Target, FAO Schwarz and online at the Sanrio
e-store,  www.sanriostore.com  Reviewing a real fake

Kenneth J. Lane, the king of costume jewelry and a fixture in high society
circles, is the  subject of a new retrospective at New York's Museum at the
Fashion Institute of Technology. Called  "Dazzling by Design: Fashion Jewelry by
Kenneth Jay Lane," the show includes more than 500 fabulous  and beguiling
fakes, arranged thematically, from chinoiserie to Egyptomania to jeweled
insects,  reports the New York Times.

Lane, 67, an indefatigable escort of Princess Margaret, Brooke Astor and Nan
Kempner, admits to  being something of a fabulous fake himself. As long as even
his oldest friends can remember, he has  spoken in the plummy, languorous tones
of an English duke, an amiable affectation that betrays  little of his native
Detroit.  For men beyond XL

Dillard's is adding Big & Tall shops to its stores in University Mall, Citrus
Park Town Center  and Brandon TownCenter. "Big" merchandise caters to men
5-foot-8 to 6-foot-2 with a waist size larger  than 42 inches. "Tall"
merchandise is for men over 6-foot-2 with extra-long sleeves and inseams.

Designer names available in the plus sizes include Dockers, Roundtree & Yorke
and Gant. The  Dillard's specialty shops will sell sportswear, golf and swim
apparel as well as underwear, belts  and socks.  Out with the old

Searching for a new business suit? Your hunt could benefit a Tampa woman new to
the workforce.

Saks Fifth Avenue at WestShore Plaza encourages shoppers to bring in their old
business suits  Thursday; the suits will be donated to Dress for Success Tampa
Bay, a group that suits up women  headed for job interviews.

Those who bring in the suits will receive 10 percent off a dress or suit
designed by Dana  Buchman. Saks is open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; call (813) 371-5334
for more information.  Orange you glad?

It's official. The powers that be in home and fashion design have ordained
orange the color of  the season. But why is orange, reviled for so long, all of
a sudden cool again?

One reason may be that orange is actually not cool at all. It's one of the
warmest color in the  spectrum.

"Warm colors are inviting. They remind us of our primordial attachment to fire,"
says Pat Verlodt,  president of Color Services and Associates, a Huntley, Ill.,
consumer products consulting firm.  Compiled from wire and staff reports by
Carole Tarrant; reach her at (813) 259-7324 or ctarrant@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2,
 Dillard's is adding Big & Tall shops to three Tampa stores.

NOTES: PERSONAL SHOPPER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 21, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Grab a byte;
The Internet offers an endless assortment of recipes, restaurant information and
sources for;
hard-to-find ingredients.;

BYLINE: MARY D. SCOURTES, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1762 words


TAMPA - If you nod and answer yes to any of the following, you may already be a
cyber-cuisine  wizard:

You e-mail your teen to come to dinner.

You scan online recipes from the Food Network site after getting a daily dose of
"Emeril Live."

You have bookmarked more than a handful of food-related Web sites.

Cyberspace opens up a world of mouthwatering cooking ideas and culinary
information. In fact,  there are more recipes online than anyone could cook in a
lifetime.

Professional chefs have quickly discovered the World Wide Web's potential for
sharing ideas and  global ingredients.

"I could spend the whole day (online)," says Bern's Steak House executive chef,
Jeannie Pierola.

She recommends visiting a restaurant directory - www.cuisinenet.com - before
traveling to  food-friendly metropolises such as New Orleans, Seattle or San
Francisco. The site includes  restaurant menus, maps for getting around town and
customer comments.

Pierola has become a seasoned world shopper by scouring the Internet for sources
of exotic  ingredients. Her online finds have included "really good" beluga
lentils, Chana dals and other Indian  legumes.

Emil Topel, executive chef at Fancy's Restaurant in St. Petersburg, has been a
Web devotee for  about seven years. He rarely turns on a television, he says,
but he enjoys the culinary inspiration  at the Food Network site www.foodtv.com

The site allows visitors to click on weekly broadcast schedules, tips and
recipes from lively  shows such as "Emeril Live," "Too Hot Tamales" and "Bill
Boggs Corner Table."

Topel also finds "clear and precise" recipes on www.food-channels com, a site
with many food  categories and links to corporate-sponsored sites offering
recipes.

The "Made In Italy" link, for instance, offers an introduction from famed
Italian food writer  Marcella Hazan, along with recipes from her son, Giuliano
Hazan, a Sarasota author. Fettuccine with  Radicchio and Spaghettini with
Shrimp, Tomatoes and Capers are two from Giuliano.

Topel also is a condiment manufacturer and includes recipes for his products,
including  Mongolian Marin-Aide (made from exotic peppers) at his site,
www.chefemil.com

Bob Barfield, chef at Ybor City's Bernini, says he can hardly turn a computer
on, but the  restaurant's owner, Jason Fernandez, is a big fan of cyberspace.
Fernandez likes the Food Network  site for recipe ideas (he retooled Emeril
Lagasse's crab cake recipe for his restaurant) and he  looks to Food.com's web
site, www.food.com, for information about restaurants throughout the  country.

The site allows you to search city dining guides from Tampa to Los Angeles, with
links to  critics' reviews. It also lets you place orders with local restaurants
for delivery to your home or  office.

"Anything I've looked for, I've come up with," Fernandez says.

Because there are more sites than time to discover them, here's a snapshot of
others:

www.epicurious.com includes fun-to-browse articles from two Conde Nast
publications - Bon  Appetit and Gourmet - and a 10,000-recipe database.

Clicking on the interactive restaurant link brings up recipes from restaurants
across the  nation.

Food surfers also can play critic and voice opinions on recipes posted on the
epicurious site.  Last week, they gave a 67 percent "would make it again" vote
to Jalapeno Corn Muffins with Red  Peppers from Mesa Grill in New York.

Salmon Hash, made from frozen hash brown potatoes and horseradish, received a
100 percent "yes,  again" response.

www.AllRecipes.com offers an online community of cooks. Even if you cook for
everyone on your  block, you would still use only a fraction of the recipes on
this site. It includes cooking hints,  seasonal highlights, a kitchen store and
a newsletter.

Click on the cookie link to discover a list of 1,800 recipes, including one with
the  less-than-tempting name of Buffalo Chip Cookies (a raisin cookie named for
its size).

Still undecided? Choose recipes by clicking the recipe roulette icon so that the
computer can  pull up a surprise. Recipes here can be printed on full sheets of
paper or in smaller, 3-by-5-inch  or 4-by-6-inch formats.

www.about.com offers more than 600 food guides - people who share expertise on a
variety of  subjects, such as Southern or Chinese cuisine and low-fat cooking.
It also offers recipes for "busy  cooks."

The link for make-ahead wedding appetizers has many savory recipes that can be
adapted for  holiday party planners. You can make Tortilla Spirals, Olive Cheese
Balls and Shrimp Paste a day in  advance.

www.goodhousekeeping.com features an interesting recipe finder with such
categories as main  ingredients, cuisine and even complexity of recipe.

Click on selected categories to narrow your search. A query for an Italian
vegetable dish made  with butternut squash produces a recipe for Pasta With
Sausage & Butternut Squash. It includes a  photograph and easy instructions for
e-mailing the recipe to a friend.

There's also a recipe for the day; last week, it was Cranberry-Pear Relish.

www.kraft.com offers an interactive kitchen where browsers can click to its
"hallowing  Halloween helper" (with food and decorating ideas), holiday recipes,
creative shortcuts and classic  recipes.

Say you have a lot of Swiss cheese in your refrigerator. Type in Swiss cheese
and a chart  listing 26 recipes appears, detailing preparation time and degree
of difficulty.

Two sites that don't offer recipes but are interesting include:

www.100dollarhamburger.com features restaurants at or near airports throughout
the world. The  site notes that Albert Whitted Municipal Airport in St.
Petersburg has Tony's Airside, while Chalet  Suzanne restaurant in Lake Wales
has a landing area.

www.greatfood.com lets your fingers do the shopping to locate 4,500 hard-to-find
specialties  such as dreamy desserts, fresh Maine lobsters and other foods from
more than 85 suppliers.

Gift ideas are offered, such as "the greatfood basket" (pate, pesto, crackers
and dried fruit) and  Lulu's gift crates (a rustic vinegar crate holding
Mediterranean condiments).

For those who enjoy the printed word, the Seattle-based company can mail what it
calls a  "netalog," featuring 100 items.

These sites are just an appetizer - now find your favorites.

Here is a sampling of recipes from the eye-popping number available on the World
Wide Web.

A word of caution - not every recipe on the Internet has been edited.
Ingredients may be out of  the order called for; sometimes ingredients listed
are not used in a recipe.  CLASSIC BLASTED CHICKEN

1 31/2-pound chicken, rinsed and patted dry

Salt, to taste

Black pepper, to taste

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.

Season the chicken all over with salt and pepper and place in a roasting pan.
Roast for 45  minutes, or until the juices run clear when the thigh is pricked
with a skewer. Transfer the  chicken to a cutting board and let stand for 15
minutes.

Yields 4 servings.

Source: www.foodtv.com  PASTA WITH SAUSAGE & BUTTERNUT SQUASH

1 medium butternut squash (about 13/4 pounds)

3/4 pound sweet Italian-sausage links, casings removed

Salt

1/4 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper

1 package (16 ounces) corkscrew pasta

1/3 cup fresh basil leaves, chopped, plus additional basil, for garnish

1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese

Cut butternut squash lengthwise in half; discard seeds. Peel squash and cut into
1/2-inch chunks.  Set aside.

In nonstick 12-inch skillet, cook sausage over medium-high heat until browned,
about 7 minutes,  stirring frequently to break up sausage. With slotted spoon,
transfer sausage to bowl; discard all  but 2 tablespoons drippings from skillet.

Meanwhile, in sauce pot, cook pasta as label directs in boiling, salted water.

To drippings in skillet, add butternut squash, salt and coarsely ground black
pepper. Cook,  covered, over medium heat, about 10 minutes or until squash is
tender, stirring occasionally.

Drain pasta, reserving 3/4 cup of the pasta cooking water. Return pasta to pan;
toss with sausage,  butternut squash, basil, Parmesan cheese and reserved pasta
water. Garnish with basil.

Source: www.goodhousekeeping.com  GRILLED SHRIMP SCAMPI

11/2 pounds shrimp

1/4 cup olive oil

1/4 cup lemon juice

3 tablespoons minced, fresh parsley

1 tablespoon minced garlic

Black pepper

Crushed red pepper flakes, to taste

Peel and remove shrimp, leaving tails on. Rinse under cold water and drain.

In medium nonreactive bowl, combine olive oil, lemon juice, parsley, garlic,
black pepper and  crushed red pepper flakes. Add shrimp; marinate for 30 minutes
or less. Remove shrimp from marinade  and place on wooden skewers. (It's best to
soak skewers in warm water for 10 minutes first.) Grill  2 to 3 minutes on each
side.

Makes 6 servings.

Source: www.AllRecipes.com  CAJUN CHICKEN STRIPS

1 tablespoon flour

1 teaspoon poultry seasoning

3/4 teaspoon garlic salt

1/2 teaspoon paprika

1/4 teaspoon pepper

1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper

11/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1/2-inch strips

2 tablespoons butter or margarine

In a large plastic bag, combine flour, poultry seasoning, garlic salt, paprika,
pepper and  cayenne pepper.

Add chicken strips, half at a time, and shake to coat. In a large skillet, cook
chicken in  butter 8 to 10 minutes or until the juices run clear.

Yields 4 to 6 servings.

Source: www.about.com  HOT SWISS AND ALMOND SPREAD

1 package (8 ounces) cream cheese, softened

11/2 cups shredded Swiss cheese

1/3 cup salad dressing

2 tablespoons chopped green onion

1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg

1/8 teaspoon pepper

1/3 cup sliced almonds, toasted

Assorted crackers or toasted bread cutouts

Mix all ingredients except crackers until well-blended. Spread into 9-inch pie
plate or quiche  dish.

Bake 15 minutes, stirring after 8 minutes, at 350 degrees. Garnish with
additional toasted  almonds, if desired.

Serve with assorted crackers or toasted bread cutouts.

Microwave: Mix as directed; microwave on medium (50 percent) 6 minutes or until
Swiss cheese is  melted. Stir after 4 minutes. (Do not overcook.) Stir before
serving. Garnish with additional  almonds, if desired.

Serve with crackers or bread slices. Serves 12.

Source: www.kraft.com  Mary D. Scourtes covers food news and can be reached at
mscourtes@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-7635. News researcher Gail Bray assisted in
this search.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) (Computer showing food web site)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 8, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Winter likely to be dry, warm;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words


La Nin a, expected to keep the weather dry through spring, increases the chance
of wildfires as  well as water shortages.

After warming slightly all summer, a vast segment of the Pacific Ocean is
cooling again, which  could mean winter and spring will be warmer and drier than
usual.

That would be a repeat of last winter and spring, except that Florida could see
a few more brief  blasts of frigid air.

Scientists at the national Climate Prediction Center said they expect La Nin a
to linger at  least through spring.

That means a winter and spring that normally see little rain could be even
drier, raising, as  well as the threat of water shortages, the threat of
wildfires next year.

La Nin a had a similar effect on last year's weather.

From December through February, only 4 inches of rain fell, when more than 7
inches is typical.

"We're heading into a drier than normal period, and some parts of the state are
worse off than  they were last year," said Andy Devanas, chief meteorologist
with the Florida Division of Emergency  Management.

Although South Florida is fairly wet thanks to Hurricane Irene's rains last
month, the Big Bend  area west into the Panhandle is dry, Devanas said.

Fire officials say the coming wildfire season could be worse than last year's,
but they don't  expect it to be as bad as 1998, when fires scorched 50,000 acres
and damaged more than 150 homes  and businesses.

The biggest concern is for North Florida, where there is already a deficit of
rainfall this  year, Devanas said.

Forecasters say South Florida should be less vulnerable, but it won't take much
for it to become  dangerously dry, too.

Florida Division of Forestry meteorologist Scott Goodrick suggests homeowners
create a safety  zone around their houses of at least 30 feet, removing anything
like brush or debris that could aid  a wildfire.

Devanas adds that cleaning roofs and gutters of pine needles is essential. He
also suggests  stocking up on garden hoses, and having a portable lawn sprinkler
to put on top of the roof.

So far this year, there have been 4,427 wildfires, burning about 340,000 acres.

About one in five wildfires is started by arson, and another one in five is
started by debris  and trash fires. The third-most common cause of wildfires is
lightning.

Around Tampa Bay, the aquifer in some places is 3 feet lower than at the same
time last year. It  is close to what is expected in May, just before summer
rains start to replenish the water supply.

Although La Nin a tends to keep cold fronts away from Florida, some should be
able to punch into  the state, said Vernon Kousky, a meteorologist at the
Climate Prediction Center.

The jet stream normally traps the frigid Canadian air to the north, but at times
it drifts to  the south, opening the door for blasts of cold.

The air over Canada is colder than it was last year, meaning fronts that make it
here could be  more intense.

The current La Nin a, described as moderate in intensity, began forming rapidly
in May 1998 when  water temperatures dropped quickly from those of El Nin o,
which had produced conditions that were  warmer than normal.

In places, water temperatures in the Pacific fell 10 or more degrees, Kousky
said.

It's too soon to predict whether La Nin a will survive into summer and affect
next hurricane  season, he said.

La Nin a's main impact through last summer was to trigger a series of conditions
halfway around  the globe that helped boost the number of hurricanes in the
Atlantic and Caribbean.

First, La Nin a increases rainfall during the monsoon season around the Indian
Ocean.

"When that happens, it creates a global circulation helpful to hurricanes,"
Kousky said.

It means more rain over Africa, so tropical waves moving off the continent - the
seeds of  hurricanes - are stronger, he said.

It also creates lower pressure over the tropical Atlantic that produces more
clouds and rising  air, essential ingredients for storms.

La Nin a also reduces winds at the ocean surface, allowing the water in the
Atlantic to get  warmer.

"All these features normally encourage hurricane development," Kousky said.

Those conditions helped create a hurricane season that's seen 11 named storms so
far, seven of  which grew to hurricanes. Four of those - twice the number of a
normal season - became major  hurricanes.

An average season has 10 tropical storms, six reaching hurricane strength.

La Nin a does produce one benefit for ski fans. Winters in the west during La
Nin a years tend  to produce more snowfall than normal.  Information from The
Associated Press was included in this report. Neil Johnson can be reached at
(352) 544-5214 or njohnson@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 88 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  December 15, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

If the shirt doesn't fit;

BYLINE: (Carol Tarrant);

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 620 words


What's the difference between a turtleneck from Land's End and one from L.L.
Bean? Consumer  Reports recently asked this question while comparing a variety
of clothing commonly ordered by  mail.

Of eight women's turtlenecks the magazine assessed in its November issue, an $
18 Land's End  version ranked highest overall. J.C. Penney's $ 14 turtleneck
came in a close second.

The comparison looked at cost, construction and shrinkage - important because
some sleeves shrink  as much as 2 inches after washing. A $ 32 L.L. Bean
turtleneck ranked last, with magazine testers  reporting a "severe skew" of the
side seams.  A watch is not just a watch

For some people, a cheap, plastic $ 15 wristwatch will suffice. It's the most
practical  timepiece; when the battery stops or if the watch gets tossed into
the laundry, just throw it out  and buy a new one.

For others, however, a watch is a thing of wonder, a piece of jewelry and an
example of precise  craftsmanship. These people would, no doubt, agree with the
editors of American Time magazine, who  recently proclaimed the Rolex Oyster
Perpetual the watch of the century.

The Rolex Oyster debuted in 1933 as the world's first waterproof and automatic
(self-winding)  wristwatch. "It remains a global symbol of status ... and is the
father of every automatic watch on  the market today," the editors write.

Why is it called the Oyster? The watch's Swiss developer, Hans Wilsdorf,
supposedly was inspired  by the difficulty he had in prying open oysters one
night while dining with friends.

At the other end of the spectrum, American Time editors also salute the plastic
Swatch, which  has sported multicolored designs on its face and strap since
debuting in 1983. The quartz-powered  piece, typically costing $ 35 or less,
demonstrated that "the important thing wasn't what was inside  the case, but
what was outside. Watches and watch wearing haven't been the same since."  The
future looks bright

The authors of a new coffee-table book, "Millennium Mode" (Rizzoli, $ 50), asked
top designers for  their take on styles of the new century.

From Italian duo Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana: "The Dolce and Gabbana
woman in the year  2000 ... will look toward the future wearing a metallic
outfit softened by painted flowers, with an  "old' shawl from her grandmother
covering her shoulders. This woman represents the link between the  past and the
future."

From New York trendsetter Stephen Sprouse: "In the future, I'd love to see
clothes that you pour  on. Just get in the shower and press the clothing
sprocket. You dip yourself in the clothes and  they're hot-wired to computers to
keep you warm or cool, change colors, whatever."

Miuccia Prada, Donna Karan and Issey Miyake are among the 40 other influential
designers  contributing to "Millennium Mode," by authors Roberta Wolf and Trudy
Schlachter. Many supplied  original sketches illustrating their vision of future
fashions.  Wrap up this fad

Those pashmina wraps that are all the rage this holiday season come with a hefty
price - $ 100  gets you a bargain-basement shawl, with many others in the $ 500
range and more. But are they worth  it? Isn't pashmina just a fancy name for
cashmere, the soft hair harvested from the underbellies of  cashmere goats?

The Boston Globe asked Kenneth D. Langley, a professor of textile sciences at
the University of  Massachusetts at Dartmouth, to put pashmina under a
microscope. His scientific opinion: Pashmina is  "good ol' cashmere, nothing
special."

Tell that to the goats.  Compiled from wire and staff reports by Carole Tarrant;
she can be reached at (813) 259-7324 or ctarrant@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2,
 (fashion)

NOTES: PERSONAL SHOPPER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
