
                               2 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IS THE SKY FALLING?

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words


Regardless of a new report's findings, insurance companies are convinced global
warming is fueling storms and are raising rates or dropping coastal policies
because of it.

By KEVIN BEGOS

The Tampa Tribune

TALLAHASSEE - On Friday, a major report on global warming is expected to deliver
more proof that the planet is getting warmer, and that humans likely bear 90
percent of the responsibility for the changes.

But forget the scientific debate: Insurance companies are convinced global
warming is a threat, and coastal property owners are already paying more for
premiums - and even losing coverage - because of the fear.

"The fact is the oceans are warmer. There is no disputing that," Allstate
Insurance spokesman Michael Siemienas said. "We need to look at that when
determining our exposure in coastal communities."

It's not just the private insurers, either.

"The short answer is yes, our rating models do consider global warming as part
of the rate-making process," said Rocky Scott, a spokesman for Citizens Property
Insurance Corp., the largest insurer in the state.

The long answer is much, much more complicated, said James Valverde, vice
president of economics and risk management at the Insurance Information
Institute.

"It's a tremendous challenge for the industry. You've touched on the very issue
where the rubber meets the road," he said.

Valverde and Scott were referring to the fact that software models play a large
role in setting rates for high-risk coastal areas, but even the best models are
far from perfect.

"This is not a simple task for anyone," Valverde said, yet the insurance
industry feels growing pressure, given the huge storms of recent years and the
uncertainty about how global warming will play out.

One report said that estimates of average annual losses from Atlantic hurricanes
should rise by about $3billion a year, and that up to $1.8billion of that
increase may be attributable to climate change.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report is due for release Friday,
but some important players in the insurance business have already started
raising rates for catastrophe loss because of global warming concerns.

"We've concluded that we should now write mega-cat policies only at prices far
higher than prevailed last year," Berkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett
told stockholders last year.

Buffett said that even the possibility of major changes in weather patterns made
raising prices on reinsurance, or backup policies for insurance companies, the
only sensible financial option for his companies.

In Florida, reinsurance costs make up as much as 60 percent of policy costs. The
state enacted a law last week that may help reduce reinsurance costs, though how
much remains to be seen.

Draft Links Hurricanes, Warming Trend

Valverde said that although it's clear the insurance industry needs to pay
attention to global warming risks, the uncertainty makes the situation difficult
for everyone.

For example, according to The Associated Press, drafts of the climate change
panel's report say stronger hurricanes and tropical cyclones since 1970 are
"more likely than not" linked to global warming.

But that wording could change before the final report is released. The issue is
still hotly debated in scientific circles. Just last fall, the World
Meteorological Organization, a co-sponsor of this report process, said it did
not have enough evidence to make a link.

A draft of the report also said the number of hurricanes will decrease, but the
ones that do occur will be more powerful, according to the Toronto Globe and
Mail.

Historical data show how tricky assumptions can be. For example, average
temperatures were cooler in the 1930s, yet there was a severe spike of hurricane
activity in that decade that rivaled the storms of 2004 and 2005.

There is general agreement, however, that higher ocean temperatures can
contribute to hurricane formation.

What it all comes down to is continued uncertainty, Citizens' Scott said.

"We're going to be stuck with the uncertainty. And that's the unfortunate part
of the whole situation. Insurance companies don't like uncertainty," he said.

Bob Lotane, a spokesman for the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, said
global warming isn't an actual component of any approved catastrophe models.

"It is one of many things the modelers are studying," he said.

Florida's public hurricane modeling program doesn't have a global warming
component, said Shahid Hamid, the project director at Florida International
University in Miami.

But Scott said experts at Citizens think private companies are factoring global
warming into their decisions in various ways.

The technical details of modeling hurricanes (or climate change) are incredibly
complex, Scott noted, so there's even confusion over how insurance companies use
data.

Valverde said many insurance companies have been reluctant to make any public
comment or otherwise suggest that humans are responsible for climate change.

Industry giant American International Group, though, has taken the lead on
pushing the issue. In a statement last year, AIG said it was "actively seeking
to incorporate environmental and climate change considerations across its
businesses, focusing on the development of products and services to help AIG and
its clients respond to the worldwide drive to cut greenhouse gas emissions."

The strong international report due for release Friday may provide cover - or
motivation - for others.

Insurers 'Need To Take The Higher Ground'

"Insurers, for their part, need to elevate themselves in the discussion. Make
the case that they've got skin in the game," Valverde said. "Insurers sort of
need to take the higher ground."

Even if that happens, there's a catch. If the worst-case scenario of global
warming causing more and stronger storms happens, a solution will require global
action, he said.

"When you're talking about global warming, there's really not much you can do to
change the weather," Valverde said. "That puts all of the onus on the
loss-prevention side," with measures such as stronger building codes.

China, India and Brazil also are projected to contribute huge amounts of
greenhouse gas to the atmosphere over the next few decades, and nothing the
United States and Europe do by themselves will be enough, Valverde said.

"It's a global problem; it requires global solutions. We're nowhere near that,"
he said.

(CHART) PREDICTION: MORE UNCERTAINTY

A report due Friday is expected to suggest global warming is all but certain...

Increase in global mean Temperature

Changes in global mean surface temperature relative to 1961-90 degrees Celsius

...but that doesn't guarantee more storms. There was a spike in hurricanes in
the late 1930s, even though global temperatures were much cooler then. And a
draft of the new report suggests that although hurricanes may be more powerful
in the future, there may be fewer of them.

Hurricanes by year

Tribune graphic; Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

Reporter Kevin Begos can be reached at kbegos@tampatrib.com or (850) 222-8382.

Photo credit: Tribune illustration by ANDY DORSETT

Photo: Florida insurer's check

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE INSIDE SCOOP

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words


A quick read of stories that matter to you from The News Center

Suits Look At Why Minorities Pay More For Car Loans

Black people have been charged higher auto loan rates than other auto buyers,
federal research says. But the gap in loan rates could narrow, and possibly
disappear, as the result of recently concluded lawsuits.

Black people paid a typical rate of 7 percent for new cars, compared with a rate
of 5 percent for white people in 2004, according to a consumer organization's
analysis of the Federal Reserve Survey of Consumer Finances. That was the most
recent survey available.

Lenders' suggested quote rates are based largely on the buyer's credit history,
but auto dealers often raise the rate higher than that risk-related rate without
discussing the rate with the customer, consumer advocates said. And they
question those rate differences.

Business, Page 1

oBlack buyers were more likely than auto buyers in general to have auto loan
rates above 15 percent. For used car loans, 27 percent of blacks were charged
interest rates of 15 percent or more. Blacks were three times as likely as
whites - 27 percent to 9 percent - to have auto loan rates at least that high.

oHispanics were paying a typical rate of 5.5 percent for new car loans.

Summer TV Will Be Hot

From bingo to terrorism, from quirky sleuths to sci-fi heroes, from sitcoms to
reality competitions, television will have more than a few things to keep us
inside during the sweltering summer months.

The broadcast networks are loaded up on reality shows that will feature
personalities such as basketball star Shaquille O'Neal and talk show host Jerry
Springer.

Cable networks TNT and TBS have ambitious summer plans that include "Heartland,"
an original drama starring Treat Williams of "Everwood" fame as a transplant
surgeon.

oABC will roll out "National Bingo Night" on May 18. Host Ed Sanders of "Extreme
Makeover: Home Edition" will coax players as they try to cover a bingo card for
big prizes. Viewers can play along.

o"On The Lot" (May 22, Fox): Steven Spielberg produces this weekly filmmaking
competition in which the grand prize is a deal with DreamWorks movie studio.

o"The Ex-Wives Club" (May 28. ABC): Celebrity ex-wives (such as Shar Jackson and
Marla Maples) help other divorcees deal with their new lives.

BayLife, Page 1

Forum To Address Climate

Top Florida scientists will join state policy-makers in Tampa this week for
separate meetings aimed at mapping a state strategy for global warming.

Tonight, the Climate Change Advisory Group to the Florida Energy Commission will
hold its second public hearing at Tampa International Airport. During the
meeting, the advisory group will listen to residents, businesses and interest
groups who have ideas on how the state should deal with climate change.

oWednesday, a three-day conference on climate change begins at the Renaissance
Tampa Hotel. Panels consisting of scientists and government officials will look
at the unique challenges Florida faces as the climate and water temperatures
warm.

oThe Florida Legislature created the Florida Energy Commission last year to
recommend ways to lessen the state's dependence on foreign oil, increase uses of
sustainable energy and reduce Florida's greenhouse gas emissions. The advisory
group was charged with collecting information from experts and the public to
help the commission make its recommendations.

Metro, Page 1


CORRECTIONS

It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, call (813) 259-7600.

CORRECTION: Vickie Renee Brown's medical status was incorrect in Sunday's Metro
section. She was listed in good condition Monday at St. Joseph's Hospital.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo (2003)

Photo: White auto buyers paid an average auto loan rate of 5 percent for new
cars in 2004. Black buyers paid 7 percent, a survey shows.

Photo: (game show host)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 5, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Solutions Can Boost Agriculture

BYLINE: CONNIE MACK

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 878 words


By CONNIE MACK

Agriculture is a global industry in the throes of change. This means challenges,
of course. But it also means opportunities - opportunities with potentially very
profitable yields.

It is no exaggeration to claim that from the seeds planted in today's crop rows
will sprout new paradigms for our national and world economies.

But the next few years are critical. Agriculture, perhaps more than any U.S.
industry, is in a position to help shape the climate and energy policies and
legislation that will determine to a large extent the workings of the new
markets and economy.

Among these opportunities and challenges, the one drawing most attention in
Florida today is global climate change. Climate change is exacerbated by the
buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. As this build-up
continues, weather patterns become extreme, generating hotter heat waves, colder
freezes, stronger hurricanes and intensified crop-destroying droughts.

Exactly how we achieve the goal of reducing these gases is already energizing
many forward-thinking and innovative American entrepreneurs who recognize that
an economic shift is underway, a shift marked by the abandonment of aging,
inefficient equipment and processes and the introduction of new technologies
that are cleaner and more energy efficient.

This shift will make us more independent and secure, enhance our self-reliance
and create new jobs and wealth.

With bold leadership, Gov. Charlie Crist already has begun pushing and prodding
the state economy to awaken to these new possibilities. In July he signed
executive orders during a historic summit in Miami that will cap CO2 emissions,
a leading greenhouse gas. Florida, along with California and a handful of other
states, is suddenly on the leading edge.

Perhaps the most exciting area for agriculture lies in establishing new economic
incentives for market-based climate control.

It is now up to Congress to pass climate control legislation to reduce
greenhouse gases. The question is whether it will include carbon credit offsets
and commodity trading. If it does, then agriculture will have the opportunity to
participate in a profitable new market: The selling of carbon credit offsets to
businesses that have yet to reduce their emissions.

This system is called "cap and trade."

The first step in a cap and trade system involves government or another
authority setting a limit, or cap, on how much pollutant a company
(manufacturers, electric utilities and farms, for example) may emit. Credits or
allowances are given to each organization corresponding to the specific amount
of carbon they may emit. The total credits may not exceed the cap on emissions.
A company that pollutes beyond its credit must buy the equivalent additional
credits from those who pollute less than their allowance.

A farm, an electric utility or a manufacturing plant that reduces its emission
below its allowance is rewarded by the system through the ability to sell, or
trade, its excess credits. Because those who can do so will reduce their
greenhouse emissions while those who cannot will buy credits, the result is a
reduction in greenhouse gasses at the lowest possible cost to society.

Agricultural operations can create such carbon offset credits through capturing
methane from manure, directly reducing emissions of farm machinery, reducing
fertilizer applications, using low carbon (ethanol, biodiesel) fuel, using
no-till and direct seed drilling techniques that do not release as much
naturally stored carbon and by planting trees on marginal land.

While an unlimited market would be best, even a limited market allowing for
agriculture carbon credits could be worth $8 billion to $10 billion, putting it
in one of the top five commodities nationwide.

Unfettered agricultural GHG offset marketing also will stimulate innovation in
agriculture and other land-based sectors, bring new methods and technologies to
the market, stimulate new rural businesses, create new jobs and stabilize
agricultural income.

We know that land-management practices in the United States can clearly meet a
potential 20-year targeted cut of approximately 2,300 million metric tons of CO2
per year. The Consortium for Agricultural Soil Mitigation of Greenhouse Gases, a
group of nine state universities doing research on agriculture's ability to
reduce greenhouse gases, estimates that the agriculture industry alone could
provide nearly one-third of the projected reduction in emissions needed by the
utility industry.

However, of the many climate bills now being introduced in Congress, few include
agricultural carbon markets.

It would be a pity if Florida agriculture missed out on the opportunity to vault
to the forefront of coming economic changes. The seeds already planted should be
allowed to grow, mature and yield.

Connie Mack is a founder of Liberty Partners Inc. and a former U.S. senator from
Florida.

Photo credit: Associated Press photo

Photo: Any potential "cap and trade" system for carbon emissions would benefit
the agricultural industry, which already emits less carbon dioxide, allowing it
to trade credits for addtional revenue.

Photo: Connie Mack

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rove's Exit May Open Door For Crist's Stances

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words


GOVERNOR SEEKS TO REDIRECT GOP

By WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The resignation of White House political guru Karl Rove is part of a
change of leadership in the Republican Party, a change in which Florida Gov.
Charlie Crist wants to play an important part.

For more than a decade, Rove has been the principal political architect behind
the George W. Bush era in politics, an era that is now ending.

Crist is one of a group of newer faces on the Republican scene seeking to change
the direction of the party, in Florida and nationwide.

"Every governor or president wants to put their own direction on the party,"
said University of South Florida political scientist Darryl Paulson. "Crist is
one of those who look at what's happened in the party and sees the only way it's
going to be competitive is to change."

Since his campaign for governor, Crist has none-too-subtly declared his
independence from the Bush White House. Thinly veiled criticism of White House
environmental policy, delivered during the Climate Change Summit that Crist held
along with California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, was only the latest example.

In his campaign, he routinely proclaimed Bush's brother Jeb, then governor of
Florida, "the greatest governor in America." Since taking over the office,
however, Crist has made it clear he owes no allegiance to many of Jeb Bush's
policies, even while he continues to praise Bush.

Crist even had a publicized near-confrontation with Rove during his campaign,
when Crist refused to join President Bush in a GOP rally in North Florida just
before the election.

An irked Rove mocked Crist's decision, saying Crist couldn't draw as big a crowd
as Bush.

For Crist, Civil Rights Is A GOP Issue

Crist, who wasn't available to comment Monday, has said he wants to reorient the
Republican Party to issues and constituencies it hasn't been concentrating on,
but which he says are the true "roots" of the Republican Party. They range from
civil rights and the environment to what he calls improper behavior by large
corporations including insurance companies and utilities.

However, Crist maintains his ties to the conservatives in his party by
emphasizing his commitment to cutting taxes, said supporter Brian Ballard, a
Tallahassee lawyer and prominent GOP fundraiser.

Ballard, a strong backer of both Bush brothers, played down Crist's differences
with them. Instead, he said, Crist is promoting "a new brand of conservatism
helping capture independents and Democrats. He's more independent and more
libertarian than most conservatives."

Crist's success in November, when Republicans lost far more than they won - as
well as consistently high poll ratings since - is likely to give him the
standing and potential to help change the party's direction.

"To win and win handily in a down year for Republicans made people take notice
of him," said Aubrey Jewett, a University of Central Florida political
scientist. "He's had several dramatic moments where he's gotten national
attention," particularly the climate change initiative and a move to expedite
return of voting rights to convicted felons.

"Still, he's only a governor in his first year of his first term," Jewett said.
"It will be awhile before he's truly a national player - unless he gets picked
for a running mate spot."

GOP Activists Say Rove's Move Expected

Rove's resignation, said several Florida GOP activists, is an expected and
normal part of the winding down of the Bush administration.

Rove's resignation could help the Republicans by removing from the political
scene a figure who has become controversial, Paulson said.

"You could argue that this is the best way for Rove to help the GOP to prepare
for 2008 - by getting himself out of the way and out of the limelight," said
Paulson, a Republican who supports Rudy Giuliani for president and has been a
Crist supporter.

"The biggest problem the GOP has right now is George W. Bush. Rove has been so
associated with Bush as his tactician, it creates the notion that there's a new
day in the GOP along with a new candidate on the horizon."

That also could help Crist.

"It provides an opportunity for new ideas to come in and broadens the scope of
counsel to the president," said current state GOP Chairman Jim Greer, a close
Crist political ally. "Any time change occurs and opportunities for new ideas to
be presented, that's a good thing in government."

Jewett said Crist could be one of the sources of those new ideas.

"The Republican Party seems to be changing," he said. "All the presidential
candidates are certainly distancing themselves from George Bush, and the
frontrunner, Giuliani, is more of a Charlie Crist Republican, more moderate on
social issues."

"If you look at some of the governors around the country, you could say they are
changing the face of the party," he said. "The two most obvious are Charlie
Crist and Arnold Schwarzenegger."

Nationally, Jewett said, it worries some conservatives that Crist is "successful
and he's not one of them. For the wing of the party that's more pragmatic and
wants to get back into power, he's one of the top examples of how Republicans
can get past the war in Iraq, an issue that's dragged them down."

Reporter William March can be reached at wmarch@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-7761.

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: President Bush's tactician Karl Rove announces his resignation Monday.
Experts say the move "provides an opportunity for new ideas to come in."

Photo credit: McClatchy Newspapers

Photo: President Bush hugs strategist Karl Rove, who criticized Charlie Crist
during his campaign when he refused to join the president in a GOP rally in
North Florida.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 29, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DARK SKIES

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 770 words


Scientists are using new methods to examine the effects of one of nature's
original polluters: volcanoes.

By KURT LOFT

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Since the height of the Industrial Age, people have pumped untold
amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and scientists continue to
study -- and debate -- the shortand long-term effects on climate.

But they also want to know more about the role of one of nature's own
"polluters" -- volcanoes -- and how high-altitude plumes play a part in altering

the atmosphere.

Now, researchers are developing a method to better understand the influence

of volcanic eruptions on the chemistry of the atmosphere and the planet's
overall climate. The goal is to reduce the uncertainty of climate models by
feeding them more accurate historical information.

A team of American and French scientists studying the chemical fingerprint

of fallout from past eruptions say it reveals two things: how high the volcanoes
belched their gases and how these aerosol plumes influenced the atmosphere.

"In predictions about global warming, the greatest amount of error is associated

with atmospheric aerosols," said Mark Thiemens, a chemist with the University of
California at San Diego and author of a report in the journal Science. "Now, for
the first time, we can account for all the chemistry involving [volcanic gases]
and how these particles are made and transported. That's a big deal with climate
change."

Thiemens worked with the National Center for Scientific Research and the
University of Grenoble in France in their research on the height of past

eruptions. Why does it make a difference?

Because the higher the gas and particles go during an eruption, the more

they spread into the upper atmosphere and stay there for longer periods. If the

plume only reaches the lower atmosphere -- as in the case of Mount St.

Helens -- rain washes it out before it can travel great distances.

When volcanic gas is blown high into the stratosphere, it doesn't interact

with water vapor and remains relatively stable. Then, it forms a blanket that

reflects sunlight, cooling the Earth. For this reason, volcanoes over history

may have had a "reverse" global warming effect.

The researchers determined how far volcanic particles traveled by studying

ice core samples in Antarctica. Highflying particles were exposed to higher

concentrations of radiation that created isotopes. They compared evidence

of ancient eruptions with that of modern ones, which have the advantage

of being tracked with sophisticated instruments. Two were the 1963 eruption

of Mount Agung in Bali and the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the
Philippines.

Pinatubo was an event of global scale. It killed 270 people, left 250,000

homeless and obliterated much of the island of Luzon. Scientists estimate it

pumped 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide, much of it reacting with water

vapor to create sulfuric acid. Particles that soared up to 22 miles formed
lightreflecting crystals.

As a result, they cooled the Earth's atmosphere by more than 1 degree

Fahrenheit for more than a year. However, the eruption also produced a shift

in wind patterns over the North Atlantic that lead to a warmer-than-usual

winter in Europe, experts say.

Pinatubo was a blip on the radar compared with the Tambora event of 1815,
considered a "super-colossal" eruption that led to the so-called "Year

Without a Summer" and much global famine.

"In the past, volcanoes have been able to change climate quite a bit," said

Jose Antonio Rial, a geophysicist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel

Hill. "Anybody who wants to do climate modeling of the last millennium has to
consider what is called a volcanic forcing of the climate.

"If anything, volcanoes have diminished global warming, so we have to

be thankful," Rial said. "Sometimes you wish there were more volcanoes, because
they are really part of the phenomena of global dimming."

Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at (813)259-7570 or kloft@tmapatrib.com

Photo: Clouds of ash from Mount St. Helens fill the sky above the Ephrata,
Wash., airport in this photo taken May 19, 1980, one day after the volcano's
eruption.

Photo credit: Photos from the Associated Press

Filipino farmers plow their rice fields as Mount Pinatubo blasts smoke and ash
into the atmosphere July 8, 1991. Pinatubo's eruption killed 270 people, left
250,000 homeless and spewed 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide, much of it
reacting with water vapor to create sulfuric acid. The Earth's atmosphere was
cooled by more than 1 degree for more than a year.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 514 words


Surgery Without Scars

Physicians one day hope to perform surgery without leaving unsightly scars. A
team at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center is working on a
technique that uses magnetic surgical tools inserted into the abdomen through
the bellybutton or throat. The challenge is how to move them once they're inside
the human body.

"A fixed hole has a limited working envelope," said Jeffrey Cadeddu, a professor
of urology and radiology. "Once you think about it, it's an obvious thing."

The system uses a stack of magnets outside the abdomen to attract other magnets
attached to laparoscopic instruments inside the abdomen. Surgeons can then move
the outside magnets to position an internal camera at the best spot for seeing
or to move a retractor or other surgical instrument. Once positioned, the
instruments can be locked in place.

In animal studies, surgeons successfully removed a kidney using what they call a
Magnetic Anchoring and Guidance System.

Saturn Eclipse

It's not every day we can see an eclipse of Saturn, but thanks to the Cassini
spacecraft, we have an image for the ages. With giant Saturn backlit by the sun,
Cassini recently provided a new view of the rings, revealing previously unknown
faint rings, shown in the photo.

The images that make up this mosaic were acquired as Cassini drifted in the
darkness of Saturn's shadow for about 12 hours, allowing a multitude of
observations of the microscopic particles that comprise Saturn's faint rings.

A Hot Future

A new global warming study predicts that many current climate zones will vanish
entirely by the year 2100, replaced by climates unknown in today's world.

Global climate models for the next century forecast the complete disappearance
of several existing climates found in tropical highlands and regions near the
poles, while large swaths of the tropics and subtropics may develop climates
unlike anything seen today. One of the most severely affected areas of the world
will be the southeastern United States, including Florida.

Driven by worldwide greenhouse gas emissions, the climate modeling study uses
average summer and winter temperatures and precipitation levels to map the
differences between climate zones today and in the year 2100, and anticipates
large climate changes worldwide. The work, by researchers at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Wyoming, appears in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences.

Plesiosaur Clarification

In a recent story on the discovery of a plesiosaur fossil in Antarctica, we
incorrectly referred to a marine reptile as a dinosaur.

Science Stumper

Rick Raubfogel of Tampa was the first reader to correctly answer our last trivia
question: What kind of acid is so corrosive that it eats through metal or glass
containers? Answer: hydrofluoric acid.

Now for today's stumper: What is the normal life expectancy of a redwood tree?
Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Photo: Saturn

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Bill Hits Senate

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words


GROUP WOULD HELP FORM STATE'S POLICY

By KEVIN BEGOS

The Tampa Tribune

TALLAHASSEE - A new bill seeks to create the Florida Climate Action Partnership
to give the governor a powerful tool to form state policy on global warming
issues.

Sen. Burt Saunders from Naples is one of several Republican lawmakers taking
notice of what was long a Democratic issue.

Saunders got the idea from a member of Environmental Defense, a Washington,
D.C., group that seeks to work with businesses, government and scientists to
solve problems.

Saunders said he didn't know much about the group, but it struck him that
Florida has a lot to lose if even some global warming predictions come true.

"The impacts to Florida could be felt early on and be very dramatic," he said,
adding that the purpose of his legislation, SB 2446, is to create a high-level
group around the governor to direct the discussion on how climate change may
have an impact on the state.

The group also would be required to develop a comprehensive Florida Climate
Mitigation Action Plan that would include recommendations to reduce greenhouse
gases.

The 25-member group would include the Senate president and House speaker, Chief
Financial Officer Alex Sink and Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson.

Saunders said one of his concerns is for Florida officials to be ready and "have
a seat at the table" if Congress passes serious legislation limiting carbon
emissions.

Discussion On Issue Is Progressing

Tony Kreindler, a spokesman for Environmental Defense, said discussion in
Washington is progressing rapidly on the issue, as both the House and Senate are
pushing to pass legislation by next year.

Florida environmentalists welcomed Saunders' bill - with some reservations.

Sierra Club lobbyist Susie Caplowe said that just talking about carbon emissions
and writing a report won't be enough.

"If meaningful, constructive timelines come out, then it will be terrific
progress," she said, but she predicted that industry will fight having to make
real changes.

Such caps on emissions could be expensive for some industries, such as
utilities.

Trying To Find Common Ground

Charles Pattison, executive director of the conservation group 1000 Friends of
Florida, was more hopeful.

"I think you've got to start somewhere. I'd rather see that than nothing," he
said of the Saunders bill. "I think having a high-level commission is key. If
you don't lay the foundation, it's going to be hard to make the changes.

"I'm very hopeful there can be some common ground" with industry, government
officials and the environmental community, he said.

Saunders said he has been told that Crist and leaders in the Legislature support
his bill, which would fund the climate action partnership for one year, with
$500,000.

If the commission is formed, however, Crist may face some challenges beyond
those in California, which has passed significant climate legislation.

Florida "really doesn't have the revenues to be extremely aggressive" said Lance
deHaven-Smith, a professor of public policy at Florida State University.

"Clearly, Florida's got more to lose than any other state. The difficulty is
galvanizing the public and the legislature for action," he said.

(CHART) WHAT'S NEXT

Senate Bill 2446 passed the Environmental Preservation and Conservation
committee by unanimous vote Thursday. It still faces hearings in the
Communications and Public Utilities and General Government Appropriations
committees.

Sponsor

Sen. Burt Saunders, R-Naples; saunders.burt.web@flsenate.gov, (850) 487-5124

Track Bills

www.flsenate.gov

Reporter Kevin Begos can be reached at (850) 222-8382 or kbegos@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LEGISLATURE 2007

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crist Sees Florida As Green Leader

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words


DRAFT ORDERS INCLUDE TOUGH EMISSIONS CURBS

By MIKE SALINERO

The Tampa Tribune

TALLAHASSEE - Gov. Charlie Crist wants to follow California's lead and turn
Florida into a green state by capping greenhouse gas emissions, requiring
environmentally friendly building codes and turning state government into a
model of energy efficiency.

If adopted as drafted, a series of executive orders Crist could sign as early as
Friday will change the state's environmental landscape.

Dirty power plants would be required to dramatically reduce emissions while
converting 20 percent of their production to renewable energy. Greenhouse gas
emissions from vehicles would be cut.

Crist plans to discuss the proposals Friday at the Summit on Global Climate
Change in Miami.

The summit starts Thursday and features scientists, alternative energy experts
and environmental officials from across the country and as far away as Germany
and Japan.

Crist will share the spotlight with California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, seen
by many environmentalists as a national leader on statewide solutions to the
climate change problem. Crist will meet with Schwarzenegger about California's
energy policies and attend a series of meetings and presentations.

"Once that all concludes, we'll make a final decision on what the executive
order will contain," Crist said Tuesday. "I'm optimistic because at certain
points with any discussion or any debate or any issue, you reach a point where
change occurs, and I think we're at that point."

Drafts of the executive orders were released Tuesday and show Crist would set
caps on emissions by electric utilities. The caps will come in stages, with the
first reduction goals coming in 2017 when power plant emissions would be capped
at 2000 levels. By 2050, emissions couldn't exceed 20 percent of 1990 levels.

Utilities also could be asked to produce 20 percent of their power with
renewable sources, such as solar and wind energy.

Coal-fired power plants in the United States, such as the Big Bend plant in
Apollo Beach, are responsible for 83 percent of the emissions of carbon dioxide,
the chief greenhouse gas.

One method of helping utilities reach the reductions is through a regional cap
and trade system with other states. Under cap and trade, power plants with
emissions over the cap can buy credits from plants that have installed the
necessary equipment to achieve the reductions.

"We should be a leader in this area," Crist said. "When you look at the
Southeast of our country, there hasn't been a whole lot of action. Maybe we can
be the point of the spear as it relates to making a difference, striving to lead
by example and partnering with our great friend from the West, Gov.
Schwarzenegger."

Tampa Electric Co. spokesman Rick Morera said the company would have no comment
until the documents are signed by the governor.

Governors can use executive orders to take direct action through executive
department agencies. It's unclear whether the governor has the power to order
such dramatic changes in state energy policy without concurrence from the
Legislature or regulating bodies. Crist's communication director, Erin Isaac,
said those details are under review.

Crist wants the state government to set the course for the private sector by
having all agencies review their operations in search of energy efficiencies.
The agencies will be asked to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent by
2012, increasing to a 25 percent reduction by 2017.

Researcher Michael Messano and reporter Jerome Stockfisch contributed to this
report. Reporter Mike Salinero can be reached at msalinero@tampatrib.com or
(813) 259-8303.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Needs Capping

BYLINE: GERALD KARNAS and MARK MAKSIMOWICZ

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 548 words


By GERALD KARNAS and MARK MAKSIMOWICZ

Commuters may have noticed a bright yellow 17-foot by 10-foot banner off the
Howard Frankland Bridge on the way to work. It's pretty hard to miss. The Green
Armada and Environmental Defense have launched the campaign to help get the word
out on a hot-button issue - the choices Americans, especially Floridians, need
to make on global warming.

The leaders of Green Armada decided two years ago to preserve the health and
beauty of our waterways. The choice was to either ignore the litter and
pollution lining our shores or to build a barge, put on gloves and get out on
the water and make a difference.

The United States faces a similar choice with atmospheric pollution and our
energy future. Does America want to be more energy independent, create new
incentives for entrepreneurs, encourage new opportunities for farmers and
protect its environment? Or do we want to wait and hope that global warming
might just go away regardless of how much pollution we pump into the atmosphere?

Are Floridians willing to gamble with the state's 1,200 miles of coastline,
given that climate change is expected to trigger calamitous rising sea levels
and more severe storms?

A panel of retired U.S. generals and admirals recently observed climate change
as a "threat multiplier" for every major national security threat America faces
today.

The good news is there are solutions. America needs policies that give
incentives to minimize releases of carbon dioxide and other global-warming
pollutants.

Once this becomes common practice, the positive impacts from fighting climate
change will create a ripple effect and begin providing solutions to other
problems.

What's needed is a policy that sets a cap, or explicit limit, on the quantity of
global-warming pollution that can be emitted into the atmosphere. Such
pollution, primarily carbon dioxide (CO2), comes mainly from burning oil and
other fossil fuels.

Power plants and other sources that emit large quantities of global warming
pollutants would only be allowed to release a specific amount. Because global
warming is caused by the total releases of global warming pollution emitted
worldwide, a company that reduces its emissions below its allowed level could
sell the remaining allowances to other companies - resulting in a cost-effective
solution.

This approach has a track record of success. In the early 1990s the first
President Bush, with bipartisan support in Congress, created a cap-and-trade
program to stop acid rain. The program reduced emissions of acid rain pollutants
far faster than originally projected - and at only a quarter of the expected
cost.

One result of this new cap on carbon pollution is that businesses will find ways
to be more efficient in how they use oil and other fossil fuels. This will spur
new investments in energy-efficient technology.

As the bright yellow banner says, the choice is stark: We can stick our heads in
the sand, or we can fight global warming.

Sand belongs on Florida's beaches, not in Congress's ears.

Gerald Karnas is Florida climate project director for the Environmental Defense
and Mark Maksimowicz is cofounder of the Green Armada Coastal Cleanup.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warming Poses Catastrophic Risks For State

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 570 words


QUICK ACTION IS NEEDED, TAMPA CONFERENCE TOLD

By MIKE SALINERO

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Now that there is scientific consensus that humans' carbon emissions are
warming the Earth, citizens must convince policy-makers to take immediate action
to limit emissions and prepare for the effects related to climate change.

That was the message in Tampa on Wednesday during a state conference on climate
change. The conference continues today and Friday at the Tampa Renaissance
Hotel.

Speakers cited rising sea levels, the frequency of droughts and the spread of
exotic species as global warming-related problems that pose catastrophic risks
for Florida's future.

The state is fifth in the nation in carbon emissions and third in energy
consumption. Unlike 29 other states, Florida has yet to develop a climate action
plan.

Susan Glickman, Florida policy director for the Natural Resources Defense, said
state policy-makers finally have gotten the message. She cited Gov. Charlie
Crist's State of the State speech in which he linked global warming to the
property insurance crisis. Crist has ordered the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection to develop a greenhouse gas inventory and forecast.

States are taking the lead in plans to reduce greenhouse gasses because of
inaction by the Bush administration, said Tony Peterson, of the Center for
Climate Strategies.

"The reality is the states are the big kids on the block" as far as both energy
consumption and their ability to reduce emissions, Peterson said.

Leading the way is California under Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. The state last
year passed a bill that would reduce greenhouse gasses in 2020 to 1990 levels.
California, with 35 million people, has decades of experience dealing with
environmental problems, said Nick Bollman of the Center for Urban and
Environmental Solutions at Florida Atlantic University.

"California has a 28-year head start with the California Energy Commission,"
Bollman said, comparing it with the Florida Energy Commission, created just last
year.

"But I think Florida can catch up," Bollman said.

He said California is targeting the biggest polluters, exempting small
businesses. The plan will not be fully implemented until 2012.

"You don't need to do the wrong thing quickly," he said. "You need to do the
right thing systematically."

Bollman said gubernatorial leadership is essential in getting legislators and
business leaders to cooperate on greenhouse gas reduction. Like Glickman,
Bollman sees Crist's State of the State speech as a turning point.

"When the governor leads on this, you can get a whole lot more done than
otherwise," he said.

Ultimately, Floridians will have to support a broad-based carbon reduction plan
for it to succeed. Thomas Crisman, professor of the environment at the Patel
Center for Global Solutions here, said the plan should appeal to the two things
Floridians care about most: water and money.

As an example, Crisman cited the tremendous costs of ridding the state of exotic
species such as Brazilian pepper and melaleuca trees. He said exotic plants and
animal species are moving north from South Florida as temperatures get warmer.

"How are they affecting the ecosystem?" he asked. "We don't know but they're
expanding."

Reporter Mike Salinero can be reached at msalinero@tampatrib.com or (813)
259-8303.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 22, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HOW GREEN ARE WE?

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words


A Lack Of Environmental Progress Has City Leaders Wondering ...

By MIKE SALINERO

The Tampa Tribune

Nearly a year after Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio pledged to reduce greenhouse gases and
conserve energy, little of significance has been done.

A "Green Team" the mayor formed has yet to meet, and most of the goals she
pledged remain unfulfilled as Tampa lags behind other cities that made the same
pledge.

"I think we need to pick up the pace," said City Councilwoman Linda Saul-Sena.
"I have seen words that we're going to do something, but I haven't seen action."

When Iorio signed the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement in February, she
pledged to reduce global warming pollution from city activities. The agreement
listed 12 suggested areas, from discouraging urban sprawl to promoting recycling
to buying more hybrid vehicles, where local governments could achieve reductions
in greenhouse gases.

Yet the city has implemented few of the policies listed in the document. Other
cities in Florida and around the nation have moved on sustainability measures
that Tampa is still talking about.

For example, the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government in Kentucky has
replaced all its traffic signals with low-wattage bulbs and gone to once-a-week
garbage service to save gas and reduce carbon dioxide emissions.

"We want to do what makes sense for the environment and at the same time
something that saves the taxpayer money," said Tom Web, environmental compliance
coordinator in Lexington.

Iorio, who did not return messages seeking comment, has trumpeted a number of
policies and projects she says show the city's commitment to a clean
environment. Some of her examples, however, amount to taking credit for projects
begun under previous administrations, such as the city's waste-to-energy plant,
or private-sector initiatives, such as residential condominium projects downtown
and in the Channel District.

New initiatives, such as those suggested in the mayors' agreement, will have to
wait until the city's Green Team finally convenes in January.

"Before we decide where we need to go, we need to find out where we are," said
Nancy McCann, who along with Varghese Jacob is charged with coordinating the
city's green efforts. "We're making an inventory of all the things we're doing,
then we'll get the teams together."

Frustration At Slow Pace

The city has taken some actions aimed at reducing energy costs and gas
consumption. For instance, some of the largest city-owned rooftops, including
the Tampa Convention Center, have been redone using the most up-to-date coatings
to increase reflectivity and reduce heat absorption. The city also recently
purchased eight hybrid vehicles for the code enforcement, solid waste and growth
management and development departments.

Iorio gets credit from some city council members for restarting regional
discussions about developing a mass transit system. She also has expanded the
city's curbside recycling program to include metals in addition to aluminum.
Last year, for the first time, the city participated in a Hillsborough County
program to teach middle and elementary school students about recycling.

Some builders and architects credit the city with at least starting to talk
about potential changes to city codes and ordinances to save energy and conserve
water.

"There are some municipalities that aren't even having the conversation," said
Lisa Montelione, a Tampa home builder. "Give the city credit for opening the
door and having the conversation and attempting to put regulations or incentives
in place."

Still, the administration's talk has resulted in few new policies. Council
member Saul-Sena said she's been prodding the administration for nearly two
years to create incentives for the private sector to construct buildings that
are more energy and water-efficient.

"The reality is that so far I can't see much that's happened," she said.

Saul-Sena said a builder recently brought site plans for a green building into
the city to be reviewed. She said no one in the department had been trained in
evaluating such plans.

Peter Crawford, of Urban Studio Architects, said he offered to make his staff
available free of charge to train city employees to review green building plans.
He never got any response.

"It seemed the focus from that [city] department was much narrower than we in
the green building community have seen in other municipalities in the state and
the nation," Crawford said.

Tired of waiting for the administration to act, the city council began meeting
this year with builders, architects and others in the private sector to look at
incentives that would encourage more buildings with sustainable features. Their
large need for electricity makes buildings account for nearly 39 percent of
emissions of carbon dioxide, a major greenhouse gas, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.

Using information gleaned in the meetings, Councilman John Dingfelder developed
the rough outlines of an ordinance that goes beyond green building incentives to
include reducing gas consumption and changes in landscape codes to promote water
conservation. The ordinance needs more work, but Dingfelder and Saul-Sena want
to present it to the council once it's ready.

"It's a little frustrating," Dingfelder said of the administration's slow pace
on a green building ordinance. "There are already 100 other cities that have
adopted various forms of green ordinances and sustainability formulas. We're
playing a little catch-up and the time is right."

Good Examples Abound

Tampa could draw some inspiration from just across the bay. In May, the Florida
Green Building Council designated St. Petersburg as the state's first "Green
City." The council cited the city for using hybrid vehicles and bio-diesel
fuels. The city has one of the country's largest reclaimed water systems and
more than 50 miles of bike trails.

St. Petersburg has also offers rebates of between $2,800 and $3,500 off permit
fees for buildings that are LEED certified. LEED stands for Leadership in Energy
and Environmental Design, a national benchmark for green buildings.

The building council also recognized Pinellas County as a certified green local
government, citing the county's efforts to preserve wildlife habitat and passing
progressive solid waste policies. These include providing recycling drop-off
sites, a household electronics and chemicals collection center, used oil
recycling and a recycling education program.

Closer to home, Hillsborough County government is gathering information
necessary to seek Green Local Government certification. The county has put
together a five-page list of green initiatives. Some of the highlights:

*Hired an energy manager who instituted programs that save more than $1.6
million in costs and eliminated 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide emission annually

*Fast-track site plan review and permitting for green building projects

*Replacing outdated computers with machines with highest energy ratings

*Replacing incandescent lights in traffic signals with light-emitting diode
(LED) lights, which use 92 percent less wattage

The county-owned Tampa Bay History Center, now under construction, will be the
first LEED-certified building in Hillsborough. C.J. Roberts, chief executive
officer of the History Center, said the county wanted to put as many green
features as possible in the building, but balked at taking the more expensive
steps to get LEED certification. The History Center's endowment then covered the
difference.

"As my team started looking at how the building was developing and becoming more
and more like a LEED building, it made sense to get all those elements and go a
step further and seek LEED certification," Roberts said. "We all felt you can't
be in the business of stewardship of history and not at the same time feel
obligation to be a steward of the environment."

The new Tampa Art Museum, which will be built with $17.5 million in city tax
money, includes many green-building features but will not be LEED certified,
according to city officials.

Action On The Way

McCann and Jacob, who lead the city's Department of Solid Waste and
Environmental Program Management, said they are still trying to gather
information to find out what is already being done in terms of energy saving,
recycling and water conservation.

"There are things here and things there," McCann said. "We have to understand
what's been done and what hasn't been done."

Two city staffers have been assigned to do a greenhouse gas emissions inventory,
one of the goals in the Mayors Climate Protection Agreement.

Some energy-saving measures already being considered, McCann said, include
turning yard waste into ethanol and going to once-a-week garbage pickup.

"By the end of February, there will be a fabulous list of everything that's
going on because that's when the chairs of the green committees will be
compiling lists," McCann said.

(CHART)

Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio signed the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement in
February. The agreement listed suggestions for cities to reduce their greenhouse
gases:

*Make energy efficiency a priority through building code improvements

*Maintain healthy urban forests

*Adopt and enforce land-use policies that reduce sprawl

*Inventory greenhouse gas emissions and set reduction targets

*Increase fuel efficiency in city vehicles; reduce number of vehicles

*Purchase only equipment rated for energy efficiency

Source: U.S. Conference of Mayors

(CHART) SPARKLING WATERS: Check out the lights tonight at the Holiday Boat
Parade in the Channel District. The parade launches at 6:30 p.m. from Davis
Islands and ends at the Tampa Convention Center.

CELEBRATE KWANZAA: The Kwanzaa Celebration today at the Polk Museum of Art, 800
E. Palmetto St. in Lakeland, features the Kuumba Dancers, drummers,
storytelling, dance, music and more. The free event runs from 1 to 4 p.m. Call
(863) 688-7743.

SUGAR PLUM DREAMS: "The Great Russian Nutcracker" at St. Petersburg's Mahaffey
Theater bridges the classical era with Russia's new generation of dancers and
principal artists. Performances are at 3 and 7:30 p.m. today. Tickets are $37 to
$67. Call (727) 892-5798.

EVERY TIME A BELL RINGS: If this classic from Frank Capra, Jimmy Stewart, Donna
Reed and Henry Travers doesn't get you in the Christmas spirit, will anything?
"It's a Wonderful Life" graces the Tampa Theatre big screen, with a
Wurlitzer-powered holiday singalong before the show. It's at 3 p.m. Sunday.
Tickets are $8 for adults.

BETTER THAN A COAL-FILLED STOCKING: The Bad Santa Holiday Party at Side
Splitters Comedy Club at 7 p.m. Sunday features live comedy performances,
appetizer buffet, pictures with "Bad Santa" and post-show party. Bring new toy
for free admission. Tickets are $10 to $15 The club is at 12938 N. Dale Mabry
Highway, Tampa; call (813) 960-1197.

ONE LAST CHANCE: Tell the big guy what you want over pancakes at Breakfast with
Santa at The Pier in St. Petersburg from 8 to 10 a.m. today. Tickets are $15 for
adults, $10 for children. Call (727) 821-6443.

(CHART) GREEN ACROSS THE BAY

The Florida Green Building Council designated St. Petersburg as the state's
first "Green City" and certified Pinellas County as a green local government.

St. Petersburg is home to one of the nation's largest reclaimed water systems.

A household electronics drop-off is a hallmark of Pinellas County's recycling.

Reporter Mike Salinero can be reached at (813) 259-8303 or msalinero@tampatrib
.com.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo (2006)

Photo: St. Petersburg is home to one of the nation's largest reclaimed water
systems.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by JIM REED

Photo: A household electronics drop-off is a hallmark of Pinellas County's
recycling.

Photo: (Pam Iorio)

Photo: (illustration of green leaf with "City of Tampa" inscribed on it)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suit Widens Crist, Rubio Rift

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words


REPUBLICAN IDEOLOGIES DIVERGE

By WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - A lawsuit by state House Speaker Marco Rubio against Gov. Charlie Crist
over Indian gambling in Florida has brought a growing political rift between the
two into the open.

Neither side wants to talk openly about it, but Crist and Rubio clearly are
emerging as leaders of divergent groups in the Republican Party.

Rubio is building a power base representing the conservative side, while Crist
has angered some conservatives by taking the party and the state on a more
moderate, bipartisan path.

The two have had either muted or open clashes over other issues - property tax
reform, property insurance reform, Crist's climate change initiative and more.

"In essence, it has to do with the future control of the party, the soul of the
Republican Party," said University of South Florida political scientist Darryl
Paulson, a Republican.

Rubio, Paulson said, is "more in line with the conservative ideology that
brought Republicans into ascendancy in Florida, with Jeb Bush."

Crist, meanwhile, "looks at the changing dynamics in the state and nationally,
and believes the Florida party needs to adjust, or it's not going to be winning
elections," Paulson said.

Some Republicans say it's merely typical majority party infighting.

State Sen. Dan Webster, an ally of Crist although he's a conservative like
Rubio, called the situation a difference of opinion, not factionalism.

"What I see is two strong personalities and governing styles that sometimes
clash," he said. "There has always been a moderate wing of the Republican
Party."

Webster noted that the 2006 elections did not go well for Republicans and that
Crist was an exception. "His style and the way he handles issues is different
from others in the past, but it's right for Republicans for this particular
time."

Agendas Have Eyes On Future

Neither Rubio nor Crist agreed to be interviewed for this story. But it's widely
thought that their differences go beyond state policy issues and into ambitions
for the future.

"Each of them has a political agenda that goes beyond the position they hold
now, and each of them is trying to garner support for the future," said state
Sen. Jim King, R-Jacksonville, a legislative veteran.

On one point, Crist and Rubio agree.

Last spring, the Legislature enacted and Crist signed a Rubio proposal allowing
Florida officeholders to run for federal office without giving up their state
posts.

Though Rubio denied it, the law was perceived as aimed at making it less risky
for Crist to take a spot as a running mate on a presidential ticket. If the
ticket won, that would open the governor's office for hopefuls, including Rubio.

Bush's role in the political maneuvering is widely discussed among Republicans,
but almost never on the record.

Bush is known to be concerned about his legacy as governor, which brought
drastic changes to many aspects of Florida government.

He is also politically close to Rubio.

The speaker, a fellow Miamian, is the son of Cuban exiles, the first
Cuban-American to be Florida House speaker.

Bush began his business career with prominent anti-Castro Cuban real estate
developer Armando Codina, and prospered politically with the support of
influential Miami Cubans, including U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.

"There are obviously some ties to Jeb," King said of Rubio, mentioning Donna
Arduin, a loyal former Bush staffer hired by Rubio as a state budget consultant.
"They're in contact with each other frequently."

"Jeb made it clear from the beginning that he considered Marco a special person,
and pretty much anointed him a future governor," King said.

He was referring to a 2005 legislative ceremony designating Rubio as incoming
House speaker. Bush presented Rubio with a sword, saying, "I'm going to bestow
to you the sword of a great conservative warrior."

Rubio's spokeswoman, Jill Chamberlin, said Rubio is asked frequently about Crist
and Bush.

"He says he supports the governor and believes he does an excellent job, but
it's not his job as house speaker to evaluate him - that's up to the public,"
she said.

Chamberlin said Bush and Rubio "have a bit of a social relationship, and may
have attended family birthday parties."

Bush didn't respond to an e-mail inquiry for this story.

Crist Whittling Away Bush Legacy

Crist's relationship with Bush, by comparison, has been cool.

Although he campaigned for governor as an heir to the Bush legacy, frequently
calling Bush "the greatest governor in America," many of his actions in office
are perceived as chipping away at that legacy - starting early on when he
revoked many of Bush's late-term appointments.

His relationship with Rubio has been marked, on both sides, by expressions of
respect and admiration, veiling sharp disagreements.

*After Crist announced a major state government initiative and hosted a summit
on climate change, Rubio wrote a newspaper column criticizing the likely costs,
and held his own forum focusing on costs. Still, he praised Crist's initiative
as "well-intentioned."

*Crist successfully opposed a favored plan of Rubio's to replace property taxes
on homesteads with an increase in the sales tax.

Now, Rubio is lukewarm in supporting the ballot measure Crist is pushing, to go
before voters Jan. 29, and has endorsed a different measure backed by a group
that has been critical of Crist.

Last week, a conservative property tax reform group led by another loyal Bush
staffer, Brett Doster, endorsed the proposal Rubio backs.

The gambling issue may be their sharpest division.

Rubio, like Bush, ardently opposes expansion of gambling in Florida.

Crist wants to cut property taxes but still avoid cutting revenue for schools.
That led him to an agreement to allow the Seminole Indians to expand gambling at
their casinos while paying fees to the state, potentially settling a 16-year
disagreement.

Without an agreement, the tribe might be able, under federal law, to expand
gambling on its own, paying the state nothing - although Rubio and his allies
disagree.

Rubio contends in his lawsuit that Crist didn't have the authority to agree to
the pact - only the Legislature does.

"I applaud [Crist] for not ignoring it after 16 years but rather tackling it,"
Rubio said in a recent radio interview.

But he added: "This deal was done in secret; it was done behind closed doors.
The public never had a chance to have any input, and obviously the Legislature
didn't either."

In a brief filed in the case last week, state Senate President Ken Pruitt also
asked for legislative approval of the agreement, but took a more conciliatory
approach.

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761 or wmarch@tampatrib.com

Photo: (2) Gov. Charlie Crist, left, is seen as a more moderate Republican,
while state House Speaker Marco Rubio seems to share Jeb Bush's conservative
philosophy.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A Changing Political Climate

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words


State Warming Up To Profitability Of Alternative Energy

By KEVIN BEGOS

The Tampa Tribune

So you want to help save the planet (and yourself) from global warming?

Good thing. Florida has a long way to go.

With just half California's population, Floridians send more than twice the
carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year, according to the U.S. Department
of Energy. On a per capita basis, each of us here is responsible for almost five
times the emissions - a total of about 287 billion pounds a year.

By the same standard, California is spending about 56 times what we do to
support solar energy through tax credits.

There's more: California sends 56 million pounds of sulfur dioxide pollution
into the air every year; Florida 909 million pounds.

You don't believe in global warming?

Fine. Do you like wasting money?

That's how the current debate on clean energy is different from the past, says
Bob Reedy, director of Photovoltaics at the Florida Solar Energy Center at
University of Central Florida.

A Department of Energy study suggests that solar costs will be cut in half
within the next three to five years, with prices even cheaper than conventional
energy in 10 years. Generous tax rebates in California and other states have
made the choice economical right now. Many people think ethanol has similar
potential.

Change may be in the works for Florida, however. In his recent State of the
State address, Gov. Charlie Crist spoke forcefully about how global warming
could have an impact on the state, and last month he met with California Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's top environmental adviser.

Asked last week about rumors that Florida and California may form some sort of
partnership to set environmental standards as a way of driving marketplace
change, Crist said: "Stay tuned."

Businesses Get Into Act

Even a few years ago such cryptic comments could be interpreted as political hot
air. Now, big businesses such as Wal-Mart, Staples and Costco are driving real
change and sounding like they're reading lines from Al Gore's "An Inconvenient
Truth" movie.

Staples and Costco have installed solar units on tens of thousands of feet of
warehouse rooftops in other states. Wal-Mart has solicited bids for similar
projects, says spokeswoman Marisa Bluestone, who provided this statement of
corporate principle: "To be supplied 100 percent by renewable energy; to create
zero waste; and to sell products that sustain our resources and our
environment."

Last month, Crist said he'd start focusing on environmental issues when the
legislative session ends in May.

"I will bring together the brightest minds to begin working on a plan for
Florida to explore groundbreaking technologies and strategies that will place
our state at the forefront of a growing worldwide movement to reduce greenhouse
gases," he said.

So Florida is just starting?

Essentially, yes. A bill that former Gov. Jeb Bush championed last year devoted
$30 million to developing alternative sources - out of a $70 billion state
budget.

Because most of the bill was designed to help build coal-fired power plants,
even the state Sierra Club chapter opposed it.

Several factors contributed to the lack of urgency in Florida. For many years
electricity was far cheaper here, and there was no smog problem such as that
generated by Los Angeles to make people take notice of carbon dioxide pollution.

Elected officials in Florida also have been more reluctant to impose heavy
regulations on business or industry.

Holly Binns, a field director for the advocacy group Environment Florida, notes
that California's solar incentives dwarf the Florida program.

For example, in 2006 Gov. Schwarzenegger unveiled a 10-year, $2.9 billion solar
tax rebate program for California.

The Bush proposal? $2.5 million a year, for four years. Even allowing for
differences in population, California makes it vastly more attractive for a
family or business to switch to solar.

California's Head Start

Some of California's smart energy moves date to the 1970s, says David Goldstein,
an expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council and author of the new book
"Saving Energy, Growing Jobs." The key was a regulatory change that allowed
utilities to profit even when customers cut back on consumption.

In short, utilities are allowed to raise prices slightly when usage falls below
certain levels, so they still make money. But the consumers who have cut back
also save money.

Florida also could increase building and lighting standards, and California is
proof that can pay big dividends.

According to a 2005 report to California's Energy Commission, per capita energy
consumption there has stayed the same for about 30 years, compared with a 50
percent rise nationally.

That saves the average California family about $1,000 per year, and has kept
untold tons of pollution out of the air.

"The biggest difference Florida could make would be to reform the regulation of
utilities," Goldstein said, because the structure now is that if utilities sell
more power, they make more money - and that's what their responsibility to
shareholders is.

"The rat will find the cheese" is how Goldstein translates the policy into
real-world terms, meaning that most states - including Florida - reward energy
use, not conservation.

Goldstein won a $500,000 MacArthur Fellowship in 2002 for his work to reduce
energy consumption nationally.

Jennifer Powers, a Defense Council spokeswoman, said much of the complex debate
over energy and pollution has a simple solution, and it's one that California
has followed through on by requiring tougher efficiency standards from
appliances.

"What about taking advantage of the technology we have today to make all of the
gadgets and appliances we use work more efficiently and use less energy?" she
said, adding that the main point of Goldstein's work has been "to debunk every
(and I mean every) argument both big business and environmentalists have ever
offered in their separate attempts to avoid working with one another."

Misunderstandings Block Progress

Misunderstandings between key players appear to sum up the Florida situation.

For example, Tampa Electric Co. spokesman Rick Morera mentioned an oft-repeated
claim: that Florida isn't a great location for solar power because of summer
storms and cloud cover.

In fact, the U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory rates Tampa and much of
the state as having the same solar potential as parts of Arizona, Nevada and
California, with considerably more sunlight here than in most states. Parts of
the Southwest are higher than Florida, but only by about 20 percent.

The potential for solar power in Florida is there, but there are still problems,
said Edie Ousley of the Florida Homebuilders Association. In many cases, she
said, when members of the association have built solar powered homes, buyers
have balked at the price premium.

She noted that Florida also has a harder road to clean energy than California
because the West Coast state has abundant hydroelectric power and Florida's flat
terrain has the potential for almost none.

But buyers balk at costs because no one explains available state and federal
rebates to them, says Tom Lane, founder of ECS Solar in Gainesville, which has
been in business since 1977.

Florida has given out about $1.4 million in solar rebates since the Bush
legislation last year, according to the Department of Environmental Protection.

"I think we're at a turning point with government supporting it, but
unfortunately they're horrible at promoting it. Ninety percent of the people
that come in to talk to us don't even know what the rebates are," Lane says.

Users Willing To Pay More

State Sen. Lee Constantine, R-Altamonte Springs, is pushing for more solar
investment in Florida. He says a recent Mason-Dixon poll found that 90 percent
of Floridians think the Florida Legislature should encourage investment in solar
energy, and 78 percent say they would be willing to pay up to $1 a month on
their utility bills to pay for it.

That's not just fantasy talk. Florida Power & Light Co. already has 30,000
customers who pay about $10 per month to support solar projects.

Tampa's TECO has 1,500 customers enrolled in another alternative energy plan,
for $5 more per month.

There's no question Florida is moving ahead - the question is how fast.

Crist, in his proposed state budget, added $40 million in new clean energy
funding, with a focus on ethanol and biodiesel. That's on top of about $25
million of yearly funding from the Bush legislation of last year.

California already produces 65 million gallons of ethanol each year; Florida
produces none.

Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson has made ethanol production a top
priority, and former Gov. Bush helped found the InterAmerican Ethanol Commission
before leaving office. The partnership with South American producers has a
double-green goal: ecology and cash.

Last month Florida House Speaker Marco Rubio made that link clear.

"Florida has the opportunity to pursue bold energy policies not just because
they are good for the environment, but because you can actually make money at
it," Rubio said in his speech opening the legislative session.

Asked whether Florida's spending on alternative energy will rise to anywhere
near California's level, Crist replied: "We're just getting started."

(CHART)

CALIFORNIA FLORIDA

Total Carbon Dioxide Emitted 1.52 metric tons per person 7.24 metric tons per
person

Total Energy Use 229 million BTUs per person 252 million BTUs per person

Solar Home Construction Rebates $0.96 per person, per year $0 per person, per
year

Solar Energy Consumer Rebates $7.94 per person,per year $0.14 per person, per
year

Enforceable Limits On

Greenhouse Gasses Yes No

Reporter Kevin Begos can be reached at (850) 222-8382 or kbegos@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time Is Now For Environmental Action

BYLINE: The Independent Alligator At The

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 269 words


Comments from The Independent Alligator At The University of Florida

In case you didn't realize, climate change is a pretty big deal. So big a deal
that Al Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work to raise awareness about
global warming. He shares the prize with the United Nations' Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.

President George W. Bush praised Gore for his win, but White House spokesman
Tony Fratto said Bush would not feel any pressure to adopt caps on greenhouse
gas emissions, something Gore has strongly advocated. That's too bad. But then
again, Republican lobbyists wouldn't let a measly Nobel Peace Prize winner
affect their agendas.

The Bush administration has also made many environmental acts less stringent
than they were in the past - for instance, the Clear Skies Act of 2003, which
allowed for more pollution than the Clean Air Act, which was passed in 1963 and
most recently amended in 1990.

So it's up to us.

One motto of sustainability is, "Think globally, act locally." Our generation
needs to embrace this now, while we still can - not once we've reached the point
of no return. We can't say, "Oh, someone else will do it," because if you look
at the national level, not much is being done.

Turn off lights. Turn up the temperature on your thermostat. Ride your bike or
take the bus, and for goodness sake, trade in your SUV. Write letters to your
congressmen and women.

And the easiest thing you can do? You've heard it a million times, but it works:
Reduce, reuse, recycle.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warming Up To IncentivesTo Cool Down The Planet

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 930 words


Scientists report they are 90 percent sure Earth is slowly warming as a result
of human-made emissions. That's ample agreement for the public to demand action.

If the newest estimates are accurate, so much carbon is going into the air each
day that even if the rate slows, warming will continue for the foreseeable
future. The most chilling threat for coastal cities is that sea levels will
rise, perhaps a few inches, but perhaps a few feet.

"The debate has clearly shifted from a battle over the science to fighting over
the scope and design of the solution," says Jason Grumet, head of the National
Commission on Energy Policy.

He's right. Failing to take reasonable steps to cut carbon emissions would be
plain stupid. That's why Congress is holding hearings on what to do and why
Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio has signed a petition, sponsored by the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, that endorses the Kyoto Treaty. It's why the world sat up and noticed
the recent landmark report by 600 experts on climate change, all of whom agree
the threat is real.

Carbon dioxide levels in the air are higher than they've been for 650,000 years,
and it shouldn't be surprising that the atmosphere is trapping more heat.

What can we do? Lots.

At The International Level

Industrialized countries should cooperate on bringing cleaner technology to the
developing world. Instead, France is proposing a carbon tariff designed to steal
U.S. jobs. Overtaxing U.S. industry and chasing industrial jobs to unregulated
corners of the globe is nonsense that Americans won't stand for.

An international system of buying and selling carbon permits would encourage a
drop in emissions. It is being tried in Europe with some success. The danger is
that the scheme would become corrupted to give some businesses a windfall at the
expense of their rivals, with little net benefit to the climate.

At The National Level

This is where the real power lies and where most useful policies will originate.
If Congress is serious about pushing thrift and innovation, it must raise taxes
on energy, including gasoline. To avoid sending the economy into recession, it
must also give off-setting credits on income taxes and in Social Security checks
for low-income retirees.

Lower income taxes would be an incentive to work more, so the government would
have more income to tax. Likewise, taxes on fuel would discourage waste and
reward efficiency. If total tax revenues do rise, the money could be invested in
transit systems and more efficient roadways.

To counter the effect of higher transportation costs on consumer goods,
investments must also be made in rail lines and highways serving container
ports, such as Tampa's, so more imports reach shore closer to where they will be
sold.

Congress should also encourage clean nuclear energy by agreeing on a safe burial
spot for radioactive waste. It should also promote conservation, increase tax
incentives for high-efficient cars, and modernize and expand Amtrak.

At The State And Local Levels

Shift some taxes from property and apply them to electric and gas bills,
rewarding those who turn up the fan instead of the air conditioner. A higher tax
on electric usage would greatly reward efficient building design. The shift away
from property taxes would also lower the tax penalty for living closer to work
centers, where property costs more.

Another wise policy would be a statewide energy-saving building code. Examples
of super-efficient construction should be on prominent display in every
community. For example, California demands energy efficiency but allows builders
latitude in how to achieve it. By 2011 the state expects residents will have
saved an estimated $59 billion in their electricity and natural gas bills.

Among the many easy ways to use less electricity is to install a cool roof. A
roof that reflects heat rather than absorbing it can cut an electric bill by 3
to 10 percent. If a school has a dark roof, painting it a reflective white could
save enough electricity each year to hire one or two more teachers.

The city and county share of higher fuel taxes would help pay for rail or
rapid-bus lines. A network of safe paths for low-horsepower vehicles, such as
golf carts and battery-powered bikes, should be built, linking schools, shopping
areas and residential neighborhoods. Cities and counties should take the lead in
building energy-efficient government offices, schools, and libraries.

At The Family Level

You can find a thousand ways to save without hardship. Buy compact fluorescent
bulbs and turn them off when you leave the room. Install solar water heating.
Plant shade trees on the east and west. Ask to work from home when possible.
Most important, get involved in the national and local debate on energy.

Question the approval of new subdivisions many miles from work centers. Complain
that walking or bicycling in much of the county is a life-threatening adventure.
Ask your congressional representative why NASA's Earth-science budget is being
cut.

Remind liberal politicians that you can't afford sharply higher taxes. Remind
conservatives that greed and waste have never been conservative virtues.

Between panic and paralysis is much safe and productive territory. And that's
where liberals and conservatives should meet to do big things, right now.

Photo credit: McClatchy-Tribune file photo

Photo: (2) Evidence abounds of warmer weather, including this melting glacier in
the Peruvian Andes, photographed in 1978, above, and again in 2000, below.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1069 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Sports Complex Is Unnecessary

Regarding "Sports Complex Plan Scores With Consultant" (Metro, Feb. 15):

Have local governments ever hired a consultant that stated a proposed
expenditure could not sustain itself financially?

If Robert Leib and the Leib Group, the consultant for Jim Norman's proposed $40
million sports complex, is so convinced the complex is financially sustainable
and will pay the yearly operating expenses and bond debt, is he willing to
personally guarantee this?

Review the history of local government when consultants have been used to
justify large expenditures - the Aquarium, the Convention Center, the
redevelopment of Ybor City, the Community Investment Tax stadium and the
Performing Arts Center. To the best of my knowledge, none are financially
self-sufficient and continue to receive taxpayer support.

Jim Norman needs to get with the program and stop acting as if tax dollars are
his personal ATM. The complex cannot be justified financially and, more to the
point, it is not needed because of the resources that already exist, regardless
of what the Leib Group says.

DICK POWERS

Tampa

A Sensible Solution

Regarding Thomas Friedman's column "The $3.50 Way Out Of Iraq" (Other Views,
Feb. 11):

Finally, a plan that seems to make some sense! Sure, it's only a broad outline
and the devil is in the details, but it is far better than what the present
administration, Congress or any current presidential nominees have suggested. I
would gladly accept a permanent price of $3.50 a gallon - or more - for gas if I
believed it would lead to getting our country out of the incredible mortal mess
we find ourselves in now.

We have spent far too much in American, coalition and Iraqi blood to continue
there. The Western world still doesn't understand the religious, ethnic and
political sensibilities and prejudices of the Middle East.

I sincerely hope people of power in this country will see Friedman's column and
begin thinking about how to implement it, or something like it.

LARRY MARTIN

Tampa

Willing To Sacrifice

Regarding "An Arab-American Defends '24'" (Commentary, Feb. 11):

I am heartened: Arab-American Emilio Karim Dabul is coming out to defend
American values and mores. It takes courage to buck the average cowardice of
most folks and not want to stand out from the crowd. I applaud Dabul for
praising "24" for telling it like it really is - that young Muslim fanatics are
the true enemy today.

On the same day, Thomas L. Friedman said much the same and offered a concrete
solution with which I highly agree, most especially the call for permanent $3.50
gas. Unless we get used to the idea that gas isn't coming down - ever - we'll
never adopt true conservation, which is what will temper demand soonest.

Get out your bikes, Americans, and show the world what we can do when it comes
to the hard choices.

CHUCK NAEYAERT

Dade City

Facts And Predictions

Regarding "Take Warming Policy Out Of The Freezer" (Other Views, Feb. 12):

Ellen Goodman says, "The fact of global warming is unequivocal," and those who
deny this "are now on a par with Holocaust deniers, though one denies the past
and the other denies the present and future."

I do not deny the possibility that our global temperature is slightly elevated
above what it has been in recent years. I do question the cause of this and how
it will change in the future.

Do scientists know what caused an ice age, El Niño or a warming period that
occurred in the Middle Ages? If they did know the causes, could they accurately
predict such climate changes in the future?

Much science went into the prediction that it is supposed to rain here today. By
the end of the day I will know if, in fact, this has occurred. There is a
difference between facts and predictions.

JAN SMITH

Tampa

Read Carter's Book

Norman Gross' Feb. 7 letter "Book Is Inaccurate" makes a good point of the fact
that, inside Israel proper, Arabs are afforded representation in the Israeli
Knesset.

However, Gross misses the point about Jimmy Carter's book "Palestine: Peace Not
Apartheid." Carter's book focuses on the plight of the Palestinians, not in
Israel proper, but in the occupied territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

I encourage anyone interested in Middle East peace to read Carter's book.

JOHN CAMPO

Tampa

Grandfather In Pilots

Regarding "Age Should Not Ground Good Pilots" (Our Opinion, Feb. 12):

Experience counts. If so, why did FAA Administrator Marion Blakey slam the door
on pilots retiring before the new age rule becomes effective? Why not let the
most experienced pilots continue, with a FAA exemption, until then?

The international rule changed to age 65 on Nov. 23. Let pilots reaching age 60
after that date continue, awaiting the U.S. rule change. Why is the FAA
delaying, saying rule-making could take up to two years? The administration
wants to influence lawmakers to exclude pilots over 60 returning, even though
some pilot contracts allow it.

JetBlue stated in a comment to a FAA docket that it will welcome its retired
pilots back and pay for their training if the rule changes. Blakey's
announcement theme was carpe diem - seize the day. Ha!

BERT YETMAN

Grapevine, Tex.

The writer is president of the Professional Pilots Federation.

Helping The Uninsured

Regarding "Let's Get Serious About Health Care Coverage" (Other Views, Feb. 7):

The American Medical Association is deeply concerned about America's uninsured.
Our efforts to extend health care coverage go above and beyond our support for
health savings accounts, which are a good fit for some patients. We support more
patient choice in health plans, and HSAs are just one of those options.

The cornerstone of the AMA plan is to provide tax credits for lower-income
Americans to purchase their own health insurance. Income-based tax credits for
individually owned insurance would provide more money to those who need it most
- America's poor. In addition, insurance market reforms are necessary to make
individual ownership a viable option.

The AMA plan has the potential to extend health insurance to nearly all of
America's uninsured. The nation's patients are our priority and the time to talk
about the uninsured problem has passed. Now is the time to take action.

WILLIAM G. PLESTED

Washington, D.C.

The writer is a physician and president of the American Medical Association.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Letters To The Editor

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 858 words


Taxed Beyond Necessity

I read Luis Lopez's impassioned plea on Sunday for us to try not to demand so
much tax reduction that we impact social services too detrimentally ("Your Taxes
Are Tied To Essential Services," My View). However, I'd like to point out some
considerations for the tax-consuming public and its adherents that we, the
tax-paying contingent, feel.

The overwhelming majority of citizens consuming social services pay very little
or no taxes - they are being protected by the homestead exemption and their
small estates.

Also, the majority has moved here because of previously low taxes and warmer
climate, never really having contributed to Pasco County.

Nobody ever mentions having frittered away their youth in mindless pursuit of
pleasure instead of saving for their elder years. They just complain of it being
so hard to survive in today's financial climate.

Today, I pay 13 times more in taxes on a homestead than in 1981. I have no more
impact on social services than I did back then, and while I acknowledge
inflation, it's certainly not to that extent.

The county taxing authorities have voraciously increased taxes far and above
actual needs, taking advantage of every uptick in valuation.

All county budgets have increased to take advantage of increased funding, and
they hire and expand as the funds allow - many times regardless of real need.

I'm sure the tax relief we get will not be commensurate to real fairness, and
many will be forced to leave the state.

Even seemingly comfortable and formerly hard-working Pasco citizens can be
overwhelmed by the current tax load.

The fairest tax of all is sales taxes, as everybody pays something. The big
spenders who can pay more will, while the modest ones will pay less.

Ad valorem taxes will never be repealed, but they can certainly be much more
modest. Taxing authorities should have to conservatively budget just like most
of us.

CHUCK NAEYAERT

Dade City

Seek Insurance Bids

I just watched the May 22 Pasco County Commission meeting, which included a
discussion on seeking bids on health insurance.

After commissioners approved a motion to have county employees' insurance
coverage go out to bid for the first time in 10 years, Tax Collector Mike Olson
tried everything except kissing the commissioners' feet to not let this happen.

My question is why has Blue Cross been allowed to provide insurance for 10 years
without any competition? Watching Olson grabble and beg for this not to happen
makes me suspicious.

Olson stated that a change in insurance would be traumatic to employees. I've
changed insurance companies for my children and myself several times, and it was
not a traumatic experience. Nor did we have to change doctors. What is traumatic
is the rate Pasco County employees must pay to insure their families.

The commission and constitutional officers owe it to taxpayers and county
employees to seek bids on insurance a least every two to three years to help
keep rates competitive and offer the best cost-effective plans for employees and
their families.

I applaud the commissioners for standing their ground and not resending the
motion made earlier.

It was just a motion for insurance to go to bid - not a motion to accept a
company other than Blue Cross. Not yet, anyway.

KENNETH URBUTEIT

San Antonio

Protect Our Wildlife

The wildlife survey at the Cypress Creek mall site done by Shirley Denton and
Biological Research Associates stated there were only 10 gopher tortoises on the
property. It turns out there is at least five times that many!

In September 1999 the same firm participated in the rezoning of the property in
Land O' Lakes that would become Oakstead. Citizen after citizen submitted
photographs and gave heartfelt pleas to protect the assortment of wildlife on
the property.

Denton stated their wildlife survey on the 841 acres revealed only "two
squirrels and a turtle." The many citizens in the boardroom roared at the
indignity of that statement, but then-Commissioner Steve Simon said: "Well, who
are we going to believe - the citizens or the expert witness?"

Isn't that interesting? I wonder how much wildlife will be destroyed when the 56
acres of wetland are filled in at the Cypress Creek mall site.

On a more positive note, I would like to say that our current board of
commissioners is listening to Pasco County citizens. Follow the news and attend
county hearings.

Let your voices be heard, and let's protect what we moved to Pasco County for!

DEBBIE MOORE

Land O' Lakes

American 'Idol'

After being besieged by protests and a nasty stomach ailment during the G-8
summit, American President George W. Bush has become a major "idol" in Albania,
I am told. He even had a street named after him, I hear.

That sure is good news to supporters of this administration. I am sure it is
only a coincidence that the good news comes from Albania - the same country that
was used as the backdrop in the movie "Wag the Dog." It was a movie about lies
to the American people, diversion from truth and protecting the president.

Silly movie.

PENO HARDESTY

New Port Richey

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Is Causing Humidity To Rise, Study Says

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words


MORE INTENSE STORMS, BAD-HAIR DAYS EXPECTED

By NEIL JOHNSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Just what Florida needs, more humidity.

A study reported this week in the scientific journal Nature says global warming
is causing humidity to rise. In the Sunshine State, that could mean more intense
but fewer thunderstorms, more fuel for hurricanes, and a higher misery quotient
during summer.

Oh, yeah, and lots of exploding hairstyles. Humidity is death to 'dos.

"It makes hair swell and explode. If there are broken ends, they pop out," said
Fran Fernandez, owner of Artistic Hair and Make-Up by Fran Fernandez in South
Tampa.

"Then all women are in a bad mood. When it's dry and cool, women are happy."

The new study, done by a team of scientists in the United States and United
Kingdom, showed humidity levels rising and cited computer models showing that
greenhouse gases from human activity are to blame.

The study built on earlier research by scientists at the National Center for
Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., that revealed a link between rising
temperatures and the amount of humidity in the atmosphere globally.

"We found a very strong relationship," said Kevin Trenberth, head of climate
analysis at the Colorado center.

The reason is simple: Warmer air holds more water vapor - what we call humidity.

Trenberth said his study found the amount of water vapor in the air increased
about 3.5 percent from 1988 until 2006. Since 1970, that increase has totaled
about 5 percent.

Two decades from now could see another 3 percent to 4 percent boost in humidity,
Trenberth said.

The latest study ran data through climate models that calculated the impact of
additional greenhouse gases that trap heat, such as carbon dioxide, and found
that results matched data from current measurements.

Additional humidity puts more potential rain into the atmosphere, and that could
increase the intensity of afternoon thunderstorms, though they would be fewer
and more scattered because they rain themselves out quickly, Trenberth said.

Water vapor and heat are the twin fuels for tropical cyclones. But not all
scientists agree that rising temperatures are creating more and stronger
hurricanes.

Increased humidity also means a higher heat index or "feels like" temperatures
during our soupy, hot summer afternoons.

The rise in humidity the past quarter-century would correspond to a 1 degree
increase in the dew point, which is a measure of the amount of water vapor in
the air.

When the dew point rises above 60 degrees, we begin to feel uncomfortable. When
it hits 70, we swelter.

You just have to look back to last week when the dew point ran in the 73 to 75
degree range to remember how stifling the afternoons seemed. With dew points in
that range, overnight temperatures stayed in the middle 70s.

The next 20 years of warming could add another degree to the dew point,
Trenberth said.

RELATED STORY, Metro, Page 2

Fall temperatures to stop over briefly.

Reporter Neil Johnson can be reached at (813) 259-7731 or njohnson@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Inside Scoop

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words


A quick read of what's most important to you from the News Center

Court Says EPA Obliged To Control CO2 Emissions

In one of its most important environmental decisions in years, the Supreme Court
ruled Monday that the Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to
regulate heat-trapping gases in automobile emissions. The court further ruled
that the agency could not sidestep its authority to regulate the greenhouse
gases that contribute to global climate change unless it can provide a
scientific basis for its refusal.

The 5-4 decision was a strong rebuke to the Bush administration, which has
maintained that it does not have the right to regulate carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. The ruling does not force the EPA to
regulate auto emissions, but it would almost certainly face further legal action
if it fails to do so.

Nation/World, Page 6

oBeyond the specific context for this case - emissions from vehicles, which
account for about one-fourth of the country's greenhouse gases - the decision is
likely to affect the debate over government efforts to address global warming.

oOne case likely to be affected is a challenge to the EPA's refusal to regulate
emissions from power plants, now pending in the federal appeals court here.

Oil Companies Resist Ethanol

Although some oil executives voice enthusiasm for alternative fuels, oil-company
policies make it harder for many service stations to stock a fuel called E85, a
blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.

Oil companies, which lose sales every time a driver chooses E85, employ a
variety of tactics that help keep the fuel out of stations that bear the company
name.

oFranchises sometimes are required to purchase all the fuel they sell from the
oil company. Since oil companies generally don't sell E85, the stations can't
either.

oContracts sometimes limit advertising of E85 and restrict the use of credit
cards to pay for it. Some require that any E85 pump be on a separate island.

oOil companies say they will allow stations to sell E85, but they must have
certain rules for the protection of customers and protection of their brand.

Nation/World, Page 7

Investors Form Insurance Firm

A group of prominent local businessmen, who last fall grabbed headlines by
launching a bank, are doing an encore by forming an insurance company.

Paresh Patel, chairman of the new Homeowners Choice insurance company, said the
businessmen see an opportunity to provide a much-in-demand insurance while still
making a profit.

oPatel, a Clearwater investor and former technology company executive, is one of
three investors in Homeowners Choice. The other two are Martin Traber, a lawyer
for the Foley & Lardner firm in Tampa, and Gregory Politis, a real estate
developer from Safety Harbor.

oHomeowners Choice could be open by the end of April and eventually write 30,000
to 40,000 policies.

Business, Page 1

Drought Hits Tampa Coffers

By the time summer rains replenish the Hillsborough River in June, the city's
water department may run up a bill of more than $6 million for extra water
purchased from the regional utility, Tampa Bay Water.

To meet the added cost, the city utility may tap a $30 million contingency fund,
said Elias Franco, a spokesman for the city's water department.

oTampa's reservoir on the river entered this spring about 18 inches lower than
last spring, and the Hillsborough River is flowing at only about half what it
should be at this time of year.

oThe city first tapped Tampa Bay Water's wellfields for about 8 million gallons
a day in November and increased the purchases to about 12 million gallons a day
in December. Normally the city doesn't need extra water until sometime around
March.

oAfter a brief respite from some rain, the city renewed water purchases March
15, rapidly climbing to 30 million gallons. That comes to about $66,000 a day.

Metro, Page 2

CORRECTIONS

It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, call (813) 259-7600 or e-mail news@tampatrib.com.

CORRECTION: The Tampa Bay Devil Rays' Spanish language broadcasts are on WGES,
680 AM. The incorrect radio station was listed in Sunday's Baseball Preview
Section.

CORRECTION: Tampa has hosted three Super Bowls. An incorrect number was reported
in Sunday's Sports section.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo by JASON BEHNKEN

Photo: In a defeat for the Bush administration, the Supreme Court ruled that the
EPA not only has the authority to regulate gases in vehicle emissions, but the
agency can't ignore its authority to do so unless it can come up with a
scientific basis for such a refusal.

Photo: (ethanol pump)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Science Adventures On The Horizon

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 878 words


Teachers will take a hike and swim with the fishes all in the name of research.

By YVETTE C. HAMMETT

The Tampa Tribune

PALM RIVER - Michelle Lineberry, a petite Midwesterner completing her first year
in the classroom, never quite pictured herself traipsing through the Andes
mountains in Ecuador searching for thorny, hairy, scary-looking caterpillars.

That was before she spent a year teaching science to sixth-graders at Dowdell
Middle Magnet School, which focuses on environmental studies.

Now, she's planning a trip to the Andes to help conduct scientific research for
the EarthWatch Institute, a global volunteer organization that supports research
to promote a sustainable environment. She's also contemplating earning a
doctorate degree in environmental science.

Lineberry will spend 11 days in South America helping scientists determine how
climate change affects caterpillars, plants and parasites.

One of Lineberry's counterparts in Seffner, Jonathan Gerlach, a third-year
fourth-grade teacher at Lopez Elementary School, has an adventure of his own on
the horizon. Gerlach is planning an EarthWatch expedition this summer to
Monterey, Calif., where he will help collect, tag and study seven species of
sharks and rays to help determine whether their populations are rebounding.

Both teachers received fellowships for the EarthWatch teacher expeditions
through the Tampa Bay Devil Rays Educator Fellowship program. The fellowships
came with $2,500 for each school to use as it sees fit.

Not Your Average Caterpillar

Both teachers say they are excited about their trips and the knowledge they will
bring back to their classrooms.

"My mother took a look at the EarthWatch Institute Web site, then called to warn
me she'd seen the pictures - and these weren't the Indiana caterpillars I grew
up with," Lineberry said, just after the final bell recently.

It hasn't fazed her. She's lining up a new hiking wardrobe and is already
thinking about how she will incorporate what she learns in Ecuador into her
lesson plans. EarthWatch has provided her with a binder to help with that task.

"We can't wait for her to get back to Dowdell and bring that all back into the
classroom," Principal Robert Lawson said. "She's a wonderful first-year teacher,
one of the best I've ever worked with. Truly a growing star."

"Well, I've definitely grown into environmental studies," Lineberry said. "My
background is in language arts and reading. Now, after this year, I feel like
such a science nerd. I just love hearing and learning about the Earth."

She and seven other teachers will spend their time unrolling leaves and
searching for moths and caterpillars, labeling plant and animal specimens in the
lab, rearing caterpillars and documenting their findings. The work is all being
done in conjunction with Lee Dyer, a field scientist at Tulane University in New
Orleans.

A Believer In Hands-On Work

Gerlach said he was one of those little boys likely to be hiding a frog in his
pocket and a snake in his closet. As a teacher, Gerlach, said he tries to
incorporate hands-on science into every subject to show students how the world
is intertwined.

He will spend 10 days swimming and boating in Elkhorn Slough studying the sharks
and rays that local fishermen nearly annihilated in the 1940s in a futile
attempt to revive the oyster fishery.

Researchers from the Pelagic Shark Research Foundation in Santa Cruz, Calif.,
have worked with anglers since 1991 to preserve and protect sharks and rays,
known in the scientific world as elasmobranchs.

Gerlach and other teacher fellows will work in small boats and from shore to
capture sharks and rays and record significant information. Some animals will be
fitted with radio transmitters before they are released so scientists can track
movements and habits.

The head researcher on that project, Sean Van Sommeran, spent last week tagging
great white sharks, Gerlach said. "He's a very down-to-earth, very hands-on kind
of guy, and so am I. I'm really looking forward to working with him."

Gerlach said he plans to create a video log he can use in the classroom next
year.

Lopez Principal Al Dahma said he has high hopes that the lessons Gerlach learns
will translate into student enthusiasm.

"It's great for our school, because it provides the extra benefit of getting
money for environmental science endeavors and gives our teacher a front-line
experience," Dahma said. "Can you imagine being in a classroom, and the kids
watching their teacher do what he's talking about?"

Some 4,000 teacher fellows have traveled on EarthWatch expeditions over the past
35 years, bringing lessons back to their classrooms.

Reporter Yvette C. Hammett can be reached at (813) 657-4532 or
yhammett@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Photo: Michelle Lineberry says her job has turned her into a science nerd. "I
just love hearing and learning about the Earth," she said.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Jonathan Gerlach says he was the kind of kid likely to be hiding a frog
in his pocket. He tries to inspire that curiosity in his students.

Photo: Michelle Lineberry will study butterflies and caterpillars this summer in
the Andes.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Can I Prevent Allergy Problems On Vacation?

BYLINE: RICHARD F. LOCKEY, M.D., Tribune correspondent

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 576 words


By RICHARD F. LOCKEY, M.D.

Tribune correspondent

Vacations are meant for relaxing, sightseeing, perhaps enjoying recreation in
the woodlands, near the mountains or by the water. The last thing you want is
for your trip to be ruined by an allergy or asthma attack. By planning ahead,
you can help minimize the effects that changes in climate, foliage and
accommodations may have on your allergies.

If your allergies are triggered by pollen, it pays to investigate the pollen
counts of the destinations you plan to visit and avoid traveling there during
peak pollen seasons. For example, if you are sensitive to ragweed, you would be
wise to avoid the Northeast in September, the height of the ragweed season
there. Likewise, if you're allergic to grasses, don't travel to California
during spring when grass pollens are proliferating. The Weather Channel (
www.weather.com) reports daily pollen counts and air quality forecasts across
the United States.

Pack all the prescribed medications you'll need in your carry-on luggage if
traveling by plane. If you're planning a long vacation, consider seeing an
allergist/immunologist for a pre-trip physical. Sometimes, I increase the dose
of medications before a patient leaves and prescribe a backup medical program to
begin if daily medications fail.

If you're using a peak flow meter to monitor your asthma, or a nebulizer to
deliver asthma medication, don't leave them at home. Also bring along a copy of
your asthma control plan and your physician's phone number. If you have
allergies to stinging insects or certain foods, make sure your emergency
injectable epinephrine is up-to-date with a working syringe and know where to
obtain immediate medical attention if needed.

If you're traveling by rental car, ask for one that hasn't had passengers who
smoke. Turn on the air conditioning and keep the windows closed during the
pollinating season. When you make your reservations, ask that you have a room
that is "allergy proof" and, if possible, take your own pillow with you.

If you're bothered by animal allergens found in pet dander, saliva or urine,
it's best to avoid staying in hotels, inns or homes that have been inhabited by
pets. Even if the dog or cat has been put outside or removed from the room where
you sleep, it takes months for the pet allergens to disappear. Remember: Cats
and dogs are permitted to travel on planes, so take your medications prior to
travel or with you when you fly.

Those with food allergies should be extremely cautious when dining out, whether
the meal is served in airplanes, restaurants or at the homes of friends or
family. Don't hesitate to ask about ingredients that may contain hidden food
allergens, such as peanuts, tree nuts, eggs, wheat or shellfish.

A little planning goes a long way for those traveling with asthma or allergies.
The American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology Web site at www.aaaai.org
is a great resource to help determine the best time to travel, locate an
allergist/immunologist in another city and review precautions for all types of
allergic diseases.

Dr. Lockey is a Distinguished University Health Professor at USF Health, where
he directs the Division of Allergy and Immunology and holds the Joy McCann
Culverhouse Chair in Allergy and Immunology.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO

Photo: (Various medical equipment)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ASK THE EXPERT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP Leaders Say It's Easy Being Green

BYLINE: KEVIN BEGOS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 594 words


ENERGY REFORM MAY BE PROFITABLE, RUBIO SAYS

By KEVIN BEGOS

The Tampa Tribune

TALLAHASSEE - For decades, liberal activists have been talking about alternative
energy, but real-world progress in Florida has been slow or, at worst,
nonexistent.

Now Gov. Charlie Crist and other Republican leaders are using the bully pulpit
to talk green, but with a twist that might speed things up.

"Florida has the opportunity to pursue bold energy policies not just because
they are good for the environment, but because you can actually make money at
it," House Speaker Marco Rubio said in his speech opening the legislative
session Tuesday.

Crist, in his State of the State speech the same day, pledged to put Florida at
the forefront of a growing worldwide movement to reduce greenhouse gases and
said it also could be a national leader in producing alternative energy.

Even hearing such words was like a dream come true for some environmental
activists.

"Fantastic," said Charles Pattison, executive director of 1000 Friends of
Florida. "We've been talking about this stuff for what, 30-40 years? I think
it's real for the first time."

"I think for the first time people honestly see that Florida is not headed in
the right direction," Pattison said.

A Partnership In the Works?

Several people think the recipe for change could involve an East-West political
partnership between Crist and California's Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.

The Century Commission for a Sustainable Florida was formed in 2005 by the
Legislature to study options for the state's future. Last month,
Schwarzenegger's environmental advisor addressed the group, Pattison said. He
also met with Crist one-on-one.

"There was a lot of sentiment for Florida to join forces with California" on
environmental initiatives, Pattison said of Century Commission members.

Stephen MacNamara, a professor of communications at Florida State University and
former consultant to several Republican campaigns, said he's heard similar talk
about Crist and other party leaders heading in that direction.

If California and Florida agreed on environmentally friendly standards for
greenhouse gas emissions or particular products, that could push a much broader
change in the marketplace because of the economic clout of the two states.

"I think what they'll be looking for is partnerships with states like
California, Texas and New York," said MacNamara. "Other smaller states will have
no choice but to follow."

Financial Support Still Lacking

Florida's business community likes the message - sort of.

Associated Industries of Florida is the most powerful business lobby in the
state, and it formed a Florida Energy Council about three months ago.

Topics such as global warming and alternative energy have come up quite
regularly, said Jose Gonzalez, director of government affairs for Associated
Industries.

"We recognize that it definitely needs to be addressed," he said. "We're still
trying to gauge our membership as to how involved they want us to be."

Despite the big talk from Crist and others, there were some signs that old
priorities haven't shifted that much. In his proposed budget, Crist asked for
$70 million this year to support alternative energy.

That was $5 million less than the tax credits he sought to enhance Florida
filmmaking, calling it "a clean and vital industry."

RELATED STORY, Page 4

Juvenile Justice director praised.

Reporter Kevin Begos can be reached at (850) 222-8382 or kbegos@tampatrib.com.

Photo: Charlie Crist

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1080 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Just Another Driver Distraction

Regarding: "Let's Get Digital" (Business, March 8):

Lovely, just lovely! Isn't it marvelous that great advertising minds have
figured out a new way to distract travelers on our dangerously crowded highways?
What a brilliant idea. Not!

It's bad enough to have cell phones, text messaging, makeup application and
blaring music to mess with the attention span of our overworked road warriors.
Now they have a chance to check out a new ad medium that changes every 8
seconds.

Look for a surge in help wanted ads for insurance adjusters.

JIM LYMAN

Lutz

Not A Penny More

Pinellas County has budgeted $200,000 to promote passage of the next Penny for
Pinellas Tax. County officials defend this expenditure as an "informational
campaign" but the county offers only pro arguments for the tax and no cons.

If you dig into the pinellascounty.org Web site into the 2007 budget section,
you'll find that the county's population has increased less than 1 percent per
year between the years 2000 and 2006, yet the countywide tax collections have
gone from $225 million to $407 million over the same period - a whopping 80
percent increase. Recent trends from school enrollments and moving companies
actually point to a decrease in population for 2007. Do we really need to
continue to expand our infrastructure?

Adding new buildings and parks means more employees and maintenance costs. The
county and cities have been on a happy spending spree with penny funds. Allowing
these local governments to continue to party with Penny money just creates
higher ongoing expenses in future years at a time when we are already losing
small businesses and part-time residents to excessive taxes. I'm voting no this
time.

KELLY CISARIK

Indian Rocks Beach


Benefit For Homeowners

Regarding "A Conversation With Marco Rubio" (Commentary, March 4) and Our
Opinion (March 4):

I must say that Florida House Speaker Rubio's plan is by far the most innovative
and fair I have seen yet. I was not surprised, however, to see it raise the
hackles of some of your editorial staff.

As a licensed mortgage planner, I work with people every day trying to determine
the affordability of home ownership, and I can tell you that nothing is more
frustrating for my clients than to find the home of their dreams only to
discover that the new tax assessment will be double or triple the current taxes
once they close.

You question the fairness of the Speaker's proposal, but I ask you what is fair
about denying our existing residents a chance to move up the housing ladder. In
addition to giving current homeowners the chance to "trade up" in a home, the
proposal would also encourage more people to become homeowners themselves by
removing the tax burden from the equation. This has the added benefit of
increasing the net worth of these individuals as well, as study after study
shows that home ownership correlates directly with wealth.

Based upon the choices presented, Rubio's seems to be the best one. I only hope
I get a chance to vote on it.

CHRIS FONTANA

Wesley Chapel


Eliminate Property Taxes

Your editorial opposing the increased sales tax in exchange for the abolishment
of property taxes on homesteaded property is misguided. In reality, the problem
is that the legislation does not go far enough. The Legislature should eliminate
all property taxes and raise the sales tax by four cents with only exemptions
for food, medication, real estate and rent. Enacting the changes through
constitutional amendments would ensure that future Legislatures could not
arbitrarily raise the sales tax rate or reinstate the property tax. This would
put tax decisions in the hands of each individual as opposed to elected
officials with insatiable appetites for governmental expansion.

Such a bold move would be a positive boon to Florida's economic expansion. It
would create an attractive economic climate - no property or income tax - for
manufacturing, industrial and technological growth.

MICHAEL STANLEY

Lutz


Premise Is Sound

Rep. Rubio may not have made the case of eliminating property taxes in favor of
a one-size-fits-all sales tax, but the premise is sound.

As a retiree homeowner for too many years (35), I and other homeowners are
paying for the largest portion of our rising county budget, which is the school
system. In Florida, we have many homeowners who are retired and do not have
children in the school system. We are paying for the renters who send their
children to public school and do not pay a cent toward their children's
education.

Let everyone pay for the school system, thereby eliminating the real estate
taxes and use sales tax. This will create a boon to our real estate market.

PHIL TROPEA

Palm Harbor


Major Overhaul Needed

My wife and I lived in 12 communities in nine states during my professional
career. It is a given that all must tax citizens in order to provide essential
services - the questions are how and how much.

We have never seen a mess like the Florida property tax problem - it does need
major overhaul.

If property taxes are to be adjusted downward, then some of the lost revenue
will need to come from elsewhere, even if local government is able to curb
spending. Increased sales taxes can be part of the solution if properly
administered. We all pay income taxes on a progressive basis. Why not apply
progressive rates to sales taxes - e.g. food, clothing and basic services taxed
at a lower percentage than luxury goods such as jewelry and high-end
automobiles. Some states already have a progressive sales tax; it works.

JIM ELLIS

Tampa


Don't Tease Voters

Replacing property tax with sales tax is an interesting idea but who assumes
responsibility for the billions of outstanding loans for bonds, CRAs, CDCs and
the like that cities, counties and special taxing districts owe?

What could be more ironic after decades of unfunded mandates such as the court
system?

How like Tallahassee and its kings and princes to cater to the largest block of
voters to trawl for the next vote. My rental property tax went from $1,400 to
over $2,700 and insurance doubled in one year. Even after raising rent by $200 a
month - to the top of what the market will bear - I have to chip in another $100
a month over last year to pay it.

While I applaud thinking outside the box, we don't need to be placated with
false hope; we need ego-free solutions!

TOM FINN

New Port Richey

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2007



CORRECTION: Jim Lyman's March 12 letter should have read that new digital
billboards would change every eight seconds, not 80.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Putting The Focus On Learning

BYLINE: RONNIE BLAIR, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY


Instructors Tackle A New Method Of Teaching

By RONNIE BLAIR

The Tampa Tribune

NEW PORT RICHEY - The change might not be immediately evident to someone who
dropped in on Tisha Newton's classroom, but the Marlowe Elementary teacher and
her students are on the leading edge of a new approach to teaching in Pasco
County schools.

Newton was among the first Pasco teachers trained in Learning Focused
Strategies, a teaching method the school district began introducing to its
schools in January 2006.

She also has developed into a strong proponent of the method.

"It provides us with a toolbox to use all the skills an educator has been
given," Newton said last week after leading her fifth-graders in a lesson on
suffixes.

By the end of the 2007-08 academic year, every teacher and administrator in the
district is to have been trained in the method, which Superintendent Heather
Fiorentino hails as a way to improve learning for all students.

Fiorentino has made it one of the district's top priorities.

As the method's name implies, the focus is on the learning, not on the teaching.

"I'm not interested in a teacher telling me, 'I taught it, but the students
didn't get the concept,' " Fiorentino said. "Did the students learn it? That's
the question. Not, 'Did you teach it?' "

Not everyone in the district is sold on the method's merits. Lynne Webb,
president of United School Employees of Pasco, told the Pasco County School
Board that many teachers blame the introduction of Learning Focused Strategies
for a decline in morale at their schools.

"Without teacher buy-in, without teacher acceptance, this program cannot be
successful," Webb said.

More Planning Involved

In many respects, Learning Focused Strategies presents nothing new, said Marti
Meacher, the district's director of staff development.

She describes the concept as taking best practices from the past but applying
them in a new way that involves more planning, and a greater focus on involving
the students.

Previewing is the first step. Students are told upfront what they are about to
learn, so as the material unfolds before them, they know where all that
information is headed.

Lessons also involve an "essential question" that the teacher displays somewhere
in the classroom. The goal: Students will be able to answer the essential
question when the lesson is complete.

One of the strategies involved in the method is summarizing. Meacher said
traditionally teachers sum up what's been learned, but Learning Focused
Strategies puts the burden of summarizing the lesson on the students.

The act of summarizing helps assure the students have a good grasp of the
lesson, and one good way for students to summarize is through writing, Meacher
said.

The district's foray into Learning Focused Strategies began about two years ago
when a group of principals at Title 1 schools - schools with a high percentage
of low-income students - attended a conference where one of the speakers was Max
Thompson, owner of a company called Learning Focused Solutions.

The principals returned to Pasco County inspired. They told district officials
they wanted their teachers trained in the concept.

Terri Mutell, principal of Marlowe Elementary in New Port Richey, was among that
initial group. She said the method pulls together the best teaching practices
educators know about, and also allows them to sift out what is unimportant.

"It ties so well to so many things we are already doing," Mutell said.

Thompson's company markets the Learning Focused Strategies concept, though he
said the research behind the strategies isn't original to him.

The research came from a group called Education Evaluation Consortium, with
which he also is affiliated.

The consortium began trying to identify exemplary schools a few years ago so it
could study what methods made those schools different from typical schools.

An exemplary school was defined as one with 90 percent or more of its students
at or above grade level.

In looking for models that other schools could learn from, the consortium
discounted schools with less than 35 percent diversity, because "sometimes
schools take credit for the kids they have, not what they are doing," Thompson
said.

In 2005-06, of 92,000 schools in the United States, 4,400 could be considered
exemplary and also highly diverse, the consortium determined.

One thing the research revealed: Exemplary schools would begin the lesson with a
question. Few typical schools did that.

Fiorentino, who became superintendent in November 2004, viewed Thompson's
methods as a way to improve student achievement in Pasco.

Training For Title I Schools

In January 2006, the district began training for all the teachers and
administrators in Pasco's 20 Title I schools.

Title I schools receive extra money from the federal government because they
have a large population of low-income students. They also are the schools that
potentially face sanctions if they don't meet the requirements of the federal No
Child Left Behind Act.

This academic year, Learning Focused Strategies training in Pasco was expanded
to include 23 additional schools and district staff. By the end of the 2007-08
academic year, every teacher and administrator in the district will have take
the training.

By the time that training is complete, the district will have spent about $3.7
million. Most of the money comes from federal funding that is designated for
training, Fiorentino and Meacher said.

Union president Webb painted a less flattering picture of Learning Focused
Strategies when she spoke to the school board in February.

"Teachers feel that LFS implementation is onerous, has created an undue burden,
detracts from their ability to adequately plan and teach and in fact has
resulted in extreme stress, frustration for them, exhaustion, loss of morale and
a diminishment of the joy they feel in teaching," Webb said.

Union representatives at several schools reported a decline in the overall
climate at their schools, and in most cases they attributed that decline at
least in part to the introduction of Learning Focused Strategies, Webb said.

Fiorentino said she believes that, with time, many teachers who display initial
reluctance will change their views.

Newton never had to overcome reluctance.

One of the first things she did upon returning from training was to rearrange
her room in the way recommended by Learning Focused Strategies.

Now classroom walls are organized by subject, such as math, social studies and
science. An essential question is posted for each subject, and additional
"lesson essential questions," known by the students as LEQ, also are on the
boards.

Where wall space once displayed student work, now it serves as an educational
tool that allows students to follow their progress and review what they've
learned, Newton said.

She introduced the Learning Focused Strategies methods to the students one
subject at a time.

"They were nervous at first," Newton said. "Then they felt so accomplished."

Emilia Kalogiannis, 11, said it took a while to catch on to what was expected,
but now she feels the changes Newton instituted have helped her learn.

"It was a bit confusing for me [at first]," Emilia said. "We were like, 'What's
LEQ stand for?' "

Mitchell Berg, 11, said he had a similar initial reaction and offers this advice
to any students whose teachers begin using Learning Focused Strategies.

"Just give it time," he said. "You'll get used to it."

Reporter Ronnie Blair can be reached at (813) 948-4218 or rblair@tampatrib.com.

Photo: Fifth-graders Maria Hernandez, 11, left, and Brooke McCann, 10,
brainstorm during a recent class at Marlowe Elementary. Superintendent Heather
Fiorentino supports the teaching method and has made it one of the district's
top priorities.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by ANDY JONES

Photo: After Marlowe Elementary teacher Tisha Newton received training in
Learning Focused Strategies, she rearranged her classroom in the way
recommended. Now classroom walls are organized by subject, such as math, social
studies and science. An essential question is posted for each subject.

Photo: Terri Mutell, principal of Marlowe Elementary, says the method pulls
together the best teaching practices educators know about, and also allows them
to sift out what is unimportant. "It ties so well to so many things we are
already doing," Mutell says.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

Photo: Tisha Newton introduced Learning Focused Strategies to students one
subject at a time. Where wall space once displayed student work, it serves now
as an educational tool that allows students to follow their progress and review
what they've learned.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Admiral Brings fresh View To Centcom

BYLINE: RICHARD LARDNER, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words


NEW HAND AT HELM

By RICHARD LARDNER

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Thousands of miles from an unpopular war that has claimed the lives of
nearly 3,200 U.S. troops, command of one of the nation's most important
war-fighting organizations changed hands Friday in an hourlong ceremony loaded
with military tradition and only passing references to the violence in Iraq.

The focus instead was on the broader challenges of terrorism, religious
extremism and regional instability in the Middle East now facing U.S. Central
Command's new top officer, Adm. William Fallon, who assumed control of the
command from Army Gen. John Abizaid.

With the festivities moved inside MacDill Air Force Base's cavernous Hangar 3 to
avoid an expected midmorning rain shower, Defense Secretary Robert Gates praised
both officers as strategic thinkers able to mesh force with diplomacy.

Gates said Iraq's economy is growing, its security forces are maturing and free
elections have been held - all examples of progress since Abizaid became Centcom
leader in July 2003.

But Gates acknowledged much remains undone.

"In all of these efforts I'm sure General Abizaid would agree that not
everything has gone as planned, as expected or as hoped," Gates said. "This is
the nature of war."

Gates called the Bush administration's counterterrorism campaign the "Long War,"
a phrase used often by Abizaid to emphasize the extended time necessary to stamp
out an embedded enemy.

Abizaid said the war on terror is greater "than the sum of Iraq and Afghanistan"
and is a battle "against an evil ideology."

Noting that war is "never easy, nor pretty, nor easily resolved," Abizaid said
"over 3,000 of our brothers and sisters have made the ultimate sacrifice and
thousands more have suffered life-changing wounds."

As of Friday, 3,197 U.S. troops have been killed in Iraq and 308 have died in
Afghanistan, according to Defense Department casualty statistics.

Known For Innovation

Fallon, 62, comes to Tampa from Hawaii, where he was commander of U.S. Pacific
Command and responsible for monitoring China, Taiwan, North Korea and dozens of
other countries.

"His reputation for innovation is without peer," Gates said, and Fallon is
"exactly the right person for the post."

In brief remarks, Fallon said he plans to foster a "climate of trust" among
Middle East leaders.

"The situation in Iraq is critical and time is of the essence," Fallon said, and
most Americans "want us to succeed."

Fallon, a Navy pilot who completed his flight training in 1967, might seem an
unusual choice for a command involved primarily in ground operations in largely
landlocked countries.

Yet with four-star Army generals on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan - David
Petraeus and Dan McNeil, respectively - military experts say Fallon can take a
broader view of the challenges in Centcom's area of operations, which reaches
from the Horn of Africa to Central Asia.

New Perspective

"He's not going to be responsible for the day-to-day operations" in Iraq and
Afghanistan," retired Navy Adm. Robert Natter, former commander of the U.S.
Atlantic Fleet, said in a telephone interview.

Natter said Fallon will focus on larger "strategic and political" situations,
such as the problems that arise from Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons and its
support for insurgent forces in the Middle East.

Fallon is the first Navy admiral to run Centcom; past commanders have been Army
or Marine Corps generals.

A naval perspective may be just what the command needs, said Natter, who worked
closely with Fallon before he retired.

"We are where we are with the perspective we've had up until this point," Natter
said. "And I don't think anybody in this country would argue that a different
perspective wouldn't be helpful."

But William Odom, a retired Army lieutenant general and a senior fellow at the
Hudson Institute in Washington, said in an interview that "the odds" are not in
Fallon's favor.

"We've never had an admiral in charge of a large ground war," said Odom, who has
called the decision to invade Iraq a major strategic mistake.

Speaking with reporters before the ceremony, Army Col. Harry Glenn, an officer
in Centcom's strategic plans directorate, said the change in command will
produce only a "few hiccups and some friction."

"We go through transitions all the time," Glenn said.

Hollywood Inspiration

Gates made reference to Abizaid's "storied military career," which included
leading a Ranger company against an enemy position during the 1983 invasion of
Grenada using a captured bulldozer as a moving shield.

Abizaid's battlefield inspiration was the basis for a scene in Clint Eastwood's
movie "Heartbreak Ridge."

"No one ever based a movie on my work at CIA," quipped Gates, who was director
of the spy agency in the early 1990s. "I always thought my covert skills were
closer to Austin Powers than 007."

Considering the man, that Abizaid's exploits would be fodder for Hollywood is
nearly unthinkable. He did his best to avoid the media during his career and
during Friday's ceremony was clearly uncomfortable with the attention and
applause he received.

Abizaid, now retired from the military, made no reference to his plans, although
Gates noted he is moving to a remote part of Nevada "where folks don't like the
federal government and drive pickup trucks."

Abizaid, 55, thanked his staff, troops in the field and, finally, turning to
wife Kathy, his family.

"A new adventure awaits us," he said.

(CHART) CHAIN OF COMMANDERS

Marine Lt. Gen. Paul X. Kelley, March 1, 1980, to July 17, 1981*

Army Gen. Robert C. Kingston, July 17, 1981, to Nov. 27, 1985*

Marine Gen. George B. Crist, Nov. 27, 1985, to Nov. 23, 1988

Army Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, Nov. 23, 1988, to Aug. 9, 1991

Marine Gen. Joseph P. Hoar, Aug. 9, 1991, to Aug. 5, 1994

Army Gen. J.H. Binford Peay III, Aug. 5, 1994, to Aug. 13, 1997

Marine Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, Aug. 13, 1997, to July 6, 2000

Army Gen. Tommy R. Franks, July 6, 2000, to July 7, 2003

Army Gen. John P. Abizaid, July 7, 2003, to March 16, 2007

Navy Adm. William J. Fallon, Present

* Kelley and Kingston commanded the Rapid Deployment Joint Task Force until U.S.
Central Command was activated Jan. 1, 1983.

Reporter Richard Lardner can be reached at (813) 259-7966 or
rlardner@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: Fallon, left, Army Col. Shawn Mateer and Army Gen. John Abizaid review
the troops. Abizaid had led Central Command since July 2003. He hasn't said how
he plans to spend his retirement.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE

Photo: Adm. William Fallon accepts the colors in the change of command ceremony
Friday at MacDill Air Force Base.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CRYSTAL L. LAUDERDALE

Photo: As commander of U.S. Central Command, Adm. William Fallon will focus on
larger "strategic and political" situations, such as the problems arising from
Iran's nuclear program, said retired Adm. Robert Natter, former U.S. Atlantic
Fleet commander.

Photo: Outgoing commander Gen. John Abizaid thanked his staff, troops in the
field and his family.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cultivating Interest In A Green Earth

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 449 words


STUDENTS MARK ARBOR DAY WITH POEM, A VOW TO CARE FOR TREES

By YVETTE C. HAMMETT

The Tampa Tribune

BLOOMINGDALE - The air is getting polluted, the climate is changing and the
Earth's forests are disappearing.

But there is a generation preparing to take on the Earth's woes. Some members of
that generation are in Jane Ham's gifted program at Alafia Elementary School.

"Trees produce medicine, and if there weren't trees, there would not be much
people on the Earth," 7-year-old Chrisalyn Junkert said.

Chrisalyn was one of about 30 students gathered around a 7-foot red maple tree
Friday to commemorate Arbor Day. The students read a poem about destruction of
the forest, and then took an oath, vowing to care for the maple as it grows.

Ham incorporated lessons from science into the tree-planting ceremony.

The National Arbor Day Foundation promotes the use of trees as "green
infrastructure" in urban and suburban areas and also is leading the charge to
reconnect youngsters to nature.

The Florida Nursery, Growers and Landscape Association also has picked up the
cause, providing teaching packets to schools and vouchers for trees. Ham used
the information in preparing her students for the tree-planting, she said.

"Every day, I stress to them the importance of their generation and how my
generation hasn't done such a hot job of caring for the Earth," Ham said. "I
really believe they got the message."

"We need trees for food and for shade and to keep us cool," said 7-year-old John
Cloyd, a first-grader at Alafia Elementary.

"I like that they give shelter for animals and for other plants," said
9-year-old Michael Gleason, who said his family has planted trees in their yard.

Without trees, added 10-year-old Catherine McDermott, "we wouldn't be able to
live. We would have so much carbon dioxide in the air and so much global
warming, and everything would just die."

In unison, the youngsters who had gathered in the school's courtyard read a poem
called "Ten Tall Oak Trees."

The poem's message: If we don't stop letting pollution, development and other
forces wreak havoc on trees, we will lose them all.

By the last verse, all the trees had been destroyed.

"No tall oak trees, search the fields in vain,

Only empty skylines, and the cold, grey rain."

Reporter Yvette C. Hammett can be reached at (813) 657-4532 or at
yhammett@tampatrib.com.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by ROBERT BURKE

Photo: Jane Ham, a gifted program teacher at Alafia Elementary School, plants a
7-foot red maple tree on Arbor Day as she emphasizes to students the importance
of trees in Earth's environment.

Photo: Jane Ham

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WILL THIS WORK WHEN YOU NEED IT?

BYLINE: ELLEN GEDALIUS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words


Records show that thousands of Tampa fire hydrants haven't been getting required
inspections. For the city, the pressure is on.

By ELLEN GEDALIUS

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The fire hydrant around the corner or down the block from your home
probably hasn't been inspected in at least two years.

In fact, despite collecting hydrant maintenance fees of about half a million
dollars annually, the Tampa Water Department hasn't inspected some hydrants in
as many as five years - a violation of not only city standards but state law.

The city water department says it strives to check each hydrant every two years.
Only 35 percent were inspected on that schedule, however, according to a Tampa
Tribune analysis of records kept on the 12,791 fire hydrants maintained by the
water department.

That means the department has failed to test nearly seven out of 10 hydrants
since July 2005.

Even worse, the water department appears to be violating a state law that
requires hydrant owners ensure annual inspections. In Tampa, the water
department has failed to hit that mark on 86 percent - or nearly 11,000 - of the
hydrants.

Although water department and fire department officials vow that hydrants have
worked properly during blazes, the lack of regular inspections raises concerns
about whether water will flow from hydrants during the most critical of times.

At least three times since 2001, hydrants in the Tampa Bay area failed
firefighters as they battled blazes. Elsewhere in the state, including in
Freeport and Orlando, firefighters had problems with hydrants that didn't work.
In one case, a church was destroyed. In the other, an elderly woman died.

Should Tampa residents be concerned that something similar could happen here?

"We've obviously fallen off the target the past few years," acknowledged Brad
Baird, water department director. "The fact we're not meeting our targets is a
concern to me, and for that reason we need to get on top of this."

Baird was not familiar with the state law until shown a copy of it by the
Tribune. Neither was the city's fire chief.

Annual Examinations Advised

The city of Tampa, like many municipalities locally and nationally, assigns to
the water department the responsibility for inspecting fire hydrants.

Water department workers inspect valves, the threading on caps and water
pressure. They make sure hydrants are well painted to prevent corrosion and to
ensure firefighters will easily spot them during emergencies. They make sure the
grass near hydrants is well maintained, or that fences or other barriers haven't
been erected that could hinder access, possibly costing critical seconds.

They also check to make sure the hydrants haven't been physically damaged from
cars banging into them.

The city's fire department pays the water department $40 per hydrant, per year,
for this maintenance service. With more than 9,000 hydrants in city limits, that
comes to roughly $364,000. Tampa's water department also is responsible for
maintaining approximately 3,700 hydrants in unincorporated Hillsborough County.
The county pays the city $60 per hydrant, per year, or about $222,000. The money
collected goes into the water department's general operating fund.

The county's fire chief is concerned by the lag in inspections.

"If we're paying for service and we're not getting the benefit of the service,
obviously it does bother me," said Chief Bill Nesmith of Hillsborough County
Fire Rescue. "They have a responsibility. We can have problems, particularly on
a public safety side. The potential is there."

Two national organizations - the National Fire Protection Association and the
American Water Works Association - recommend that hydrants be inspected
annually, or twice a year in colder climates.

Jack Hoffbuhr, director of the Colorado-based American Water Works Association,
said he has heard of cases when hydrants didn't work at fire scenes. That's part
of the reason the association recommends annual inspections.

"It is a good balance between actual practices in the field and what we'd like
to strive for: making sure they're in good repair to make sure they can serve
their primary function, which is fire protection," Hoffbuhr said.

John Dean, president of the National Association of State Fire Marshals, agreed
that hydrants need to be inspected regularly.

"I don't think anybody would ever dispute the importance of them working," Dean
said. "Certainly, the fire department counts on it."

'Hydrant ... Not Working'

Chris Vaughan's father and stepmother died in February at a house fire on Colby
Lane in North Tampa. A note on the Fire Department's incident report reads:
"Water department notified hydrant at 25th/Colby not working."

Vaughan, 23, has seen that report and has hired an attorney, though no suit has
been filed against the city. Vaughan thinks a hydrant didn't work properly. The
hydrant hadn't been inspected since May 2004, nearly three years before the
fire, city records show.

"In my eyes, that's why my dad died," Vaughan said. "They took time to switch
hydrants instead of finding my dad."

Fire Chief Dennis Jones said the hydrant worked during the fire. Only when
firefighters shut off the hydrant did they realize the hydrant was leaking.

The Tribune listened to a partial tape of the fire department's dispatch
regarding the hydrant after the fire was out.

"I'm shutting this hydrant down," someone says on the tape, "and I now have
water coming from the ground. You might want to notify the water department that
they're having problems with this hydrant at 25th and Colby."

Despite being notified that day, the water department did not follow up on the
hydrant until May 25, city records show, roughly 16 weeks after the fire. When
the water department inspected it, workers found no problems, according to a
department official.

Officials Unaware Of Law

Last year, state Sen. Lee Constantine, R-Altamonte Springs, set out to require
that privately owned fire hydrants be inspected on an annual basis. He had heard
reports from firefighters about faulty hydrants, and then in 2006, a fire in
southwest Orange County left one dead when a hydrant didn't work.

Constantine later added publicly owned hydrants to the bill, which passed and
was signed into law last year. Those who don't comply are subject to a
second-degree misdemeanor charge, according to the senator's legislative aide.

"I'm trying to ensure when a firefighter goes to a hydrant, it works," the state
senator said.

Jones, the fire chief, did not know about the law.

"Who reads every section and finds out what changes are made?" Jones said.
"There probably should be somebody, but there's nobody who tells us when the
code changes.

"We became aware of it when you made an issue out of it."

Baird didn't know about the law either. He has been in charge of the water
department for a little more than a year and said maintaining fire department
equipment is his chief priority. He describes the fire department as water's No.
1 customer.

The fire department seems satisfied. When firefighters turn on hydrants, water
flows, Jones said.

But how can he be confident hydrants will work when needed if inspections are so
irregular?

"I can't answer that," Jones said. "There's not a lot of moving parts in a
hydrant. When we open a hydrant, water flows out of them."

Baird said the past few years have been tough as more of the city's aging pipes
ruptured, causing the water department to spend more time fixing problems than
preventing them.

"We are simply not able to meet our targets with the personnel we have," Baird
said. About 100 people work in the city's water distribution division, the
division responsible for hydrant inspections.

The city's pipes are, in fact, showing their age: About 15 percent of the city's
2,300 miles of pipe is more than 60 years old.

About a year ago, the city's water distribution division was reorganized. Rather
than have experts focusing on various areas, such as hydrant inspections or pipe
repair, employees were assigned to geographic areas. The city was divided into
quadrants, and employees were cross-trained.

For example, hydrant experts learned how to repair pipes. Meter experts learned
how to inspect hydrants.

The city paid a consultant $73,000 to develop the reorganization. Several weeks
ago, the consultant returned to address problems with the new structure. The
firm was paid an additional $2,700 for the repeat visit.

Baird is convinced that the reorganization will pay off, when all employees know
how to do everything. Now, though, some people inspecting fire hydrants might
not be as proficient as those who previously had focused on that kind of work.
The newly trained people take longer, resulting in a slowdown.

If the Tampa City Council next week approves a water rate increase, the city
will look to hire an outside company to inspect hydrants. Baird estimates that
outsourcing could cost about $1 million.

Hillsborough County has a contract with a private firm to inspect fire hydrants
annually.

Vaughan, the 23-year-old whose dad and stepmother died in the Colby Lane fire,
is disgusted with the fact that the city is so far behind on hydrant
inspections.

Told that city records show the hydrant was last inspected in 2004, Vaughan
said: "That's three years ago. There's the problem."

(CHART) FAULTY HYDRANTS

Firefighters struggled with faulty hydrants at these three fires:

2003: Manhattan Palms Apartments, unincorporated Hillsborough County. The closet
hydrant had low water pressure.

2002: Dolphin Cove condominiums, Clearwater. A private hydrant didn't work.

2001: Chase Crossing apartments, Town N' Country, Firefighters had to use axes
and wrenches to get rusted caps off hydrants during a fire.

(CHART) Tampa Tribune Special Report

12,791- Hydrants the city is responsible for maintaining

4,530- Hydrants the city has inspected since July 1, 2005

1,822- Hydrants the city has inspected since July 1, 2006.

Researcher Michael Messano contributed to this story. Reporter Ellen Gedalius
can be reached at (813) 259-7679 or egedalius@tampatrib.com

Photo: Have they been inspected? Do they work? Hydrants on Fowler Avenue west of
12th Street

Photo: ... and Lantana Avenue at 108th Avenue stand at the ready.

Photo: (fire hydrant)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans Ramping Up To Cultivate Minorities

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words


PARTY ORGANIZING OUTREACH AIMED AT BLACKS, HISPANICS

By WILLIAM MARCH

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The Florida Republican Party is set to begin what Chairman Jim Greer
describes as a major effort to reach out to minority voters, including a planned
conference next month in Tallahassee for thousands of black Republicans and
independents.

The effort "will show that the Republican Party walks the walk," Greer said.

"I and Gov. Crist want to leave office showing that what we said we meant, and
there was never any question of our recognition of the importance of the
minority voter," he said.

Some black Floridians - even black Republicans - say they've heard before about
GOP attempts to become a viable political force in their community, and haven't
been impressed.

But Greer said he means it.

"At the end of the day, we will not only demonstrate to minority voters that the
party is serious about engaging them, but also that we have a step-by-step plan
to reach out to them."

Greer said the outreach will include a new department within the state party
dedicated to minority outreach, and two new advisory councils for blacks and
Hispanics. The party already had a minority outreach effort as part of its field
operation. Greer said he's elevating it to a separate department whose head will
report directly to him.

State Rep. Jennifer Carroll of Jacksonville will head the black council, and
Cuban-American lawyer Marcos Marchena of Orlando will head the Hispanic council.

Mixed Prospects With Minorities

The effort comes at a time when the Florida Republican Party faces mixed
prospects with minority voters.

On the plus side:

*Crist, a Republican who chose Greer for the chairman's position, has had
unprecedented success with minority voters. Exit polls showed Crist with 18
percent of black votes in last year's election.

By comparison, Republican Jeb Bush got 14 percent in his 1998 election -
considered a record at the time - but dropped to an estimated 8 percent in his
2002 re-election.

*There has been a slow trend in Florida and nationally of black voters
gravitating toward the GOP, said University of South Florida political scientist
Susan MacManus, who studies demographic trends in politics.

MacManus said blacks remain "the most solidly Democratic vote out there." But
some are changing because of increasing black economic prosperity, a
corresponding rise in black entrepreneurship and the sizeable number of black
voters who favor private school tuition vouchers.

*Republicans still benefit from the highly organized, active Cuban-American
community in South Florida - the reason the GOP has long dominated among Florida
Hispanics - while Democrats win among Hispanics nationwide.

On the negative side:

*Large numbers of Democratic-oriented immigrants from Puerto Rico, Mexico and
Latin America are beginning to overshadow the Florida Cuban community. In 2006,
exit polls showed Crist and Democrat Jim Davis tied among Hispanics.

*Fervent hatred of Fidel Castro, which motivates South Florida Cubans toward the
GOP, is declining among younger generations. The climate could change further
after Castro dies.

*The recent controversy over immigration, in which Republicans have taken
hard-line, anti-immigration stands to please the party's conservative base, has
alienated Hispanic voters. Democrats hope for a bumper crop of Hispanic votes as
result.

Republican presidential candidates have made headlines this year by declining to
attend two Hispanic candidate forums - one held by the National Association of
Latino Elected Officials in Orlando, and one by the Hispanic television network
Univision.

Asked whether that could harm his outreach effort, Greer didn't answer directly
but left the impression that he wasn't pleased.

'Future Of Our Party Is Inclusion'

"I'm not going to talk about specific candidates, but the future of our party is
inclusion," he said.

Greer said the party will send about 50,000 invitations to black Republican and
independent voters for the Nov. 16 Black Republican Conference in Tallahassee
with former football star Lynn Swann as keynote speaker.

Reactions to the plans varied.

Adora Obi Nweze of Miami, state president of the NAACP, emphasized her
organization's nonpartisan status, but said it's a mistake for any political
party to ignore any group of voters.

She cited Crist as an example of a Republican who obtained black support because
he "opens up his doors to people to come in and dialogue."

Democrats scoffed at the initiative.

"It's another desperate attempt to save an election they're going to lose ?
thinking they should engage people they've left out in the past," said Janet
Gonzalez Rifkin, a longtime Democratic Party activist and former chairwoman of
the county Democratic Hispanic caucus.

"I would challenge them to tell the minorities what they really have to offer.
Can they change the funding cuts for the working poor that don't have health
insurance?"

Even Curtis Stokes, a Tampa banker active in both the NAACP and the Republican
Party, and a Crist backer, expressed skepticism.

"I'm all for what Greer's trying to do, but it can't just die out after
November," he said. "Every election season this starts, but after the election
season it wanes away. As an African-American Republican, it doesn't seem genuine
to me."

MacManus said Republicans may never dominate the black vote, but they can make
inroads with the right candidate and the right issue.

"What they can go after is a few percentage points that could make a difference
in a close election," she said.

Even if the returns are small, she said, the Republican Party must make
convincing attempts - if for no other reason, to please white voters.

"You always have to be perceived as seeking black votes," she said. "Republicans
in Florida tend to be more moderate here than in the Deep South; they don't want
to be perceived as uninterested in diversity in the party."

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761 or wmarch@tampatrib.com

Photo: Jim Greer

Says GOP's future is one of inclusion

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Coal's Future Fading To Black

BYLINE: RUSSELL RAY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words


Plant Plans Axed As Governor Seeks Cleaner Energy

By RUSSELL RAY

The Tampa Tribune

Florida, a state that has fought hard to preserve the ban on oil production off
its shores, has effectively closed the door on another traditional source of
energy.

Coal, the black rock used to generate half of the nation's electricity, is
getting the heave-ho in Florida for its hefty output of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas that scientists have linked to global warming.

This year, five planned power plants have been scrapped in the wake of Gov.
Charlie Crist's crusade against coal. Two coal plants were rejected by state
regulators while three other coal projects were dropped as Crist's opposition to
coal resonated across the state.

Altogether, the five plants would have generated 4,642 megawatts of electricity,
enough power for nearly 3 million homes in Florida.

The need for that power has not disappeared, and if coal is no longer an option,
electric utilities will be forced to turn to more expensive, less reliable and
riskier forms of energy.

But without coal, keeping the lights on in Florida will be almost impossible.

Demand for electricity in Florida is expected to rise 76 percent by 2030, almost
twice as fast as U.S. demand, according to the Department of Energy.

"It's difficult to imagine a scenario in which Florida's electricity demands can
be met entirely without any new coal-based generation," said Jim Owen, spokesman
for the Edison Electric Institute, a trade group for the nation's electric
utilities.

Utilities have other options to meet demand, and though those options are
cleaner, they do have disadvantages:

*Natural gas is significantly more expensive than coal.

*Wind and solar can't be counted on as a steady source of electricity because
the wind doesn't always blow and the sun doesn't always shine.

*Nuclear power plants are risky and require long lead times to build.

Bad For Business

Without new coal-fired generation, electricity in Florida will be less reliable
and more expensive, and that's bad for Florida's businesses, said Barney Bishop,
president and chief executive of Associated Industries of Florida.

"There's no way to deliver power at the levels Floridians need without fossil
fuel," Bishop said.

Despite claims from environmental groups, Florida's soaring demand for
electricity can't be met through conservation, Bishop added.

"That's a nice platitude, but there's no proof to show that," he said.

Last week, Tampa Electric Co. scuttled plans to build what the industry refers
to as a "clean-coal" plant amid state concerns about the plant's carbon dioxide
emissions. It would have been located about 40 miles southeast of Tampa in Polk
County.

The plant would have used a highly regarded clean-coal technology known as coal
gasification, which has significantly less emissions of nitrogen oxide and
sulfur dioxide, the primary causes of smog and acid rain. But the 630-megawatt
plant still would have emitted about 4.1 million tons a year of carbon dioxide,
the greenhouse gas suspected of causing climate change.

Tampa Electric feared it was going to be required by the state to capture and
store the carbon before the rules for limiting carbon emissions are finalized.
Capturing carbon and storing it underground is expensive, and no one knows for
sure whether it can be done safely in Florida.

Until the rules are finalized and certain obstacles are overcome, Tampa Electric
wasn't willing to make such a risky investment.

The utility must still find a way to generate an extra 150 megawatts a year over
the next 10 years to meet growing demand. Tampa Electric President Chuck Black
said the utility may turn to natural gas, which is significantly more expensive
than coal.

Already, natural gas is used to produce 37 percent of the state's electricity,
while 24 percent is derived from coal. Utility executives and state officials
have repeatedly said the state is too dependent on natural gas and should
diversify its fuel mix.

"We believe coal is important, not only for the state but for the country, from
a fuel diversity perspective," Black said.

In June, members of the Public Service Commission, including two recently
appointed by Crist, rejected Florida Power & Light Co.'s proposal to build a
coal plant near the Florida Everglades. Later that month, another company
suspended plans to build a coal plant near Tallahassee because of "growing
concerns" about greenhouse gas emissions. Under pressure to change, Lakeland
Electric also dropped its plan to build a coal-fired power plant.

In August, Florida's Department of Environmental Protection denied a clean-coal
power plant proposed by Seminole Electric Cooperative of Tampa, citing the
plants' potential effect on air and water quality. The project was denied even
though there were no "disputed issues of fact or law."

Seminole has appealed the decision in Putnam County, where the plant was
proposed.

Don't Overlook Coal, Director Urges

Seminole said it's a mistake to exclude coal from the state's plan to meet
rising demand for electricity.

"It's a domestic fuel, it's plentiful and it's low-priced compared to natural
gas," said Jim Frauen, director of projects for Seminole Electric.

Coal has been used to generate electricity in the United States since the late
1800s. Its political appeal is obvious: The United States has 250 billion tons
of recoverable coal, a 240-year supply based on current consumption. Those coal
reserves have as much energy content as about 800 billion barrels of oil.

"There is more BTU value in the coal we have in the United States than in all of
the oil in the Middle East," Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman for the National
Mining Association, said about British Thermal Units, a measure of energy.

In July, Crist signed executive orders requiring utilities to lower their
emissions, including carbon dioxide, to 1990 levels by 2025. The governor's
order also calls for utilities to produce 20 percent of their electricity from
renewable sources of energy, although no deadline has been set for that mandate.

"The governor has been pretty clear on his commitment to addressing these issues
in our state," said Erin Isaac, spokeswoman for Crist.

Limiting carbon dioxide emissions from power plants means nuclear power will
play a greater role in meeting demand in Florida and elsewhere, Black said.

But it takes years to build a nuclear plant. Coal would thus be essential in
meeting demand until nuclear capacity is built, Black said.

"In a world where you're moving toward nuclear, coal has to be part of that
transition," he said.

(CHART) COAL-FIRED PROJECTS KILLED IN FLORIDA THIS YEAR

Tampa Electric, 632-megawatt coal gasification unit near Mulberry - Dropped by
the company.

Seminole Electric, 750-megawatt coal-fired power plant near Palatka. The project
was rejected by the state in August, but Seminole is appealing the decision in
Putnam County Circuit Court - Denied by the state.

Taylor Energy Center, 800-megawatt coal-fired plant near Tallahassee - Dropped
by the company.

Lakeland Electric, 500-megawatt coal-fired plant near Lakeland - Dropped by the
company.

Florida Power & Light, two 980-megawatt coal-fired units near Lake Okeechobee -
Denied by the state.

Source: Tribune research

Reporter Russell Ray can be reached at (813) 259-7870 or rray@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: News Channel 8 photo by MICHAEL EGGER

Photo: TECO's plan for another coal gasification unit, similar to the one at its
Polk Power Station, fell victim to worry over carbon dioxide emissions.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo ROBERT BURKE

Photo: Electricity produced with natural gas and oil is used as a backup at
TECO's Polk Power Station. Natural gas is significantly more expensive than
coal.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Land of Dreams: A Short History

BYLINE: WALT BELCHER, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words


By WALT BELCHER

The Tampa Tribune

"It was like going to heaven. It was so wonderful. We were able to go swimming
in the winter time. It was just beautiful because there were so many trees and
flowers when, up North, they were having snow." - Frances Shaw Stavros, a Tampa
resident who discovered Florida in the 1940s

TAMPA - In the early 1950s, postcards spread the "Florida Dream."

Pictures of a tranquil, unspoiled tropical paradise of sun, surf and sea.

Beautiful young women dressed as Southern belles strolling through Cypress
Gardens.

Quaint roadside stands, alligator farms, natural springs and trees loaded with
oranges and tangerines.

Over the next five decades, as the population grew from 2.7 million to 18.5
million, that dream changed. How and why is covered in a film debuting at 9
tonight

on WEDU, Channel 3.

"The Florida Dream," produced by the Florida Humanities Council and WEDU, tells
the state's story using old film clips, historical photographs and interviews
with scholars and longtime residents. It traces the social, cultural and
economic forces that have shaped the state since the end of World War II.

Producer Larry Elliston has crafted a colorful and compelling history lesson.

The fourth-generation Floridian is well-known in the Tampa Bay area for his
"Down Home Florida" reports that used to air on WTVT, Channel 13. He was the
producer for the nationally syndicated "Jack Hanna's Animal Adventures" and for
a PBS film on circus magnate John Ringling and his wife, Mabel, and their
contributions to Florida history.

Narrated by actor Ed Asner, "The Florida Dream" crams a lot into 60 minutes.

It covers the post-World War II housing boom; the effects of the civil rights
movement; the arrival of NASA at Cape Canaveral; the immigration of Cubans
fleeing Fidel Castro; the rise of retirement communities; the draining of half
the Everglades; the destruction of the Kissimmee River; and how Walt Disney
World changed tourism and the state's image.

It is both a nostalgic glimpse of the state's past and a cautionary warning
about the future.

As Florida continues to grow - more than 36 million residents are projected by
2050 - the state will face issues even bigger than the current hot-buttons:
burdensome property taxes and skyrocketing homeowners insurance.

"In the long run, those are trivial compared to water," says historian Gary R.
Mormino, a University of South Florida professor. "Half of the state - North
Florida - is water rich, and half - South Florida - is water poor," he notes in
the film. Water supply will be an even bigger problem in the not-too-distant
future, he says.

The continued paving of paradise to put up parking lots, strip malls and
condominiums is another issue Floridians will have to face, says University of
Florida history professor Jack Davis.

"There are only scraps of virgin landscape left," he adds, noting that the
Everglades, a globally unique ecosystem, is half the size it once was.

Mormino's 2005 book, "Land of Sunshine, State of Dreams: A Social History of
Modern Florida" (University Press of Florida, $34.95) inspired the film. A
Florida history specialist, Mormino writes the Tribune's History & Heritage
column.

Elliston says he couldn't cover everything that was in the book.

"The film is designed to be a quick history for people who haven't lived here
since the 1950s and for young people," he says. "Future generations need to know
where we've been and what we stand to lose."

It will be made available to schools and will air on PBS stations throughout
Florida. Viewers will be encouraged to learn more online at www
.floridadream.org.

Before World War II, Florida was the least populated state in the South, with
fewer than 2 million people, the film notes. It also was one of the poorest and
most rural.

That changed with the development of 200 military training facilities, where
millions of soldiers discovered the tropical paradise.

"Where Florida had been a poor state, a small state, it suddenly became, thanks
to the investment by the federal government, a fairly dynamic state," says David
Colburn, another UF history professor.

After the war, many of those soldiers returned. The postwar economic boom,
combined with improved highways, better automobiles and the marketing of home
air conditioning, made the Florida dream possible for millions. The population
rapidly doubled.

Elliston interviewed people who followed their dreams here, including Tampa
residents Gus and Frances Stavros, who, like many others, came from the North.

Gus Stavros said he fell in love with the state in 1943 when he trained in
Gainesville. "This boy from New Jersey had never seen such a wonderful climate,"
he says.

Ann Cull, another transplant, who lives in Cape Coral, notes, "You have a
different outlook on life when the sun shines."

Years from now, people will look back at the period from the 1950s to the 1970s
as Florida's golden era, Mormino speculates.

"It was when the Florida dream was attainable for the working and middle class,"
he says. "A retired mailman from Chicago could afford to move here and live
comfortably on the water. Florida really was affordable."

That's no longer true, he said in a recent interview.

"That working-class retiree wouldn't be able to come here [today]. We're also
losing the working-class mom-and-pop-owned motels and other businesses."

By the 1980s, development was racing across Florida. Now, condominiums crowd the
skyline and orange groves are being turned into gated communities. More than 50
of the state's native species are endangered or threatened.

"Despite all that has happened, we've still got what many people consider a
paradise," Mormino says. "The key question is how much more growth can the state
handle before it stops being special and Florida becomes paradise lost?"

(CHART) ON TELEVISION

The Florida Dream and The State Of Florida

WHAT and WHEN: "The Florida Dream," a documentary tracing the social, cultural
and economic changes in Florida since 1945, debuts at 9 tonight. "The State of
Florida," a discussion among historians and the mayors of Tampa and St.
Petersburg about the impact of rapid growth, follows at 10.

WHERE: WEDU, Channel 3

INFORMATION: Go to www.wedu.org, www.flahum.org or www.floridadream.org.

(CHART) Sunshine State Timeline

1942: World War II military training camps bring millions of soldiers to
Florida.

1949: Florida ends open-range policy; ranchers must put up fences.

1949: Florida enacts first state sales tax.

1950: The state's population hits 2.7 million.

1950: The development of home air conditioning makes Florida tolerable
year-round.

1959: Fidel Castro takes over Cuba, and more than 1 million Cubans immigrate to
the United States over the next two decades, many settling in Florida.

1959: NASA sets up shop at Cape Canaveral.

1960: Florida's population reaches 4.7 million.

1961: Developer Del Webb opens Sun City Center, typical of a new housing trend -
planned communities for retirees.

1971: Walt Disney World opens, marking a dramatic shift in tourism.

2000: Florida's population hits 15.9 million.

Walt Belcher

Photo credit: Tribune file photo (1949)

Photo: Gov. Fuller Warren visits Elsie the Cow at the Florida State Fair in
1949, the same year he vowed to get cows off Florida's roads. The end of the
open-range policy helped make peace with citizens unaccustomed to paying sales
tax.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo

Photo: Walt Disney World opens near Orlando in 1971. The theme park increases
tourism and changes the state's image.

Reporter Walt Belcher can be reached at (813) 259-7654 or wbelcher@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Photos from Florida State Photo Archives

Photo: Soldiers train in gas masks on a Florida beach during World War II in
"The Florida Dream," a documentary tracing forces that have shaped the state
since the start of the war. Military training introduced millions of Americans
to the state.

Photo: A postcard sent from Florida in the 1960s boasts about rapid growth. The
population has risen from 2.7 million to 18.5 million.

Photo: A young Cuban refugee, among a wave of immigrants fleeing the rule of
Fidel Castro, arrives in Miami and with her dolls in 1961.

Photo: The space race of the 1960s brought new shops and subdivisions to the
Space Coast north and south of Cape Canaveral.

Photo credit: Florida State Photo Archives

Photo: Better highways and automobiles and the expansion of home air
conditioning made the Florida dream possible for millions.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Everyone Turns Out To Be Something'

BYLINE: PENNY CARNATHAN AND GARY R. MORMINO, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BAYLIFE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2330 words


History buffs dig back in time to learn the fate of a boy whose image helped
change labor laws.

By PENNY CARNATHAN AND GARY R. MORMINO

The Tampa Tribune

The photograph captures a moment in a child's life in Tampa, March 1913.

He's a small boy; the folded newspaper he clutches is about a third his height.
He stares at the camera with a dark look that might be wary, or weary, or angry.
He wears a coat with a Peter Pan collar and stands barefoot on a sandy city
street in

front of a trash bin. The caption tells us only that, at 4 years old, he's "one

of America's youngest newsboys."

Lewis Hine, an early 20th century investigative photographer for the National
Child Labor Committee, shot many such poignant portraits. The faces of pale
little girls looking longingly out the windows of factories and stoic little
boys coated with the dust of coal mines helped lead to laws regulating child
labor in the

United States. Most of the collection, about 5,000 photographs, is housed in the
U.S. Library of Congress.

Some of the children Hine identified; some he did not. Tampa's little newsboy
was among the most famous of those shot during Hine's three visits here. The
picture appeared in countless exhibitions and books, making him an anonymous
catalyst for changes that would better the lives of millions of children yet to
be born.

Earlier this year, the portrait caught the attention of Joe Manning, a history
buff and author from Florence, Mass. His questions got local historians
scrambling like detectives to a murder mystery. Who was that child? A quixotic
quest, maybe, but too tantalizing to ignore.

They dug. They found an answer. And they unearthed a story.

'He Just Grabbed Me'

Manning initially searched for the descendants of children Hine identified.

He succeeded about 75 times over the course of a year.

"But I kept staring at the ones with no names, and that fact alone made them
even more haunting," he says.

Last summer, he began selecting anonymous portraits. He chose the ones that
called to him, tugged at him as he surfed the Library of Congress Web site. He
wrote to the newspapers in the towns where the photos were taken and asked them

to publish the pictures along with something about his search for an identity, a
life's story.

"Everyone's got an incredible story," says Manning, 66, who hopes to someday
compile these tales in a book. "Here's a person who could have amounted to
nothing. But everyone turns out to be something."

By the time he called the Tribune in September, he had found the unsuspecting
descendants of three young, formerly anonymous workers. He didn't anticipate
their thrill, the rush of emotion. A 69-year-old woman, who knew only that her
father had grown up poor in Kentucky, saw him for the first time as a
12-year-old working in a tobacco field. The picture was 91 years old.

Another descendant promptly bought three books about Hine.

"I could be doing this for the rest of my life," Manning says.

Just as with the first three, he couldn't ignore the picture of the little Tampa
newsie. "He just grabbed me," he says.

Manning researched the photograph and found it had been widely circulated. "It
was one of the most iconic of the pictures."

In October, the Tribune published a story about Hine's Tampa photos and
Manning's project. Several of the local portraits ran with it, including one of
three jaunty young newsboys linked companionably arm in arm. The photographer's
rich caption information identified them as the Bellenti brothers: Crosoria, 10,
Joe, 9, Sam, 7, and Tony, 4. They lived on Garcia Avenue and sold newspapers
from 6 a.m. until late at night. They spoke little English and did not attend
school.

The photo, like that of the mystery child, was taken in March 1913. But there
were only three boys pictured, not four. Obviously, the littlest brother was
missing.

Could the unidentified newsboy be Tony Bellenti? How many 4-year-olds might
Tampa have employed?

We turned to the old city directories in the Tribune's library. These precursors
to today's telephone books list every address in the city, street by street, and
attempted to name the residents at each address and their occupations. The other
half of the directories list residents by name, in alphabetical order.

The Tribune's oldest directory is from 1929 - the information in it would have
been gathered in 1928. It revealed no Bellentis on Garcia Avenue. No Bellentis,
in fact, in the city.

Paul Camp, Special Collections librarian at the University of South Florida
Library, checked city directories from 1910-13. He, too, found nothing, even
when he searched alternative spellings.

"Could be they lived with relatives by another name, weren't noticed by the
directory compilers or weren't here at the particular time the compilers
gathered information," he speculated in an e-mail.

"Or that their name was Valente," came the response from another in the e-mail
circle. "If they didn't speak English well, and the photographer was unfamiliar
with Italian names?"

Camp searched and found two possibilities on Garcia: Antonio Valente, a baker,
and his wife, Anna, and Antonio F. Valenti, a peddler and a boarder. Neither
listing included the names of children, if there were any.

We Go To The Guru

If anyone knew the answer, it would be Tony Pizzo. He was Hillsborough County's
official historian and founder of the Tampa Historical Society. He even has an
elementary school named for him.

Alas, he died in 1994.

Dedicated preservationist that he was, however, he donated to the USF Library
nearly 300 boxes of documents, photographs and manuscripts he had collected.

"I've found Tony Pizzo's copy of the little Italian newsboy ? it was misfiled,"
Camp e-mailed the group. "On the back, Tony wrote, 'Tony Valenti, newsboy,
became a tycoon in the produce business.' Unfortunately, Tony doesn't say how he
knew that the newsboy Tony Valenti was the same as the Tony Valenti who became a
success in the produce business."

The produce tycoon, Camp learned, died in 1975 and was laid to rest in Myrtle
Hill Memorial Park. His obituary indicated he was born in 1907, which would have
made him 6 years old - not 4 - when the photo was taken.

How would Pizzo have known Valenti was the little newsboy? Camp dug some more.

"Nothing conclusive to back up Tony Pizzo's statement," he reported, "but
nothing to prove Valenti wasn't the newsboy either. I'm inclined to put
considerable weight on Tony Pizzo's identification ? given the family's
prominence in the Tampa Italian community."

It was fairly easy to find Valenti's two sons, who still live in Tampa. If
anyone should know, they should.

"All that I know is, No. 1, if the kid was 4 years old and it was 1913, if those
are facts, he couldn't have been my father," says 71-year-old Tom Valenti.

His dad was a storyteller, he says. He regaled his children, and everyone else,
with his tales. They were usually funny, and they almost always had something to
do with his life, present and past. But he never talked about selling newspapers
as a little boy. And he never lived on Garcia Avenue; he lived on 14th Avenue.

One of his dad's good friends, Tony Pizzo, had said something, however.

"Tony Pizzo told me that picture was my father," Tom Valenti says.

After the October Tribune story, Tom's uncle Joe Caltagirone - his mother's
sister's husband - told Tom that Tony Valenti himself had once said he was the
boy in the picture.

Tom Valenti has his own reason to believe it may be true.

"The picture is a very good likeness of one of my grandsons," he says.

Tony's youngest brother, 87-year-old Sexton Valenti, was born when Tony was
about 13. Sexton, who lives in Temple Terrace, says a lot of kids worked back
when they were growing up.

"In those days, everyone was poor. I worked in the bakery around the corner from
my house when I was about 10 years old."

Tony sold newspapers, he says.

"The Columbia restaurant, 22nd Street and Seventh Avenue, that was his station."

His mother, Rosalia, told him that, he says. He has a vague memory of her
showing him the little newsboy photograph.

If the photo is Tony Valenti, his childhood wasn't quite as grim as Hine often
described. Tony, who also went by T.J., attended school and was very studious,
Sexton says. But, as with many immigrant families, everyone worked to keep food
on the table and a roof overhead.

Their father, Giuseppe Valenti, had immigrated to the United States from Sicily
in the late 19th century. He had stomach problems and took his growing family to
Tampa after a New York physician advised him to find a warmer climate.

"He had a produce cart and pulled it in Ybor City," Tom Valenti says.
"Eventually, he got enough money for a donkey, and the donkey pulled the cart."

Living on a peddler's wages, the family had to be resourceful. Tony's mother
often sent him out to cut watercress from a ditch for the evening salad.

In 1920, nine days before the birth of his 11th child, Sexton, Giuseppe Valenti
died of a ruptured appendix. Tony left school about that time; he'd made it to
middle school.

His lessons would resume with the proprietor of N. Geraci & Co., a lucrative
produce wholesaler located two blocks east of the Columbia Restaurant. Valenti
eventually managed the business, and when Geraci died, his two sons asked the
astute businessman to stay on. He became vice president and, with a partner,
started his own business as well. Lazzara & Valenti delivered Geraci produce
from Sarasota to Tarpon Springs.

"My father put three of us through college," says Tom Valenti, who has a brother
and a sister. "I can't recall wanting for anything except more time with him
because he sure worked a lot of hours."

When Tony's baby brother Sexton was mustered out of the military after World War
II, Tony bought him a brand-new Dodge truck and got him started as another
successful produce seller.

But he wasn't all work. Every Saturday night, he took Tom's mother, Mary, up to
the Columbia for a night of food and dancing with friends.

And then, at 40, came the heart attack. He was wise enough to cut back on his
hours.

"He adjusted his work habits," Tom says. "He went to work at 6:30 in the morning
and left at 11:30 [a.m.]."

All those produce sellers in California, whose clocks were set three hours
earlier than Tampa's, had to wake up early if they wanted to sell to Geraci &
Co. - a big buyer. They had to talk to Tony Valenti before 8:30 a.m., their
time.

"It made them get up on the West Coast," Tom says.

A Legacy, Photograph Or Not

The evidence is enough for Manning.

Hine often got ages wrong, guessing his subjects were younger than they were, he
says. That might have been because they were malnourished and small, or it might
have made for better anti-child labor propaganda. He was pressured to provide
heart-rending stories to further the cause.

He also had to gather information quickly. He shot his photos and ducked out
before the adults figured out what he was up to.

Given all the reasons for discrepancies, Manning believes the little newsboy is
Tony Valenti.

"The effort here has pretty much eliminated the possibility of it being anyone
else," he says.

Whether or not Tony Valenti was the child who stared so bravely into the camera
in 1913, his lifelong work ethic proved as much a legacy to his family as his
eventual success.

"You had to work in order to provide for your family," he taught his children,
says Tom Valenti. "That all related to having a good life."

Tom and his brother, Joe, 73, are stockbrokers at Wachovia Securities.

"We're still here working every day, and we enjoy it," Tom says, "because we've
almost gotten the hang of it."

To view the Lewis Hine collection, go to lcweb2.loc.gov/pp/nclcquery.html. Type
Tampa into the search box and click. Readers who wish to contact Joe Manning
about his project should visit www.morningsonmaplestreet.com/


(CHART) HINE'S GROUP

The National Child Labor Committee, the organization for which Lewis Hine was an
investigative photographer, still exists. The group is a private, nonprofit
organization that promotes "the rights, awareness, dignity, well-being and
education of children and youth as they relate to work and working," according
to its Web site. The committee was formed in 1904.

Each year since 1985, the group has presented the Lewis Hine Awards for Service
to Children and Youth. The awards honor unheralded people for their volunteer or
professional work. Winners from the Tampa Bay area have included Colleen
Lunsford Bevis of Tampa, Lisa-Anne Furgal of Largo and Debbie Tapp of Bradenton.

Reach Penny Carnathan at (813) 259-7612 or pcarnathan@tampatrib.com Reach Gary
R. Mormino at gmorminolewishine.html.@stpt.usf.edu or in care of the Florida
Studies Program, Snell House, 140 Seventh Ave. S., St. Petersburg FL 33701.

Photo credit: Library of Congress

Photo: Photographer Lewis Hine identified these newsboys in 1913 as the Bellenti
brothers: Crosoria, 10, Joe, 9, Sam, 7, and Tony, 4. Curiosity about the boy not
shown in the photo led to speculation he was Tony Valenti.

Photo credit: Photos above and top left and right from the Valenti family

Photo: Tony Valenti, right, and brother J.C. "Blue Eyes" Valenti take a ride in
Hot Springs, Ark., in 1940. Tony delivered produce from Sarasota to Tarpon
Springs. J.C. would gain fame for his Blue Eyes brand tomatoes.

Photo: Joe Manning

History buff was haunted by photos.

Photo: Lewis Hine

Photographer made three trips to Tampa.

Photo: (4) Tampa produce tycoon Tony Valenti, left, is believed to have been the
1913 newsboy. Valenti died in 1975. His great-grandson Ricky Rivera, right,
bears a strong resemblance to the newsboy, says Valenti's son Tom.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JIM REED

Photo: Tom Valenti, left, and his brother, Joe, are stockbrokers at Wachovia
Securities in Tampa. Tom says their father, Tony, never talked about selling
newspapers as a little boy, but that county historian Tony Pizzo "told me that
picture was my father."

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 3, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Polar Bears' Significance To Florida

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 364 words


The plight of the polar bear should concern all Floridians, whether you love
wildlife or not. The U.S. Department of the Interior wants to list the bears as
endangered species because their numbers are plummeting.

Higher temperatures are melting the arctic ice and the bear's hunting grounds
are dwindling.

The melting ice could, over time, increase sea levels enough to be disastrous
for low-lying Florida. Scientists predict our beaches would be wiped away if sea
levels rise 15 inches in the next century - the mid-range of scientific
estimates given, should global warming continue. The Tampa Bay Regional Planning
Council estimates that more than 200 square miles of local land probably would
need protection from inundation or erosion. The price tag would be staggering.

So Floridians share more kinship with the arctic predator than they realize.

Some scientists dispute the reality of global warming, particularly the
significance of greenhouse gases. But they are in the minority. And new evidence
appears to shore up the global-warming case. A recent report by the National
Academies of Science found that Earth's temperatures have risen about 1 degree
over the past century, which researchers called an "unprecedented" development.
Two other recent studies linked global warming to stronger hurricanes. And
researchers at the National Research Council concluded that the past few decades
of the 20th century were the warmest in 400 years - "potentially" in several
thousand years.

All this does not mean the nation should throw economic concerns to the wind in
a panicky effort to eliminate greenhouse emissions. But it does suggest that
ignoring the threat, as this nation has largely done, is irresponsible. The
nation needs to get serious about developing clean energy sources and increasing
conservation.

If we save the polar bear's habitat, we may also save Florida.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photo

Photo: Designating polar bears such as these in Barrow, Alaska, as endangered
can raise public awareness of the far-flung consequences of melting polar ice.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1104 words


Family Area Threatened

"There's an adult video store in the neighborhood."

"Great, let's buy a home there!"

Could you picture this as a selling point in, oh, let's say your neighborhood?

My husband and I have lived in central Pasco County since 1991. We moved from
Hillsborough to escape the burgeoning expansion of housing and crime. Pasco has
been a bedroom community to Tampa for years. People moving here were looking for
their own piece of land and a place where kids could play without fear of harm.

Over the years "progress" has caught up with us, as we expected it eventually
would. But the land between north Land O' Lakes on U.S. 41 and State Road 52 has
produced some very nice family-oriented developments, including Connerton,
Tierra del Sol, Asbel Creek, The Groves and Wilderness Lake Preserve.

When the old warehouse and storefront at 10600 U.S. 41 sold for $1.5 million, we
didn't think much about it. However, when word spread that an adult video store
was going in, it hit hard. We have a petition going around the neighborhood in
Harval Manor to present to our county commissioner, Pat Mulieri. We're
requesting that this not be allowed.

We've been told that current Pasco law favors any business as long as the
property is zoned commercial and not within 1,000 feet of a school or church.
While gathering signatures, I found there is already an adult bookstore north of
S.R. 52, also along U.S. 41.

If we don't do something now about poor zoning in our beautiful family
neighborhoods, we will be the equivalent of a porn store row in another few
years. This is not the type community we wish to raise kids in.

I encourage everyone who moved here to have a good family environment to protest
by signing petitions and presenting them to the county commission. If we can't
block this latest business, let's get the zoning laws changed and block any in
the future.

LINDA J. POLLOCK

Land O'Lakes

Animal Control Lax

Regarding "Farm Seeks To End Dog Attacks," Tuesday:

My son's pig was the first one to be attacked at the Zephyrhills High School
barn by these uncontrolled dogs. It happened Dec. 6. When the attack happened, I
called county animal control, as did Rob Brown, the agriculture teacher, to file
a complaint. I was blown off by the gentlemen on the other end of the telephone.
I tried to get his name but was transferred to a voice mailbox. I left several
messages, with no reply.

After the second attack, I grew more concerned for the safety of our children.
What would happen if the kids went to the barn and an attack was happening? The
dogs could turn on them! I left more messages for the supervisor of animal
control and still got no reply.

In this last attack, a child did confront the dogs. Who would be to responsible
if those dogs had attacked that child? Animal control! Why will it have to take
someone getting hurt before animal control will take action? After trying to
contact these people, I believe they still won't do anything to the owners of
the dogs.

Maybe animal control is hoping someone else will do their job for them. Why are
their employees getting paid when an answering machine is a lot cheaper?

RENEE SIMPSON

Zephyrhills

Global 'Fiction'

The global warming fiasco started in 1993 when the Bill Clinton-Al Gore team who
were picked to lose against George Bush in 1992 was elected because the American
people fired Bush for going against his word and raising taxes.

The global warming fiction kicked into gear in 1998 when Clinton wanted to stop
the American people from firing him, too, when he lied to them and his recession
was starting. At this time, Gore went into high gear, spewing fictitious stories
about the Earth warming.

The true story is that in the medieval period, the Earth warmed three or four
degrees hotter than it is today. Almost everybody knows there were no cars and
trucks or hair spray and spray paint at that time. The warming was caused by
natural occurrences, such as volcanoes and sunlight. Then natural climate
changes caused the Earth to cool again. These adjustments naturally occur over
the ages.

We are, according to scientists, going into another Ice Age. The Gore fiction is
what liberals want to hear because they don't want to hear about the greatest
economy ever, the lowest sustained unemployment rate ever and the war on terror,
which we are winning.

Can liberals convince the city of Denver that the snow and freezing temperatures
are not really cold and that there will be no snow skiing after this winter? I
don't think so.

JOHN LALLEMAND

Dade City

No Founding Fathers

Regarding "Gentle Folks Wield Fretful Ideas On Iraq," Tom Jackson, Jan. 28:

Jackson's depiction of patriotic antiwar demonstrators is what is fretful. The
disdain he displays for common "folk expressing opinions sadly echoes a Bush
administration which does not care about what people think while they are
"spreading democracy" through threats, guns and bombs. Talk about terror.

This "war effort" never had anything to do with democracy here or abroad. To the
contrary, it is a plan, conceived by a small group (newamericancentury.org),
intent on managing future U.S. global economic, political and military influence
in spite of what American citizens and voters might think. While spying on
citizens, they use deceit and "misinformation" to give a patina of public
support.

They would fail a sixth-grade civics lesson, confusing "democracy" with
unfettered, market-driven politics. It's about unfettered access to oil fields
and world resource production and flow using U.S. military capacity and
taxpayer-funded private armies.

Not exactly stuff of the Founding Fathers.

ALAN KOBRIN

Miami

The writer is co-chairman of the Miami-Dade Green Party.

Ridge Road Project

I read where Pasco County officials appear to be spending money left and right
every week, i.e., a new tax collector's building, a tennis center in Wesley
Chapel, outside consultants, etc.

However, I do not see more articles on the status of the Ridge Road extension as
an emergency evacuation route. This project just keeps getting postponed year
after year and, of course, will now cost us more if and when it is built.

The only time officials appear to be interested in this project is just before
elections. In the meantime, state roads 54 and 52 get more traffic daily and are
the only real evacuation routes in the area.

Must we wait until "it happens" and people die as a result of delayed planning
on the part of our politicians? Or are Wesley Chapel and a tennis complex more
important?

PETER YOUNG

New Port Richey

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 12, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 475 words


Under Your Skin

Feeling itchy all over? No wonder. Your skin is like a zoo, home to more than
180 kinds of bacteria, scientists say. A new molecular study of the skin found
not only a plethora of creepy things living in or on human skin, but eight
previously unknown species, according to the National Academy of Sciences.

The various bacteria are more diverse than previously thought, which could shed
more light on the symbiotic relationship of these small creatures and their
human hosts. Some of the bacteria appear to be permanent residents, while others
are transient.

Microbe populations on our bodies adapt to the way we live, says Martin J.
Blaser, a microbiologist at New York University School of Medicine. They also
play a role in disease, Blaser says, so keeping bacterial populations in our
body stable may be a critical part of good health.


Reading The Rocks

We fret over carbon dioxide in our atmosphere today, but it may have kept the
world from becoming an icy orb long ago. Scientists studying the world's oldest
sedimentary rocks say high concentrations of greenhouse gases probably kept an
early Earth from a global freezing. Researchers from the University of Chicago
and University of Colorado at Boulder analyzed ancient rocks in Canada and found
direct field evidence supporting their hypothesis.

The study shows how carbon dioxide played a role in warming the planet at a time
when the sun was 25 percent fainter. The rocks, which contained high
concentrations of carbon dioxide, indicate a heavy blanket of the gas in the
atmosphere at the time. The scientists say that period of global warming may
well have kept Earth from going the way of Mars.


5-Card Clarification

In a recent Science Stumper, we asked how many five-card hands are possible with
a normal deck of cards. More than a dozen readers offered the same answer:
311,875,200. But John P. McKelvey, a retired physics professor from Clemson
University and now living in Dunedin, disagrees. The correct answer, he says, is
120 times smaller, or 2,598,960. The first figure explains all the possible
deals, McKelvey says, but many in that number result from identical five-card
hands.


Science Stumper

No one offered the correct answer to our last trivia question: While most fruits
and vegetables can stay fresh longer in the refrigerator, cooler air quickly
ripens - or rather it darkens - bananas. Why? Cold air stimulates enzymes that
react with tannins in the peel, which turn it brown. The enzymes and tannins
react more slowly above the ideal "banana" storing temperature of 56 degrees
Fahrenheit.

Now for today's stumper: Lawns make up roughly how many acres of land in the
United States? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

Kurt Loft

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SCIENCE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't Underestimate The Costs Of Rail

BYLINE: DON CRANE

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words


By DON CRANE

Ed Turanchik has long been a thoughtful and enthusiastic political leader in
Hillsborough County. He is a visionary with the patience and discipline to move
big ideas and important projects forward. He has had the courage to stay the
course in spite of opposition and spears from those who disagree. Turanchik is
enamored by public transportation and what it might bring to the Tampa Bay area.

It is hard to disagree with his thoughts as expressed in this paper on Feb. 18.
It is even more difficult to take exception to the cost of his grand public
transportation plan because he presented no costs, not even an estimate.

The planning should go forward and in due course the costs of a commuter and
light rail system will emerge as will the cost of the support system of rapid
transit buses, large city buses and circulator buses to feed the other services.
Add the cost of rail stations and parking garages and the real costs of the
transit plan will be sobering.

In the 1980s a representative from Bombardier, one of the world's largest
builders of rail systems told the Transportation Committee of the St. Petersburg
Chamber of Commerce that a light rail system would cost in excess of $50 million
a mile to build. The test of a regional transportation system will be projecting
the "real" ridership of the total system measured against the "real" total cost.

Therein lies the first test because whoever estimates the cost of the total
transit system and the total income from ridership plus taxes to support the
system must have the experience and integrity to tell it like it is and not
fudge the numbers to please those who are paying for the transit study.

The next test, call it a challenge, will be for the local governments and the
Metropolitan Planning Organizations to "allow" for true regional transportation
planning coupled with meaningful land planning. Parochial MPOs are the reasons
the Tampa Bay area does not have a long-range integrated transportation system
and have thwarted several regional highway projects.

Many supporters of a regional transportation system have traveled on rail
systems in large North America and European cities. Most of those rail systems
got their start before World War II when families did not have a car or had just
one car. Land was cheap and the cities grew around the local transportation
system.

The Tampa Bay area has expanded in all directions. There are very few
destination points of high density. Workers travel in crisscross directions to
too many low-density workplaces making it far more difficult and expensive to
build a rail system and far more subsidy intensive to keep it running. A light
rail system in the Tampa Bay area has to be superimposed on expensive property.

Most of the large cities with a rail system are located in milder, more suitable
climates where a one-mile walk to the rail station is invigorating. Not so when
the temperature in Florida is above 85 degrees and the humidity above 80. A
three-block walk becomes uncomfortable and perhaps drenching when a rainstorm
suddenly strikes. Most transit riders will have to change modes of
transportation at least one time to reach their destination. Bus and rail
stations could be air-conditioned, but that ups the cost.

To make the rail system work, our Tampa Bay cities and counties will have to add
buses and even circulators or mini-buses. Too many neighborhoods have precluded
good access by large buses and have access only from a major highway, which will
require small transit vehicles; otherwise residents will use their cars.

Turanchik proposes the use of the CSXT rail right-of-way. As a ground level
system, it will cause traffic delays at all the road and highway crossings. A
transit system should be elevated to avoid conflicts with road travelers. What
this area does not need is more railroad crossings.

The proposed rail plan must be closely coupled with land planning as rail
stations and parking garages invade residential neighborhoods. Rail stations
will call for new land use planning to allow for higher density. Parking garages
will bring additional traffic and pollution to neighborhoods.

With leadership from Turanchik and the mayor of Tampa, plans for an area
rail/bus system are guaranteed to get serious attention. This is a great
opportunity for the region to learn about an integrated transportation system,
its total cost and the impact it will have on neighborhoods. Then the community
can decide how best to proceed.

Donald R. Crane, Jr., a resident of the Tampa Bay area since 1960, was a Member
of the Florida Road Board, served on the Transportation Committee in the Florida
Legislature, Advisor Board of the Center for Urban Transportation Research at
USF and President of Floridians for Better Transportation for 14 years. In 2005,
he was selected by the American Road and Transportation Builders of American as
one of 100 "Top Pubic Officials of the 20th Century."

Photo: Don Crane

Has vast experience with transportation issues

Photo credit: News Channel 8 file photo

Photo: (A person walking in the rain.)

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Resource Recovery A Burning Success

BYLINE: JIM NORMAN

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 559 words


The benefits from the Hillsborough County Resource Recovery Facility, which is
marking its 20-year anniversary with a 600-ton-per-day expansion, are more
significant than ever with today's heightened environmental concerns.

As greenhouse gases build up in the atmosphere, the county's energy-from-waste
facility on Falkenburg Road in eastern Hillsborough County should be seen for
doing more than meeting our solid waste disposal needs. It also creates far less
impact to our environment than conventional fossil-fuel power plants. It
decreases our dependence on methane-generating raw-waste landfills. And it
generates enough renewable electricity to serve the needs of some 30,000
families and businesses. In fact, our long-term partner and operator, Covanta
Energy, earned a Sustainable Florida Leadership Award for its work on this
resource recovery plant as well as three others in Florida.

The facility's ability to generate renewable electricity from household garbage
and solid waste means we rely less on fossil fuels, coal and oil. The federal
Environmental Protection Agency acknowledges that modern energy-from-waste
facilities "produce electricity with less environmental impact than almost any
other source of electricity."

As the plant processes waste at temperatures exceeding 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit
- resulting in near-complete combustion - the resulting exhaust gases are routed
through a sophisticated pollution control system that reduces the formation of
nitrogen oxide and safely captures acid compounds, mercury, and particulate
materials rather than discharging them into the atmosphere.

Instead of tapping into groundwater supplies, we use treated effluent from the
county's adjacent wastewater treatment plant for the majority of its water
needs.

The residual ash that remains takes about one-tenth of the space to landfill as
raw waste. In fact, it is used to satisfy the requirements of the Florida
Department of Environmental Protection that we use a satisfactory cover material
over the waste that is disposed in our landfill.

The recovery of iron-based metals greatly contributes to our recycling goals.

By offsetting the amount of solid waste that ends up in landfills so
dramatically, we also reduce greenhouse gas emissions that result from raw
garbage decomposing after being buried in a landfill. When garbage rots, it
forms methane, a potent greenhouse gas. EPA studies have shown that even modern
landfills with extensive gas collection systems allow an estimated 25 percent of
the methane to escape into the atmosphere each year.

Additionally, by processing waste at our Resource Recovery Facility, we are
saving several million cubic yards of landfill space that otherwise would have
been needed to bury it. At the same time, our facility has stacked up an
impressive "avoided fuel savings" record of nearly 8 million barrels of oil.

Recently, Hillsborough County issued its "notice of intent" to expand the
facility. Choosing to go with resource recovery technology was a wise decision
20 years ago. And our decision to enlarge this venture is a clear demonstration
of Hillsborough County's commitment to assuring a sustainable future.

Jim Norman is chairman of the Hillsborough County Commission.

Photo: JIM NORMAN

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 403 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Outback President Resigns

Outback Steakhouse's president, who joined the company in January, has resigned.
In a short statement late Friday, Outback parent OSI Restaurant Partners said
Curt Glowacki resigned as Outback's president for personal reasons. OSI Chief
Operating Officer Paul Avery will assume leadership of the Outback brand on an
interim basis.

The change comes as OSI stockholders are scheduled to vote April 25 on whether
to sell the company.

Super Bowl Post Filled

Organizers of Tampa's effort to host Super Bowl XLIII in 2009 named Reid Sigmon
to oversee the mammoth football event. Sigmon, 32, is a South Carolina native
who helped organize the Final Four basketball tournament in Tampa in 1998 and
was director of operations for Tampa's Super Bowl XXXV Task Force in 2001.

Port Plan Withdrawn

Developer Murray Klauber has pulled the plug on his plans for a luxury hotel,
condominium and conference center at the Port of Tampa. Klauber told port
officials that he won't proceed with the plans, explaining that development
costs had increased and that condominium units probably would not sell as
quickly as projected earlier.

Unemployment Stays Static

The state reported a 3.3 percent unemployment rate in February for an area that
encompasses Hillsborough, Pinellas, Pasco and Hernando counties. The rate was
3.4 percent a year ago.

NET

Wal-Mart-Funded Site Ends

Working Families for Wal-Mart - a national advocacy group funded primarily by
Wal-Mart Stores - is suspending its site, paidcritics.com. The site was launched
in July, linking Wakeup WalMart.com and other critics to unions, liberal groups
and Democrats.

Union-backed WakeUp Walmart.com, one of the retailer's most vociferous
opponents, in turn started its own Web site called
abunchofgreedyrightwingliarswhoworkforwalmart.com.

NATION

Enterprise To Buy Vanguard

Enterprise Rent-A-Car, the nation's largest U.S. rental car company, announced
late Friday it has agreed to buy Vanguard Car Rental Group, which operates the
Alamo and National chains. Both companies are privately held, and Enterprise did
not release financial details. The deal requires approval by antitrust
regulators in the United States and Canada.

A staff and wire report

See the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

An Instrumental Teacher

BYLINE: FELIX L. MARTINEZ, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN


Music Lover Seizes Challenge In Forming New High School's Band, Chorus And
Orchestra

By FELIX L. MARTINEZ

The Tampa Tribune

RUSKIN - John Davis is passionate about music and patient in sharing it with his
students.

During one of his classes, he recently recalled, he carefully watched the
trombone player. Davis removed his glasses as he relived the moment.

"He played the right notes at the right time," he said. "He sounded like a
trombone player.

"Moments like this ... It's all about music and patience."

Students respond to his devotion.

"Mr. Davis is an awesome teacher," said Justin Minchew, 15, a saxophone player
in the school band.

Davis directs the music department at Dr. Earl J. Lennard High School, which
opened this year in Ruskin. He's a new teacher at a new school in a community
that's new to him, and he's savoring the challenge.

The students at Lennard High "have so little experience making music on an
instrument, or with their voices, and being the person to give that to them is
very rewarding to me," Davis said.

His position is unique among music teachers throughout the Hillsborough County
school system.

"Davis currently is the only teacher overseeing chorus, band and orchestra
programs," said Ted Hope, supervisor of secondary music for Hillsborough County.

A native of Pennsylvania, Davis' interest in moving to West Central Florida to
teach music accelerated when he heard two new schools in Hillsborough County had
employment opportunities.

Lennard High was among them. But it was under construction, so until the school
opened in 2006, Davis served as orchestra and jazz band director at Orange Grove
Middle Magnet School in Tampa.

"There was something about Ruskin that really felt good, but I wasn't really
sold until I met my principal, Denny Oest," Davis said.

Davis sent Oest his résumé, and Oest invited him for an interview.

A music director is a "vital position for a school," Oest said. "We went through
the interview process, and Davis came out as the No. 1 candidate. He has the
passion and desire that I was looking for. He has the same vision for the music
program and has done a remarkable job. He works extremely hard to promote the
program."

Oest was principal at Brandon High School before moving to Lennard High. He said
he looks forward to the excitement of leading a school where the population will
grow in coming years as more people move to south Hillsborough.

Davis, 37, was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., but considers Boyertown, in
Pennsylvania's Amish country, his hometown. A resident of Apollo Beach, Davis
had another reason for moving south. His parents, Wayne and Barbara Davis, live
in Land O'Lakes.

Barbara Davis recently reminisced about when her son marched in a band playing
his trombone on a rainy Thanksgiving Day. The rain was too heavy for other
musicians to play, so he was the only one making music.

"This is what he does. Everywhere he goes, he makes a difference," she said. "It
makes your heart feel good to see his accomplishments."

John Davis earned his bachelor's degree in music at Pennsylvania State
University in 1993 and his master's degree in music conducting at James Madison
University in Virginia.

Among honors bestowed on him in recent years were induction into the Pi Kappa
Lambda National Music Honor Society in 2005. He also was named Arts Teacher of
the Year in Fort Lauderdale in 2002, recognized by the Grammy Signature School
in 2002 and received a Grammy Award of Special Merit, also in 2002.

When he's not teaching, Davis enjoys singing and playing piano.

Earning a post as high school music director wasn't always his goal.

"I thought I wanted to be a college band director, which is why I went to James
Madison University. It was a great steppingstone to be a college band director,"
Davis said.

He opted for high school music directing when he found himself longing to live
in the Tampa Bay area to be near relatives and enjoy the climate he loves most.

Davis also has served in an unexpected capacity: wardrobe designer.

Designing Lennard's band uniforms was a priority, he said, and quite an
undertaking. But once the Texas orange-and-white uniforms were finished and
presented, they won him overwhelming approval.

Because Lennard's population is small, Davis is concerned about possible program
cuts and wants to raise money to make capital investments.

"I am shaking the trees to find someone out there that would like to make
donations, so we can get a trailer to haul our equipment," he said.

Hope said he understands Davis' worries about funding. Because the school has
only 33 students enrolled in music programs, funding from the county is minimal.
Once the music programs reach and maintain 132 students per day, more money will
become available.

"John Davis is a wonderful guy, and I know that he would want a better program,
but the numbers are still small at Lennard High," Hope said.

Davis said he is encouraged by an expected increase in enrollment in the 2007-08
school year.

Sophomore Lisa Marie Gritzinger said her band leader is an expert in helping
young musicians hone their skills.

"Mr. Davis has brought us a long way," said Gritzinger, 16, who plays French
horn and serves as drum captain.

One of his teaching secrets: Enjoy your charges.

"When you learn to like the kids, it's easier to overlook stuff," he said. "Let
them make their mistakes and groom their behavior as it changes."

Reporter Felix L. Martinez can be reached at (813) 657-4531 or
fmartinez@tampatrib.com.

Photo: Davis said his students "have so little experience... and being the
person to give that to them is very rewarding to me."

Photo credit: Tribune photos by MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER

Photo: John Davis demonstrates a trombone technique to freshman Raul Vazquez.
Davis says his job is "all about music and patience."

Photo credit: Tribune photos by MICHAEL SPOONEYBARGER

Photo: John Davis

Photo: John Davis, 37, directs the music department at Dr. Earl J. Lennard High
School, which opened this school year in Ruskin.

Photo: The Pennsylvania native's position is unique among music teachers
throughout the Hillsborough County school system.

Photo: Davis is the only teacher in the county who is overseeing chorus, band
and orchestra programs during the same year.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 6

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE INSIDE SCOOP

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 860 words


Apple Trying To Take Bite Out Of Web Browser Market

At a conference for software developers, Apple Chief Executive Officer Steve
Jobs announced moves aimed at boosting the reach and relevance of Apple's Safari
Internet browser. Apple on Monday released a beta version of Safari that can run
on rival Microsoft Corp.'s XP and Vista computer operating systems. It plans to
make a free, final Windows version of Safari available by download beginning in
October.

Jobs also announced that Apple will allow third-party software developers to
create programs for the iPhone based on the so-called "Web 2.0" computer code
standards at the core of Safari.

The iPhone will go on sale June 29.

oThe new software for Apple's OS X computer operating system, called Leopard, is
scheduled to go on sale in October for $129.

oAmong Leopard's features is a revamped desktop that lets users find documents
and other files by viewing a graphic image or photograph of their cover pages,
instead of trying to remember the name of the file.

Business, Page 1

Boomers Put Off Retirement

Baby boomers are resigned to retiring later, which is a good thing because they
can't afford to stop working anytime soon.

A report released today says higher rates of divorce and separation could result
in greater financial hardship for aging baby boomers.

In 1980, about two-thirds of Americans age 55 to 64 lived in married-couple
households. That percentage fell to less than 58 percent in 2005.

oTwo new reports portray aging boomers as better educated, with higher incomes
and longer life expectancies than the generations that preceded them.

oThey also have fewer children and are less likely to be married, leaving them
with fewer options if they need help in their old age.

Business, Page 5

Housing Slump Likely To Linger

Economists are concluding that the housing downturn that began nearly two years
ago will last at least through the end of 2007, remaining a major drag on the
U.S. economy.

The culprits: a glut of homes for sale and growing caution among lenders who now
regret being so free with their mortgages.

Late last year, some economists were saying the market would start bouncing back
by the middle of 2007. That hasn't happened, partly because inventories of
unsold houses have continued to grow and a surge in mortgage defaults has made
lenders much more reluctant to grant credit to people with spotty payment
histories.

oThe rise in interest rates is only adding to the gloom. The average rate for
30-year fixed-rate mortgages stood at about 6.65 percent Friday, up from 6.35
percent in early May.

oSingle-family housing starts, which have declined 33 percent since early 2006
to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of about 1.2 million in April, will remain
low, at about the current level.

Business, Page 1

Senate To Discuss Energy Bill

The Senate today will take up an energy bill that Democratic leaders hope will
be a rallying point for voters concerned about national security and climate
change as well as pump prices.

The measure includes efforts to improve automobile fuel efficiency for the first
time in a generation, require a fivefold increase in biofuel use, institute
tough penalties for price gouging, and set higher efficiency standards for
appliances, lighting and buildings.

oMany senators plan to propose controversial amendments, including one that
would open more coastal waters to oil and gas exploration.

oThe legislation, drawn up by four committees, faces an array of hurdles,
including heavy lobbying by the auto industry and attempts by some lawmakers to
promote coal and nuclear fuel use.

oPrice-gouging provisions face strong opposition from the Bush administration.

Nation/World, Page 14

Vaccines On Trial For Autism

Lawyers began arguments Monday in the first of several test cases that may help
decide whether the government should pay millions of dollars to parents of
autistic children.

oNearly 5,000 parents claim that vaccinations caused their children to become
autistic, and many of their claims have been pending for five years.

oEvery major study and scientific organization examining this issue has found no
link between vaccination and autism.

Nation/World, Page 4


CORRECTIONS

It is the policy of The Tampa Tribune to correct all errors of fact. To report
an error, call (813) 259-7600 or e-mail news@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: Apple CEO Steve Jobs told Apple's World Wide Developers Conference that
iChat, which he is demonstrating, now has improved features that let users see
not only each other, but also photos, videos and documents stored on each
other's computers.

Photo: The U.S. Open golf tournament returns to storied Oakmont Country Club
this week. Get ready for the event by testing your knowledge in our quiz,
viewing an interactive course map, and reliving the tournament's history.
Keyword: Golf

Photo: Hillsborough County launches a free program to help seniors manage
medication properly. Medical experts will check for expired drugs and other
safety issues. Irene Maher's Medical Report 5 p.m. today on WFLA-TV

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Where The Wild Things Are

BYLINE: JOYCE McKENZIE, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 901 words


Students learn how to survive Florida's great outdoors in a Nature's Classroom
summer workshop.

By JOYCE McKENZIE

The Tampa Tribune

THONOTOSASSA - Evapotranspiration, turbidity, giardia - terms foreign to many
adults - are, believe it or not, familiar jargon for kids bent on living to tell
tales of their time in the wild.

That was the case for a group of 26 fourth- through sixth-graders from across
the county who converged on Nature's Classroom for a five-day survival camp this
month. It was the first of four summer sessions offered at the 365-acre site
nestled on the banks of the Hillsborough River off Morris Bridge Road.

It's one of its many environmental and ecosystem study programs, including three
other summer camps, sponsored by the Hillsborough County school district on land
owned by the Southwest Florida Water Management District. During the school
year, the carved-out-of-nature classroom serves more than 13,000 area
sixth-graders.

Each of the kids' daily six-hour adventures presented potential life-threatening
predicaments that required some thought-provoking and timely decisions on their
part.

They "battled" extreme thirst, encountered unsafe vegetation and struggled with
sizzling heat.

Instructor Autumn "A.E." Balthazor - a science teacher at Benito Middle School
who was named its 2006-07 teacher of the year - always came to the rescue.

She taught the boys and girls ways to identify poisonous plants, how to build
shelter for themselves and the techniques of starting a fire. Balthazor also
coached them on how to find and purify water to make it safe to drink.

She began by having the children extract water from nontoxic plant leaves, a
process she referred to as evapotranspiration. They also collected murky water
from the river that they filtered through sand and a double-layered sock to rid
it of its bacteria.

"By using the sock, we eliminate the water's turbidity - its sediment and
foreign particles. Parasites like to hang on to this stuff," she said.

It's possible one of those parasites could cause giardiasis, a contagious form
of diarrhea that affects three times as many children as adults, Balthazor
added.

The kids then took turns digging two 3-foot-by-3-foot holes to use as
water-collecting solar stills. After placing small empty containers inside, they
covered the open holes with plastic sheeting anchored by mounds of dirt to keep
them taut.

Similar to a greenhouse effect, solar energy passes through the plastic barrier
to heat the ground below, drawing moisture from the soil that evaporates, rises
and condenses on the plastic's underside. The end result is untainted water.

"I'd like you to understand that in a setting where survival is important, fear
and panic is the worst thing you can get," Balthazor said. "Knowing you are part
of your survival is very important."

Thirteen-year-old Stephen Ross, who assisted in the solar-still digging process,
found the session informative.

"One of the most useful things I learned was that you should always carry some
plastic or a plastic bag in your backpack," he said.

Jacob Gassen, 12, constructed a solar still this year as a science project at
Young Middle Magnet School, for which he received an A.

"With my project, I also found that it makes a difference what color tarp you
put on the hole. Ones with darker colors collect more water," Jacob said.

Using the solar still technique to obtain water suitable for drinking was new to
11-year-old Stefan Cevallos, a student at Academy of the Holy Names.

"I really like how we dug the hole for water. It teaches you an easier way to
get water than having to hike for hours to get it," he said.

Stefan's sister, Anna, 12, was enthralled with all of the camp's activities,
which also included learning how to mark a path when walking in the wilderness,
how to orient yourself, how to identify and respond to potentially dangerous
animals and the do's and don'ts of first aid.

"So far, I liked holding the reptiles best, especially the snakes," said Anna,
whose favorite subject in school is science.

Ten-year-old Cassidy Poe of McDonald Elementary School billed the survival camp
as an overall "great experience."

"It helped me understand the challenges of nature," he said.

All four Nature's Classroom survival camp sessions are filled to capacity and
there are no more openings in its wilderness, water adventure, and archery and
outdoor skills camps.

Reporter Joyce McKenzie can be reached at (813) 865-4849 or
jmckenzie@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Tribune photos by SCOTT ISKOWITZ

Photo: William George, left, Frankie Scimeca and Grant Owens work on building a
shelter at Nature's Classroom on June 6.

Photo: Stefan Cevallos, 11, helps make a solar still to extract water from the
earth during a survival workshop. "It teaches you an easier way to get water
than having to hike for hours to get it," he said.

Photo: Ten-year-old Sophia Stanley, left, helps her classmates make a shelter
using saw palmetto leaves and branches June 6 at a Nature's Classroom survival
skills course. Students learned several ways to quench their thirst in the wild
and how to beat the heat.

Photo: Benito Middle School science teacher A.E. Balthazor teaches students
basic survival skills, such as how to purify water. "Knowing you are part of
your survival is very important," she said.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEIGHBORS

BYLINE: LENORA LAKE

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1025 words


BY LENORA LAKE

Rotary Donates To Charities

TAMPA PALMS - The Rotary Club of New Tampa recently presented checks totaling
more than $70,000 to charities and Rotary projects locally and internationally.

The money was raised by club members through events, such as a pig roast, during
the 2006-07 club year, which ends Sunday.

"This is one of the fun days of my presidency because we extend to our club and
our community a helping hand," outgoing club President Gordy Larson told members
and guests gathered June 23 at the Tampa Palms Golf & Country Club.

"We know it is going to a good cause."

Rotary projects funded included $20,000 for Camp Rotary, $10,000 to the Mort
Manatee Market, $1,000 to assist the area's Rotaract Club and Interact clubs,
$1,000 for the Rotary Veterans Administration Project, $1,500 for an
International Rotary project to assist women in Iraq and Afghanistan and $1,000
to the Alan Lewis Scholarship Fund, named for a member who died this year.

Larson announced that the Mort Manatee Market, which provides incentives to
students at Mort Elementary School, also received a $5,000 grant from Rotary
International.

Others receiving checks, ranging from $500 to $3,000, included various
organizations and clubs at Wharton and Freedom high schools, the Humane Society
of Tampa Bay, various New Tampa youth sports organizations, God's Pedal Power,
Wheels of Success and the New Tampa Players.

Representatives from the groups, including Doug Wall of the New Tampa Players,
accepted the checks and had an opportunity to speak about their organizations.

"We are trying to get a theater built up here. We are picking up where Graeme
Woodbrook [who previously spearheaded the effort] left off," Wall said. "The
city and the county are again interested in what we are doing."

The Rotary Club of New Tampa meets at 7 a.m. Fridays at the Tampa Palms Golf &
Country Club, 5811 Tampa Palms Blvd.

For information on the club, e-mail Jerry McGinty at mcgintyboy@aol.com

Business Group Meeting July 12

HUNTER'S GREEN - Vicki Hutto from VIP Pest Control will speak at the July 12
meeting of the North East Tampa Women in Business.

The meeting, open to members and guests, is at 6 p.m. at Hunter's Green Country
Club, 18101 Longwater Run Drive.

Tickets are $22 for members and $25 for guests through Friday. After Friday,
they are $25 for members and $28 for guests.

To register, visit www.net wib.org. For details, call Debbie Holley at (813)
451-8023.

USF Names Top Professors

USF CAMPUS - Physician and scientist Santo Nicosia, computer engineer Nagarajan
Ranganathan and physical oceanographer Robert Weisberg have been named the
University of South Florida's Distinguished University Professors for 2007.

The three USF faculty members will be honored in the fall during the Faculty
Honors and Awards Ceremony.

Nicosia of the department of pathology and cell biology in the College of
Medicine is an internationally recognized physician and scientist, specializing
in breast and ovarian cancer. He has published more than 186 peer-reviewed
articles, including 58 as senior author, in journals such as Science and the
Journal of the American Medical Association.

Ranganathan of the department of computer science and engineering in the College
of Engineering has gained international attention for his work in the area of
very large scale integration research. He has brought to USF more than $6.5
million in grant money from the National Science Foundation and private
industry.

Weisberg of the College of Marine Science is an internationally recognized
scientist specializing in physical oceanography, storm surge and marine impacts
of global climate change. Weisberg is responsible for bringing more than $22
million to USF in grant funding to support his research.

Alumni Group Chooses President-Elect

USF CAMPUS - The University of South Florida Alumni Association chose Michele
Norris of Lutz as president-elect of the board of directors at the
organization's annual meeting in June. She replaces Jeff Spalding, now the
board's president.

Norris is the district sales manager for OfficeMax. She has chaired the Student
and Young Alumni, Involvement and ACT committees and has served as alumni
homecoming chair. She is also a founding member of USF's Women in Leadership and
Philanthropy. Norris graduated from the University of South Florida's College of
Business in 1979 with a bachelor's degree in marketing.

Twice-Loved Teddy Bears Available

TEMPLE TERRACE - Jan Sutton, the "Doll Doctor" at the doll hospital inside
Lani's Antiques & Collectibles, has amassed more than 100 teddy bears that were
"formerly loved" and has cleaned, repaired, sanitized and refurbished them and
placed them up for "adoption."

These "twice-loved teddy bears," as she calls them, are ready for a new home.
The bears are $5, with proceeds going to the Joshua House, a Lutz home for
abandoned and abused children.

Sutton also is accepting donations of teddy bears that are in good condition.

Lani's Antiques & Collectibles is at 8858 N. 56th St. in Temple Terrace. Hours
are from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesdays through Fridays and 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Saturdays.

Lowry Park Zoo Offers Docent Training

TAMPA - Lowry Park Zoo is accepting applications for its summer docent training
program.

Docents give tours, answer visitors' questions and assist instructors with
shows.

The 10-week class begins July 10, with meetings on Tuesday evenings and Saturday
mornings. The course finishes Sept. 19. A one-year volunteer commitment with a
minimum of 96 hours of volunteer service is required.

The fee is $80, and the class is limited to 15 participants.

For details, call (813) 935-8552, Ext. 233.

Send news of social activities, landmark anniversaries, birthdays and other
items of community interest to Lenora Lake at 15310 Amberly Drive, Suite 102,
Tampa FL 33647; fax to (813) 975-9488; e-mail to llake@tampatrib.com; or call
her at (813) 865-4851.

Photo credit: Photo by LENORA LAKE

Photo: Basketball coach Tommy Tonelli receives a check from the Rotary Club of
New Tampa to assist his program.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

(NEIGHBORS)

BYLINE: LENORA LAKE

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 780 words


By LENORA LAKE

Dance To Benefit Cancer Society

TAMPA - Roy Stone of the Lavelle Hall dance facility will sponsor the Summer
Sizzle 2007 Dance and Show to benefit the American Cancer Society.

The event is July 22 at the Hilton Tampa Airport Hotel, 2225 N. Lois Ave. Doors
will open at 1 p.m. for ballroom and Latin dancing to the music of the Mario
DeLeon Band. Refreshments will be available.

The show will be at 2 p.m. and feature Stone and his students as well as a
performance by U.S. champion dancer Barbara Haller in a romantic theatrical
dance performance.

Tickets are available at the door or in advance by calling Stone at (813)
927-4370.

Zingaro Tasting Raises $60,000

HARBOUR ISLAND - More than 300 guests donned sundresses and tropical shirts for
the third annual Uncork the Cure Wine-Tasting and Charity Event sponsored by the
Krewe of Zingaro.

The June 24 event, which featured food, wine, music and silent and live
auctions, raised $60,000 for the Children's Cancer Research Group at St.
Joseph's Children's Hospital

Event Chairwoman Patricia Embry presented research lab director Cameron K. Tebbi
with an honorary krewe membership in appreciation of his work in establishing
the research lab and in fighting pediatric cancer.

Dick Crippen was master of ceremonies; Ray Gurka provided the entertainment.

Committee members were Dorotheen Ashton, Matt Bross, Debbie Breijo, Ron Breijo,
Mike Embry, Robert Faiks, Andy Garcia, Lisa Lapina, Bill Nipper, Andy Quinn,
James Raulerson, Pat Robinson, Randi Rom, Steven Rom, Jean Treimanis, Trish
Trout, Linda Vazmina and Amy Wright.

Embry said supporter Chad Horne contributed $3,800 after hearing the event was
nearing the $60,000 mark.

Lennar Donating Pavilion For Institute

TAMPA - Lennar Homes' North Tampa division is building a cabana pavilion for the
Tampa Institute, a facility for troubled teens.

Lennar is contributing materials and labor valued at more than $15,000 to build
the cabana, which will open this month at 1730 Maritime Blvd.

Mark Metheny is Lennar's division president.

Faculty, Grads Making News

TAMPA - Physician and scientist Santo Nicosia, computer engineer Nagarajan
Ranganathan and oceanographer Robert Weisberg have been named the University of
South Florida's Distinguished University Professors for 2007.

They will be honored in the fall during the Faculty Honors and Awards Ceremony.

Nicosia, of the department of pathology and cell biology, specializes in breast
and ovarian cancer. He has published more than 186 peer-reviewed articles,
including 58 as senior author, in journals such as Science and the Journal of
the American Medical Association.

Ranganathan, of the department of computer science and engineering, has gained
international attention for his work in the area of integration research. He has
brought USF more than $6.5 million in grant money from the National Science
Foundation and private industry.

Weisberg, of the College of Marine Science, specializes in physical
oceanography, storm surge and marine effects of global climate change. Weisberg
is responsible for bringing more than $22 million to USF in grant funding to
support his research.

oThe University of South Florida Alumni Association chose Michele Norris of Lutz
as president-elect of its board of directors at the organization's annual
meeting in June. She replaces Jeff Spalding, now the board's president.

Norris is district sales manager for OfficeMax. She has been chairwoman of the
Student and Young Alumni, Involvement and ACT committees, and served as alumni
homecoming chairwoman. She is a founding member of USF's Women in Leadership and
Philanthropy. Norris graduated from USF in 1979 with a bachelor's degree in
marketing.

oThe alumni association's Tampa chapter will elect officers at its meeting at 6
p.m. Monday in the Sam & Martha Gibbons Alumni Center on the USF campus.

Chapter President Shaye Benfield is accepting nominations and applications for
the offices of chairman, vice chairman and secretary. Nominees must be members.

For information, e-mail Benfield at Shaye.Benfield @ivans.com.

Send news of community interest to Lenora Lake at 15310 Amberly Drive, Suite
102, Tampa FL 33647; fax to (813) 975-9488; e-mail to llake@tampatrib.com; or
call her at (813) 865-4851.

Photo: Ray Gurka provided entertainment for more than 300 guests attending the
fundraiser.

Photo credit: Photos by LENORA LAKE

Photo: The Uncork the Cure event raised $60,000 for cancer research. Trish Trout
with the Krewe of Zingaro displays an auction item.

Photo: Krewe member Randi Rom serves wine samples at the charity event June 24.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Landfill No Threat To Pasco Resources

BYLINE: DOMINIC IAFRATE

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 534 words


By DOMINIC IAFRATE

The July 26 editorial, "Don't Build Dumping Ground Near Fragile Green Swamp"
(Our Opinion), regarding Angelo's Recycled Materials' proposed landfill left out
significant details about the facility and is uniformed on many accounts.
Angelo's Recycled Materials has proposed building a Class I organic composting
and recycling facility using the most advanced technology to provide capacity
for more than 100 years of recycling, composting and storing of non-hazardous
household garbage. The Environmental Protection Agency defines a "dump" as, "a
site used to dispose of solid waste without environmental controls." The
proposed organic composting facility exceeds all state standards, describing it
as a "dump" is a rush to judgment and can not be supported by the facts.

The editorial expressed concern about proposed surface water discharges and the
perceived negative impacts to the Withlacoochee River and our drinking water.
The facility is designed to keep all surface water runoff on-site without any
discharges to the Withlacoochee or any other river. The Florida Department of
Environmental Protection uses the criteria established by the Southwest Florida
Water Management District in their review of this application. The assault
leveled against the capabilities of Tampa Bay Water and the FDEP is another
"rush to judgment" that is flat wrong.

Our experienced project team will install a double-layer liner system to ensure
the liquids that seep through the garbage do not threaten our groundwater or the
Green Swamp. The liner system's multiple layers exceed the strictest
environmental standards, including those set by the FDEP. Furthermore, the
proposed site has been investigated by state registered professional geologists
who deemed it an ideal location in terms of the existing natural elements that
serve to protect groundwater, including a thick natural layer of clay.

Additionally, the site-specific soil investigation required by the DEP found no
advanced risk of sinkholes. The same clay layer which will keep contaminants
from reaching the environment also helps prevent soil raveling, the primary
reason for sinkholes.

The editorial also addressed another alternative for disposing of garbage in the
county's existing trash incinerator, located miles from the Green Swamp. If the
new Class I facility is not approved, the county will likely seek that
alternative, expanding the existing trash incinerator at Shady Hills, an option
that would cost more than $300 million and priceless environmental damage.
According to its Title V permit, the existing county incinerator is permitted to
emit close to 4.5 million pounds of poisonous air pollutants per year, including
mercury, dioxins, carbon monoxide and greenhouse gases, which directly
contribute to global warming and affect everyone in the county and beyond.

Angelo's Recycled Materials is a local, family-owned business. The family takes
great pride in its work and only wants what is best for Pasco residents and the
local environment.

Dominic Iafrate is vice president of Angelo's Recycled Materials.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Green Energy in Florida: It Can Be Done

BYLINE: BARRY MOLINE

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words


As part of his wide-ranging climate action plan, Florida Gov. Charlie Crist has
called upon electric utilities to produce 20 percent of their electric power
from renewable energy resources, with an emphasis on solar and wind. Today we
get just a fraction of our electricity from such resources, raising the
question, can it be done?

Municipal electric utilities believe that it can, and that a focus on green
energy that includes not just renewables but also energy efficiency and
conservation can help us reach that goal while protecting the pocketbooks of
Florida residents.

Over the years, people have asked utilities many times to generate more juice
with renewables like solar energy. After all, what is more exciting,
electrically speaking, than flicking the switch and knowing that the power is
free from the sun? There's only one problem - it isn't free.

Rooftop solar costs significantly more than the electricity from conventional
fuels, such as nuclear, coal and natural gas. Yes, sunlight is free, but the
cost of the hardware makes the total more expensive. There are some renewable
resources that are close to the cost of conventional ones, such as biomass. But
in general, many renewables cost more.

Utilities are deeply concerned about controling customers' costs. Whenever we
seek to build more energy supply, we have to show the Florida Public Service
Commission that the power plant we're proposing is the most cost-effective one.

We are also serious about setting goals. If we change Florida's laws to require
20 percent of our electricity to be from renewables, we'll try our hardest to
achieve it. The problem comes in balancing the cost of achieving the goal and
its impact on consumers' bills. How much should we spend to accomplish the goal?

Municipal electric utilities have an answer: $200 million per year. That's a lot
of money for utilities to commit, but interestingly, it would only raise utility
costs by one percent. We think that kind of budget control is reasonable for
consumers and utilities alike, and would jumpstart renewables and efficiency
programs significantly. Furthermore, if we commit our efforts at that pace, over
20 years Florida will invest between $4-5 billion in green energy.

The second concern is that by focusing only on renewable energy, we're missing
the cleanest, cheapest green energy resource available today: energy efficiency
and conservation. These include compact fluorescent light bulbs that use 75
percent less energy and last 10 times longer than incandescent ones, as well as
air conditioners that cool us with a smaller energy demand.

Currently, five states and the District of Columbia have green energy standards
that include renewables and efficiency. Combined, we call all these clean
options "Green Energy." We think that it's a smart approach to accomplish the
governor's big goal, while at the same time keeping a lid on costs and
controlling consumers' electric rates.

I'm told that on Gov. Crist's desk sits a sign that says "It Can Be Done."
Municipal electric utilities believe that new carefully crafted state utility
rules emphasizing green energy - renewables, energy efficiency and conservation
- will get it done.

Barry Moline is executive director of the Florida Municipal Electric Association
in Tallahassee. FMEA represents the state's 34 municipal electric utilities
which serve 1.3 million businesses and residences across Florida.

Photo credit: AP file photo

Photo: Hardware costs can make rooftop solar panels, like this one on a New
Jersey farm, more expensive than conventional power sources.

Photo: Barry Moline

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 460 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Bank Of America Is No. 1

Bank of America ranks No. 1 among Tampa Bay area banks as of June 30 with $10.2
billion in deposits, or 20.75 percent of the market share, according to a report
this week by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Wachovia Bank, SunTrust Bank,
Raymond James Bank and Regions Bank rounded out the top five for the Tampa-St.
Petersburg-Clearwater Metropolitan Statistical Area. Bank of America has 107
offices in the Bay area, second to Wachovia, which has 116.

Progress Energy Picks CEO

William D. Johnson was named chairman and chief executive officer of Raleigh,
N.C.-based Progress Energy on Friday by the company's board of directors. He
replaces Robert B. McGehee, who died Tuesday after suffering a stroke last
weekend. Progress Energy is the parent of St. Petersburg-based Progress Energy
Florida, the second largest electric utility in the state, serving about 1.7
million customers. Johnson joined Progress Energy in 1992 and was serving as
president and chief operating officer at the time of McGehee's death. Johnson's
current position as chief operating officer will not be filled, the company
said. "It is a tribute to Bob McGehee's leadership that the company has a
talented management team in place, an effective succession plan and a capable
leader in Bill Johnson," board member John Mullin III said.

Olive Importers Merge

Plant City-based A. Camacho Inc. announced Friday that it's merging with Omaha,
Neb.-based Mario Olive Co. to create a larger olive importing, processing and
distribution firm. The combined company, to be called Mario Camacho Foods, will
be based in Plant City and is expected to begin operating under its new name
early next year. The deal is being described as a 50-50 partnership between two
family-owned companies. Financial terms were not disclosed. Layoffs are not
expected.

Orange Harvest To Soar

The 2007-08 orange harvest is expected to reach 168 million boxes, 30 percent
more than last season, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said Friday. In five
years, orange production has declined 44 percent because of hurricanes, pests
and diseases. The projected increase is a "testament to the Florida citrus
growers' resiliency and commitment to the industry," said Michael Sparks, chief
executive of Florida Citrus Mutual. The forecast for grapefruit, though, was not
so encouraging. The government expects grapefruit production to reach 25 million
boxes, down from 27.2 million last season. A box contains 90 pounds of oranges
and 85 pounds of grapefruit.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Vinny Lecavalier: WORLD TRAVELER

BYLINE: ERIK ERLENDSSON, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words


The Lightning center spends his offseasons at some of the world's top
destinations.

By ERIK ERLENDSSON

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Think about what a normal summer vacation might entail and conjure up
some images. Maybe packing some shorts and a bathing suit into a duffel bag,
strapping a rooftop carrier onto the family trickster, filling up the gas tank
and perhaps heading up the highway to Hilton Head for a week at the beach or
taking in the sights of Washington, D.C.

Maybe a family trip to Central Florida to visit the most famous mouse in the
world was in order, like the trip Vinny Lecavalier took with his family when he
was 4 years old.

No matter the destination, no doubt some sight-seeing and relaxation are on the
itinerary.

Lecavalier tried that. He hung out at some first-class resorts along the Mexican
coastline and in the Bahamas during his first couple offseasons after he reached
the NHL.

Being a tourist, Lecavalier figured, was all right. For him, however, it was
like that steady winger who shows up every night and puts together a solid
effort without finding the score sheet on a consistent basis. Lecavalier was
looking for a little more than a run-of-the-mill experience.

"I wanted to do something a little bit different. I wanted to see a little bit
of the world," he said. "I want to do all sorts of activities. I don't want
these trips to be boring side trips. I want to be able to do things."

His vacation destinations certainly have been anything but ordinary.

Swimming with sharks off the coast of Africa, including a planned encounter with
a great white shark. Riding camel-back through the Moroccan desert. A three-day
safari through the bush lands of South Africa, where he ate breakfast with
elephants in the foreground and monkeys eyeing the dinner table over his
shoulder. Cliff diving and surfing the clear blue water off the coast of Hawaii.

All those activities have been on Lecavalier's docket as he ventures to various
locations, seeking a temporary escape from the hockey world.

"After all the time during the season it's nice to just kind of - whew - and
exhale a little bit. You get a sense that the season is over, even if it all
went well or not," he said. "It's just a chance to get away to somewhere where
you don't even think about it."

Change Of Philosophy

The idea for Lecavalier's barnstorming summer trips began after a trip to Tahiti
with his girlfriend, Caroline Portelance. Though the two-week trip had its share
of good times and good scenery, along with plenty of time to relax, it might
have been too much.

So when planning a summer vacation in 2004 - the year the Lightning won the
Stanley Cup - Lecavalier ventured to Southern France and Italy. And though the
usual tourist stops were on the itinerary, including 1 1/2 days in Rome to see
the Colosseum and other sites, it was the out-of-the-way locales, the small-town
stops and lesser-known restaurants dotting the vacation trail that were the
attraction.

Lecavalier said he does all the travel arrangements himself, surfing the
Internet for off-the-beaten-path activities. He has received tips from others,
such as agent Kent Hughes, who offered advice on some of the small Italian
towns, and a photographer Lecavalier knows who lives in Morocco.

Setting things up on his own has led to some thrilling adventures that must make
chasing down a puck into a corner with 6-foot-9 defenseman Zdeno Chara seem like
a trip to the sandbox.

African Adventures

While in South Africa, Lecavalier took to the air, land and sea for a thrilling
trio of memorable experiences.

After hanging out in Cape Town for a couple days, the air adventure came first
in the form of skydiving, followed by taking to the water to swim with sharks -
the small version and the man-eating variety, while housed inside of a cage, of
course.

"Your heart is beating fast and you can hear the captain above saying, 'He's
coming, he's coming.' Then you go down in the water ? inside the cage because
when [great white sharks] hunt they hunt at the surface," Lecavalier said.

"So they put a huge piece of tuna right in front of the cage so it's right up
against the cage, bumping into it. So it's pretty scary the first couple of
times it comes up to the cage. Then you get used to it and just kind of admire
the animal. You look at it and it's just beautiful."

More close-ups were on hand during a three-day safari into the bush lands - a
trip where a small airplane lands in an open field - that included encounters
with zebras, lions, cheetahs and some food-seeking monkeys while eating
breakfast with elephants grazing in the foreground.

Lecavalier also has gone surfing and cliff diving off the coast of Maui, rode on
the back of camels through the deserts of Morocco and braved the sometimes
treacherous streets of Marrakesh, where Lecavalier said he felt like he truly
was in a different world.

But of all his travels and encounters, the time that made him sweat the most
might have been the most innocent as he trekked to villages and cavernous areas
in Morocco.

"We were driving through some of the mountain areas in Morocco and the roads are
only about four feet wide," Lecavalier said. "Our driver was whipping around the
corners and you look down at how far of a drop it was. ? My hands were literally
sweating the whole time."

Down The Road

Nothing has been plotted for the summer of 2008, but Lecavalier is constantly on
his computer and talking things over with Portelance to determine the next
destination.

Vacation spots on his radar include South America (to visit the rain forest
regions, although venturing too deep is something he's not too keen on),
Thailand and perhaps Australia and New Zealand, although the thought of visiting
Down Under during their winter months has him hesitant to spend his vacation
time in a cold climate.

But no matter the destinations Lecavalier plans out, you can bet the days will
have full itineraries, and most likely ones any local concierge might not
recommend.

(CHART) LECAVALIER'S TRAVELS

For the past five summers, Lightning center Vinny Lecavalier has found some
great escapes from hockey as he has traveled to

different parts of the world:

Year Location Highlights

2003 Japan Hiroshima, Tokyo

2004 France, Italy Rome, small towns

2005 South Africa Skydiving, swimming with sharks; Safari

2006 Spain, Morocco Camel-back riding, staying in a mud house

2007 Hawaii Cliff diving, hiking, surfing

Erik Erlendsson

Reporter Erik Erlendsson can be reached at (813) 259-7835 or
eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Photos provided by Vinny Lecavalier

Photo: Surfing the waters off Maui (2007)

Photo: Visiting the dune deserts of Morocco (2006)

Photo: At the Roman Colosseum (2004)

Photo: Vinny Lecavalier

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Celebrate The Season With Sister Hazel

BYLINE: CURTIS ROSS, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 589 words


By CURTIS ROSS

The Tampa Tribune

Gainesville resident Ryan Newell found out that a colder climate doesn't always
equal more holiday spirit.

"We're in Milwaukee," the Sister Hazel guitarist said by telephone recently.
"It's freezing cold. There's snow on the ground, but it's been there a while and
it's turning into slush. It's really gray.

"It's kind of depressing, really," he said with a laugh.

The mood doubtless lightened up considerably later that evening, when Newell and
his bandmates performed a set of holiday tunes interspersed with a few Sister
Hazel songs.

The band is on its "Twelve Days of Christmas" tour, supporting its new holiday
album, "Santa's Playlist." Most of the shows - including tonight's in Tampa -
will benefit Toys for Tots. Concertgoers are encouraged to bring a toy or money
to donate.

The stage is decked out with Christmas trees and the set features an appearance
by Santa (Newell, actually), who, um, raps.

"I put this parody Christmas rap song together in my studio as a joke," Newell
said. It wound up on the album and his bandmates insisted it be part of the
holiday show's set.

Newell decided to don the Santa suit to perform the song, "Christmas Time
Again."

"It makes it a little easier for me," he said, "because it's not me rapping.
It's Santa."

The Christmas tour and album are part of an extremely productive period for the
band, which also includes bassist Jeff Beres, singer Ken Block, guitarist Drew
Copeland and drummer Mark Trojanowski.

Sister Hazel released its latest album of new material, "Absolutely," in 2006.
This year they released "BAM!," a collection of demos and unreleased material,
as well as "Santa's Playlist."

In January, the band will record an acoustic album for release in the summer.

Formed in 1993, the band recorded and released two independent albums before
signing to Universal and scoring a national hit, "All for You," in 1997.

A follow-up hit never materialized, and Sister Hazel parted ways with Universal
after two more albums.

But the band has thrived without major label support, continuing to release
independent albums and touring constantly.

"We didn't wait around for labels to come to us," Newell said. "We took a loan
out and made two records without a label. We bought a van and trailer and went
on tour. We had a pretty incredible fan base before we were on the radio.

"To be able to make a living playing music is a blessing," Newell said. "The
fact that I can actually do that and I don't have a day job and I ride around on
a tour bus, and someone carries my gear and changes my strings - it's a dream
come true and I'm not gonna complain that my face isn't on TV every two
seconds."

Staying together for 15 years with the same lineup is an accomplishment in
itself.

"We love each other like brothers and we fight like brothers," Newell said. "We
used to fight about everything. We'd fight about whether we were going to Taco
Bell or McDonald's for lunch.

"Now we don't sweat the small stuff," Newell said. "If it's something important
we'll put our foot down but for the most part we're too lazy to fight."

(CHART) ON TOUR

Sister Hazel

WHEN: 8 p.m. today

WHERE: Tampa Theatre, 711 Franklin St., Tampa

COST: $26; box office, (813) 274-8981; Ticketmaster, (813) 287-8844

Curtis Ross can be reached at (813) 259-7568 or cross@tampatrib.com

Photo credit: Skye Media

Photo: Concertgoers are encouraged to bring an item for Toys for Tots to
tonight's Sister Hazel show.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Citrus Grower Blends Tradition, Technology

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAMMILL, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NORTHWEST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1100 words


Cee Bee's Citrus treats its fruit the old-fashioned way, but markets it in a
modern way - on the Internet. Rare types of grapefruits, oranges and tangerines
lure clients.

By STEPHEN HAMMILL

The Tampa Tribune

KEYSTONE - In a time when family-owned businesses are dying off, a handful of
citrus growers have found a way to thrive doing things the old fashioned way.

The secret: combine old and new technologies without compromising tradition.

Cee Bee's Citrus, a 302-acre collection of groves, specializes in fresh and rare
varieties of grapefruits, oranges and tangerines.

Seven full-time employees and a handful of part-time workers pick fruit from the
14,000 trees from November to June.

Most of the oranges are sold to juicers, but the grove has begun targeting
individual customers. Brent Harmon, the grove's business manager, explained the
business model: "We started packaging our products as a delicacy to out-of-town
clients," he said. "The Web site has helped with that."

The grove's owner, William Burchenal, entered the citrus business in 1992. Back
then it was a typical harvesting operation. Six years ago, he came up with a new
marketing idea: Sell gift boxes and specialty baskets of fruit and honey to
far-away clients.

Burchenal had the land; he needed a trustworthy caretaker.

"Mike is the man out here. He runs this whole thing," said Harmon, referring to
Mike Dennison, grove manager at Cee Bee's Citrus.

During the early days it was just Dennison and Burchenal, picking fruit in the
mornings, cleaning and sorting in the afternoon. By day's end they'd drive the
bushels out to vendors.

Now, most orders are shipped out of state to colder climates via the grove's Web
site.

"We've got people in New York eating fresh fruit in four days," Dennison said.
Grocery store fruit, he said, is often one or two weeks old before it is put on
sale.

"We fill a niche," Burchenal added "We pick and pack everything the same or next
day. Nothing sits around here for very long."

The fruit - flame grapefruits, monarch tangerines, navel oranges - usually ships
within 24 hours of picking.

They do almost no advertising. The business relies on word of mouth.

The year-old storefront stays open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Walk-in traffic is
minimal. Dennison wants to change that. "There are a lot of people in the area
who don't know we're here," he said.

During the picking season Burchenal can be found working the assembly line
alongside his staff. On a recent afternoon the crew packed oranges for delivery
to Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, where a special machine serves
fresh-squeezed juice to the student body.

They also supply all citrus products for public schools in Pasco and
Hillsborough counties.

"This is about the last surviving commercial grove in the county and it's family
owned," Burchenal said.

As a result, Cee Bee's is expanding at a time when many citrus packing houses in
the area are selling off land.

The obstacles for the citrus grower are daunting: cold weather, the economy, and
fruit-based diseases such as citrus canker.

The most recent canker outbreak was discovered in Florida in 1995. Because of a
quarantine, five states do not allow the importation of Florida citrus.
"Basically any other state that grows citrus, they won't allow ours - they don't
want to risk it," Harmon said.

Dennison is always on the lookout for it. "Once you get citrus canker, it halts
you from using any of the crop," Dennison said.

The weather is another predator, even less predictable.

"I tell people we're in the Mother Nature business," Dennison said. "If you
don't get enough rain, if you get a hurricane, business suffers. If it stays
below 32 degrees for three or four days you can lose everything."

It takes four to five years, and a lot of care, for a tree to produce good
fruit. Some of the grove's trees are 60 years old, some as young as three weeks.

Each day Dennison and his crew bring fruit to the assembly area where it is
washed and waxed. That is where the workers grade the fruit and sort everything
by size.

"The bigger packing houses - everything they have is high speed," Dennison said.
"We're smaller and older here. We look at every piece of fruit."

They don't gas or dye the fruit. "If you go to a grocery store and you see an
orange that's really orange, most of the time it's been gassed and dyed,"
Dennison said.

Misconceptions about what fruit should look like mean they have to educate the
customer. "We get calls from people saying, 'you sent me some green fruit,'"
Dennison said. "We put a card in there explaining it. Try it. Taste it. You'll
know that it's good."

Dennison is on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week; he lives on the property.
He was born and raised among orange groves. "It's the only thing I know," he
said.

He used to hunt and ride a Harley Davidson. "I gave up a lot of stuff when I
came to work here," he said. The deer and turkeys that live so close offered a
new perspective.

"I kind of feel sorry for them now. They don't have anywhere to go," he said.
"There's just so much built up around here now. This is a safe place for them."

Dennison's life now mirrors his surroundings - quiet, serene, slower-paced. His
brother and nephew work alongside him. His father, now retired, visits the grove
every month.

"I was born and raised in this business," the Lutz native said. He considers
Burchenal a second father. "He's trying for the best product he can come up with
so he spends a little more money than some and I appreciate that," he said.

"And as long as he keeps doing this I don't have to get another job," he added
with a chuckle.

Cee Bee's Citrus can be contacted toll-free at (866) 248-7870 or by visiting
www.ceebeescitrus.com.

Reporter Stephen Hammill can be reached at (813) 865-1523 or
shammill@tampatrib.com

Photo: The year-old storefront stays open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., though walk-ins
are a rarity.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by STEPHEN HAMMILL

Photo: Cee Bee's Citrus, a 302-acre collection of groves, specializes in fresh
and rare varieties of grapefruits, oranges and tangerines.

Photo: Howard Dennison of Cee Bee's Citrus inspects a line of oranges before
they are sorted for packaging. The business doesn't gas or dye its fruit.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by STEPHEN HAMMILL

Photo: Grove owner William Burchenal helps load a shipment for delivery to
Eckerd College in St. Petersburg on Thursday. He works at Cee Bee's Citrus'
assembly line alongside his staff during the busy picking season. His business'
latest niche is in online sales.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CONSUMER ASK

BYLINE: MARY A. KEITH, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 603 words


By MARY A. KEITH

Tribune correspondent

Q. My cookie recipe says to use salted butter, and I only have unsalted. Do I
really need to go out and buy salted butter?

A. There's no need to buy butter just for one recipe. Unsalted butter will work,
but the flavor will be brighter with the salt. According to the sodium content
of salted versus unsalted butter, adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the dry
ingredients should make up the difference.


Q. I want to make rum balls but don't want to use rum because of the alcohol
content. How much extract should I use?

A. For each 1 ounce, or 2 tablespoons, of rum called for in the recipe, use 1
teaspoon rum-flavored extract. Then add enough extra water or fruit juice to
equal the total amount of liquid in the recipe.


Q. I want to use up some of my oranges by making marmalade but don't have a lot
of time. Can I grind them up in the food processor, or must I slice the rinds?

A. I think you'll like the results a lot more if you take the time to slice the
fruit by hand. Food processors do it quickly, but they beat a lot of air into
the liquid at the same time. That air will make the fruit darken faster. It will
also destroy some of the brighter flavor notes, so the marmalade will taste
cooked and dull faster.

If you slice the orange peel, boil it in water and let it sit overnight. You can
finish the recipe the next day. That will divide the work time into two shorter
periods. The longer soaking will also extract more pectin, so the marmalade will
jell better.


Q. What is "resistant starch" that I've been reading about? What's it resistant
to?

A. It is starch that is resistant to our digestive enzymes. It's almost dietary
fiber, but not quite. We don't get quite as many calories from it as from
regular starch. But it does promote the growth of healthy bacteria in our guts.
These bacteria produce types of fatty acids that have anti-cancer and
anti-inflammation actions.


Q. Where can I buy resistant starch?

A. The King Arthur Flour company is the only source I know of that sells retail
quantities. It sells a corn-based starch called Hi-Maize. But resistant starch
also occurs naturally in beans, lentils, whole grains and green bananas. Also,
if you boil pasta or potatoes and allow them to cool, resistant starch forms.


Q. What preservatives can I use with homemade pasta? I want to give it as gifts.

A. Most pasta does not have preservatives. It depends on dryness to not spoil.
Especially if your pasta contains eggs or egg yolks, it is very important to be
sure it stays dry. But it's hard to be sure that homemade pasta is dry enough in
a humid climate. Freezing would be a safer option. If you twist the fresh pasta
into coils and put it into mayonnaise jars in the freezer, it won't break or
crumble.


Q. I tried to make a pie using calamondin puree and instant pudding, but it was
too soft to cut. What happened?

A. There are two possible answers: Some types of instant pudding will only jell
with milk, or the calamondins were so acidic they broke down the starch in the
pudding.


Q. Is it OK to freeze cinnamon cookies? I've heard spices get bitter when
they're frozen.

A. Some spices and herbs do change flavor and get bitter or strong if frozen,
but cinnamon is not one of them. Pepper, cloves, garlic, green pepper and
imitation vanilla are the worst. Onion, paprika and celery become stronger.
Curry tends to pick up a musty flavor.

Mary A. Keith, a nutrition and health agent at Hillsborough County Extension,
can be reached at (813) 744-5519 or mkeith@ufl.edu

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Just Add Fall

BYLINE: CLOE CABRERA

SECTION: BAYLIFE

LENGTH: 1017 words


With creative styling, warm-weather clothes can live to brighten another season.

Story by CLOE CABRERA

TAMPA - Have you noticed? Those flirty summer tops and sheer sundresses are
already MIA from most store racks. They've been replaced by wool blends,
turtlenecks and trench coats.

You know what that means. Fall is just around the corner.

But don't pack away those summer favorites yet. With a couple of key pieces and
some styling ideas, you can work those warm-weather looks straight through the
fall season.

"In Florida, you can wear the summer styles and lightweight fabrics longer
because it doesn't get as cold here as it does up North," says Mark Gladden,
ready-to-wear manager for the Dillard's at International Plaza. "Here, you'll
see a blouse in summer made of a lightweight material, and you'll see it again
in the fall with longer sleeves.

"Temperatures change; your clothes can change with you."

For instance, that favorite flirty dress you wore with strappy sandals this
summer will look great over a pair of textured tights or skinny jeans. You can
also throw a cropped jacket over the dress for some extra style points. Cinch
the look with a belt.

And those white jeans you paired with a cute top can look just as fashionable in
the fall - simply swap out the top with a cardigan or belted sweater, or add a
wrap. The same goes for that suit: Just replace this summer's white tank or cami
with a solid sweater or turtleneck.

Don't pack up those tees, either. You can top them with a vest or wrap, or layer
the looks for cooler evenings.

"Layering continues to be an important part of fall dressing," Gladden says.
"It's one of those things you can do no matter where you live. And you can do it
here with several light pieces."

The same goes for the fellas.

Layer your tees, or wear them under a favorite shirt. A linen jacket will still
turn heads if you tuck a mock turtleneck beneath it. And your favorite
short-sleeve shirt can get some extra mileage when you wear it under a cardigan
sweater or sweater vest.

Don't forget denim. It's a perfect transitional piece because it's
multiseasonal.

Finally, Gladden says, women should invest in some tights.

"Nothing makes a fall statement like a pair of opaque tights," he says. "They're
inexpensive, and you can even wear them under slacks with an open-toe shoe."

If you want to pick up some fall pieces, September and October are the best
times to shop because you'll find the largest selection.

Now, check out how we turned up the cool factor on some of the summer's hottest
looks.

MEN'S LOOK

That short-sleeve linen shirt that kept you cool through the steamy months can
serve double duty. Instead of shorts, layer it with a vest and a corduroy jacket
(a must-have for men this fall); add a loose-fitting tie for an extra dose of
casual chic.

Linen shirt by Polo, $85

Flat-front oxford short by Polo, $37.50

Boot-cut distressed jeans by Polo, $85

Silk tie by Polo, $95

Men's vest by Liz Claiborne, $59.50

Corduroy belted bike jacket by Polo, $495

RETRO DRESS

This '70s-inspired flirty frock looks great day or night. When it gets chilly,
you can pair it over a pair of denim skinny jeans; cinch it at the waist with a
wide belt to create an hourglass shape. Wide belts continue into fall, but also
look for slim belts to make their mark in metallics, bright colors and patent
leather.

Retro dress by When All She Needs, $140

Red leather belt by Hyde Collection, $100

Jeans by J&Company, $148

RED PATENT LEATHER LOOK

This lightweight jumper is still a hot number when you tuck a blouse beneath it
and pair it with some textured black tights. The tights not only complete the
look, they can improve the appearance of legs, hide imperfections and shape the
hips, stomach and waist.

Top off the look with a red patent-leather trench coat and you'll make an
entrance anywhere you go.

Black pleated jersey knit jumper by Muse, $140

Red patent leather, belted trench coat by Michael Kors, $199

Cream polka-dot blouse by Michael Kors, $69.50

Textured black tights by Voila! $4.98


ED HARDY FOR TEENS

It might take three years to get a Don Ed Hardy image inked on your skin
(there's a waiting list for his tattoos), but you can get one of his designs on
a T-shirt right now. This tiger tee will get even more attention when you shuck
the cargo shorts and pair it with the accompanying track jacket and some
iridescent corduroys.

Cargo shorts by Buffalo, $68

Ed Hardy tiger glitter T-shirt, $154

Corduroy's by Mek Denim, $135

Ed Hardy tiger track jacket, $209


BERMUDA SHORTS AND SWING JACKET

Nothing says summer like a lightweight tunic over a pair of sexy short shorts.
You won't lose any of the sexiness factor when you wear that same tunic over
Bermuda shorts and top it with a swing crop jacket (one of fall's hottest
silhouettes). Turn up the heat by adding gray tights or leggings.

Spaghetti-strap tunic by BCBGirls, $68

Cuffed pin-striped shorts by BCBGirls, $78

Cropped pleated trapeze jacket by To The Max, $128

Black Bermuda shorts by Zinc, $34

Gray classic textured hose by Haynes, $10

WRAP DRESS

Ever since designer Diane von Furstenberg introduced the wrap dress in the
1970s, it has been a global look and a favorite from season to season. And the
style is flattering on most any shape. This sheer, lightweight wrap dress with
lace trim can be worn over black skinny jeans, or you can pair it with tights
for a polished look. We added a cami underneath for a little extra coverage.

Multipatterned wrap dress with lace trim by Alberto Makali; sale price, $112.80

Basic black cami by Cabernet, $20

Black skinny jean by BCBGirls, $78

Photo credit: Photos from VICTOR JUNCO

Photo: (jeans, shirt, red belt)

Photo: (T-shirt, shorts, jacket and jeans)

Photo: (sunflowers and leaves)

Photo: (shorts, jacket, shirt and leg)

Photo: (cami, wrap and skinny jeans)

Photo: ((jacket, shirt, shorts, tie and pants)

Photo: (red patent jacket, shirts and leg with tights)

Clothes provided by Dillard's at International Plaza

Reporter Cloe Cabrera can be reached at (813) 259-7656 or ccabrera@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 7

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
