
                               1 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 14, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Climate Research Looks To Land Use

BYLINE: KATHY STEELE, ksteele@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kathy Steele can be
reached at (813) 259-7920.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words


DEVELOPMENT MIGHT BE CHANGING ATMOSPHERE

TAMPA - Coal-burning energy plants and gas-guzzling automobiles aren't the only
culprits in causing global climate changes.

Land-use changes - urban sprawl, cutting down or replanting forests, and farm
irrigation practices - might be just as responsible, according to a study paid
for by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

"It's a shared responsibility," said Roger Pielke Sr., atmospheric scientist at
Colorado State University, who co-authored the study. It was published by The
Royal Society, the United Kingdom's National Academy of Science.

The study offers a formula to measure heat redistribution to determine the
effect of greenhouse gases and land-use changes on climate. It's a tool local
governments or states can adopt when planning for growth, Pielke said.

Knowledge about human-related causes for climate changes has been around awhile,
Pielke said.

"We're just building progressively stronger evidence," he said.

However, not everyone rushes to embrace what most mainstream scientists say is a
worldwide warming trend. Skeptics argue too little is known about causes and
effects of global climate changes.

Pielke prefers to avoid the term "global warming," which he said is less
accurate than "climate change." Some areas of the world have reported lower, not
higher temperatures, he said.

Most studies have focused on fossil fuels and greenhouse gases such as carbon
dioxide that form a shield to trap the sun's energy. But altering the landscape,
whether cutting down a rain forest or building a shopping mall, can be just as
significant in causing a greenhouse effect or altering the climate, Pielke said.

Florida is experiencing the effects of climate changes, according to a 2001
study by scientists from its state universities. There are more wildfires, dying
coral reefs and salt water seeping into the Florida aquifer, the study states.

In light of this newest study, a state task force is needed to examine the
issue, said Joseph Siry of the Florida Climate Alliance.

"This [study] doesn't take the heat off the fossil fuel industry," he said.
However, "we'd always argue there is a need for a comprehensive approach."

Gov. Jeb Bush appointed the state's 2020 Energy Study Commission to review
global warming and its connection to utility restructuring. However, Siry said
the commission was unlikely to broaden its scope to focus on the effect of
land-use changes.

It's becoming more clear that the causes for climate change are more complex and
unpredictable than anyone realized, Pielke said.

Some of the study's findings show that replacing rain forests for crops, for
instance, will mean less evaporation from leaves. Less water in the air will
cause higher temperatures. Or if farmland is irrigated, more water evaporates
from moistened soil, which cools surrounding air and will affect cloud
development and rainfall, Pielke said.

Altering the land influences the atmosphere significantly, and that includes
developments that clear woods or pastures for roads and houses, Pielke said.

The planet might be better off if people take advantage of natural landscapes,
he said.

"Make it as ecologically consistent as possible," Pielke said. "In areas changed
from the natural landscape, to the extent possible, try to restore it."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 23, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Weathered Rings

BYLINE: KURT LOFT , kloft@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at
(813) 259-7570.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 572 words


Trees are giving researchers clues about the role of El Nino as far back as the
Middle Ages.

TAMPA - Scientists are finding ancient truths about the weather in, of all
places, the trunks of trees.

Not just any weather, but the phenomenon known as El Nino, an anomaly in the
global weather pattern that occurs every three to seven years and hits parts of
the world with heavy rains or drought. In a new study, researchers are delving
deep into the past of El Nino by studying the rings of South American trees
dating back to the Middle Ages.

"We're trying to figure out if the El Ninos of the past were like they are right
now," Ante Mlinarevic, a geologist at San Jose State University in California,
says by telephone. "Tree rings offer some clues."

The research has revealed details about the character of El Nino, and how it is
neither new nor subtle.

The research team uses special computer techniques to study tree-ring widths,
considered a natural record of local and regional climate conditions. They
include sea surface temperatures in their models and have compiled records
dating back to about 1250. Evidence suggests that El Nino caused both severe
rainfall and droughts in the Americas dating back to at least that time.

This kind of information is valuable in understanding long-range climate
changes, says Hector D'Antoni, a scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration's Ames Research Center in California. D'Antoni says the width of
tree rings suggests different temperatures and that wider tree rings indicate
more tree growth. Rain and temperature control much of this growth.

By looking at these rings, he says, "We can go back in time and reconstruct some
of the factors controlling ecosystems."

One of those factors may have been very big El Ninos, much bigger than what we
see today.

"What we found is that the El Ninos of the past were much more significant than
they are now," adds Mlinarevic. "We haven't coined a term yet, but we call them
mega-Ninos. There's no comparison today."

The research team has been studying five different species of trees native to
South America. Many show an odd ring pattern dating from the mid-15th century.

"These rings are showing that around 1460 there was a significant drop in
temperature," Mlinarevic says. "Trees need specific conditions for a variation
to happen, to undergo dramatic changes. We think this El Nino "signature' is the
strongest."

El Nino forms when westward trade winds lighten over the equatorial Pacific
Ocean. Moist air rises off sun-drenched water to form a chain reaction and shift
in the global energy source. This shift affects the jet stream, and the
resulting ripples on this high-altitude system mean unusual weather around the
world - such as wet Decembers in Florida.

The federal Climate Analysis Center in Maryland has called El Nino "the single
most important climatic phenomenon that happens every few years," and says that
understanding it is essential in making economic plans and channeling resources.
A strong El Nino can cost billions of dollars in lost crops or damage from
flooding.

Last week, a deadly storm spawned by El Nino killed more than a dozen people on
the Pacific Coast.

"Some very large El Ninos might occur in our lifetime," Mlinarevic says. "Are we
prepared? By better understanding them from the past, we might know more about
how they act in the future."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
NASA

Hector D'Antoni, a researcher at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration's Ames Research Center in California, studies ancient tree rings
to learn about dramatic weather patterns from centuries ago. Wider tree rings
indicate more tree growth.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

In a satellite image taken earlier this month, shaded areas between Australia
and South America indicate warmer surface temperatures caused by El Nino.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 18, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Profound Change Eludes Transient State

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO, msalinero@tampatrib.com; Reporter Mike Salinero can be
reached at (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words


SIGNS OF HOPE SEEN IN REFORMS

TALLAHASSEE - Allison DeFoor likes to show visitors an article Harriet Beecher
Stowe wrote in 1877.

The famous author complained of "thousands of idle loungers ... without a landed
interest in the state" drifting into Florida to exploit its natural resources.

The old "cracker Floridian" mind-set that allowed the exploitation is still with
us, said DeFoor, a Tampa native and former Florida Keys sheriff.

"We were always wanting to sell it on the cheap before the Yankees sobered up
and went home," DeFoor said. "And newcomers think home is somewhere else. The
combination of these two mind-sets cheapens Florida."

Decades-old issues continue to bedevil Florida as the 2002 Legislature prepares
to convene Tuesday:

School funding is a problem, as it was when Stowe's brother was state education
commissioner.

Health care for the poor and the elderly faces cuts and will have to compete
with education for scarce dollars.

Thirty years after the state adopted growth management laws, Florida is failing
to plan for new schools and roads demanded by a population that grows by 250,000
people a year.

Twenty-five years after Congress passed the Clean Water Act, Florida has no
clear plan for limiting toxic discharges into waterways.

Reform of the state's 52-year-old tax system, instituted when Florida was an
agricultural state of 2.25 million people, will pit state Senate President John
McKay against the business lobby.

Fundamental changes are unlikely this session. A lingering recession means money
will be tight. And special interests have a vested interest in the status quo.

Some observers say fundamental changes would enable Florida's government to
better respond to problems. DeFoor, a close friend of Gov. Jeb Bush, said the
governor's education reforms and a recently restructured Cabinet system will
help.

But he and others caution that reforms, although important, must be accompanied
by changes in attitude. Government, no matter how efficient, can't solve tough
problems without consensus among its constituents. But consensus is elusive.

State Without Identity

Former U.S. House Speaker Tip O'Neill said all politics are local, and this is
particularly true in Florida. Few states can claim such regional and demographic
diversity. From the ethnic enclaves of South Florida to the Panhandle with its
Deep South character, Florida is a loose association of city-states tied
together by beaches and Tallahassee.

Add to that the continuous influx of new residents and you have a population
with little sense of collective identity, said Richard Scher, a political
scientist at the University of Florida.

"There is very little sense of cohesiveness. That's why Florida has such a hard
time addressing problems," Scher said. "The Legislature and population are just
existing in their own little sphere with very little context."

DeFoor recalls sharing a cab in Houston with a man wearing boots and cowboy hat.
The "cowboy" was a New Jersey transplant who had moved to Texas just two years
earlier.

"But he knew what he had to do to be a Texan," DeFoor said. "There's a shared
ambition there, a shared culture."

Florida's large retiree population contributes to the lack of cohesion. About 18
percent of the state's nearly 16 million people are 65 or older.

Most retirees are of modest means. They have no children in school and don't
feel invested in public education. That's one reason Florida's per capita
spending on education is 49th among the 50 states, Scher said.

"They paid their taxes in Wisconsin or New Jersey," he said. "They don't want to
pay them again."

DeFoor and others say Floridians' inability to believe in a shared future
prevents the state from creating a new economy with better paying jobs.

"We don't believe in ourselves as Floridians," he said. "All our ventures will
fail if we don't believe in ourselves."

Governor's Office Key

If government is to forge consensus out of such a patchwork state, leadership
must start with the governor, political observers say. But the governor's office
has been weak until recently. Power was shared with six Cabinet officers, all
elected statewide. DeFoor compares it to a "big county commission."

Voters in 1998 pared the Cabinet to three. Beginning next year it will consist
of an attorney general, chief financial officer and commissioner of agriculture.
The governor will appoint the secretary of education and secretary of state.

The Republican Legislature recently consolidated more power in the governor's
office. Last year, Bush became the first governor to appoint all the members of
a new statewide board of education, as well as members of the judicial
nominating commissions, which pick candidates for judgeships.

Proponents of the restructuring say voters expect the governor to provide
leadership and hold him accountable when policies fail.

"It should provide greater foresight and a more orderly policy agenda," said
Lance deHaven-Smith, a political scientist at Florida State University.

DeHaven-Smith said the Legislature also could use reforms that would make it
focus on solving statewide problems. He tells the story of Sam Mitchell, a
Democrat who ascended to House speaker pro tem in 1987. Mitchell was explaining
why his sparsely populated Panhandle district was getting a $60 million civic
center.

"They're going to say it's just too much," he said. "But the fact is we've been
waiting for this for 140 years. We haven't had a speaker in that long."

Unlike other states, leadership in the Florida House and Senate rotates every
two years. So when someone like Mitchell makes it, he has two years to bring
home results.

"The attitude is once you have your speaker and president, everybody lines up
from that region," deHaven-Smith said.

Bound By Limits

Term limits, approved by voters in 1996, make the problem worse, he said.
Legislators are more likely to take a short view because they will only be there
eight years.

Term-limited lawmakers are more beholden to House and Senate leaders who raise
money for the legislators' political campaigns. That increases partisanship,
said Earl Mackey, founder of the National Conference of State Legislators.

"In the past when you were there a long period of time, you built up camaraderie
with people across the aisle," Mackey said. "It didn't mean everybody agreed on
everything. But they had a much more shared sense of the things that need to be
attacked."

Supporters of term limits say it assures new blood continuously infuses the
Legislature, generating fresh thinking and washing away clots of cronyism. Phil
Handy, who led the fight for term limits, said voters were tired of incumbents
being re-elected repeatedly.

"That's what people were looking at, the fundraising power of the incumbent,"
Handy said. "They wanted to break that advantage by opening up the election
process."

But Mackey said term limits force legislators out just when they are gaining
expertise. Not only should terms not be limited, he said, but legislators should
be full-time lawmakers.

"When you look at a state the size of Florida with the complexity of problems
it's facing, you can't expect people with one foot in private careers and the
other in the Legislature to deal with those problems," he said.

Business Has to Lead

DeFoor said meaningful change can come only from the business community. Last
year, business signaled it might be ready to step up. The Florida Chamber of
Commerce released its latest Cornerstone Report, which showed the state slipping
in important measures of education and economic well-being.

The report made headlines because it came from business - the same group that
has been dictating public policy in Florida since the Civil War.

Chamber President Frank Ryll said business leaders realize the state must change
to compete globally. That's why big business helped pass Bush's education reform
plan. The plan, A-Plus, stresses testing to improve student performance and hold
schools accountable.

"Ten years ago it was sufficient for Florida to compete on the basis of climate,
low taxes, cheap land and a large labor force," Ryll said. "In the 21st century,
we're going to have to compete on the basis of intellectual infrastructure."

But business also is taking an interest in quality of life issues. Ryll said
business and the environmental community, once mortal enemies, are finding
common ground. The cooperation has spurred major environmental legislation,
including an aggressive land preservation program and Everglades restoration.

DeFoor said there is hope for the future because of the new blood in the
Legislature and the governor's office. He gives Bush credit for challenging
state government to look for new solutions.

But deHaven-Smith said Bush, though one of Florida's most powerful governors,
has failed to focus on progressive issues. An example is tax reform, which
deHaven-Smith said the state needs badly.

"I think it's just the governor's style," he said. "He lets the Senate president
carry the ball so [Bush] won't get blamed."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
A. Jerry DeFoor

Credits Bush with prompting state to seek new solutions

NOTES: CYCLES OF GOVERNMENT LEGISLATURE 2002 SIXTH OF SIX PARTS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      March 3, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Vouchers And Public Education

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 979 words



"Nothing Has Changed'

Regarding the article by Maureen Dinnen, president of the Florida Education
Association (Other Views, Feb. 27):

What a surprise! The president of the FEA is against vouchers! What does anyone
expect from the leader of a monopoly?

Since former President Carter instituted the Department of Education in 1979 as
a "thank you" to the National Education Association for supporting his
candidacy, the American people have spent billions and billions and billions of
dollars on public education, and absolutely nothing has changed. How many
children has the Department of Education educated since 1979? Absolutely zero.
Public education is an old fashioned monopoly and nothing will change until some
form of competition is injected.

I lived in Detroit up until the mid '90s, and I can tell you the best thing that
ever happened to the Big Three automobile companies was stiff competition from
Japanese automakers. Nothing changed until the American people had an
alternative to American-made cars. When the Japanese began to gobble up market
share, the American car companies began to produce a quality product. And over
the years Japanese automakers have continued to hold the American automakers'
feet to the fire.

I should also say the Michigan Education Association was a major obstacle to
inner-city children receiving a quality education. As the education
commissioners were chauffeured around town, the children lacked books. And like
clockwork, the MEA would strike every August, leaving the children in limbo
until the union's petty demands were met.

Vouchers would inject competition. Vouchers can be spent at any school. The fact
that most inner-city parents choose to send their children to a religious school
is their choice - and another sad comment on the state of public schools in
America.

Get rid of the Department of Education, get rid of the education unions and
inject competition with vouchers.
LARRY MILLER
Hudson

Choice Is Good
Regarding "Vouchers Equal Bad Education Policy" (Other Views, Feb. 27):

I had to write after reading this one! I have been following the education issue
for a while. What inflamed me the most about Maureen Dinnen's opinion was the
statement about "the vast majority of parents don't prefer vouchers."

Almost every poll that I've seen have the vast majority of citizens supporting
choice - choices that people in a free democratic society should be freely able
to make and not be told by the "professional educators" what or how to think.

In a diverse, capitalistic, democratic society, when we have a system that's not
delivering the desired results, we the people need to change it! Folks like
Dinnen plead for status quo, and that is why we are demanding change. Change is
good. Choice is good.

Diversity of choice is good. Competition produces results, and results are why
we live with the highest standards in the world. Status quo equates to demise.

Dinnen is correct that it's about our children. So let's do something good for
our children!
PHIL WALTERS
Tampa

Goodman Challenged

In her recent column "Bad Public Schools Aren't Option" (Other Views, Feb. 27),
Ellen Goodman challenges the use of vouchers in Cleveland primarily because they
are used in religious schools. Her legal position in this matter, which
evidently came from an attorney with People for the American Way, is that this
is clearly a matter of separation of church and state because the majority of
recipients of vouchers used them in religious schools. This is patently
ridiculous since no payment is made from the state to the religious institution.
The voucher is a grant to the parents to use at their discretion at the
institution of their choice.

Education, at least through high school, is an entitlement to all citizens, and
if the public system cannot meet their needs for a quality education, they
should be allowed to go elsewhere with government support through vouchers.

Analogous to this is the returning veterans from World War II and Korea who were
supported by grants to go to the college of their choice with no thought of
separation of church and state. It is unfortunate that the citizens of Cleveland
do not have more choice in where they can send their children to utilize their
vouchers. However, if the Supreme Court - and that is a big "if" - validates
vouchers, I am confident we will see a tremendous growth in both parochial and
secular schools to accommodate the mass exodus from public schools. This will
also bring needed reform to public schools and make them more competitive.
GLENN N. MUSSELWHITE
Brooksville

Behavior Problem

With all respect to Justice Scalia, I believe it is not a monopoly problem but a
behavior problem, and money won't solve it. The advantage of private schools is
that discipline problems can be solved with dismissal; the public schools don't
have that option.

I've taught in New York, Florida and Beijing, China; some private schools have
small classes and tuitions nearly as high as the salary of the teachers. I've
worked in districts with both excellent newly built schools and struggling old
schools with textbooks from the '70s. In every case, whether working as a
full-time, salaried teacher, a per diem substitute or as a volunteer, I observed
that it is the climate of behavior, respect and order that determines the
education received.

Children cannot learn if they haven't first been taught to respect the teacher
and the system that is providing their instruction. Until schools and parents
demand that students be willing to learn, nothing will change. It doesn't cost
anything to be polite and receptive. The child without those skills is at a loss
his entire life. We need to change the system, and it starts with parents and
educators with backbone.
EILEEN REGAN
Zephyrhills

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 24, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Tax Reform Fight Moves To Public Arena

BYLINE: JOE FOLLICK and MIKE SALINERO, The Tampa Tribune; Reporters Dave
Simanoff and John Wark contributed to this story. Reporters Joe Follick and Mike
Salinero can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words


LAWMAKERS PLAN TO HOLD MEETING FRIDAY IN TAMPA

TALLAHASSEE - The front line of a bitter legislative war moves to Tampa on
Friday as House lawmakers come calling for public thoughts on Senate President
John McKay's tax reform plan.

The Bradenton Republican wants to let voters decide whether to lower the state
sales tax rate from 6 percent to 4.5 percent. McKay plans to replace that lost
revenue by taxing hundreds of services and products that are currently
tax-exempt.

Under the proposal, Hillsborough County residents - who also pay a 1 percent
sales tax to the county - would pay 5.5 percent instead of the current 7 percent
sales tax.

But residents also might see services that are now tax-free being taxed under
the plan.

McKay said average Floridians would benefit from the tax cut because they use
far fewer of the services that would lose exemptions. He estimates the average
household could save more than $100 annually.

The changes also would make the state's tax base more stable and more
recession-proof because they decrease the state's reliance on taxing tourists.

But businesses say additional costs will be passed on to consumers and could
drag down the state's economy. They say people and businesses will use
out-of-state attorneys, accountants and architects to avoid the tax.

"We Need To Be Very Careful'

Gov. Jeb Bush told business leaders in Tampa on Wednesday night that he
sympathized with their concerns.

"We need to be very careful that we don't change our business climate," Bush
told the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce and Committee of 100. "We need to be
very, very careful going forward about tax reform because of the uncertainty
that it might bring that might make it harder for the next chairman or the next
president of the Committee of 100 to do its job."

Bush then promised to be "vigilant in Tallahassee in the next month or two to
make sure that what we have worked hard to achieve won't be taken away with the
best of intentions, but with the unintended consequences of seriously hurting
our economy."

McKay attempted to squelch businesses' opposition by agreeing to allow continued
exemptions for things such as agricultural products and advertising. But most
business lobbyists have blasted the plan as a "gigantic tax hike."

The House Select Committee on Florida's Economic Future will hold one of three
hearings at 5 p.m. Friday in the Hillsborough County Commission chambers. The
committee will hold hearings in Orlando at noon the same day and in Pensacola on
Feb. 1.

Lawmakers do not expect to hear from many citizens during the hearings, said the
committee's chairman, Rep. Johnnie Byrd, R-Plant City.

"I've been to a lot of these meetings," Byrd said, "and about 90 percent of the
people who speak are recruited" by special interests.

Sen. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Brooksville, said her initial reaction was that House
Republicans opposed to McKay's plan set up the meetings in a bogus attempt to
appear open-minded.

"I hope it isn't," she said. "I hope all the facts are adequately presented."

Tampa City Councilman Shawn Harrison said the time and location of the hearing
almost assure a low turnout.

"People are heading out of downtown at 5 o'clock on a Friday," Harrison said.

House Speaker Tom Feeney, R-Oviedo, formed the committee after McKay vowed to
pass the measure regardless of strong opposition from House Republicans.

Lobbyists Alerted Before Public

Sen. Jack Latvala, R-Palm Harbor, suggested another reason why mainly lobbyists
for special interests will be attending the hearings. The largest business
lobbying force in the state - Associated Industries of Florida - was made aware
of the hearings before the public.

Associated Industries began e-mailing members about the hearings last week.
Feeney's office made the hearing schedule public Monday.

"They will get the result [out of the public hearings] that they want to,"
Latvala said.

Byrd also is a member of the House's "Freedom Caucus," a group of Republican
House members who have vowed to kill McKay's plan. Despite his opinion, he said
he will consider what the public wants.

As the House holds public hearings Friday, the Senate Finance and Taxation
Committee will vote on the bill. A final Senate vote could occur next week.

A few weeks ago, Latvala said almost all of the 40 senators would vote for the
plan.

But Wednesday, there were varying guesses on how deep McKay's support reaches in
his chamber.

Associated Industries President Jon Shebel said only seven senators firmly
support the plan. Shebel said McKay was bullying lawmakers by threatening to
drop them from key leadership positions.

"Everybody is being nice [to McKay] in public," Shebel said. "They know he's got
a short fuse."

Brown-Waite, however, said there were at least 24 senators willing to vote for
the measure - enough to move it to the House, where 72 votes are needed.

McKay denied he was threatening lawmakers.

"If I can't get this through on its merits, I don't want to do it," he said.

Shebel said McKay intimidated lawmakers earlier this month when he fired a
longtime state employee who was working for an opponent of his plan, Sen. Debbie
Sanderson, R-Fort Lauderdale.

Sanderson said tax exemptions should be reviewed but that she can't support
McKay's effort to allow voters to place such changes in the constitution, making
future changes very difficult.

Asked whether McKay fired the employee to send a message, Sanderson said she was
told that McKay "had lost confidence" in the employee.

"Everybody here serves at the pleasure of the president," she said. "That's
clear now."

McKay drew public support Wednesday from two groups representing educators - the
Florida School Board Association and Florida Education Association.

But his opponents' blitzkrieg has had an effect. Wednesday morning, Brown- Waite
called a Brooksville radio talk show host who she said was "trashing her" for
wanting to raise taxes.

Brown-Waite said she called and questioned the host. He admitted he didn't know
the public will get to vote on the plan in November's election - if the
Legislature agrees.

"No wonder people are so upset if all they're hearing is that Tallahassee is
increasing your taxes," Brown-Waite said. "That's part of the misleading ads
they're listening too."

Sandy McKinnon, chairman of the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce and chief
executive officer of Yale Industrial Trucks in Tampa, said most people in Tampa
know little about the proposal to lower the sales tax.

"It probably needs to be revamped," he said. "I think that John McKay and those
who agree with him are on a track that needs to be followed."

Some lawmakers say that if McKay is patient, he will get his way. As Senate
president, he has the power to hold up negotiations on the annual state budget
and the redrawing of political districts.

"It's all up to him and how far he wants to force it," said House Minority
Leader Lois Frankel, D-West Palm Beach.

But Shebel disagrees. The state has had its budget held up in the past, he said.
And Bush could call a special session to deal with redistricting.

McKay, Shebel said, "has absolutely no leverage."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2002

CORRECTION: The sales tax rate in Hillsborough County is 7 percent. If the state
sales tax is reduced from 6 percent to 4.5 percent as proposed by state Senate
President John McKay, the sales tax rate in Hillsborough would become 5.5
percent. Incorrect figures were reported in the Nation/World section of some
editions Thursday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C) MAP
(C) John McKay
Tribune photo by JASON BEHNKEN

"We need to be very, very careful going forward about tax reform," Jeb Bush told
business leaders Wednesday in Tampa.
Tribune map by VAUGHN HUGHES

(MAP) County Center

Tax Reform Hearing

The public hearing will be at 5 p.m. in the commission chambers of the Fred B.
Karl County Center, 601 E. Kennedy Blvd.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 3, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Industrial Park Wants To Build In Housing

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, yhammett@tampatrib.com; Reporter Yvette C. Hammett
can be reached at (813) 754-3765.

SECTION: PLANT CITY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 491 words


ZONING CHANGE NEEDED FOR APARTMENTS, STORAGE

PLANT CITY - Bending with a changing economic climate, the owners of the Walden
Woods Industrial Park want to convert a portion of their project into apartments
and a mini warehouse storage center.

Plans for the changes are expected to go before Plant City commissioners Aug.
12. Walden Woods is east of James Redman Parkway and west of Jim Johnson Road
off West Alexander Street.

"The market for apartments is much greater than the market for light industry
right now," said Gary Nelson, vice president of land development for WCI, the
same company that developed much of Walden Lake and continues to develop Sun
City Center.

"And we plan to be very careful about what we would allow near the residential
areas," Nelson said.

"This one quadrant that we are talking about changing is very well buffered by a
huge, beautifully wooded wetland," he said. "It is bounded on the south by
Alexander Street and on the west by more apartments, so it's a good location."

The revised plan calls for building 700 apartments on what is now an 87-acre cow
pasture behind the Plant City Fire Rescue station on West Alexander Street.

Nelson said his company would market the plan to a developer who specializes in
apartments.

"Right now, it's all light industrial zoning," said city Planning and Zoning
Director Rob Anders. Under WCI's revised plan, the land would go to commercial
and office zoning, which would also allow for apartments and the mini
warehouses, he said.

Since Walden Woods is considered a Development of Regional Impact, the proposed
changes were first reviewed by the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council. Council
staff did not see the changes as a substantial deviation from the original
development plan, Anders said.

And because the industrial park has used less water and created less traffic
than originally expected, adding a higher impact use like apartments isn't a
problem, Anders said. "They can pretty much shift the impact."

WCI previously added roadway improvements to accommodate truck traffic coming
from Interstate 4, including widening West Alexander Street and Jim Johnson
Road, Anders said.

Businesses operating within the Walden Woods Industrial Park include the
Sparky's office complex - owned by Mayor Mike Sparkman - Willamette Industries,
which produces paper products, and A. Comacho, a distributor of Spanish olives,
Greek peppers and Turkish capers.

The Walden Woods changes were initially to be one of two similar proposals
headed for review by the city commission Aug. 12.

A group of developers interested in converting part of the Gregg Business Centre
Industrial Park into residential, was tentatively scheduled to appear before the
commission the same night.

But because the developers haven't yet produced plans for rezoning a portion of
the industrial park, it is too late to place it on the agenda for Aug. 12,
Anders said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP (C)
Tribune map by VAUGHN HUGHES

(MAP) (C) Walden Woods Industrial Park

Source: City of Plant City

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 23, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

What Price Desal?

BYLINE: DONALD LINDEMAN; Donald Lindeman is project manager for Tampa Bay Water.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 744 words


There are no perfect water supply solutions, only solutions that result from
weighing competing needs and evaluating the alternatives available to our
region. Just such an analysis led to the Tampa Bay Water Board decision to
pursue a second seawater desalination plant, this one on the Gulf Coast. Given
the facts, the decision makes good sense.

The backdrop for this decision and for the master water plan in general
continues to be the pumping cutbacks at long-producing wells - cutbacks mandated
by the local governments we serve, as well as the Southwest Florida Water
Management District. That water must be replaced, and the region's continuing
growth must be accommodated.

While we often hear the call for more aggressive growth control measures, Tampa
Bay simply doesn't have time to wait for that process to play out. Mandated
pumping cutbacks have to be replaced with new sources of water just to keep
even, regardless of growth and redevelopment.

So why seawater desalination? And why now?

It's plentiful, sustainable and drought-proof.

It's environmentally safe, as long as sufficient dilution and mixing are
provided for.

It's aesthetically acceptable. There is no noise or odor, and a plant can be
unobtrusive if it is either co-located on power plant grounds or designed to
blend with the surrounding area.

The need for new drinking water supplies to be sustainable and drought-proof was
underscored by the region's recent three-year drought, the worst in our recorded
history. Worldwide, scientists are predicting more climate extremes in the next
decade. Planning ahead for drought-proof and drought-resistant supplies - such
as desalinated water - helps protect our environment, our region's economic
health and our families from the effects of climatic changes.

We're not the only ones desalinating seawater: Such projects are common in the
Caribbean, the Middle East and Europe. What's different in Florida, though, is
the high priority we place on environmental protection.

Protecting our rich environmental resources is a top priority in the development
of all our projects, including seawater desalination.

Extensive studies precede every decision about plant siting, as well as intake
and discharge decisions. Residents of Tampa Bay should be assured that virtually
every key decision is driven by the best available science and technology.

No question: Desalting seawater is more expensive than other water supply
options, especially for a region that has relied almost exclusively on low-cost
groundwater. But the current environmental, regulatory and political climates
make it highly unlikely that we'll be able to tap large quantities of
groundwater in the future, despite its enticingly low cost.

And other relatively cost-effective water supply alternatives are already being
implemented.

Later this year, withdrawals from the Alafia and Hillsborough rivers and the
Tampa Bypass Canal will begin, but only when excess flow is available. River
water will be treated in a new surface water treatment plant, with any surplus
stored in a large reservoir. During dry times, stored water will supply the new
water treatment plant.

We're planning to desalinate a small amount of the brackish water in Pinellas
County to augment the public supply. And we are investigating sharing water with
clean industry.

Right now, we can't go outside the Hillsborough-Pasco-Pinellas region for water.
The state's "local sources first" provision requires us to develop
drinking-water sources within the tricounty region before looking outside it.

Can the region afford it? We hope to offset the cost of the Gulf Coast Seawater
Desalination project through a second partnership agreement with the water
district. More than half of its tax revenues are collected in the
Hillsborough-Pasco-Pinellas region. Some $24 million a year is collected by the
Pinellas-Anclote Basin alone. It would make sense to use these dollars locally
for a local alternative water supply.

Tampa Bay Water's scientific, environmental and technical teams have reviewed
virtually every possible option, and despite its higher cost, when compared with
other options, seawater desalination rates high.

Thanks to sophisticated environmental studies and advanced technology, seawater
desalination can be safely developed and help guarantee our region has a safe,
sustainable supply of high-quality drinking water for years to come.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by CANDACE MUNDY/EAGLE 8

A desalination plant is under construction at the Tampa Electric Co. generator
site at Big Bend on Tampa Bay.

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 16, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

State Feels Powerful Pressure To Mind Its Business Interests

BYLINE: DAVE SIMANOFF , dsimanoff@tampatrib.com; Reporter Dave Simanoff can be
reached at (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words


TALLAHASSEE - When Florida lawmakers overhauled the state's tax rules in 1987,
Tampa architect Enrique A. Woodroffe felt the impact immediately on his bottom
line.

New taxes on architectural work and other services meant Woodroffe had to spend
more time and money on bookkeeping. They also put him at a competitive
disadvantage because firms outside Florida - his competition for many projects -
wouldn't have to pay the taxes.

"That, obviously, was not a level playing field," said the president of
Woodroffe Corp. Architects. "Plus, we had an increase in administrative costs.
Those things add up for a small firm."

The taxes quickly died under the press of opposition from the business
community, with big businesses and their lobbyists leading the charge in
Tallahassee.

Now, businesses large and small across the state are getting ready for a similar
battle when the annual session of the Legislature begins Tuesday.

Senate President John McKay, R-Bradenton, has proposed retooling the state's tax
laws by sweeping out hundreds of exemptions for businesses and lowering the
sales tax rate on many goods and services from 6 percent to 4.5 percent.

The proposal comes as businesses reel from the recession - and the state, beset
by deficits as it, too, struggles to cope with the downturn, needs to collect
every penny of revenue it can.

But the tax issue is only one among many of keen interest to businesses this
year. Companies and their lobbyists are pushing aggressively for legislation
that would spur economic development and trying to fend off any increase in the
cost of doing business. They are fiercely protective of existing tax credits.

Business opposition has forced senators to tone down parts of McKay's proposal,
restoring some tax credits and mollifying some business concerns.

Dozens of bills have been filed to help businesses weather the economic storm.
Nearly 50 pieces of legislation seek to boost economic development. Those
proposals range from expanding the availability of venture capital for growing
companies to tax breaks for construction projects that provide the elderly with
a place to live.

Many legislators and lobbyists are expected to take advantage of the economic
climate by arguing their proposals would stimulate the state economy.

"It's unbelievable how things have changed in the past year," said Richard J.
Dobkin, managing partner of Ernst & Young LLP in Tampa.

"[Before] the changes in the stock market and the changes in the economy, we had
a period in which it looked like we had plenty of money to do the things we
wanted to do in the state. Now, all of a sudden, things are slowing down, we've
got Sept. 11, we've got the stock market, and the budget doesn't work anymore."


Listening To Business
Frank Ryll, president of the Florida Chamber of Commerce, finds lawmakers much
more willing to listen to, and work with, the state's business leaders and
lobbyists.

"It's shifted to more of a partnership trying to work things out, rather than
having battles," he said.

Chambers of commerce and business advocacy groups have grown steadily more
influential in state policy. The Florida Council of 100, a group made up of some
of the state's most influential chief executive officers, reports directly to
the governor and advises him on such things as education policy.

At the local level, too, chambers of commerce are playing a significant role in
helping communities set governmental priorities and future plans.

Last year, the Tampa Bay Partnership convened in Longboat Key to discuss a
regional approach to economic development, and the Greater Tampa Chamber of
Commerce uses a survey, referred to as the Wadley-Donovan Report, as a blueprint
for improving the community.

"One thing I think is a little different today is we see chambers pulling
together a facilitative vision," said Ben Haskew, president of chamber
development for the Florida Chamber of Commerce.

"I don't think that even existed 20 years ago."

Tampa business leaders say they'll push state lawmakers this year for
transportation, education and water improvements in the Bay area.


Growing Reliance On Lobbyists
The economic incentives Florida extends to new and growing businesses are
especially critical during the recession, said Beth Leytham, vice president of
public affairs for the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce.

"We just hope they continue to support such incentives as the Quality Targeted
Industry [program]," she said. "Those are very critical to weather the storms."

The program gives an employer tax credits for creating jobs that pay
above-average salaries in particular industries. Chamber leaders in Tampa have
used the program aggressively to woo companies such as Citigroup, Capital One
Financial Corp., Uniroyal Technology Corp. and JP Chase Morgan & Co.

Dobkin said it's important for businesspeople to keep an eye on the state
government.

"The No. 1 priority that every business owner or manager has is taking care of
their own business, and taking care of the day-to-day activities related to
those businesses," he said. "But sometimes it's easy [for an issue] not to
surface as something you should pay attention to until it's too late."

An issue that impacts small businesses also impacts the work force. Small
companies employ more than half the public-sector work force, and those
companies are statistically more likely to hire people younger than 25 or older
than 65.

To stay on top of the action in the Legislature and push their agendas,
businesses increasingly have become reliant on lobbyists.

More than 2,000 lobbyists are registered in Florida, and the lion's share of
those people represent corporate agendas.

"In the old days, CEOs had time to go over [to Tallahassee] and do personal
lobbying, but that's changed," said Otis White, president of Civic Strategies
Inc. in Atlanta. "The CEOs are way too busy, their companies are so much bigger
and complex it just makes sense to hire a professional to do it for them."

Term limits have made lobbyists more powerful in Tallahassee, White said.

New legislators "depend on experts, who often turn out to be lobbyists," he
said. "The power of a person who is always on top of things, who really knows
the subject, has really increased. That describes a lot of lobbyists."

Although lobbyists have become more numerous, fewer of them have hands-on
experience of the issues they advocate, said Jon L. Shebel, president and CEO of
Associated Industries of Florida.

"I think a lot of the lobbyists 20 years ago came right out of the companies
they were representing, whereas today a lot of companies will hire five, six,
even 10 lobbyists," he said.


History Lessons
The public perception that U.S. government has a hands-off relationship with
business, a philosophy known as laissez faire, is long-standing.

But historians say it also might be a myth. It's one of the most controversial
topics today in the study of U.S. history.

"Scholars recently realized they weren't doing a very good job on this," said
Michael Bellesiles, a professor of American history at Emory University in
Atlanta. "Even historians, like everyone else, grow up with certain stories
about our past, and we tend to believe them."

With subsidies, spending and sometimes legislation, national and local
governments helped support the development of industries, he said. In turn, the
development of industries helped spur the economy of the nation.

Consider the Civil War. The federal government lost its top source of revenue -
taxes on the cotton industry - when Southern states seceded from the Union.
Republicans in 1861 responded by spending more money on weapons, railroads,
clothing and other products for the war effort, helping to establish such
industries as gun manufacturing and preparing the North for the industrial
revolution.

Bellesiles said it's important for people in business and government to
understand how their groups operated in the past.

"Does this make an impact? I think it would make a significant difference in our
arguments in federal and state support for business by making it more honest,"
he said. "The real debate should be over levels of support, kinds of support and
who gets it - how do we make it more equitable?"

Woodroffe would agree.

The goal of small businesses isn't to rally against changes but to make sure
change is implemented fairly, he said.

"I don't think anyone would disagree with the issue that there is some tax
reform that needs to happen [in Florida ]," he said. "The question is, is this
the right way to do it?"

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CYCLES OF GOVERNMENT LEGISLATURE 2002 [FOURTH OF SIX PARTS]

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 30, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Hurricane Season Fizzles Out

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com; Reporter Neil Johnson can be
reached at (352) 544-5214.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words


STORMS FORMED IN UNUSUAL PLACES

TAMPA - The hurricane season that ends today took the tropical out of tropical
storms.

Nine of the dozen storms that formed in the six months of hurricane season
emerged well north of the typical tropic birthplace of hurricanes.

They popped up off the coast of the Carolinas and Florida, in the northern Gulf
of Mexico - and one, Tropical Storm Josephine, formed just south of
Newfoundland, where storms usually go to die. Only three storms emerged from the
deep tropics, the girdle around the globe between 10 and 20 degrees north
latitude.

"That's a characteristic of El Nino years," said Ed Rappaport, deputy director
of the National Hurricane Center in Miami.

The season that runs from June 1 through Nov. 30 was uneventful for Florida
except for the quick, almost unnoticed dash of Tropical Storm Edouard across the
state in September.

Louisiana can't say the same. It was the hard-luck state this year, with two
direct hits and two brushes with storms.

Seventeen people died from storms this year, nine of them in the United States.

This also was a season that produced the most active September on record, when
eight storms formed - only two shy of the average for a season.

And the season saw the third-longest-lasting storm on record: Hurricane Kyle
formed Sept. 20 off Bermuda and bounced around the Atlantic for 22 days.

But El Nino, when water in the Pacific Ocean grows abnormally warm and changes
the wind patterns high in the atmosphere, dominated this hurricane season. This
change in the winds stunts the growth of hurricanes in the tropics.

That's exactly what happened this year, but other conditions created an
unusually large number of storms in northern latitudes, said Muthuvel Chelliah,
a physical scientist with the Center for Climate Prediction.

"The majority of years, there are not a significant number," Chelliah said.

Forecasters did not see it coming.

"To be frank, we did not know ahead of time. We had no clue about the number of
storms forming north of the tropics," Chelliah said.


Lili Led Power Rankings

Though the tropics were subdued, the season's two major hurricanes, Isidore and
Lili, blasted out of the southern latitudes, trampled across Cuba and waded
ashore in Louisiana a week apart.

"Features like El Nino don't completely shut down the hurricanes," Rappaport
said.

Lili was the first hurricane to make landfall in the United States in three
years. The country escaped in 2001 and 2000. Since storms have been recorded,
the United States has never gone three consecutive years without a hurricane
hitting shore.

Lili became the most powerful storm of the season and caused an estimated $700
million of the season's $900 million in damage.

The tropical depression that grew into Lili formed Sept. 21 over the Windward
Islands. The storm passed Jamaica and Haiti before crossing western Cuba.

Once in the Gulf, Lili mushroomed into a monster with winds of 145 mph and bore
down on Louisiana, which was still soaked from Isidore, a storm that brought 70
mph winds and torrential rain.

Fortunately, Lili weakened just as quickly and hit with winds of about 100 mph.

That, too, was unexpected.

"We did not foresee the rapid weakening in 24 hours," Rappaport said. "It was an
example of the state of our science."


Forecasts Need Improvement

Even as forecasts of a hurricane's track improve, scientists remain stumped by
rapid changes in a storm's strength - growing or weakening.

"We did a good job of pinpointing the landfall," Rappaport said. "But not on the
intensity forecast."

This is the second season the hurricane center tested five-day forecasts, though
they weren't publicized. Scientists will spend the next six months reviewing the
accuracy of those predictions.

The Navy and oil companies with rigs in the Gulf have asked about forecasts
extending longer than the three days the center now issues.

But the hurricane center won't shift to five-day forecasts until they are
accurate enough to be useful.

"The National Weather Service will make that decision in the off-season,"
Rappaport said.

(CHART) A LOOK BACK
A dozen storms formed during the 2002 hurricane season. Four became hurricanes.
Tropical Storm Arthur: July 14-16. Formed off North Carolina coast. Remained at
sea. Maximum winds 60 mph.
Tropical Storm Bertha: Aug. 4-9. Formed near mouth of Mississippi River, moved
over southeastern Louisiana, back into the Gulf of Mexico and over southern
Texas. Maximum winds 40 mph.
Tropical Storm Cristobal: Aug. 6-8. Formed off South Carolina coast and remained
at sea. Maximum winds 50 mph.
Tropical Storm Dolly: Aug. 29-Sept. 4. First storm to form deep in tropical
Atlantic. Remained at sea. Maximum winds 60 mph.
Tropical Storm Edouard: Sept. 1-6. Formed east of Daytona Beach. Made landfall
near Daytona Beach as weak tropical storm. Crossed Florida into Gulf and was
absorbed into Tropical Storm Fay. Maximum winds 65 mph.
Tropical Storm Fay: Sept. 5-7. Formed south of Galveston, Texas. Made landfall
in central Texas. Maximum winds 60 mph.
Hurricane Gustav: Sept. 8-12. First hurricane of the season. Formed near Cape
Hatteras, N.C., and moved toward Nova Scotia. Maximum winds 90 mph.
Tropical Storm Hanna: Sept. 11-14. Formed in Gulf south of Apalachicola. Brushed
over Louisiana near mouth of Mississippi River. Made landfall near the
Mississippi-Alabama border. Maximum winds 50 mph.
Hurricane Isidore: Sept. 14-26. Formed near Windward Islands. Hit western Cuba,
then Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. Made landfall in Louisiana with 70 mph winds.
Maximum winds 125 mph.
Tropical Storm Josephine: Sept. 17-19. Formed southeast of Newfoundland.
Remained at sea. Maximum winds 40 mph.
Hurricane Kyle: Sept. 20-Oct. 12. Became third-longest storm on record at 22
days. Formed 300 miles east of Bermuda and meandered in Atlantic, weakening and
returning to tropical storm strength four times. Made landfall near Myrtle
Beach, S.C. Maximum winds 85 mph.
Hurricane Lili: Sept. 21-Oct. 4. Formed over Windward Islands. Passed near
Jamaica and Haiti. Hit western Cuba. Moved into Gulf and grew to 145 mph winds.
Weakened quickly. Made landfall in Louisiana. Early damage estimates $700
million. Maximum winds 145 mph.
Neil Johnson
Source: National Hurricane Center

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 12, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

New SOBAC Leader Proposes Changes In Attitude, Name

BYLINE: SUSAN M. GREEN , sgreen@tampatrib.com; Reporter Susan M. Green can be
reached at (813) 657-4529.

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


RETIRED DETECTIVE ELECTED TO HEAD WATCHDOG GROUP

APOLLO BEACH - So much for the stereotype of the apathetic New Yorker.

Dominick Gebbia, a retired homicide detective from Yonkers, threw himself into
local causes a few years after relocating to Apollo Beach in 1977, eventually
leading the community's civic association as president almost 20 years ago.

Now he's poised to take the helm of Save Our Bays, Air and Canals, an
environmental watchdog group spawned by the civic association in late 1999.

A founding member of the new organization, nicknamed SOBAC, Gebbia has been
among its most outspoken representatives, writing letters and voicing concerns
at public meetings.

"I think he'll carry the torch very well," said Barbara Murphy, another founding
SOBAC member who worked with Gebbia on various projects for the Apollo Beach
Civic Association.

"He's really been involved in the community. . . . I think a lot of people look
up to him."

Gebbia was elected SOBAC president last month. He succeeds Joe Marzilli.

Staying on as vice president is Jay Tsultim. Bonnie Bertolini, elected to the
SOBAC board last year, will become secretary. Marilyn Balkany was elected
treasurer.

Gebbia, a New York native, said he and his family moved to a waterfront home
here after he retired as a 20-year veteran of the police force. He said he was
lured by the Florida climate and Tampa Bay boating opportunities.

He and his wife, Anne, brought a little of their Yonkers neighborhood with them,
posting old street signs depicting the intersection of Fairfield Drive and
Beechwood Terrace on the dock behind their house. Generally, however, Gebbia
said he found a deeper sense of community and more activism among Apollo Beach
residents than New Yorkers.

When he was president of the civic association, Gebbia was involved in numerous
community initiatives. But environmental and public health issues were his
primary interests, he said.

Gebbia noted that SOBAC first organized to oppose the location of a big
desalination plant on Hillsborough Bay. Members worried about potential
environmental harm from discharging the briny byproduct that results from
turning bay water into drinking water.

That plant has since been built and is gearing up for production early next
year.

Gebbia said he was drawn to SOBAC mostly because of the group's protest of a
sulfur storage and melting facility on Hillsborough Bay. That project also
eventually won approval, but Gebbia and other SOBAC members say their protests
led to increased safeguards in the sulfur and desalination facilities.

Gebbia was among civic association members who traveled to California in the
1980s to look at sulfur storage facilities when an earlier proposal was on the
table for Big Bend.

He said he was a licensed consultant in air quality testing for a local
environmental firm for a few years after moving to Apollo Beach.

As SOBAC president, he said, he hopes to steer members away from what he
perceives as an "anti-industry" attitude.

"We have to work along with industry, but industry should provide some
protections for us too," Gebbia said. "I believe there's a lot of technology out
there they're not using."

Gebbia said he also is trying to drum up interest in a name change. Instead of
Save Our Bays, Air and Canals, the last word in the moniker would be "Coasts."
Gebbia said he wants the 1,000-member SOBAC to become more of a regional draw,
instead of being perceived as a local special interest group.

He also wants to continue SOBAC's recent focus on taking environmental education
into area classrooms.

He and his wife have three grown children. Their oldest, John, permanently
disabled as a child after he was hit by a car, lives with his parents. Another
son, Donald, died a few years ago after a heart attack. Their daughter, Donna
Gebbia Sweeney, is in marketing at Tampa General Hospital, and another son,
Michael, lives in Connecticut.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Tribune photo by KATHY MOORE-LENGELL

(C) Dominick Gebbia has lived in Apollo Beach for 20 years. He says he hopes to
lead Save Our Bays, Air and Canals to a less "anti-industry" stance.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 14, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Bishops Approve Revised Policy

BYLINE: KEITH EPSTEIN , kepstein@tampatrib.com; Reporter Michelle Bearden
contributed to this report. Information from The Associated Press also was used.
Reporter Keith Epstein can be reached at (202) 662-7673.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words


BAY AREA DIOCESE TO USE OUTSIDE REVIEW OF CHARGES

Critics Blast New Sex Abuse Rules

WASHINGTON - As America's Catholic leaders agreed Wednesday to new sexual abuse
policies and tribunals for the church, St. Petersburg Bishop Robert Lynch
revealed he will go further to restore trust amid scandal by hiring private
investigators to review complaints.

The investigators, including former state prosecutors and federal agents who
have volunteered already, will be summoned for preliminary inquiries whenever
allegations of sex abuse by clergy arise in the Tampa Bay area's diocese, Lynch
said.

In an interview, he also declared himself deeply troubled by his vote for a
compromise plan to protect children from church molesters without abandoning
priests who might be accused unfairly. The measure was approved with a 246-7
vote of cardinals and bishops at Wednesday's meeting of the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops.

"It bothers me terribly. I can't follow my heart," Lynch said, referring to a
soon-to-be-binding "zero tolerance" policy toward errant priests.

"There is a terrible incongruity here for a religious leader" who espouses the
tenet that sinners can be rehabilitated and forgiven, he said. Under the new
rules expected to win approval from the Vatican, priests would be removed from
public ministry following "even one act of sexual abuse of a minor."

The Catholic leaders endorsed the rules after an explosive year in which 325 of
the nation's 46,000 priests have resigned or have been removed from their posts
over accusations of sex abuse, some involving incidents years ago.

The crisis has overshadowed even the issue of war. The prelates gained less
attention Wednesday for their 228-14 vote for a statement that it's "difficult
to justify the resort to war against Iraq, lacking clear and adequate evidence
of an imminent attack of a grave nature."

The cardinals and bishops are trying to heal a church under siege, one facing
grand jury investigations, hundreds of civil lawsuits and mounting parishioner
dissent. Last week, the FBI's top-ranking woman, Kathleen McChesney, was hired
to lead a new church Office of Child and Youth Protection.

A similarly professional presence also will be emphasized in St. Petersburg,
Lynch said, explaining his plan to use private investigators.

The bishop said he became convinced of the need for investigators after members
of an internal review board told him "they feel inadequate to the task" of
sifting through evidence and deciding whether allegations are plausible.

"We need to make use of professionals who have experience in these things," he
said.

Issues Of Fairness

Lynch predicted the church's new rules would make little difference in his
diocese, where priests accused of abuse have resigned voluntarily.

Still - pointing out that St. Paul was redeemed after torturing and murdering
early Christians - Lynch criticized the idea of barring from public ministry
forever a priest who might confess a decades-old sin, receive treatment and be
judged no further threat to children.

"In any other profession, the penalty is not as harsh," he said. "I would get my
job back if I were a doctor. ... Unfortunately we don't have a chance to define
fairness in today's climate."

Hordes of camera crews and placard-waving protesters surrounded the Capitol Hill
hotel where the priests gathered to discuss a plan weighing victims' rights with
a Vatican demand for better protection of priests.

What emerged was a set of rules saying bishops must report all abuse allegations
to police, but internal boards will handle preliminary inquiries before closed
tribunals judge accused priests and produce records available to police or
prosecutors.


Criticism And Response

Some victims and lay organizations promptly accused the church leaders of
kowtowing to the Vatican and going too far in shielding priests.

"The bishops have voted to give themselves more power and backtracked from their
earlier promises," said Barbara Blaine, president of SNAP, the Survivors Network
of those Abused by Priests.

Melissa Price, SNAP's Tampa Bay area leader, warned the new rules "will make
survivors more reluctant to come forward" because of a "cleric- controlled
process."

Hugh Burns, a Sun City Center leader of the lay organization Voice of the
Faithful, said the church "has amply demonstrated that it has no expertise or
inclination to investigate sex crimes."

Lynch rejected the criticism.

"Nothing has been watered down at the request of the Vatican," he said. "The
Catholic diocese of St. Petersburg can go to bed tonight - as they did last
night - with the assurance their church takes seriously the protection of
children."

(CHART) (C) WHAT'S DIFFERENT
Vatican demanded policy changes.
Original Policy
No statute of limitations for offenses.
All allegations involving minors reported to police.
Permanent removal from the priesthood if local investigation upholds allegations
of one incident.
Revised Policy
Victims must bring claim by age 28; bishops can ask Vatican for waivers.
Local laws on reporting abuse apply. Bishops promise, but aren't required, to
report abuse of minors in every state.
Priests who maintain innocence can seek trials before tribunals and appeal
guilty decisions to the Vatican.

(CHART) (C) PANEL DISCUSSIONS
The Catholic Diocese of St. Petersburg plans three simultaneous forums to tell
parishioners about its updated plans to protect children and others from abuse
within the church.
WHEN: 7 p.m. Friday
WHERE: Holy Family Catholic Church, 200 78th Ave. N.E., St. Petersburg; (727)
526-5783
St. Paul Catholic Church, 12708 N. Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa; (813) 961-3023
St. Anthony Catholic Church, 20428 Cortez Blvd., Brooksville; (352) 796-2096

(CHART) (C) WHAT THE CHANGES MEAN
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops approved a reworked policy Wednesday for
dealing with cases of sexual abuse by priests. Here is how bishops explain the
plan.
Q. Why did the bishops revise the abuse policy they adopted in June?
A. Because the Vatican would not approve the plan without changes. The Holy See
was concerned about due process for accused clergy and asked for other
clarifications.
Q. Will priests who molest children still be barred from church work?
A. The bishops say yes, but the process may take longer. Accused clerics who
maintain their innocence will be entitled to have their cases heard by a church
tribunal and can appeal a guilty verdict to the Vatican. But even if the cleric
wins his case and remains in the priesthood, the prelates say they still have
the power to keep the clergyman out of parish work.
Q. Will bishops report allegations to civil authorities?
A. The new policy mandates such notification only where states require it. But
the bishops have pledged that in every state, they will report abuse of
children.
Q. What about allegations from years or even decades ago?
A. The new policy takes note of the statute of limitations under church law,
requiring victims to bring claims by age 28. However, the policy also says
bishops can ask the Vatican for a waiver to deal with old cases.
Q. Who decides if an allegation is credible and should be heard by a tribunal?
A. The bishop conducts a preliminary investigation that he may keep private. If
the allegation seems to have merit, the bishop is to put the accused priest on
leave and move ahead with the tribunal.
Q. Is there a role for lay people?
A. Yes. Like the original policy, the new plan requires bishops to set up review
boards to monitor how dioceses respond to abuse cases. But the new version
underscores that prelates, not lay people, manage clergy.
The work of the boards also will be confidential.
Q. Is the new policy mandatory?
A. It will be once the Vatican approves it and makes it church law for the
United States, which the bishops say is all but guaranteed.
Q. Who will enforce the plan?
A. The bishops have formed a lay National Review Board and an Office for Child
and Youth Protection to compile an annual report on whether dioceses are meeting
the new standards. However, the policy does not impose sanctions on bishops who
fail to comply.
Q. What did the bishops keep from the old policy?
A. Many parts of the original plan remain in place. The bishops say they won't
enter into confidentiality agreements in civil abuse lawsuits unless the victim
insists. The bishops also promise to educate diocesan staff about preventing
abuse and to conduct background checks on workers.
Q. Why do advocates for abuse victims object to the plan?
A. They say the policy gives too much discretion to the bishops, keeps too much
of the process secret and leaves a chance for some offenders to remain in
parishes.
The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C) CHART (3C)
(C) Bishop Robert Lynch

St. Petersburg bishop said he is troubled by his vote.
Photos from The Associated Press

(C) Bishop Donald Wuerl of Pittsburgh holds up a green card during debate on the
Catholic Church's sexual abuse policy Wednesday in Washington. The card means
Wuerl supports the policy but wants to comment on it.
(C) Cardinal Francis George, archbishop of Chicago, oversees debate on the abuse
policy during the morning session Wednesday. George helped craft the revised
guidelines.
The Associated Press

(C) Auxiliary Bishop of Military Services John Kaising, center, concentrates as
he listens to debate on the revised policy Wednesday.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 1, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Democratic Voters Prefer Reno, Poll Says

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH , wmarch@tampatrib.com; Reporter William March can be
reached at (813) 259-7761.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 861 words


BUT SHE STILL LACKS SUPPORT TO UNSEAT THE GOVERNOR

TAMPA - A new poll shows Janet Reno still dominating the field of Democrats
hoping to challenge Gov. Jeb Bush for re-election, and Bush widening his lead
over those prospective challengers.

The results jibe with previously released findings, which showed Bush surging in
popularity, probably as a result of the attacks Sept. 11, said pollster Brad
Coker of Mason-Dixon Polling & Research Inc.

And it shows the main difficulty the Democrats face in taking on Bush, said
Lance deHaven Smith, a Florida State University political scientist.

"The war on terrorism and the popularity of President George W. Bush have
overshadowed the two biggest issues the Democrats have going for them - the
lackluster economy and anger over the 2000 election," he said. "As long as that
continues, it will be very difficult to unseat Jeb Bush."

Political experts including some candidates said a poll done this early, more
than nine months before the election in November, isn't an accurate prediction
of the outcome. Events can change the political climate, and the candidates have
not begun making themselves known to voters.

The poll, done for a group of news organizations including The Tampa Tribune,
was based on interviews on Monday and Tuesday with 625 registered voters in
Florida. That sample size should yield an error margin of plus or minus 4
percentage points.

Questions about the Democratic primary were based on interviews with 404
registered Democrats likely to vote in the primary, a sample size that would
yield a larger margin of error.

In a question matching the top four Democratic candidates in a primary race, 56
percent picked Reno, 13 percent picked Tampa lawyer Bill McBride, 5 percent
chose state Rep. Lois Frankel of West Palm Beach and 3 percent chose state Sen.
Daryl Jones.

That's an improvement for Reno, who got 47 percent in the same poll in July,
though against a larger field of challengers, including U.S. Rep. Jim Davis of
Tampa and Vietnam Ambassador Pete Peterson.

Reno got less encouraging news on a question asking voters whether they
recognized the candidates' names and had a favorable, unfavorable or neutral
impression of them.

Nearly all the voters knew of Reno, but 40 percent said they had an unfavorable
impression - more than in the same poll in July. Meanwhile, 36 percent said they
had a favorable impression.

Bush, by comparison, was recognized by all voters, with 53 percent favorable and
24 percent unfavorable ratings, an improvement from the poll in July.

McBride, a comparative political unknown making his first run for elective
office, wasn't recognized by 64 percent of voters. But that was a slight
improvement over his standing in July.

Reno's "high negatives" mean there could be a limit on her ability to swing
undecided voters, Coker said. "There's a ceiling. Her upward mobility is
limited."

When matched against Reno, Bush won by 58 percent to 36 percent, an expansion of
the 54-39 margin in the same poll in July.

Matched against McBride, Bush won by 55 percent to 24 percent. That's a slight
improvement, less than the margin of error of the poll, over his margin in July.

Reno campaign manager Mo Elleithee said the poll "shows what we've known all
along, that Janet Reno will be the nominee. Democrats across the state know that
she will be the party's best chance at unseating the governor."

He said the unfavorable impressions of some voters will change as the campaign
progresses - "She hasn't really begun getting her message out yet."

McBride said he was pleased with his performance.

"I'm pretty encouraged," he said. "I'm doing better than the last one, without
buying any TV or radio ads yet. I'm moving up in almost every category - people
are hearing about me without us having to pay for anything."

Frankel said the poll numbers have changed little since July and have
comparatively little meaning because "the campaign hasn't really started yet -
for Bill McBride, Daryl Jones and me, we're not really known."

Jones said Reno's standing would be lower if the poll were taken now, in light
of her fainting incident Wednesday, and therefore the meaning of the poll is:
"Nobody has emerged. There's still an opportunity for somebody to emerge, and I
intend to take advantage of that."

(CHART) Voting Trends in Governor's Race
A Tampa Tribune-WFLA, News Channel 8 poll* shows Republican Gov. Jeb Bush well
ahead of the four top Democratic contenders in the upcoming election.
Head-To-Head Matchups Of Bush And Potential Democratic contenders in the
upcoming election.
Jeb Bush v. Janet Reno
Janet Reno 36 %
Jeb Bush 58 %
Undecided 6 %
Jeb Bush vs. State Rep. Lois Frankel
Jeb Bush 58 %
Lois Frankel 22 %
Undecided 20 %
Jeb Bush vs. Tampa lawyer Bill McBride
Jeb Bush 55 %
Bill McBride 24 %
Undecided 21 %
Jeb Bush vs. State Sen. Daryl Jones
Jeb Bush 60 %
Daryl Jones 22 %
Undecided 18 %
*625 registered voters interviews. Margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage
points.
Tribune chart by CAITLIN HOPE WRIGHT; Source: Mason-Dixon Polling & Research.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: LEGISLATURE 2002

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 24, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

What Price Success

BYLINE: MICHAEL FECHTER, mfechter@tampatrib.com; Reporter Michael Fechter can be
reached at (813) 259-7621.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2990 words


Local success guru Peter Lowe vows to come back from a multimillion-dollar
business failure.

TAMPA - The secret to success is simple, says Peter Lowe, the Tampa entrepreneur
who bills himself as the organizer of "America's Most Popular Business Seminar."

"It is a defining quality that separates losers and winners," Lowe explains in
an 1998 audio-taped talk.

"It's honesty. Unswerving honesty. You see, if people don't perceive you as
honest, then you are almost guaranteed to fail."

Today, Lowe himself is picking up the pieces from a failed business and trying
to make a comeback. Tampa-based Success Events International collapsed in
December. Lowe had quit just a few days before as its chief executive officer.
The company left behind dozens of unpaid vendors, what a former investor says
was more than $5 million in debt, and the potential for a tangle of legal
actions. Lowe says even he lost a $450,000 loan to the company.

Former associates say Lowe brought the hard times down on himself by violating
his own cardinal rule of unswerving honesty.

"Peter Lowe's programs stood for ethics and virtue," says Jim Keppler, whose
Virginia-based agency represents a number of the big-name speakers who've
appeared at Lowe seminars. "However, for the better part of the past year or
longer, Lowe's business dealings have been filled with lies."

Former senior managers and executives at Success Events make similar claims.
They say Lowe used bait-and-switch tactics to pull in audiences - that he
advertised appearances by stars but delivered considerably less. He also
overspent company credit limits, they say, and billed customers' credit cards
for his audiotapes without their knowledge or approval.

Then there were the office demon hunts, spawned by a zealous religious climate,
the ex-employees say. The hunts didn't harm anyone, but left a lot of people
squeamish and wondering what was coming next.

Lowe, 43 and boyish looking, says any religious activity at Success Events was
strictly voluntary. As for the financial problems and alleged deceptions, he
says they weren't his fault - he was doing the best he could under trying
circumstances.

For one thing, the company changed owners three times during 2001, Lowe says.
Each new owner promised new capital but didn't deliver.

And for another, Lowe says some former employees were bent on creating a
competing company and undercut Success Events by trying to steal vendors and
intellectual property.

But Lowe, too - with backing from new investors - has created his own competing
company, through which he's making his comeback bid. It's called Life Win, and
Lowe incorporated it the same week he quit Success Events. Through it Lowe is
producing seminars Success Events sold but cannot stage because it's out of
business.

"In the rubble," he says, "I'm here with a shovel."


Canceled Contracts

Lowe has been written up in a fistful of national publications - he carried
original editions of 1994 Time and 1996 People magazines to an interview last
week.

And his seminars have been held across the country. They've featured business
leaders such as cookie mogul Debbi Fields, global political figures such as
Margaret Thatcher and Mikhail Gorbachev, and sports legends such as NFL running
back Barry Sanders and basketball coach Dean Smith.

Lowe usually spoke, too.

"Peter Lowe will show you how to accelerate your success with an ingenious new
system for maximized achievement," said advertising for one of Lowe's seminars
last year at the USF Sun Dome. His talks focused on a mix of old-fashioned
virtue and hard work.

For years, Lowe ran his seminar company - then called Peter Lowe International -
as a nonprofit, and appeared to do well. He drew packed houses to hear the
success stories of people as diverse as President Reagan and Dick Vitale, the
colorful basketball commentator.

He sold Peter Lowe International to Success Companies of North Carolina in 2000;
Peter Lowe International was renamed Success Events International. The parent
company published a 109-year-old magazine also called Success. It planned to
market the magazine to Lowe's audience.

But the owners sold the parent company last summer, and those owners sold it
again. Each set of buyers promised multimillion-dollar investments in Success
Events, but failed to deliver, Lowe says. Meanwhile, Lowe says he kept holding
seminars based upon their assurances that the money would be there. It wasn't
long before Success Events emptied its bank account and was struggling to stay
afloat.


Conflicting Explanations

"If I'd have known what was going to happen I never would have done the deal" to
sell the company, Lowe says. The problems he faced at Success Events never
happened during the 19 years he ran his own business, he says.

It's true that company owners failed to make good on promised infusions of cash,
says Peter Frugone, who owned Success Events from late September until December.
But Frugone disputes Lowe's claims that Peter Lowe International was successful.
It was $3 million in debt when Success took over, Frugone says. And when Success
Events went under in December, Frugone says, it left behind a debt of $5.2
million.

It's what happened as Lowe tried to stave off the collapse that's causing all
the turmoil now.

Keppler, the speakers' agent, alleges in legal papers that late last year
Success Events canceled speakers and breached contracts worth $1.12 million.
Keppler and his attorney believe the company lied about why.

Success Events blamed the cancellations on the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
telling both Keppler and ticket holders that it wasn't safe to bring a number of
high-profile speakers to the same stage, Keppler's legal complaint says. Lowe
says it was a security issue, that he tried repeatedly to call Keppler to
discuss the matter, but no one called him back.

Keppler, meanwhile, believes that under Lowe, Success Events really just ran out
of money and used the terrorist attacks as an excuse to dump his clients.

Shows were staged in Chicago on Sept. 25, and in Detroit on Oct. 4 - but at
smaller, less expensive venues, and without Keppler's big-money stars.
Television talk show host Montel Williams, who earns $60,000 for a one-hour
appearance, was among those whose contracts were canceled.

No refunds were offered. Instead, customers received vouchers for a future event
that hasn't been scheduled.

Meanwhile, Keppler sued.

In addition, a Tampa printing company called Elegant Envelopes won a $140,000
judgment for unpaid bills against Success Events earlier this month. Elegant
Envelopes sued Aug. 10, well before the canceled contracts attributed to the
terrorist attacks.

In fact, the decision to cancel the high-profile - and therefore high-cost -
speakers had been cast weeks earlier, said Craig Blanton, who was Success
Events' national sales manager.

He said Senior Vice President Brian Forte, who is Lowe's brother-in-law, told
him at the end of August that "from the shows from Chicago to the rest of the
year, the big-name speakers we weren't going to have," Blanton said.

Forte didn't say why, Blanton said. But Blanton said he knew Success Events
"didn't have the money."

Lowe says he doesn't know anything about that conversation. He says he believed
he would be able to pay for the more expensive speakers as soon as the extra
capital came in from the new owners, and insists that the decision to replace
them was based strictly on security.


A Victim, Too

Lowe says Success Events didn't fall apart because of anything he did - that it
was the fault of the people who owned the parent company. Though he was chief
executive officer of Success Events and the man who signed the checks, Lowe
says, he was still an employee and often powerless to override corporate
decisions.

"If they say go ahead and launch three seminars, I don't have control over
that," Lowe said. "If they say go do these three seminars, I have to go do them.
That's the difference between being an employee and being an owner."

Besides Frugone, Stanley Van Etten also owned the parent company for part of
last year. Both say that as CEO, Lowe had complete control.

"At no point was he out of control of the company," Frugone said.

"Peter Lowe had complete control and authority of the business," Van Etten said.
"Any representation different from that is just not true."

Former employees say the same.

"Peter's name signed every check," said Renee Kirkiewicz, former Success Events
vice president for operations. "Stan didn't sign the checks, Peter did. So
nothing had to go to Stan in order to get it approved."


The Other President Spoke

Kirkiewicz, who resigned from Success Events in September, said the final straw
was the cancellation of the contracts with Keppler's clients and the way Lowe
blamed that on the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Lowe accuses Kirkiewicz of leaving to work for a competing company and claims
she took company secrets with her. She denies this.

A company letter was sent to Chicago ticket holders citing the security issue
and telling them of the venue changes. It also said some of the speakers might
change, though it didn't specify which ones. As it turned out, people who paid a
premium to have lunch with former President Clinton heard instead from former
South African President F.W. de Klerk.

And it said the company was in touch with the Secret Service.

Not true, Kirkiewicz said. It would have been her job to do talk to the Secret
Service, and she didn't.

"The reason [the speakers] were canceled is that we couldn't pay," she said.

Another ex-employee, Amee Warren, who was Lowe's executive assistant, said the
same.

"Peter is the one who made the call" to cancel the contracts, Warren said,
adding: "You think the Secret Service cares what Peter Lowe has to [do]? It was
such a lie."

The company had crashed well before the terrorist attacks, Warren said. Company
credit cards had been frozen, and frustrated, unpaid vendors from hotels to
limousine services had cut Success Events off. Lowe even loaded his personal
credit cards to pay some of the mounting bills.

(The Tampa Tribune is one of the companies Success Events has failed to pay. The
Tribune's credit manager, Charles Wilson, says Success Events has an outstanding
bill of $1,358.84 for classified advertising in the newspaper in October and
November, though it paid in full for more expensive seminar-related ads in the
Tribune in June and July.)

In his legal action, Keppler seeks $1.12 million in lost speakers' fees, and
$3.36 million for damages and for earnings his clients lost from canceling other
speaking engagements to work with Lowe. The dispute is scheduled to go to
arbitration March 12.


Demons And Oil

Lowe, who served as chairman of the Rev. Billy Graham's 1999 Crusade, is the son
of missionaries who often speaks at his seminars of his Christian values, and of
how important they've been to his success.

But some of his former employees say Lowe sometimes crossed the line with his
beliefs. Warren, for example, said she was asked to describe her "walk with
Christ" during her job interview.

And a number of former staff members told of visits to the office by a South
American chaplain who hunted for demons and offered in-house deliverance "for
those who desire to be set free and be touched by God."

Mike Pennington, a former salesman, said he was told that a copy of a Leonardo
Da Vinci sketch he had modified and put on his desk made the chaplain
"uncomfortable" during a demon hunt. Pennington removed it.

"I thought it was pretty," Pennington said. "I didn't know it was riddled with
demons."

Later he and a number of other employees found crosses sketched in oil on their
computer monitors.

The company was in turmoil, Lowe said. "This was an attempt to really try to
minister to people who were hurting." It was strictly voluntary, he stressed.


Bill First, Ask Later

Former employees also say company actions sometimes contradicted Lowe's
faith-based ideology.

For example, the company was selling hundreds of customers monthly copies of
Success Talk audiotapes that the customers paid for one tape at a time. When
money grew tight last summer, the company converted the monthly subscriptions to
annual packages and charged customers a discounted one-time annual rate. The
tactic succeeded in raising badly needed cash. But the customers weren't told
about it until after the fact - meaning that their credit and debit cards were
charged the larger annual fee without their prior knowledge or approval.

Denver resident Steven Beerbohm bounced two checks when his debit card was
charged with the larger fee. A five-time seminar attendee, Beerbohm said he was
pleased when Success Events credited his account and covered his bank fees for
the bounced checks.

Lowe defends the deal, saying the discount "was like the best offer we ever
made." But he regrets the fact that the offer arrived after the billing took
place, saying it wasn't his idea.

"I don't think that was Success Events' finest hour," he said. "If I had that to
go back and do it over again, I would reject it categorically and refuse to do
it."
In addition, people who attended Success Events seminars often were given
Success Talk tapes as "free gifts," only to get billed for subscriptions to them
later.

Ginger LeClair, a women's clothing store manager in Orange County, Calif., left
a Success Events seminar in Anaheim in the fall of 2000 disappointed, and she
was livid when she received a bill for the audiotapes. She hadn't ordered them,
she said.

After two telephone calls and an e-mail went unanswered, LeClair unloaded in a
follow-up e-mail.

"I was not told that I would be charged for these tapes," she wrote. "I DO NOT
WANT THEM! DO NOT

SEND ANY MORE! DO NOT CHARGE MY ACCOUNT AGAIN! DESTROY MY ACCOUNT NUMBER!!!"

Lowe says he's sorry that vendors, employees, customers and investors all got
hurt, but has no regrets over anything he did. "If people really understood the
story, it increases my credibility. Success is not about never having a failure.
Success is about learning to take risks. ... I tried to do things in the right
way."

Now Lowe is promising dissatisfied customers that he'll make good, giving them
new tapes at his expense. For vendors owed money, Lowe says, all he can offer is
future business. Many are willing to give him another chance, he says, but he
won't name any.

"Success is hardly ever handed to someone on a silver platter," Lowe said.
"Success involves risks, and sometimes those risks go the wrong way. Winners
don't give up, they get up. I've determined I'm going to get up, and I'm going
to try to help other people get up."

(CHART) (C) A CHRONOLOGY
Major developments in the Success Events story:
March 1990 - Peter Lowe incorporates Peter Lowe International, devoted to
organizing business success and motivational seminars. It contracts with agents
to bring in well-known speakers at seminars.
August 2000 - Lowe sells the assets of Peter Lowe International to Success Cos.
in North Carolina. Those assets are folded into a new subsidiary called Success
Events International, and Lowe becomes the chief executive officer of Success
Events.
June 2001 -Success Cos. owner Stanley Van Etten sells control of the company to
the Nobility Group in Tennessee.
September 2001 - New York investor Peter Frugone assumes control of Success Cos.

December 2001 - North Carolina lawyer Brent Wood assumes control of Success
Cos." assets, including Success Events. Lowe resigns and creates Life Win, a new
seminar operation, the same week. Success Events lays off its staff, closes its
doors and leaves $5.2 million in debt.
January 2002 - Tampa printer Elegant Envelopes is awarded $141,000 in
Hillsborough Circuit Court for unpaid invoices from Success Events. No one from
Success Events showed up in court to contest the claim.

(CHART) WHO'S WHO
The central figures in the Success Events story:
Peter Lowe - Founder of Peter Lowe International and chief executive officer of
Success Events International after he sold his self-named seminar company in
2000. He created a new seminar company, Life Win, the same week he left Success
Events in December.
Brian Forte - Lowe's brother-in-law, he was senior vice president of Success
Events and now works with Lowe at Life Win.
Renee Kirkiewicz - Former operations vice president for Lowe at Success Events
who says she quit over what she regarded as unethical business practices. Lowe
says she left to start her own seminar company to compete against him, but
Kirkiewicz denies that.
Amee Warren - Lowe's executive assistant during 2001. She disputes company
claims that high-cost speaker contracts were canceled last fall over post-Sept.
11 security concerns.
Craig Blanton - National sales manager for Success Events, who says Forte told
him in August, before the terrorist attacks, that the contracts with high-priced
speakers were being canceled.
Mike Pennington - Sold coaching clinics for Success Events International. He
removed artwork from his desk after it made a visiting chaplain "uncomfortable"
during an office search for demons.
Peter Frugone - A New York investor who owned Success Companies, including
Success Events International, from late September through December 2001.
Stanley Van Etten - He owned the Success Companies when it bought out the assets
of Peter Lowe International. Van Etten says he did not interfere in Lowe's
management of the seminar operations.
Brent Wood - A North Carolina lawyer who last controlled the assets of the
Success Companies. Lowe says Wood allowed him to take the Success Events mailing
list with him to help start a new seminar company called Life Win.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 8 (4C) CHART 2 (1C)
(C) Peter Lowe
Milwaukee Journal photo for the Tribune by JEFFREY PHELPS

(C) Peter Lowe, former chief executive officer of Success Events International,
often talked about his business values during popular seminars held across the
country.
Tribune file photo

(C) Among the speakers at a Tampa conference Lowe organized in September 1999
was President Ford.
Tribune file photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

(C) Actor Christopher Reeve took the stage during a February 1997 Success
seminar at the Ice Palace.
Tribune file photo by JIM REED (1997)

Ex-employees say money dried up for Success Events to pay big-name speakers.
Lowe says security concerns caused cancellations.
Tribune photo by CANDACE C. MUNDY

Audiotape lectures were sold to seminar attendees. Last summer, cash-strapped
Success Events changed its billing and charged an annual fee without first
notifying subscribers.
Tribune photo by CANDACE C. MUNDY

A Leonardo Da Vinci copy on Mike Pennington's desk made a chaplain searching for
demons uncomfortable. "I thought it was pretty," he said.  "I didn't know it was
riddled with demons."
Tribune file photo by BOB WESTENHOUSER

Peter Lowe, left, served as chairman of Billy Graham's 1999 Crusade and often
speaks at seminars of his Christian values.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 12, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TIA Traffic Off Just 1% Last Year

BYLINE: JIM SLOAN , jsloan@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jim Sloan can be reached at
(813) 259-7691.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words


TAMPA - It's still in the red from post-Sept. 11 travel fears, but Tampa
International Airport got a bit of good news Thursday.

The airport ranked fifth among the nation's 32 largest airports in terms of the
least decline in passengers in 2001, a survey showed - suffering only a 1
percent drop in volume from the high-flying months of 2000.

"For years we've said we were the fastest-growing airport in the country," a
tongue-in-cheek TIA chief Louis Miller told his bosses Thursday. "Now we're the
fifth least-declining airport."

The news could have been worse. New York's LaGuardia Airport saw a 13.6 percent
drop last year, the study showed, while Washington's Reagan National Airport
dipped 16.2 percent.

In Florida, Miami International saw a 5.7 percent drop in passengers in 2001,
and Orlando International an 8.4 percent decline.

Tampa fared better than many airports, Miller told the Hillsborough County
Aviation Authority on Thursday, because it's blessed with a "very strong
market," including a customer population area of 3 million people.

"That indicates stability to me, really, for the whole area," authority member
and Tampa Mayor Dick Greco said of Tampa's ranking. "It tells you that people
are coming here steadily," not just during peak tourist months.

TIA's budget is still feeling the impact of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
however, which has kept nervous travelers out of airports.

The airport's gross concession revenues for February, for example, are down 6.4
percent compared with the same month last year, Miller said.

Overall, for the first five months of the fiscal year, the airport's actual
revenue was about 40.8 percent of its latest projected revenues for that period,
he said.

Still, the economic climate was rosy enough for authority members to seek
proposals on a new Fixed Base Operator - the technical name for facilities based
at large airports that serve corporate and general aviation aircraft.

The authority had decided to seek proposals for another facility in 2000, but
dropped the idea after the Sept. 11 attacks devastated airport revenues across
the country.

Under the plan, the new facility would be built by the tenant, and the airport
would receive a percentage of its hangar rental fees and other revenue.

TIA's existing operator, Raytheon Aircraft Services, employs 145 people and
accommodates 44 private aircraft.

"Raytheon is full a lot of the time and has a waiting list, so I think it's time
to put in a second FBO," Miller said.

(CHART) SLIGHT DECLINE AT TIA
Passenger traffic decreased at 28 of the nation's 32 largest airports last year
as a result of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Tampa International ranked fifth
in terms of least decline. Here are the top 10 strongest airports in terms of
passenger traffic changes:
Airport Passengers 2001 Percent Change
1. Baltimore 20,369,923 3.9
2. Fort Lauderdale 16,407,927 3.5
3. Pittsburgh 19,945,437 0.7
4. Charlotte, N.C. 23,166,464 0.3
5. Tampa 15,888,436 -1.0
6. Houston 34,794,868 -1.3
7. Chicago-Midway 15,541,236 -1.4
8. Phoenix 35,481,950 -1.6
9. Philadelphia 23,926,876 -4.0
10. San Diego 15,184,332 -4.1
Source: Hillsborough County Aviation Authority

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 31, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

2 Lawsuits Oppose Tax Referendum

BYLINE: JOE FOLLICK, jfollick@tampatrib.com; Reporter Joe Follick can be reached
at (850) 222-8382

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 572 words


SEN. MCKAY SAYS HE'S READY TO FIGHT BACK

TALLAHASSEE - Playing on his home turf in the Legislature, Senate President John
McKay foiled powerful opponents this year and won a watered-down plan to reform
the state's tax system.

Attorneys for those defeated special interests predicted Thursday they will be
luckier on different playing fields: two Tallahassee courtrooms.

Farmers, foresters, a conservative think tank and business groups filed two
separate lawsuits Thursday. Their goal is to deny voters the chance to approve
or reject McKay's ballot measure calling for a new legislative panel to review
sales tax exemptions.

The Florida Farm Bureau Federation and two forestry groups filed one lawsuit in
the Florida Supreme Court.

Florida TaxWatch and the Florida Retail Federation filed their suit in a
Tallahassee circuit court.

TaxWatch President Dominic Calabro said the proposed constitutional amendment
would "radically alter" the state's balance of power by giving a few lawmakers
the ability to set taxes while bypassing the governor and the Legislature.

McKay ripped the nonprofit group for failing to disclose the large businesses
that pay for its work.

"TaxWatch says it supports meaningful tax reform, yet repeatedly attempts to
kill any effort to change the status quo," McKay said in a statement. "Perhaps
that's because the businesses that fund TaxWatch are benefiting from lucrative
tax exemptions they don't want to lose."

Both lawsuits claim the proposal unconstitutionally gives a few lawmakers the
power to set state tax policy. They also claim the ballot wording voters will
see doesn't fully explain the referendum.

The proposal would create a committee of 12 legislators that, beginning in 2003,
would review the state's 300-plus exemptions on products and services ranging
from agricultural seed to lawyer fees.

Should a majority of the committee agree to end an exemption, the Legislature
would have two years to defeat that recommendation before the service or product
would be taxed.

This year, McKay proposed eliminating $9.5 billion in sales and service tax
exemptions, while at the same time lowering the overall state sales tax rate
from 6 cents to 4.5 cents per dollar. McKay claimed the move would save the
average household more than $100 a year while steadying the state's erratic tax
revenue.

Opponents said that it would hurt Florida's business climate and that businesses
would be forced to pass on their tax costs to consumers.

House Republicans and Gov. Jeb Bush opposed McKay. But lawmakers ended the
battle by approving the proposed constitutional amendment as a compromise.

Only once in the past 20 years has the Florida Supreme Court removed a
Legislature-approved referendum from the ballot.

The groups that sued said they aren't working together. But documents The Tampa
Tribune obtained showed a coordinated effort, with Republican lobbyist J.M.
"Mac" Stipanovich overseeing a dozen interest groups battling McKay.

McKay said last week that a number of Republicans and businesses would support
his legal fight this summer. He did not disclose their names.

"I think the average voter in the state of Florida agrees our sales tax system
needs to be reformed," said McKay ally, Sen. Jack Latvala, R-Palm Harbor. "I
guess [the litigation] shows they're a little more worried about losing their
tax breaks than they let on before."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 11, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Architect To Unveil Art Museum

BYLINE: LAURA KINSLER , lkinsler@tampatrib.com or more information on Rafael
Vinoly Architects, go to www.rvapc.com Reporter Laura Kinsler can be reached at
(813) 259-8303.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


VINOLY PROMISES NEW APPROACH

TAMPA - Picture a downtown art museum that's as much botanical garden as
building, enclosed in a shimmering shell of glass with water cascading down the
roof.
Now wipe that image from your memory.

Architect Rafael Vinoly, whose trademark glass-enclosed buildings have won rave
reviews worldwide, said he took a different approach for design of the Tampa
Museum of Art.

In places such as Philadelphia, Chicago and Michigan, Vinoly used glass atriums
to create open spaces that could be used year-round. But his "winter garden"
concept can't be transplanted to Tampa's tropical climate.

"You have no winters," the New York-based architect said. "The light is so
strong and the heat too intense. This is a building that needs a different kind
of idea. It's going to be the opposite of what those other buildings are."

Vinoly will unveil the museum design Friday at the Tampa Convention Center.

The design has been closely guarded. Even those most intimately involved, such
as museum director Emily Kass, haven't seen the final product.

"They're working feverishly to finish," Kass said. "What he'll present is still
a design concept. There will be some changes before it's all said and done."

Mayor Dick Greco said he wants a building "that makes you say, "Wow.' " He has
been pleased with the sketches.

"I haven't seen anything in the world like it," Greco said.

Vinoly will move the museum closer to Ashley Drive, which serves two purposes.
It fills a void on a major city street, and it allows construction to begin
without demolishing the existing museum.

"I think it completes Ashley and changes it in a unique way," he said. "The view
from across the river will be imposing. Even seeing it from above on a plane, it
will have an impact."

Vinoly said he took special care to design grounds and sidewalks that are shaded
and approachable.

"The process is one of trying to understand the site and to make a building that
basically creates a public amenity for the city and reinforces the notion that
the waterfront needs to be accessible," he said.

His presentation will begin at noon, though doors open at 11:30 a.m. Vinoly will
guide visitors on a computer-animated tour of the building.

"I don't feel like I have to go out and sell it," he said. "It should sell
itself."

He wowed critics last winter with the opening of Philadelphia's Kimmel Center
for the Performing Arts. He designed a cello-shaped concert hall framed in
mahogany and a smaller theater, both enclosed in a giant glass atrium.

The New York Times called it "precise and luminous architecture for lovers of
rich, cultivated sound."

Inga Saffron, architecture critic for the Philadelphia Inquirer, said the Kimmel
Center has been warmly received. Though she has some specific criticisms,
Saffron said the building makes her heart jump.

"When you walk inside, you say, "Wow.' With all the glass and the lights, it's
almost like entering a snow globe," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 MAP
Rafael Vinoly

Received raves for Philadelphia's arts center
Rafael Vinoly

The Fortabat Museum in Buenos Aires, Argentina, designed by Rafael Vinoly for an
art collection, is at home amid a port.
(MAP) TAMPA MUSEUM OF ART

(See microfilm for details)

Tibune Map; Source: Rafael Vinoly Architects PC

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 23, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Seasons Change, But Temperatures Stay The Same, For Now

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, njohnson@tampatrib.com; Reporter Neil Johnson can be
reached at (352) 544-5214.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words


AUTUMN'S ARRIVAL MARKED BY CALENDAR, NOT MERCURY

TAMPA - It might be hard to tell, but summer is over.

Fall arrived at 12:55 this morning, but the calendar and climate don't always
match in Florida. Don't look for frost on pumpkins any time soon.

"You probably can't tell a whole lot of difference between a day in August and a
day in September," said David Zierden, assistant state climatologist.

Even if the "day in September" is the first day of fall.

The average high temperature in August is about 90 degrees. In September, the
average plummets all the way to 89 degrees.

Temperatures don't usually begin feeling fall-like until October, when cool
fronts begin trying to push south. The main difference is lower humidity, not
temperatures.

The start of fall does mean the rainy season is ending and the state's long dry
season is starting. This is the time of year when afternoon thundershowers begin
to lose their regularity.

In Tampa, November is the driest month, with an average rainfall of 1.62 inches.

And meteorologists don't expect much rainfall from El Nino in the Pacific Ocean
during the fall.

El Nino occurs when water temperatures in the equatorial Pacific become
abnormally high. The phenomenon increases rainfall during Florida's dry months,
but forecasters expect the current El Nino to be moderately powerful, especially
compared with the one in 1997-98.

"That was probably equal to the strongest in historical record," said Vernon
Kousky, meteorologist with the national Climate Prediction Center.

The 1997-98 El Nino generated so much rain that two of the monthly rainfall
records in Tampa were set that winter.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 6, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Airlines Must Make Drastic Changes

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 484 words


Last year the nation's airlines lost $7.2 billion. If the reports from the third
quarter of 2002 are any indication, this year could be worse.

American Airlines reported a $924 million loss in the third quarter; United lost
$889 million; Delta lost $326 million; Northwest, $46 million; and Continental
feels fortunate to have lost only $37 million during the same period.

A year ago the airlines received an infusion of more than $15 billion from the
federal government. Much of it was justified because the government was forced
to ground all flights immediately after last year's terrorist attacks. Still,
the red ink keeps flowing, and United, to stave off bankruptcy, wants $1.8
billion in federal loan guarantees.

All of the major airlines announced that they have reduced flights and laid off
workers to stem losses. So why are there still problems? According to The
Associated Press, "Executives blamed their third-quarter woes on higher fuel
costs, reduced spending by business travelers and the anniversary of last year's
terrorist attacks, which they said caused an even steeper slump in travel
demand."

They also blame government-imposed security demands, and they predict that the
fourth quarter, which is traditionally weaker than the third, could also be
difficult because of the threat of war in Iraq.

But Donald Carty, chief executive of American Airlines, said recently that the
ticket-pricing structure may be what's chiefly hurting the industry.

Under the pricing model that has been in place for years, 10 percent of
passengers - mostly business travelers - were expected to provide 40 to 50
percent of a major airline's revenues. But many such travelers stopped flying
after Sept. 11, and many of those who still fly refuse to pay five times as much
as other passengers.

"The problem for us is that only about one in a dozen passengers is flying at
full coach fares," Carty told Wall Street analysts. Additionally, he said a new
pricing system has yet to be defined.

Airline executives need to get busy and come up with one. They should also
realize that they won't gain many new passengers with some of their recent
cost-cutting moves: nonrefundable tickets; higher fees for changing
reservations, paper tickets and extra baggage; doing away with senior discounts;
boosting the cost of travel for children flying unaccompanied by an adult;
eliminating meals on many domestic flights; and raising the price of drinks.

The major airlines need to understand that the flying climate has changed,
perhaps permanently. The industry is struggling through an unprecedented
financial crisis. But the federal government shouldn't give the airlines another
dime - until they regain control of their costs (including cutting labor costs,
which United is dramatically doing) and devise ways to better serve their
ill-used customers.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 6, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Airlines Must Make Drastic Changes

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 484 words


Last year the nation's airlines lost $7.2 billion. If the reports from the third
quarter of 2002 are any indication, this year could be worse.

American Airlines reported a $924 million loss in the third quarter; United lost
$889 million; Delta lost $326 million; Northwest, $46 million; and Continental
feels fortunate to have lost only $37 million during the same period.

A year ago the airlines received an infusion of more than $15 billion from the
federal government. Much of it was justified because the government was forced
to ground all flights immediately after last year's terrorist attacks. Still,
the red ink keeps flowing, and United, to stave off bankruptcy, wants $1.8
billion in federal loan guarantees.

All of the major airlines announced that they have reduced flights and laid off
workers to stem losses. So why are there still problems? According to The
Associated Press, "Executives blamed their third-quarter woes on higher fuel
costs, reduced spending by business travelers and the anniversary of last year's
terrorist attacks, which they said caused an even steeper slump in travel
demand."

They also blame government-imposed security demands, and they predict that the
fourth quarter, which is traditionally weaker than the third, could also be
difficult because of the threat of war in Iraq.

But Donald Carty, chief executive of American Airlines, said recently that the
ticket-pricing structure may be what's chiefly hurting the industry.

Under the pricing model that has been in place for years, 10 percent of
passengers - mostly business travelers - were expected to provide 40 to 50
percent of a major airline's revenues. But many such travelers stopped flying
after Sept. 11, and many of those who still fly refuse to pay five times as much
as other passengers.

"The problem for us is that only about one in a dozen passengers is flying at
full coach fares," Carty told Wall Street analysts. Additionally, he said a new
pricing system has yet to be defined.

Airline executives need to get busy and come up with one. They should also
realize that they won't gain many new passengers with some of their recent
cost-cutting moves: nonrefundable tickets; higher fees for changing
reservations, paper tickets and extra baggage; doing away with senior discounts;
boosting the cost of travel for children flying unaccompanied by an adult;
eliminating meals on many domestic flights; and raising the price of drinks.

The major airlines need to understand that the flying climate has changed,
perhaps permanently. The industry is struggling through an unprecedented
financial crisis. But the federal government shouldn't give the airlines another
dime - until they regain control of their costs (including cutting labor costs,
which United is dramatically doing) and devise ways to better serve their
ill-used customers.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 7, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Environment Benefits From Enlightened Public Policy

BYLINE: JOHN RAMIL ; John Ramil, president of Tampa Electric Co. since 1998,
formerly headed the company's environmental department.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 691 words


Two recent Tampa Tribune editorials, the first on President Bush's proposed
revisions to the so-called "new source review" rules (Nov. 26) and the second on
global warming (Dec. 2), fall on the third anniversary of Tampa Electric Co.'s
landmark agreements, initially with Florida's Department of Environmental
Protection and then with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

The first dramatic benefits of those agreements, which include major reductions
in both traditionally regulated (sulfur and nitrogen) and greenhouse gas
emissions, are about to be realized in the spring of 2003, and underscore how
enlightened public policies can reap extraordinary environmental rewards.

The Tribune correctly notes that Gannon Power Station, one of our two large coal
power plants, will cease operations by the end of 2004, converting entirely to
natural gas. The first stage of that conversion will be complete in May of next
year. The repowered plant, to be known as Bayside Power Station, is a major
component of Tampa Electric's $1 billion agreement with the Florida DEP to
substantially decrease overall emissions from our power plants.

The new, clean-burning Bayside Power Station, which will take the place of
Gannon, will have a remarkable positive environmental impact. By 2005,
repowering with natural gas will reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by more than 97
percent and sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 99 percent from 1998 levels.
And natural gas produces almost no particulate matter. In addition, with regards
to global warming, this project will allow the Tampa Electric system to meet the
carbon dioxide reduction goals, both set by the president and by the
international Kyoto Protocol.

In Florida, the leadership provided by Gov. Jeb Bush and his team is a model for
what utilities can do if they are willing. While we, like other utilities, may
disagree with agency interpretation of NSR, Tampa Electric went to work clearing
the air, while the other utilities have stonewalled or gone to court. To date,
Tampa Electric is the only utility in the country making progress in cutting
emissions so profoundly.

There have also been significant changes at Big Bend, our plant most often cited
in the past as the "worst of the worst." Notably, Big Bend, our largest plant,
did not make the list of the country's dirtiest coal plants referenced in the
editorial. And for good reason. Tampa Electric began installing scrubber
systems, which remove sulfur dioxide, and other pollution control technologies
at Big Bend in 1984. Today, all four units are scrubbed and use intelligent
combustion modifications and state-of-the-art particle removal systems. The
sulfur emissions reduction program at Big Bend is so effective (emissions have
been reduced by 80 percent from 1998 levels) that the plant was recognized
recently by Power Magazine as the cleanest coal plant in Florida, and among the
top 20 lowest emitting coal plants in the country. And plans are in place to
reduce nitrogen emissions by 84 percent through additional improvements to be
phased in over the course of this decade.


A Responsible Balance

While we know many dispute the health data presented in the referenced report,
we know that the current air quality standards have been set to protect the
public. Tampa Electric has conformed and will continue to conform to these
standards. We will also continue our efforts to reduce emissions at our plants
while retaining the most economical resources we can for our customers.

These improvements, of course, come at a cost to customers. While we have been
criticized by some for not making environmental improvements fast enough, others
have criticized us for the additional production costs associated with our
environmental initiatives. Energy issues, like many other issues, require a fine
balance in order to be successful. We believe our approach strikes a responsible
balance.

While these decisions are always challenging, we will not backpedal on our
promise to our customers and our community to provide both cost-effective and
environmentally responsive electricity production.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 1, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Look Back Defines 2001 As Odyssey

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH , bsmith@tampatrib.com; Reporter Brad Smith can be reached at
(813) 259-7365.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words


MAJOR EVENTS PALE AS YEAR PROGRESSES

TAMPA - A year ago today, most Americans didn't know Kandahar from Kansas City.

Bill Clinton - remember him? - was days away from his White House exit amid a
flurry of controversial criminal pardons.

"Let's Roll," rocker Neil Young's new dirge about a hero's assault on a
hijacker, wasn't born yet.

If told last New Year's Day that a global war on terrorism would land American
troops on Asian soil by Halloween, who would have believed?

Er, well, psychic Bill Linn of St. Petersburg, for one.

"I knew there was negative energy from that area," said Linn, a self-professed
"psychic's psychic" who nonetheless says he hasn't gazed ahead to Jan. 1, 2003 -
yet.

The last time millions toasted auld lang syne, not everyone was as ahead of the
curve as Linn. Much is still the same, but how much is different in today's
jittery postterror climate?

Back then, Osama bin Laden was an obscure figure to all but the best informed.
As for his terrorist network, al-Qaida? Noted strictly by academic and foreign
policy experts.

On Jan. 1, 2001, slugger Barry Bonds had yet to hit 73 home runs. Congressman
Gary Condit had yet to implode by mishandling questions about the disappearance
of intern Chandra Levy. Writer V.S. Naipul had yet to win the Nobel Prize. And
Harry Potter had yet to leap from printed page to movie screens.

Predicting the future is a favorite game. Novelists from Edward Bellamy
("Looking Backward") to H.G. Wells ("The Time Machine") to Isaac Asimov
("Foundation") have played it with varying success.

But what happens in real life from one year to the next is often much stranger -
and far more difficult to foresee - than even the most astute fantasy. The
seemingly clear road ahead on one New Year's Day can take sharp detours by the
same time a year later.

These days, even anticipating the future from one week to the next is fraught
with peril.

"In the prediction business, you almost never get it right," freelance columnist
Nicholas von Hoffman told The Wall Street Journal last week in defending wrong
assessments about the future of the Afghan war by top journalists just a few
weeks before the Taliban fell in December. Many pundits pessimistically
predicted a long, fruitless quagmire just days before the U.S. war strategy
began paying off.

Particularly after Sept. 11, last year took unlikely twists. Neither the late
tabloid astrologer Jeanne Dixon nor the all-purpose, prescient writings of the
16th century prophet Nostradamus could have gotten it perfectly right.


Forging A President

Take the transformation of George W. Bush.

Twelve months ago today, Bush was a president-elect whose paper-thin mandate was
widely seen as having been delivered by a partisan U.S. Supreme Court, not
voters, after the stalled 2000 election that dragged on for 36 historic days
through Florida recount after inconclusive recount.

Bush's new administration figured to be hobbled by a bitterly divided Congress
where Democrats, smarting over what they took as Al Gore's unjust defeat,
prepared to fight Republicans at every turn.

And national news organizations, smelling Pulitzer Prizes for the first to prove
who really won Florida, already were filing requests to launch their own
recounts of badly designed paper ballots pocked by hanging chad.

A year later, the most comprehensive media analysis, by The New York Times, made
a day's headlines, then disappeared amid a public reaction of "Who cares?" while
Afghan caves were scoured for bin Laden.


Just A Washington Honeymoon?

Bush's approval ratings - 86 percent or higher, according to Gallup polls - have
been high since shortly after Air Force One returned him to Washington from a
school event in Sarasota on Sept. 11. Politically, he seems more powerful than
any president since FDR.

"It's our worst dream come true," said Mike Scionti, chairman of the Democratic
Party in Hillsborough County. "It's almost anti-American to oppose him."

Scionti, 65 and a former history teacher, didn't see it coming a year ago. But
he predicts Bush's honeymoon from criticism won't last.

"I see the economy getting worse and people getting frustrated." He also thinks
the war on terror may expand to Iraq this year, while Israelis and Palestinians
escalate their conflict.

"But we don't know what's happening tomorrow," Scionti said. "This is the most
unpredictable time in my life."

When Americans filled airports on New Year's Day 2001, they worried about long
waiting lines and lost baggage. No one's shoes were checked for explosives. Only
the clinically paranoid had visions of their jet ever being crashed deliberately
into a building.

"A year ago, you could leave your car at the terminal curbside for a few
minutes. Now you'd be immediately towed," said Louis Miller, manager of Tampa
International Airport, mentioning one of many security upgrades that didn't
exist 12 months ago.

Back then, nonpassengers were allowed to see off their friends and families at
the gate. Now only ticketed passengers get past security. Even vehicles in
short-term parking lots must be inspected. They were a nonissue last year.

Miller predicts even more significant changes a year from now. The federal
government's takeover of passenger screening will be in full effect, for one
thing. And baggage screening will be much tighter.

"We hope you won't have to come out two hours early forever," Miller added. "I
hope we can speed things up a bit by next year."

A year ago, the national economy was continuing a long, slow slide that began in
March 2000 after the Nasdaq composite and Dow Jones industrial average hit
record highs.

By January, the markets were smarting, but it was nothing compared with the
period after Sept. 11 when Wall Street finally reopened after a six-day
shutdown, the longest since the Great Depression. Instead of a patriotic rally,
the markets lost billions in value by the time the Dow bottomed on Sept. 21.

Besides the Federal Reserve's lowering of interest rates 11 times to stimulate
the economy, what's different from a year ago?

"Peoples' outlooks," said Laura Waller, a certified financial planner in Tampa.
"A year ago, they hadn't yet felt the full force of two down years in the stock
market. There was still some leftover wealth effect. Now that's taken away, so
the outlook is much more negative."

Waller didn't see higher unemployment and the collapse of consumer confidence
coming. "I don't think anybody can realistically do that," she said.


Gasoline's Decline

On Jan. 1, 2001, annoyed Americans paid anywhere from $1.49 to $1.65 for a
gallon of gasoline after a steady price run-up. No one would have predicted that
a gallon of gas would drop under $1 in many places a year later.

On theater screens, films were as violent as ever until Sept. 11. Now Hollywood
is striving to censor movies whose violence may be insensitive toward
terrorism's survivors. Filmmakers, who were bashed in Washington last year for
showing bad examples to the impressionable young, are cooperating with the White
House this year to depict positive images about America.

In the 365 days since Jan. 1, 2001, it's now almost trite to observe that
America was altered drastically by the events of Sept. 11.

But while evidence abounds that much is, indeed, different now, many other signs
show that much remains the same. Life in Florida, and the rest of America, goes
on with the same day-to-day concerns as it did last year at this time.

"After an initial flurry of worry and hype, there are indications that Americans
are again refusing to allow threats to transform daily life," wrote Patricia
Leigh Brown in The New York Times last week.


How Quickly We Forget

A new poll from the Pew Research Center shows interest in terrorism has
decreased as the public has become less concerned over the prospects of new
attacks. A narrow majority of Americans - 52 percent - said they remain very or
somewhat worried over new terrorist attacks, down from 73 percent in early
October.

In other words, optimism is making a slow return, though many remain
apprehensive about what life may be like next year on this day. Could things get
worse? Perhaps, some are saying - but they could also get better.

That has always been the underlying hope of New Year's - that things will get
better. The problem is that the hope this time around has been battered, and
we'll need to navigate through another 12 months to know whether it will bear
fruit.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C)
Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

(C) Bill Linn

St. Petersburg's self-professed "psychic's psychic," on his feelings about
Central Asia a year ago.
The Associated Press

(C) A worker examines a homemade flag - fashioned in part from duct tape -
outside the Hart Senate Office Building in Washington. The anthrax cleanup
continues into the new year.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 5, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Swamp Song

BYLINE:  JOEY KNIGHT , jknight@tampatrib.com

SECTION:  NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words


GATOR COACH QUITS TO HUNT NFL JOB

GAINESVILLE - The most successful era in University of Florida football history
came to an abrupt and stunning end Friday when Steve Spurrier announced his
"retirement" as Gators coach to pursue a job in the National Football League.

From his condominium on Crescent Beach, Spurrier, 56, sent word that he will not
address the media until a news conference at 4:30 p.m. Monday. In a 10-paragraph
statement, the man who led UF to its only national title in 1996 indicated he is
open to offers from professional clubs.

"I'm not burned out, stressed out or mentally fatigued from coaching," said
Spurrier, who told UF athletic director Jeremy Foley of his decision by
telephone about 9:15 a.m. Friday. "I just feel my career as a college head coach
after 15 years is complete, and if the opportunity and challenge of coaching an
NFL team happens, it is something I would like to pursue."

Since the mid-1990s, Spurrier's name has been mentioned on the short list of
candidates for coaching jobs at several professional teams, including the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers. This time, he could have his choice of NFL offers. Speculation
as to where he will land is swirling across the country, from Washington, D.C.,
where the Post is reporting that the Redskins are interested, to San Diego and
Minnesota, where there already are openings.

"If I was ever going to coach in the NFL, this is it," Spurrier told the
Gainesville Sun, denying that he already has an NFL deal. "It's time to see if
my style of coaching, my kind of offense, can work in that league. Who knows
where it will be? There will probably be five or six openings. If it doesn't
work out, I'll just be a retired ball coach."


Bucs Job Source Of Rumors

Spurrier is a noted golf enthusiast and will likely prefer a warm climate.

"I don't think that Steve would go anywhere to snow country at all," said Tom
Shannon, a Tampa businessman and former Spurrier teammate. "If you're discussing
it, you're talking Jacksonville, Miami, Tampa, San Diego, possibly Arizona -
neat places where you've got stabilized golf weather."

Jacksonville Jaguars owner Wayne Weaver said late Friday that Coach Tom Coughlin
would be back in 2002, leaving speculation focused on Tampa Bay, where Coach
Tony Dungy is rumored to be on thin ice should the Bucs be eliminated early from
the playoffs. Spurrier nearly accepted an offer to coach the Bucs six years ago,
but had an eleventh-hour change of heart amid uncertainty about the club
remaining in Tampa.

Speculation about Spurrier's successor at Florida focused on third-year Oklahoma
coach and former Gator defensive coordinator Bob Stoops.

Foley refused to comment on potential candidates, but said the successor could
be named within days.

"We have people on a list who we'll turn to and go from there," Foley said. "But
for me to delineate this criteria or that, I'm not willing to do that at this
point in time."


Caught Off-Guard

Word of Spurrier's decision sent shock waves throughout the state and
university. Gator players and assistants, and even Spurrier's closest
friends,said they were caught off-guard by the coach's announcement. Foley said
he "had no inkling" it was coming.

Longtime UF communications chief Norm Carlson, Spurrier's closest friend at UF,
said Spurrier informed him Thursday night at Carlson's condo - next to
Spurrier's - on Crescent Beach. "He's great at gut instincts, and obviously this
was one of 'em," Carlson said.

"Bill Carr [former athletic director at UF] told me a long time ago that Steve
will leave when you least expect it," Foley said. "And boy, I thought about Bill
Carr this morning when I picked myself up off the floor."

Gators junior wideout Reche Caldwell of Tampa, expected to announce he will
apply for the spring NFL draft as early as today, said he had no idea of
Spurrier's decision until fellow receiver Jabar Gaffney called. "All of 'em are
shocked, because nobody really saw it coming," Caldwell said of his teammates.
"Nobody knew. He still coached us all the way until the end. Even though he did
leave, there were no signs of him leaving."


A Proven Winner

A former UF quarterback who won the 1966 Heisman Trophy, Spurrier was the
winningest coach - by far - in Florida history, and exits with a career mark of
142-40-2 at the college level. His .777 career-winning percentage ranks fourth
among active Division I-A coaches.

After three years at Duke, he compiled a 122-27-1 mark in 12 seasons in
Gainesville, leading the program to its only six Southeastern Conference titles
and the 1996 national championship.

Controversial and comical, often at the same time, he simultaneously riled and
baffled opposing coaches with his verbal barbs and revolutionary passing attack
known as the Fun 'n' Gun.

In the 83 seasons before his arrival, UF tallied 300 passing yards in a game 14
times. Under Spurrier, the Gators did it 91 times in 12 seasons. One of his
quarterbacks, Danny Wuerffel, won the 1996 Heisman Trophy. Another, Rex
Grossman, finished second in 2001.

As a result, Florida attained unprecedented levels of national exposure.

Before 1990, Florida appeared on live network television 65 times. Under
Spurrier, the Gators appeared 119 times. "He brought us a program that we only
could dream about," Foley said.


Sound Bites Snapped Up

Not to mention sound bites that reporters cherished. He incurred the wrath of
Florida State fans by referring to FSU as "Free Shoes University," a reference
to the 1993 scandal in which FSU players got free merchandise from a Tallahassee
shoe store, an NCAA violation.

He also angered fans at Tennessee, once a perennial runner-up to UF in the SEC's
Eastern Division, by joking, "You can't spell Citrus [Bowl] without U-T."
Tennessee upset Florida, 34-32, on Dec. 1, Spurrier's final home game as Gators
coach.

"I'm as surprised as anyone at Coach Spurrier's decision to leave Florida,"
Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. "Everyone makes decisions for their own
reasons, and I'm sure Steve has his. I personally wish him the best of luck."

Whoever replaces Spurrier will have a tough act to follow.

"It certainly will be strange to see somebody else on the sideline here in the
future," Foley said.

"When I first came here in 1976, I could remember people saying if we could only
win one SEC championship, that would make Gator fans everywhere happy. And he
won seven of 'em, and put the Gator football program at the top.

"For that, we'll always be grateful."

(CHART) (C) TERM OF ENDEARMENT
83 seasons before Spurrier:
No official SEC championships or national championships
Never more than nine victories in a season
Three top-10 finishes in the AP poll
Played in three major bowl games
Overall winning percentage of .579 (452-322-39)
12 seasons under Spurrier:
Six SEC championships and one national title
Ten or more victories in nine seasons, nine victories in the other three
Ten top-10 finishes in the AP poll
Played in eight major bowl games
Overall winning percentage of .819 (122-27-1)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO (3C) CHART (C)
(C) Steve Spurrier
Tribune file photo by COLIN HACKLEY (2001)

(C) Steve Spurrier
Jeremy Foley

"Had no inkling" the coach was leaving

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 27, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

The State Of The Union, Post-9/11

BYLINE: MARSHA MERCER; Marsha Mercer covers the White House for Media General.
E-mail: mmercer@mediageneral.com

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 766 words


WASHINGTON - Hardly anybody calls him Dubya anymore.

The George W. Bush who will deliver his State of the Union address Tuesday is a
different president from the one who took the stage last winter.

In the corridors of official Washington, the dismissive nicknames - Dubya and
Junior - have all but vanished. Gone, too, is the image of Bush as a rhetorical
bumbler with a deer-in-headlights demeanor.

The new George W. Bush is seen as popular, confident, relaxed and in charge.
Bush has seized his moment. The war has focused his attention and provided a
platform for him to say things Americans hungered to hear. His message is
upbeat, caring and uncomplicated.

"If you want to fight evil, do some good," Bush tells audiences. "If you want to
show the world that we're not going to stand evil, let's make sure we love
somebody."

His approval ratings are in the stratosphere. Eighty-two percent of Americans
approve of the job Bush is doing as president, especially his handling of the
war, according to an NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll released last week.

And to think he lost the popular vote. Two-thirds of the people say Bush is
doing better than they expected as president.

People don't blame him for the recession. They blame the Sept. 11 attacks and
the normal business cycle, the NBC poll found. The poll surveyed 1,011 adults
from Jan. 18 to 21 and had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.

Is this as good as it gets for the 43rd president? Maybe. The likelihood is that
he faces tougher challenges in the months ahead.

What could be tougher than waging a war on two fronts? Pocketbook anxiety, for
one thing.

The Enron debacle is elbowing the war off the front pages. The war has gone well
and Bush insists it's not over. The White House says he'll use his State of the
Union speech to talk about the next phase overseas. On the home front, we're
getting used to living on high alert.

At the same time, the drumbeat of news is about people losing their life savings
in the midst of an economic slowdown. War or no war, the largest bankruptcy in
American history could usher in a new era of personal financial anxiety.

The cover of Time magazine's Jan. 28 issue focuses on the threats waiting in the
wings. Superimposed on the picture of an adorable baby are several questions.
"Could an Enron happen to me?" "Who's looking after my 401(k)?" "Can I trust my
HMO?" The red-letter headline screams: "YOU'RE ON YOUR

OWN, BABY."

It's scary on your own.

A huge change has occurred in the way Americans pay for their retirement. More
people than ever rely on the uncertainty of stocks and mutual funds through
401(k) plans rather than on fixed-amount company pensions.

When shaky investments and corporate rip-offs dominate the headlines, people
fear they're flying into the future without a safety net.

Bush has successfully rallied the country's support on the war and has fostered
a sense of wartime unity. We're all in this together, he says, reassuring the
nation that we will do whatever it takes to win the war against evil. But will
he be able to galvanize people to trust their employers to do right by their
retirement money?
With members of Congress, Bush got on the outrage express about Enron last week,
using his mother-in-law's investment losses as a peg for his anger.

In his State of the Union speech, Bush will stress economic security as well as
homeland security and the war. The White House says he'll tout his economic
stimulus package as a way to create jobs. Unemployment is at 5.8 percent now,
still low historically but up from 4 percent when he took office.

The economy could rebound soon, as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
suggested last week, and ease people's financial fears. If it doesn't, people
may demand more than righteous anger from their lawmakers. They may want
Congress and the president to help safeguard their nest eggs.

But more regulation is not high on most Republican to-do lists. If Bush
continues to espouse the market approach in the face of mounting losses by
workers, voters could reassess this president yet again.

Already one Bush campaign pledge - to help younger workers bypass Social
Security by investing in the stock market - has lost some of its luster. Nobody
expects Bush to revive the issue anytime soon.

All this makes the next few months a test for Bush and his leadership. Just as
we couldn't anticipate the events that shaped the last year, nobody knows what's
to come.

One thing seems certain: Eighty-two percent approval ratings don't last.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 7, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Bush Opposes Tax Reform Bill

BYLINE: DAVE SIMANOFF , dsimanoff@tampatrib.com; Reporters David Wasson and Joe
Follick contributed to this report. Reporter Dave Simanoff can be reached at
(813) 259-7762 or (850) 222-8382.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words


TAX WATCHDOG GROUP ALSO AGAINST McKAY'S PLAN

TALLAHASSEE - The chorus against Senate President John McKay's tax reform plan
grew louder Wednesday, with Gov. Jeb Bush and a tax watchdog group weighing in
against the proposal.

McKay said he will continue to push his plan and predicted the proposal, which
the Senate approved, will succeed despite the opposition.

"I expect the Senate will be successful, not because it's the Senate, but
because it's the right thing to do," the Bradenton Republican said.

Two weeks ago, Bush said he welcomed a "full, open and transparent" discussion
on tax reform.

McKay said he learned about Bush's opposition Tuesday night from Lt. Gov. Frank
Brogan. McKay said he first received a voice mail that evening from Brogan,
dismissing rumors that the governor had come out in opposition to McKay's
proposal.

McKay spoke with Brogan later by phone and was told Bush had reversed his
position and opposed the plan.

The governor's office had no comment Wednesday on the exchange.

Bush spokeswoman Lisa Gates said the governor will explain his position this
week. He was out of the office Wednesday.

The Senate's top Democrat, Tom Rossin, D-Royal Palm Beach, said he was outraged
by Bush's move.

"President McKay said he was "disappointed' that Gov. Bush had broken his word,"
Rossin said in a statement. "Well, I don't have to be as courteous as the Senate
president - I am downright disgusted."

Also Wednesday, House Speaker Tom Feeney, R-Oviedo, reiterated his promise to
give a "full and fair" hearing on McKay's proposal. But he left little doubt
about his feelings.

"I go into with this with the premise that unforeseen, disadvantageous
consequences are likely to outweigh the obvious advantages of any major tax
reform," Feeney said. "It doesn't mean I can't be convinced. It just means I'm a
skeptic."

"The more you study this thing, the more questions you have about what it will
do for the future of the state of Florida," he said.


Families Vs. Businesses

McKay proposes lowering the state's sales tax from 6 percent to 4.5 percent and
making up the difference by taxing goods and services that are exempt.

His goal is to diversify the kinds of companies that provide revenue for the
state, much as an investor would diversify a portfolio to insulate against a
decline in one industry.

Business groups have rallied against the proposal, arguing that removing
exemptions would be unfair to consumers and companies. Taxes will diminish
companies' bottom lines and make it more expensive for them to do business, they
say.

McKay describes his proposal as a boon for Florida families. The average
household would save $277 a year because of lower sales taxes, he said.


Another Opponent

Florida TaxWatch, a watchdog group, also sided against McKay's proposal
Wednesday. The group said Florida ranks No. 5 in the country in business taxes,
and new taxes might make the business climate here less competitive.

Dominic Calabro, president of Florida TaxWatch, said his group doesn't oppose
tax reform but doesn't like the way McKay's plan would shift the tax burden to
companies.

TaxWatch, which says it represents state taxpayers, also opposes letting voters
decide whether to implement the sales tax plan because it would result in a
change to the state constitution.

If a public vote fails, it would hinder any further efforts to reform Florida's
tax laws, Calabro said.

"Where does that leave Florida's ability for this or another governor to enact
meaningful tax reform?"

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3 (2C)
(C) John McKay

Senate president predicts tax overhaul proposal will succeed despite list of
detractors.
(C) Jeb Bush

Governor reversed support of "full, open and transparent" discussion of tax
reform.
Tribune photo by COLIN HACKLEY

Dominic Calabro, president of Florida TaxWatch, said the group opposes Sen. John
McKay's plan, not tax reform in general.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 21, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Crystal Springs Has Murky Past

BYLINE: CAROL JEFFARES HEDMAN, Tribune correspondent; Pieces of the Past is a
weekly column to help newcomers, old-timers and anyone in between learn more
about Pasco's history.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 934 words


CRYSTAL SPRINGS - It was called Jarve Springs, but the crystal-clear water that
fed the Hillsborough River justified a name change when A. B. Hawk formed
Cooperative Homestead Co. in 1911.

Included in the company's 24,000 acres were 10,000 purchased from the nearby
Zephyrhills Colony Co., founded the year before as a haven for veterans of the
Grand Army of the Republic so they could live comfortably on their small
pensions.

Hawk, of Toledo, Ohio, offered 10- to 40-acre farm sites for sale in the Crystal
Springs Colony, providing a way for the "average man" to get a farm in the warm
climate.

Included in the advertising was the promise that landowners would have perpetual
access to the springs with their purchase. Hawk described the waters as "a
fountain of health" that would provide homesteaders with clean water to drink
and a swimming hole to enjoy.

On March 23, 1912, a public park reservation was declared and recorded on a plat
of the 40 acres called Crystal Springs.

Many of those who came to Crystal Springs Colony were from the Common Good
Society that followed the philosophy of English literary figure John Ruskin. The
society's first effort at colonization was to found a town in Ruskin's honor in
Hillsborough County.

By 1910, the overflow of colonists from Ruskin was seeking other land.


Little Brown Church Is Built

A community building was constructed and the first church services were held
there. But the colonists wanted a church - preferably a little brown church like
the one heralded in the old hymn.

"There's a church in the valley by the wildwood, no lovelier spot in the dale;
no place is so dear to my childhood as the little brown church in the vale,"
wrote William S. Pitts, inspired by such a church in Nashua, Iowa, where the
Rev. John Nutting conducted services in the late 1800s.

Crystal Springs Colony residents contacted Nutting, at that time in his 80s. He
agreed to retire to the new community, and the duplicate of his little brown
church was built there about 1913.

Like the Iowa church, the Crystal Springs church was Congregational. Nutting
built a little house next door, painting it brown, too.

His daughter, Jessie Nutting Priest, was hired to teach Latin at Zephyrhills
High School. She rented a small house in Zephyrhills and lived there on school
days. On Fridays she would return by train to her little brown house close to
the railroad in Crystal Springs.

According to the original land purchase agreement, when the population of the
colony reached 100 families, control of the springs would be turned over to the
Common Good Society.

By 1914, Crystal Springs Colony had grown to about 300. But Hawk refused to turn
over the springs and, as time went by, his land deals became suspicious.


Hawk Forms New Company

Apparently unable to make his own mortgage payments in 1916, Hawk and his
associates decided to form a "new" Crystal Springs Colony Co., with the original
homestead company giving the unallotted lands and outstanding contracts to the
new company in exchange for stock.

By 1920, colonists making their final payment found they were unable to issue a
warranty deed. Instead, Hawk would guarantee that their investment was safe and
offer them stock in his new company.

He promised the new company would donate to the colony at least 10 acres around
the springs for a park, including a sufficient amount of the springs to ensure a
perpetual water supply.

Through it all, the colony kept growing, reaching some 2,000 residents.

They were cooperative farmers, growing cabbage, sweet potatoes and sugar cane.
Some even experimented with a "miracle plant" called dasheen. All parts of it
were edible; the greens tasted like spinach and the tubers like potatoes.

The colony also had a reputation as a health resort. A hotel there was said to
have the lobby filled with crutches discarded by people cured by swimming in and
drinking the springs water.


Colonists Go To Court

In 1926, five members of the Common Good Society, claiming to represent the
citizens of the community, gave all rights to the springs to the Crystal Springs
Colony Co. The colonists filed complaints in court, citing plat maps and the day
the springs were dedicated as a public park reservation.

But in 1927, a federal judge in Jacksonville decided the colonists' complaint
was null and void. With the land now free and clear, Hawk could sell the springs
and pay off his debt.

The Crystal Springs Colony had formed an agreement with W.TJ. Wilson in 1925.
The next year, Wilson signed a 25-year lease with Edward Waters for water rights
to the springs.

Protests continued until 1929, when the springs were sold to a private owner in
New York.

A story passed down by old-timers tells how colonist Kenneth Burke was killed
over the ownership dispute when he was pushed in front of a train on his way to
New York with proof the sale was illegal.

The springs were bought in 1944 by Mabry and Crowder of Tampa. In 1975, they
were sold to the Thomas family, who kept the swimming hole open to the public
for 20 years.

In 1996, Robert Thomas, president of Crystal Springs Recreational Preserve,
closed the springs to the public.

That act prompted formation of the grass-roots Save Our Springs organization.

Water pumped from the springs is sold by Zephyrhills Spring Water Co.

Like the public's access to Crystal Springs, the little brown church is gone,
too. It originally was transformed into a chicken house and later torn down.

Nutting is among the pioneers buried in Crystal Springs Cemetery.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune file photo by ANDY JONES (1999)

Swimmers enjoy a plunge in the Hillsborough River, jumping from the Crystal
Springs Road bridge.

NOTES: PIECES OF THE PAST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 14, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Too Fascinating To Be Forgotten

BYLINE: KATHLEEN HIPSON ; Kathleen Hipson of Tampa is a customer services clerk
in the utilities department at Tampa City Hall.

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


THE SISTERS: The Saga Of The Mitford Family. By Mary S. Lovell. W.W. Norton. 611
pages. $29.95.

They were bright, beautiful and blue-blooded. They were also quite a handful.
From childhood it was obvious that the six daughters of David and Sydney
Mitford, Lord and Lady Redesdale, distant relatives of Winston Churchill, were
destined to live exceptional lives.

Coming of age during the turbulent years leading up to World War II, the sisters
managed to flout all staid tenets of British aristocratic tradition, throwing
themselves wholeheartedly into the massive social changes of their times.

The eldest, Nancy, and the fifth, Jessica, became skilled and well-known
writers. Nancy's novels were descriptions of real life in her circle, and her
characters were often her own family and friends, thinly disguised. Recently PBS
presented "Love in a Cold Climate," a play based on Nancy's writings. Jessica is
often remembered in this country for her expose "The American Way of Death
Revisited."

Their success was achieved despite the paucity of their formal education. When
the girls asked why their brother, Tom, could receive the benefits of a
university education but they could not, the only answer they got was "He's a
boy."

Upper-class girls were not educated - they were "finished." When they had
acquired the necessary social skills, they became debutantes at a "coming out"
(the term had a different connotation than it does today) ball. This was
followed by a "season" or more of parties, luncheons and other entertainment
during which they were expected to find suitable husbands before they were
branded old maids.

Not all of the young Mitfords completed the full process. While still a
teenager, Jessica eloped with a radical leftist second cousin, running off to
Spain to fight in the Civil War.

In contrast, the third sister, Diana, dumped her multimillionaire husband, Bryan
Guinness, to become the mistress, later wife, of prominent right-winger Sir
Oswald Moseley. She spent much of World War II in prison because of her
political stance.

During the 1930s, both Diana and the fourth sister, Unity, became obsessed with
Adolf Hitler and both managed to make his acquaintance. Unity became a close
friend of the Nazi leader, but there is little evidence that she ever was his
lover.

It used to be said that a lady's name appears in the newspapers only when she is
born, marries and dies. The Mitford sisters' activities attracted the attention
of the press quite frequently during their heyday, making them the subject of
many scandalous headlines. But, says author Mary S. Lovell, most readers under
the age of 50 she speaks to today don't recognize the name. Lovell's magnificent
biography shows that they are much too fascinating to be forgotten.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BOOKS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 19, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Architect Hired To Mold Museum

BYLINE: LAURA KINSLER , lkinsler@tampatrib.com; Reporter Laura Kinsler can be
reached at (813) 259-8303.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 435 words


VISION FOR BUILDING TO REFLECT TAMPA

TAMPA - Almost a year after the Tampa City Council agreed to build a new art
museum downtown, the council formally hired world-renowned architect Rafael
Vinoly to design the $40 million building.

Thursday's vote to approve Vinoly's $6.4 million contract bore little
resemblance to the contentious vote a year ago. The Argentine architect charmed
the council - as he has Mayor Dick Greco - with his enthusiasm and ideas.

"I told him I want a building that says, "Wow!' " Greco said. "This man is a
real visionary. We are so fortunate."

Vinoly told the council and dozens of arts supporters in the audience Thursday
that he wants to design a building that will change Tampa's perception of its
downtown. Vinoly said the museum would be a reflection of Tampa - not of his
ego.

"Architecture is always an art," he said. "But it can become a self-serving
art."

The public will get its first glimpse of Vinoly's design May 8. He will unveil a
model and site plan that evening at the Tampa Convention Center.

Museum Director Emily Kass said the design will be "really dynamic and
exciting."

"All of the museums he's designed look different," Kass said. "They all have an
elegant use of materials and scale, and that's what I'm expecting."

Vinoly said the building would complement the museum's "phenomenal" antiquities
collection but would include space to attract traveling exhibits. The building
also will have an auditorium, classrooms and a cafe.

Vinoly has studied the museum collection and toured Tampa neighborhoods such as
Ybor City to get ideas for the design. He said he also wants a building that
recognizes Tampa's climate and vegetation, as well as its surrounding
architecture.

Some of Vinoly's recent projects include Pittsburgh's $328 million convention
center and the acclaimed $1.65 billion Tokyo International Forum. Tampa's museum
is no less attractive to him.

"It's an exciting project because it has this expectation behind it," Vinoly
said. "If I was offered the choice to design a commercial high-rise that would
cost four times this amount or the museum, I wouldn't even hesitate."

But the project includes more than just a museum building. Vinoly said he wants
to make the cultural arts district a cohesive space that appeals to more than
just art lovers. He will design a master plan for the riverfront park that will
include a residential high-rise, as well as areas for shopping and dining.

"This plan will transform a public space that wasn't used because it was
difficult to access," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 24, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Northwest Offers Passage To Some Vintage Favorites

BYLINE: Ken Collura, asksommelier@intnet.net; Ken Collura is head sommelier at
Bern's Steak House in Tampa.

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words


With so much emphasis being placed on the world-class cabernets coming out of
California these days, folks sometimes forget there are other wines being made
in the States.

Oregon and Washington are the two states with the most prominence, and rightly
so. I've recently tasted bottles from these two that can sit proudly on any
table, anywhere.

This was not always the case, as both have had checkered pasts (especially
Oregon). I distinctly remember wines from the Northwest being touted, only to
find thin, pale pinots from Oregon and meager, muscleless cabs from Washington.

Time and knowledge have brought strength, and today's offerings are the best
yet. Oregon's best pinots come from a core of about 20 wineries. More vibrancy
and lush finishes are noted in the 1999 vintage than any other I can recall,
although there is an equal number of insipid, over-acidified wines available.
With pricing edging up toward the Burgundy-region level, astute choices must be
made to avoid disappointment.

As for Washington, I've always enjoyed the crisp, varietally correct whites and
the cooler, tempered feeling I got from the cabs and merlots. Balance has been
the key to their quality, but surprisingly, there have been a number of wines
from '98 and '99 that feature an overripe, candied edge. Just goes to show, you
never know in this business.

Once again, higher prices have pushed the wines into a crowded marketplace, and
values are tougher to come by. When the opportunity presents itself, taste them
as often as you can to discover which styles you truly appreciate.

Here is some rudimentary information about both states, followed by a few
personal favorites.

Oregon

Oregon achieved its reputation for quality in a relatively short time. The first
vinifera grapes since Prohibition were planted in 1966 by David Lett at Eyrie
Vineyards, where the initial vintage was in 1970.

At that time, there were only seven wineries, and fewer than 100 acres were
under vine. Today, more than 70 wineries have 5,000-plus acres planted primarily
to pinot noir (the major varietal), chardonnay, riesling and pinot gris. The
majority of the vineyard sites are in the Willamette Valley, southwest of
Portland.

Growing conditions dictate that the grapes planted be of the early ripening
type. That's because most of the vineyards are in the western part of the state,
between the Coast Range and the Cascade Mountains, where the climate is cooler,
wetter and more variable than in other major grape-growing states such as
California or Washington. Wines labeled as a specific varietal must contain at
least 90 percent of the variety named on the label, and generic names such as
chablis or burgundy are not permitted.

Favorite wineries include Archery Summit, Bethel Heights, Cristom, Domaine
Drouhin, Erath, Ponzi, Rex Hill, Domaine Serene, Torii Mor and Ken Wright.

Washington

The first commercial wines made from European vinifera grapes were produced in
this state in 1967 by two wineries, Columbia Wineries and Chateau Ste. Michelle.
In the late '90s, there were more than 65 wineries and more than 10,000 acres
under vine, the largest such planting in the United States outside of
California.

Although a number of vineyards are west of the Cascade Mountain Range, virtually
all of the state's wineries are east of the Cascades in an irrigated desert
known as the Columbia River Basin. Cool nights followed by sunny days permit the
grapes to ripen fully while retaining sufficient balancing acidity.

Riesling is the most widely planted white grape in Washington, followed by
chardonnay, chenin blanc and sauvignon blanc. When combined with other white
varieties, the total acreage accounts for about 70 percent of the vines planted
in the state. The reds are led by cabernet sauvignon and merlot.

The Yakima and Columbia valleys in the southeastern portion of the state provide
the most balanced fruit. The better offerings from Washington state seem more
"European" in style than their southern cousins in California. They carry less
"heft"; that is, alcohol levels are in unison with the fruit and tannins, and
are often beautifully suited for the table.

Favorite wineries include Canoe Ridge, Chateau Ste. Michelle, Covey Run, L'Ecole
No. 41, Hedges, Hogue, Leonetti, Quilceda Creek, Andrew Will and Woodward
Canyon.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WINESPEAK

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 31, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

GROUP ANALYSIS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1354 words



Group A
TEAMS: France, Uruguay, Senegal, Denmark
ABOUT MAMADOU DIALLO: He played for the Mutiny for two seasons (2000-01) and led
Major League Soccer in scoring his first year here. He was a regular on
Senegal's national team before signing with MLS and as late as last summer, was
still being considered by Senegal's coach for a spot on the World Cup squad.
DIALLO'S ANALYSIS: Senegal has a very good team but it's their first time in the
World Cup. So, they must come to each match with the intention to play well, not
to impress, and play within themselves. They could beat France, and back home in
Senegal, people are talking about how they will beat France. This is a mistake.
Senegal just needs to play well because France has so much talent. Even if
Zinedine Zidane is unable to play [due to a recent injury], France has more than
enough talent to win. And having played in Norway and against Scandinavians, I
can tell you Denmark will be very tough, very physical and play with control.
But I expect to see Senegal in the second round with France.

Group B
TEAMS: Spain, Slovenia, Paraguay, South Africa
ABOUT MIKE CONNELL: Former Rowdies defender was an all-star at his position and
earned the name "Iron Mike" for his hard-nosed play, consistency and longevity.
He has coached some of the area's top youth teams and continues to follow the
sport internationally and nationally.
CONNELL'S ANALYSIS: I think Spain is the winner here and everyone else is
playing for second. What's interesting about that scenario is the three other
countries - Slovenia, South Africa and Paraguay - have little firsthand
knowledge of one another. They will have to learn on match day. I think the
deciding factor will come down to experience. It always does on a world stage
like the World Cup. Who will be able to handle the pressure? For Slovenia and
South Africa, it's their first time here. So I'd have to give the edge to
Paraguay on that alone.

Group C
TEAMS: Brazil, Turkey, China, Costa Rica
ABOUT FRANCISCO MARCOS: He is the founder and commissioner of the United Soccer
Leagues based in Tampa. The Portuguese-born Marcos was also the FIFA liaison for
Brazil in the 1994 World Cup in the U.S., during their run to the title. He will
attend his ninth consecutive World Cup this year.
MARCOS' ANALYSIS: Brazil is the favorite, but they are clearly not the same team
that won the Cup in 1994. They have a new coach (Luiz Felipe Scolari) who has
declared the beautiful game dead and buried. Most of the players are based in
Europe and he emphasizes a much more physical style of play. They are now
playing a 3-5-2 formation, which is not traditional for Brazilian teams. Brazil,
however, still has a lot of good players like Rivaldo, Ronaldo, Roberto Carlos,
Cafu and some newer players like Ronaldinho, a great speedster with (France's)
Paris St-Germain. I'm not that impressed with China. (Former U.S. coach) Bora
Milutinovic did a great job getting them there, but at the end of the day, there
is not enough creativity there to go on. They are just happy to be at the party.
Turkey is a very savvy team with lots of European experience.

Group D
TEAMS: South Korea, Portugal, USA, Poland
ABOUT STEVE TRITTSCHUH: The former Mutiny defender played for the U.S. in the
1990 World Cup in Italy. After the Mutiny folded in January, he retired and is
currently the director of coaching for Black Watch Soccer Club in Tampa.
TRITTSCHUH'S ANALYSIS: Portugal clearly is the class of Group D, and the others
are evenly matched. The U.S. will advance to the second round as group runner-up
if Coach Bruce Arena's players adopt a defensive style, which was not evident in
the squad's World Cup tune-up matches. Many experts have picked Portugal to
advance to the semifinals of the whole tournament. They're that good, and
they'll be a very tough match for the United States. Their top player, [2001
FIFA World Player of the Year] Luis Figo likes to play wide, and that's where
the U.S. has been most vulnerable on defense.

Group E
TEAMS: Germany, Saudi Arabia, Republic of Ireland, Cameroon
ABOUT FARRUKH QURAISHI: He was a member of the Rowdies' NASL championship squad
and went on to become venue director for the 1994 World Cup matches in Orlando.
He served as general manager of the Mutiny in 1996 and will be attending the
World Cup in Korea/Japan.
QURAISHI'S ANALYSIS: I'm going to stick my neck out and say Cameroon will win
this group and Germany will finish second. Cameroon is a strong side and and has
a lot of consistency in recent years. Germany barely qualified and isn't as
strong as it once was. Of course, don't discount their success and history in
the World Cup, but Cameroon has now reached this stage several times and it's
not a new experience anymore. Saudi Arabia is also returning to the World Cup
for the third time and will probably have an advantage in that it's coming from
a warm climate. I think Ireland would have had a good chance of advancing had
there not been the distractions of [captain ] Roy Keane leaving the squad at the
last minute.

Group F
TEAMS: Argentina, England, Sweden, Nigeria
ABOUT PETER WARD: He took the field for England and was one of the top scorers
in the English league with Breighton and Nottingham Forrest. He also was a
prominent fixture on the U.S. soccer scene in the early 1980s for the Seattle
Sounders, among others.
WARD'S ANALYSIS: Any of the four teams could win this group. I believe in my
heart though that England will qualify for the next round, but in order for them
to advance far in the tournament they really need to win the group. Argentina is
one of the favorites to win the whole thing and obviously England will have to
perform well to win. Sweden will be tough. Fredrik Ljungberg [Arsenal] has been
on fire and Henrik Larsson [Celtic] is one of the better strikers in Europe.
Argentina is fantastic going forward, but may be a little weak in the back.
Nigeria has as much skill as anyone and is a very dangerous with players like
Kanu (Arsenal). It's a shame that (midfielder Steven) Gerrard (Liverpool) is out
for England, but David Beckham (Manchester United) is the player everyone is
depending on.

Group G
TEAMS: Italy, Ecuador, Croatia, Mexico
ABOUT REFIK KOZIC: He narrowly missed his shot to play for Yugoslavia in the
1974 World Cup when a conflict with his club team kept him on the sideline. He
did enjoy a successful playing career, however, coming to the U.S. to play for
the Rowdies and the Cosmos in the NASL. He will be supporting Croatia, where his
parents live, in the World Cup.
KOZIC'S ANALYSIS: The favorite to win this group is Italy, which also may end up
making it to the finals. I think the second-place team will either be Mexico or
Croatia, with Croatia having the edge. Croatia is a team going through a change
of generation. They are loaded with players who were successful in the last
World Cup, but they are an aging team. Italy has a good mix of old and young.
They are loaded with talent and have bench players who could be starters
elsewhere. Alessandro Del Piero and Filippo Inzaghi will play a factor and I
think Francesco Tottican is the type of player who could overshadow even
(France's) Zinedine Zidane. Mexico is ranked pretty high, but I don't have as
much respect for them as a team when they clash with European clubs.

Group H
TEAMS: Japan, Belgium, Russia, Tunisia
MARCOS' ANALYSIS: Most figured it would be the Czech Republic and not Belgium
advancing. It was totally unexpected. Probably the team with the most pizazz is
Japan, and they have the home factor working for them. Tunisia is just not at
the same level as the rest of the African teams in the cup. Russia has some
experienced players, but is also lacking in some areas. The group is just a real
tossup. Many publications have picked four different teams winning the group. I
don't think there will be a scenario where anybody wins three games and each
could end up with a win. It likely will be between Belgium, Japan and Russia to
see which team advances.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: GROUP ANALYSIS SOCCER

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 5, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Limestone Carving Dates To Days Of The Timucuans

BYLINE: CAROL JEFFARES HEDMAN , Tribune correspondent; Pieces of the Past is a
weekly column to help newcomers, old-timers and anyone in between learn more
about Pasco's colorful history.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words


NEW PORT RICHEY - The large limestone blends in the landscaping of the popular
seafood restaurant along busy U.S. 19. Most who come to Johnny Leverock's
Seafood House pass by without noticing the crude faces carved into the rock.

The 8-by-4-foot rock dates back more than 1,500 years, to when aboriginal people
occupied these lands.

The rock is thought to have been carved by Timucuans between 1 and 400 AD,
according to Joe Fulghum, general manager of Leverock's. Fulghum discovered some
information about the rock in the files when he first came to the restaurant two
years ago.

According to that history, the rock, which has two faces carved into it, is an
effigy to local priest chiefs, perhaps sun and rain gods given human faces. A
cavity indicates the rock was used for religious ceremonies at which food and
other precious items were placed as offerings.

The rock was discovered in 1981 during construction of the Seamarket Restaurant.
A miniature golf course had been located there before that. The restaurant was
sold to the Leverock's chain in 1991. It has been left untouched since that day
- not cleaned or otherwise altered, Fulghum said.

It originally was thought the rock was in its original location. However,
Fulghum said he had a visit from someone who grew up in the area. The resident,
who wasn't named, related how a boating channel was dredged and rocks were
lifted out with a crane and piled on the adjacent land.

The theory is now that the large rock was excavated during dredging of the
channel.

But most likely the carvings on the rock were the handiwork of the Timucuans,
one of the groups of natives at the time of Florida's discovery by Europeans and
the beginning of recorded history. Prior to that time is called prehistory.


Subdivision Of Tocobago

The Greater Tampa Bay area was within the jurisdiction of the Timucuans, in the
subdivision of Tocobago, according to a 1996 research paper by Charles Arnade of
San Antonio, a history professor at the University of South Florida.

Tocobago was the name of a Timucuan village or chief or both, located at Tampa
Bay, Arnade's research states. It was possibly the largest village, with the
most important chief, in a cluster of villages.

The Tocobago Timucuans lived a more sedentary life than their predecessors,
building semi-permanent structures in small villages with a midden paralleling
the shore. A midden is a pile of shellfish refuse that forms a mound.

Those aboriginal peoples also had temple and burial mounds that formed a sort of
central plaza that was clean of refuse and which was next to a ceremonial mound
that was flat-topped. The headman or chief lived on the plaza and presided over
the village of as little as 10 and usually not more than 20 dwellings.

The Timucuans also had burial mounds in which they placed their finest pottery.
By this time they had perfected the art of molding clay into useful objects,
plus ceremonial pieces.

They lived near water, gathering shellfish for food. They also hunted for meat.
Other foods were grown, including roots, vegetables and fruits. But the
cultivation here was not as much as that in northwest Florida by the time the
Europeans discovered Florida in the 16th century.

The largest, and probably main village where Chief Tocobago lived, was
discovered where Safety Harbor is now. Archaeologists call the Timucuan
subdivision period between 1350 and 1513 the Safety Harbor Culture, which has
been found over a 12-county area that includes Pasco.

The Calusas are often also said to have been in this area. But that information
is now considered false, according to Arnade.

The mistake probably goes back to 1575, when Hernando de Escalante Fontaneda in
his memoirs gave the possible Calusa word "Tanpa" to what is now Tampa Bay.
Tanpa - not Tampa - was probably a Calusa village in another area.

From that it was probably assumed that Tampa was Calusa territory, Arnade
states. However, archaeological findings place the border between the Timucuan
and Calusa people as Charlotte Harbor rather than Tampa Bay.

There was very little difference between the two cultures, except
linguistically. Both were part of the Woodland period of prehistory, dating from
1000 BC to 800 A.D.


Florida's First Residents

The first human inhabitants of what is now Florida came probably in the
Pleistocene period when Florida was shaped, Arnade's research shows.

Florida was first covered by water during the Paleozoic period, 100 million
years ago. It surfaced as a land mass much larger than today, only to
practically submerge again. Sections of it emerged again to give it today's
shape. This left a large continental shelf, narrow on the east coast and wide on
the west coast.

The first people of Florida, now called the Paleo-Indians, lived in small groups
between an estimated 10,000 to 6500 BC. Most prehistoric people are not referred
to as Indians.

Christopher Columbus, thinking he had landed in the West Indies, mislabeled
these people he encountered in 1492 when discovering America.

Florida was recovering from the Ice Age during this period and the Paleo-Indians
were nomadic, gathering plants, roots, berries and nuts to eat. They also would
hunt enormous beasts like the mammoth and mastodon.

Near the end of this 3,500-year period in Florida, rainfall increased and large
land animals died out, probably because of climate changes.

The next period, Archaic, was about 6500 BC to 1000 BC. As ice melted across
North America, the seas rose and rainfall increased. There was more fresh water
and more variety of plants. But the largest animal these prehistoric people
encountered was the white-tailed deer.

The Archaic people built shelters and semi-permanent villages along the coast
and riverbanks. They had midden mounds composed of shells, animal bones and
broken pottery. They began making clay containers, plus fishnets, and dug canoes
from tree trunks.

The Woodland period followed.

The Mississippian, from 800 to 1500 AD, is the last time period of Florida's
prehistoric people. Their villages were larger. They built flat-topped pyramid
mounds for burial and ceremonial use. The Mississippians also developed a
government, with rulers and political leaders. Their pottery was decorated with
designs.

When Europeans showed up in the early 1500s, the lives of these native
Floridians ended. Many died of new illnesses that Europeans carried with them to
the New World.

Continuous recorded history began in Florida when Juan Ponce de Leon came in
1513. The Spanish recorded about 25,000 aborigines in Florida then. The
population of what became the Tampa Bay area was between 1,000 and 2,000, Arnade
estimates.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

(C) Joe Fulghum, manager of Leverock's Seafood House in New Port Richey, shows
the huge stone outside the restaurant believed to be used as an altar by
Timucuan Indians 1,500 years ago.

NOTES: PIECES OF THE PAST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 14, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Underage Are Still Barred At Ybor Club

BYLINE: LAURA KINSLER , lkinsler@tampatrib.com; Reporter Laura Kinsler can be
reached at (813) 259-8303.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 435 words


TAMPA - The Tampa City Council can't keep 18-year-olds out of every bar in Ybor
City, but council members voted Thursday to keep them out of at least one.

By a 4-3 vote, the council turned down a request from John Santoro, owner of the
Amphitheater dance club on Seventh Avenue, to lift a condition from his alcohol
permit that prohibits him from admitting patrons younger than 21.

The Amphitheater is the only dance club, and one of only a couple of businesses
in the entertainment district, that cannot admit 18- to 20-year-olds.

"I'm not trying to cater to 18-year-olds," Santoro said. "I've learned over the
past 31/2 years that with the climate in Ybor, if a group of 10 people come to
my door and one of them is underage, I'll lose the whole party."

Council Chairman Charlie Miranda and council members Rose Ferlita and Gwen
Miller agreed.

"I think we're creating a hardship for the Amphitheater," Ferlita said.

Miller said as long as the club doesn't sell alcohol to underage customers, she
doesn't mind them going inside to dance. "I think we should be fair."

But to others, the issue was about more than one business. Bob Buckhorn, Shawn
Harrison, Mary Alvarez and Linda Saul-Sena said they voted against Santoro's
request to make a symbolic statement.

"Is he caught in the middle? Yes," Buckhorn said. "But we're charged with
looking at the bigger picture, and places like Centro Ybor will have a difficult
time surviving until we change."

Saul-Sena "made a field trip" to Ybor City after 11 p.m.

"I went to the Amphitheater, and it was packed," she said. "I think we need to
market Ybor as a place for everyone. This petition, for me, is symbolic of the
future of Ybor City."

Santoro may be the first club owner in Ybor with a 21-and-up restriction, but he
probably won't be the last.

"In our haste to develop Ybor City, we made some mistakes," Buckhorn said.
"Clearly, too many alcohol permits were issued. I guess at the time, I thought
there would be a more adult crowd, and I also thought there would be a better
mix of businesses."

Some council members want to ban 18- to 20-year-olds from bars. Miami, Fort
Lauderdale and Fort Myers have such ordinances.

But City Attorney James Palermo has advised against such measures. He said state
law allows 18- to 20-year-olds to work inside drinking establishments. Another
state law says no one younger than 18 may enter a "dance hall."

"I think if the Legislature wanted the age limit to be 21, it would have said
so," Palermo said. "Why would we pass an ordinance if I don't think we could
defend it in court?"

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 13, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Group Protests Tribune's Coverage Of Muslims

BYLINE: KATHY STEELE , ksteele@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kathy Steele can be
reached at (813) 259-7920.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 363 words


COMPLAINTS TARGETED COLUMNIST, REPORTER

TAMPA - About 60 people protested Friday against what they say is biased
coverage of the Islamic community by The Tampa Tribune.

The group gathered on Parker Street, across from the Tribune's offices, chanting
slogans such as "Shame, shame. Stop the lies and tell the truth." Posters
proclaimed, "We Demand Fair Coverage" and "We Want Journalists Not
Propagandists."

Monday's column by Daniel Ruth, news stories by reporter Michael Fechter and the
Tribune's editorial board were targets of the protest.

Ruth's column ridiculed and attacked the Koran, prophets of Islam and the
prophets' wives, said Pilar Saad, president of the United Muslim Association of
Tampa Bay Women.

"That's no way to talk about issues," Saad said. "It's the wrong way to develop
community relations."

Seven Tampa police officers monitored the protest, and a handful of curious
residents from a nearby high-rise apartment building watched.

Suspended University of South Florida Professor Sami Al-Arian was with
protesters but wouldn't speak to the Tribune's reporter. Protesters complained
that stories about Al-Arian and his brother-in-law Mazen Al-Najjar have been
biased and untruthful.

Both men have been investigated for terrorist activities but never charged.
Al-Najjar is being held in solitary confinement in a federal prison on a
deportation order.

"Certainly we respect their right to disagree and to protest," said Pat
Minarcin, the Tribune's senior editor for special projects and multimedia. "But
we have thorough and fair coverage in our reporting and stand behind it fully."

One protester, who didn't want to give his name, said the media, particularly
the Tribune, have created a climate of fear and prejudice against Muslims since
Sept. 11.

The media "is building a fence between us and them," he said.

Saad said the Islamic community has met with Tribune managers in the past to
explain their grievances. Another meeting is expected in August.

"We're just taking a stand," Saad said."This is one way we want to make our
voice heard. Hopefully some change will happen. We just try our best. That's all
we can do."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Tribune photo by DAVID KADLUBOWSKI

(C) About 60 people, including Sami Al-Arian, gather near The News Center on
Friday to protest Monday's column by Daniel Ruth, stories by Michael Fechter and
the Tribune's editorial board.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 28, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Shredded Dreams

BYLINE: JO-ANN JOHNSTON, jfjohnston@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jo-Ann Johnston can
be reached at (813) 259-7804.; Tribune wire services contributed information for
this story.; Go to TBO.com to check your stock portfolio and get the latest
business news. Enter the keyword Money.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words


Corporate scandals exact financial, psychological and social costs on the rest
of us.

Construction superintendent Dave Moulton is just one of the little guys paying
for the wave of corporate bad behavior that has wrecked companies and lightened
investors' wallets.

Moulton's modest 401(k) plan - which he's had just four years - keeps sinking,
just as investors' confidence in the stock market and in American corporate
financial statements has been sinking.

And all because some powerful executives Moulton has never met decided to hide
expenses, inflate earnings, or disguise debt, presumably to make their companies
- and their compensation - look better.

"I don't understand how these people can get away with this," said Moulton, 58,
of St. Petersburg. "I see my savings going down the tubes."

As he waits for his next 401(k) statement, he wonders whether to ride it out and
leave the retirement money in the market,"Or am I just better off putting it in
the bank?"

More Than Money Direct financial losses aren't the only ways Moulton and other
average Americans will pay for corporate conduct.

"It's everybody's problem," said Joe Borg, Alabama's top securities regulator
and president of the North American Securities Administrators Association. NASAA
is one of the groups that has asked Congress to pass tougher business-crime
laws.

The costs of the latest scandals are likely to be in the billions, said Robert
McMurrian, head of the Center for Ethics at the University of Tampa. But they
are so widespread that they will never be fully counted, he said, as he outlined
three major issues:

Direct financial costs. These include the lost salaries and company stock
portfolios of the thousands of people who once worked at the now bankrupt Enron
and WorldCom, for instance. Add to that the companies which did business with
Enron, WorldCom, or others, and which have now lost contracts and jobs.

Psychological costs. People like Moulton and others pay as the business world in
general loses the confidence of investors. One in two U.S. households are now
invested in the stock market, said Borg, directly or indirectly through
retirement plans.

Social costs. Right now, taxpayers are footing the bills for congressional
hearings on alleged corporate misdeeds. When new regulations are forthcoming,
they will pay for the added enforcement measures, possibly through tax dollars.

And who is going to financially care for all those people who lost their
savings, asks McMurrian. Somehow, society will have to help some of those people
in their older years, whether through government or charitable assistance, he
predicted.

"The financial loss makes you angry," he said. "The social loss makes you sad."


More Punishment?

Americans now seem more willing to consider accounting misdeeds as actual crimes
rather than victimless events, said Borg. That may be why the stock market
reacted so positively last week when some executives were arrested and charged
with crimes in connection with a corporate scandal.

The founder of Adelphia Communications Corp., a bankrupt cable company, and two
of his sons were charged with conspiracy - and could face up to 30 years in
prison and fines worth millions of dollars. Investigators believe the executives
hid debt and inflated the number of Adelphia's customers before it all came
crashing down.

While the Adelphia prosecution was moving forward, Congress was working on
tougher penalties for future corporate crimes.

Last week, Congress passed new legislation governing corporate crimes, and
President George W. Bush promised to sign the bill into law. It calls for new
penalties and jail terms for company fraud and document shredding.

That will stir lots of public discussion, as some people have already started
calling for convicted executives to serve time in tough jails, not cushy minimum
security facilities.

"I would send them to Attica, rather than a country club," said Jay Jamrog,
executive director of the privately funded Human Resource Institute at the
University of Tampa, which has studied the implications of the recent corporate
scandals.

The new bill also would create an independent board from the private sector to
oversee the accounting industry. Accounting firms would be limited in the extra
consulting work they could do for companies when they also audit those
companies' books.

That conflict of interest can keep accounting firms from publicizing internal
accounting misdeeds. Arthur Andersen was criticized for having a conflict of
interest, for example, it did both accounting and consulting for Enron.

Boards of directors are probably going to have to conduct themselves differently
too, said Borg. For instance, the audit committees in charge of overseeing
financial statements will have to take more responsibility for knowing what is
really going on and will be held more accountable for mistakes.

Also, the Securities and Exchange Commission may get more resources for
enforcement to better protect investors, Borg said.

The SEC has filed a lawsuit alleging fraud against Adelphia executives. The SEC
wants restitution for investors whose stock plummeted - a course the SEC can
pursue at the same time criminal authorities prosecute the executives for
conspiracy.


Internal Detection?

Still, white-collar cases are hard to prosecute, and stronger enforcement
measures might not deter some executives from hiding trouble until they can
escape their companies with millions, said Elletta Sangrey Callahan, who teaches
management law and ethics at Syracuse University.

Callahan, who has studied whistleblowing, thinks employees and investors will be
better off if companies make it easier for insiders to come forward and report
wrongdoing.

That may mean more laws protecting whistleblowers from harassment and
retaliation at work, she said. This strategy has worked in spotting waste and
corruption in government spending, she said.

Callahan thinks it would work in private enterprise as well. Callahan has been
able to identify from news accounts people inside corporations who tried to
alert higher-ups of problems - notably Sherron Watkins, who tried to tell Enron
executives the energy firm's accounting practices were questionable.

Companies wouldn't have to wait for laws encouraging whistleblowing, Callahan
said. They could, on their own, empower a top executive to receive reports of
possible problems.

It would be better to have a person who can receive such information - rather
than a hot line - so people can pass along reports or computer disks, Callahan
said. The advantage to the companies would be that problems would be discovered
sooner, and could be resolved faster than in the current climate, she said.

(CHART) LOWLIGHTS
WorldCom
The telecommmunications company, with $104 billion in assets, this month became
the biggest company ever to file under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code for
protection from creditors. It cut 17,000 workers recently. WorldCom is accused
of hiding $3.9 billion in costs over 2001 and the first part of 2002.


Enron
The energy trading company, with $50 billion in assets, filed under Chapter 11
in December. Some 5,500 employees were fired immediately, and many employees
owning company stock for retirement savings saw those assets wiped out.
Accounting practices make it hard to tell how much debt Enron actually carried.
Accounting firm Andersen was convicted of obstruction of justice for shredding
and destroying information during a federal investigation of Enron.


Global Crossing
The fiber optics company filed under Chapter 11 in January, claiming $25.5
billion in assets. It cut 9,000 jobs before the bankruptcy filing. Company
officials denied any shady accounting practices, but investigators questioned
how sales and purchases of network capacity were accounted for and why employees
were told shortly before the filing that they couldn't make changes to their
401(k) retirement plans. Since the filing, former Chairman Gary Winnick has
spent millions to renovate the California mansion he bought for $94 million.
Global Crossing employed Andersen as its independent auditor.


Adelphia Communications
The nation's sixth-largest cable company filed Chapter 11 for bankruptcy
protection in June. Securities regulators started investigating after learning
the family of founder John J. Rigas borrowed $3.1 billion from Adelphia. A law
enforcement official said some $13 million was used to build a golf course.
Investors were in the dark. The company likely will have to restate financial
reports for the last three years. Rigas, two of his sons and other executives
were charged last week with conspiracy.
Source: Tribune wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
The Associated Press

John Rigas, the former chief executive officer of Adelphia Communications, is
led from New York's main post office building by posta inspector police
Wednesday on his way to federal court in Manhattan. He and his sons Timothy and
Michael are accused of looting the company.

NOTES: (See related story, same page.)

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 4, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Hillsborough Needs Fresh Faces, New Viewpoints On Commission

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2431 words


Hillsborough County voters may make no more important decision this year than
the selection of the county commission. With authority ranging from neighborhood
zonings to road construction, the commission affects the quality of life and
future economic prospects of every resident - far more so than elected officials
in Washington or even Tallahassee.

The current commission has proved itself simply unable to govern. Members feud
with their fellow commissioners, other governing bodies and members of the
public. The interminable meetings are often characterized by political
grandstanding, incoherent rambling and personal insults.

The tendency of several intemperate commissioners to lash out whenever they hear
thoughts that displease them has intimidated the county staff and made citizens
reluctant to appear before the board. Some members seem unduly influenced by
behind-the-scenes power brokers.

Meanwhile, as the board indulges in petty spats, it mishandles or ignores the
county's pressing problems - controlling growth, providing a viable
transportation system, conserving water and resources, maintaining a robust
economic climate.

As individuals, the commissioners possess certain talents. Each at times has
demonstrated intelligence and leadership. But as a group, this obstreperous
commission too often is dysfunctional - and an embarrassment to the people of
Hillsborough County.

Citizens can change that this year, when they will vote to fill six of the seven
commission seats. The only commissioner not up for election is reliable,
courteous and gutsy Jan Platt. Five of the seats are being contested in the
Sept. 10 primary. District 3 incumbent Democrat Tom Scott will face Republican
Jacqui Knight in the Nov. 5 general election.

Voters are fortunate. There are many qualified candidates who appear capable of
returning good sense and good behavior to county government.


District 1

Incumbent Stacey Easterling is leaving this seat to try for the countywide
District 5 position, where incumbent Chris Hart is prevented by term limits from
running for another term. In one more bit of political gamboling, Hart is
running for the seat in District 1, which covers Town 'N Country, south Tampa
and the south county coastline.

Hart had originally planned to run for Tampa mayor but found little support and
switched to the county race on the last day of qualifying. He will face Gene
Wells in the Republican primary.

Away from the limelight, Hart is a congenial fellow, and he surely cares about
the community. But before an audience, he tends to talk at length to little
effect. He is quick to blame others for problems and eager to take credit for
any achievement. He occasionally exhibits a very hot temper.

Wells is the personable owner of a computer parts company. He has been involved
in a number of civic groups, including the South Tampa Chamber of Commerce. He
faults the commission for not being proactive in dealing with transportation,
water and other problems. He is tentative on the issues but promises to be
open-minded and forward-thinking.

Hart has served eight years on the commission. We see no compelling reason to
keep him on a board that desperately needs new faces and attitudes. In the
District 1 Republican primary, the Tribune endorses Gene Wells.

In the Democratic primary, voters have the pleasant but difficult task of
choosing one of three excellent candidates.

Mimi Kehoe Osiason is a longtime community activist and former head of the
Hillsborough League of Women Voters. John Dingfelder is a former assistant
county attorney who has worked on a number of civic causes. Both Osiason and
Dingfelder are bright, informed and candid. They appear to be good listeners.
They thoroughly understand the growth, environment and economic challenges the
county faces and would seek balanced solutions. We have little doubt that they
would make fine commissioners.

But the third candidate is the standout in this excellent field. Kathy Castor is
the daughter of Betty Castor, who was the first woman elected to the
Hillsborough commission and later served in the Legislature and as state
education commissioner.

And Kathy Castor's credentials are as impressive as her lineage. She is an
attorney who has handled a number of challenging land-use cases. She once served
as assistant general counsel for the Florida Department of Community Affairs and
is an expert on growth management laws.

She believes the county must do a far better job of tying its growth decisions
to the availability of roads and other infrastructure. Castor has served on a
number of nonprofit boards and possesses a broad understanding of the
community's diverse needs. She knows the necessity of providing health care to
the poor and the value of nurturing small businesses.

Intelligent and self-disciplined, Castor would bring a much-needed measured
presence to the board. She rightly says the county is "not going to accomplish
anything if we don't raise the level of dialogue. We have to treat staff and
citizens with respect." Indeed.

Voters in the Democratic primary cannot go wrong, but in District 1, the Tribune
endorses Kathy Castor.


District 2

Voters in the District 2 Republican primary also face a difficult choice. The
field is crowded with solid candidates, all of whom appear to have the intellect
and demeanor for the job. District 2 covers north Hillsborough. Incumbent Jim
Norman, forced out by term limits, is running for the countywide District 5
seat. The winner of the Republican primary will face Democrat Ron Dyser and
nonpartisan Rod Gaudin in the general election.

Ken Hagan is a young businessman who is a little green on issues but appears
thoughtful, diligent and sincerely motivated by concern for his home county.

Jim Davison is an emergency room physician with an impressive presence and a
good command of health and transportation topics, especially in the New Tampa
area where he lives. He supports new development but knows it shouldn't come at
the expense of the environment and existing residents. He takes the approach of
a pragmatic problem solver.

Denise Lasher has served on numerous civic boards, including the Hillsborough
County Hospital Authority. She is knowledgeable on the issues, and there is no
question she would do her homework on the commission. She does not pretend to
have all the answers but pledges not to seek new revenue until she is certain
the taxpayers' money is efficiently spent.

Denise Layne owns a small business and is best known for her environmental work
on behalf of the Sierra Club. But she has been involved in a number of civic
activities and is well-versed in indigent health, transportation and other
county matters.

She does not equate environmental protection with stopping growth and
understands, unlike some current commissioners, that even talking about a
building moratorium is damaging to the economy. She offers a number of specific,
promising strategies for addressing growth problems, including the creation of
community councils that would review development disputes.

She is knowledgeable on water problems and would push prudent conservation
measures while also making sure adequate alternative water sources were
developed to meet the needs of a growing population. She is committed to
improving transportation. She is polite and considerate but not afraid to say
what she thinks.

This is a very impressive field. All of the Republican District 2 candidates
appear to be qualified and personable individuals, the kind Hillsborough sorely
needs in office. But in District 2, the Tribune endorses Denise Layne.


District 4

Since no Democrat is in the race, the District 4 Republican primary has become
an open primary. That means Democrats can vote in the contest, which will
determine the winner of the commission seat. The district covers Brandon, Plant
City and south Hillsborough.

Incumbent Ronda Storms faces Arlene Waldron of Plant City. Some south
Hillsborough residents like the combative Storms for her outspoken parochialism.
She freely admits she is concerned only with the residents of her district.

But the truth is that Storms' stance has accomplished little for her
constituents, since she would rather get off a quotable zinger at a commission
meeting than build support for her causes. In particular, her unseemly tendency
to divisively group people hampers her effectiveness.

For example, she stereotypes south Tampa residents as the "silk stocking" set at
odds with the ranchers and blue-collar workers of her district. In fact, the
populations of both areas are far more diverse than Storms understands. She
might accomplish more if she showed more interest in forming partnerships rather
than tossing off high-octane insults.

She almost single-handedly killed a proposal to build a Florida A&M law school
in Tampa with a demeaning remark about blacks' supposed inability to pass the
Bar exam. Indeed, Storms often says whatever comes to mind, regardless of how
crude, insulting or ill-informed. Storms was once a schoolteacher, but no
teacher would ever put up with the sort of antics she pulls on the board.

District 4 voters would receive far more mature and effective representation
from Waldron, a Hillsborough native, longtime community activist and banking
executive.

Waldron grew up in the district and knows the critical need to manage its
growth, ease traffic congestion and provide law enforcement and other essential
services. Long active in the Brandon Chamber of Commerce, she understands the
importance of commerce, especially regarding Hillsborough's important
agricultural industry.

Waldron is no shrinking violet. We have no doubt she would battle fiercely - but
civilly - for her constituents. Her high intelligence is combined with a kindly
nature.

In contrast, Storms' misbehavior has served to make her and her causes -
including an understandable objection to lewd public access television programs
- seem kooky. For Hillsborough County District 4 commissioner, the Tribune
strongly endorses Arlene Waldron.


District 5

Easterling and Norman are leaving their district seats to run for this
countywide seat in the Republican primary. The winner will face Democrat Susan
Valdes, write-in candidate Jeri Kirby and independent Robert Wirengard in the
general election.

Both Easterling, first elected two years ago, and Norman have been accused of
being controlled by key contributors. Easterling is close to Sam Rashid, long
regarded as a tough political puppeteer. Norman is close to another
string-puller, Ralph Hughes. Conservative Republicans, Rashid and Hughes were
once allied. But a split occurred when Norman failed to support a commission
redistricting plan pushed by Rashid.

Easterling and Norman deny theirs is a proxy Rashid-Hughes battle. Both insist
they do not take orders from anyone, and they can point to decisions where that
was obviously so. But there is no question that they are tightly connected to
their respective backers.

Norman, first elected in 1992, clearly has the better record. He rightly points
to his hard work for constituents. He is passionate about helping children and
was the driving force behind the development of the Tampa Bay Sports Commission,
which sponsors amateur sporting events in the area. He fought the wellfield
overpumping that threatened Hillsborough homeowners. And he has been a
consistent advocate of fiscal accountability.

Voters will surely be reminded during the campaign that Norman once took a trip
to Las Vegas with a friend who lobbies before the commission and misrepresented
the reasons for his absence from a commission meeting. He apologized for this
stupid stunt.

Easterling stresses that she is not afraid to say no to developers, and it's
true she's probably more committed to managing growth than Norman. But she
scarcely has made improved growth policies a priority. And while she professes
revulsion at the board's bickering, the former prosecutor can sometimes be
unduly caustic. She was particularly snappy during the debate over the history
museum.

This is a tough call. Both Norman and Easterling do have ability. But neither
showed much leadership as the board deteriorated into a squabbling morass.

But this much can be said: Norman has proved he can get things done. And with
the prior, more collegial board, he was far more effective. For that reason in
the District 5 Republican primary, the Tribune endorses Jim Norman.


District 7
Incumbent Pat Frank faces Ed Crawford in the Democratic primary for the
countywide District 7 seat. The winner will face Republican Brian Blair in the
general election.

Frank, the commission chair, is a former lawmaker and school board member with a
distinguished record of public service. She works hard, studies the topics and
asks tough questions. She is a thoughtful advocate of growth controls.

But on the commission, Frank has contributed to the board's dysfunction. She has
engaged in feuds with the city of Tampa, Tampa Bay Water and other governing
bodies. Frank sometimes had legitimate concerns, but she seems unable to resolve
a matter without causing ill feelings.

Indeed, Frank seems unable to accept decisions that don't go her way. Her
insistence on prolonging disputes long after they should have been decided is
distracting and disruptive. She is part of the present commission's central
problem.

Ed Crawford, a spokesman for HARTline, is a Tampa native and a recognized expert
on transportation whose knowledge of the mechanics of county government is
immense. Seeing highways and roads jam up, he knows that more pavement isn't the
only answer. He says correctly that the county should be planning now for some
light rail routes while they are obtainable, but that it probably will be some
years before Hillsborough has the population densities needed to support rail.

He is committed to smart growth policies such as providing incentives for
developers to build where roads and services already exist. He supports a water
rate structure that encourages conservation without hurting large families and
believes more should be done to utilize reclaimed water.

He supports the indigent health care program that is so important to poor
residents and to the small businesses that employ them. He also has a witty,
cheerful personality. He's not the sort to snap at those who disagree with him.

In the District 7 Democratic primary, the Tribune enthusiastically endorses Ed
Crawford.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 16, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Club Finding Strength In New Coach

BYLINE: IRA KAUFMAN , ikaufman@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 306 words


PARKER ADDS WEALTH OF NFL EXPERIENCE

LAKE BUENA VISTA - For Johnny Parker, the heavy lifting comes only after the
heavy selling.

Tampa Bay's new strength and conditioning coach understands the dynamics of the
pro game after 17 NFL seasons.

Parker, 55, won't impose his will on players when it comes to grunt work.

"Players don't care about how much you know until they know how much you care
about them," said Parker, who made two Super Bowl appearances with the Giants
and one with the Patriots. "Before they'll bleed for you, players have to
believe you can help them."

Coach Jon Gruden has been impressed with Parker's impact since hiring him in
March.

Working closely with speed coach Mike Morris, Parker has helped the Bucs get
into shape by utilizing training techniques he observed in two trips to the
Soviet Union.

"Johnny Parker brings a wealth of experience," Gruden said. "And the combination
of him and Mike Morris has been real good for the Bucs. I can't say enough about
the conditioning of this football team."

Parker entered the NFL in 1984, joining Bill Parcells' staff with the New York
Giants.

In Parker's first pro season, the Giants whittled the number of players spending
time on the injured reserve list from 25 (in 1983) to seven.

Tampa Bay players have been relatively healthy through training camp as Parker
continues to adjust his training regimen to the climate.
"Your principles don't change, but you'd better adapt to the conditions," he
said.

After a seven-year run with the Patriots, Parker was dismissed by Coach Bill
Belichick and remained out of football the past two seasons.

"I appreciate the support of Coach Gruden and the Bucs organization," Parker
said. "It doesn't matter what your program is - it won't work unless you have
that kind of support from the top."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Johnny Parker

NOTES: BUCS VS. JAGUARS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   August 28, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. Should Aid Nations That Are Serious About Reform

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 862 words


Economic trouble in many developing countries is being exploited by radical
politicians who ridicule foreign investment and a market economy for causing
poverty.

The real trouble is the flight of investment often caused by ill-advised
political intervention, but the last thing these countries need is more debt
linked to demands for higher taxes and austerity. Such conditions would give the
forces of repression additional ammunition.

U.S. aid ought to be dependent on the sorts of real reforms that fuel lasting
progress and economic growth.

President Bush has proposed a 50 percent increase in development assistance by
2006, and the $10 billion increase will be a valuable investment if the grants
are indeed conditioned on useful changes, as Bush proposes. Foreign development
aid in years past was well-intended but largely wasted.

"America has given over $167 billion (in constant 1999 U.S. dollars) in official
development assistance to 156 countries, regions, and territories since 1980,"
said Brett D. Schaefer of the Heritage Foundation in a lecture earlier this
summer.

The results of most of that are measurable. Some $144 billion went to 97
countries that accurately report a gross domestic product. The median economic
output of these 97 actually declined from 1980 to 2000. Now they need more help
than before.

"Assistance can have tremendous effects," Schaefer correctly observed, "but
without economic growth, these achievements are not self-perpetuating."

The stormy political climate that has frightened investors throughout South
America reinforces this point. USA Today reports that Brazil's economy is
struggling, and if it collapses, it will "likely end Latin America's decade-long
experiment with democratic and market reforms by showing Brazil's neighbors that
there's little payoff for doing things right."

Actually, Brazil and many countries in similar circumstances have done many
things wrong, but still the anti-U.S. theme plays well. Venezuela has a
president whose idea of good government is Castro's Cuba. In Peru, farmers have
staged violent protests against U.S.-backed coca-eradication programs. In
Colombia, drug-running guerrillas are increasing their power.

Paraguay has devalued its currency and Reuters reports "violent protests against
the free-market policies of a government that has already been forced to
backtrack on its privatization plans."

In Brazil, leftist candidates are promising to create jobs and are doing so well
in the polls that foreign capital is fleeing. Socialists are having some success
blaming free-market policies that, as Mark Falcoff of the American Enterprise
Institute observes, "have scarcely been applied at all."

Falcoff lays heavy blame on South America's political leaders: "Politics must be
something more than patronage to deserving followers or the opportunity for a
few well-connected people to enrich themselves through government contracts. The
way democratic politics has been practiced almost everywhere in South America
these past two decades has led to widespread disillusionment and anger, and
understandably so."

Few places are angrier than Argentina. "A country that for generations helped
feed the world is now suffering real hunger," Falcoff says.

"All property is potentially subject to government control or confiscation,"
says Kurt Schuler, senior economist at the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S.
Congress. "There is little reason for anybody to produce, save or invest in
Argentina."

A main goal of U.S. foreign assistance should be to give the locals and outside
investors good cause to be confident about economic progress. That will foster
economic growth, and the rewards from growth are widely felt.

World Bank research shows that in countries with per-capita incomes above
$5,000, fewer than one in 100 children between the ages of 10 and 14 work,
Schaefer points out. Where incomes are $1,000 or less, the number is as high as
one in five. Economic growth also improves other labor standards, enhances
environmental protections and allows more money to be devoted to health care and
education.

Many nations, particularly in Africa, have far to go. The per-capita share of
the economy in the average sub-Saharan country is less than $600.


A Daunting Economic Challenge

To reach middle-income status at $1,500 per person, such a country must average
a growth rate of more than 5 percent a year for the next 20 years, Schaefer
calculated. That's daunting because many of them aren't growing at all.

But the situation is not hopeless. Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan proved fast
growth is possible if economic freedom is allowed, he said.

Despite massive amounts of foreign aid given in goodwill, America has not sold
the poorer sections of the world on its model of democracy and free enterprise
that makes such generosity possible. The time has come, as Bush proposes, to
reward only sound economic policies and good governments.

Subsidizing systems doomed to fail does no lasting good and allows blame for the
inevitable crisis to be shifted to - of all places - the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 3, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Flight Schools Feeling Effects Of Terror Ties

BYLINE: JIM SLOAN , jsloan@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jim Sloan can be reached at
(813) 259-7691.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words


BUSINESS HAS REBOUNDED, BUT FOREIGN NUMBERS LOW

Rudi Dekkers' flight school is a thousand miles from the World Trade Center, but
in the days after Sept. 11, he found himself in the middle of his personal
"ground zero."

Two of the most hated men in the world, Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi,
believed to have piloted the planes that slammed into the trade center's twin
towers, had learned to fly at Dekker's tiny Venice flight school.

"We were looked at by people like dirt," Dekker said of the public finger-
pointing that followed the attacks.

The financial impact was even worse. Like hundreds of other southern Florida
flight schools, Huffman Aviation International relies heavily on foreign
students. Dekker was forced to close a neighboring school in Naples after it
lost $1 million, and the steady flow of foreign students at Huffman evaporated
and didn't return.

"My flight school is still down big-time," Dekkers said. "I have no foreign
students. You can see it in my financials."

Four months after the terrorist attacks, just as the industry began to rebound,
a 15-year-old flight student flew a stolen Cessna into the 28th floor of the
Bank of America Plaza in Tampa. Once more, Florida's flight school owners found
themselves under a microscope.

"It could happen anywhere, that's the thing to remember," Tampa Flying Service
instructor Brandt Meyer said as he coached a student at Peter O. Knight Airport.
"Florida just happens to be one of the biggest states for flight schools."


Flight School Mecca

The Interstate 4 corridor alone is home to nearly 150 flight training companies.
The attacks devastated the industry, as a nervous Federal Aviation
Administration grounded flight schools, banner fliers and sky diving schools for
two weeks.

"We were probably pretty close to going out of business," said David Cunningham
of National Aviation Flight School, based at St. Petersburg-Clearwater
International Airport. "We lost $55,000 in revenue in September, with 14
airplanes sitting on the airfield."

As soon as the restrictions were lifted, most schools quickly rebounded.

"About mid-October it was back to where it was the year prior," said Scott
Pollock, general manager of Tampa Flying Service.

But for many Florida schools that relied on foreign students seeking less
expensive training, "It didn't come back, and it's not going to come back,"
Pollock said.

"Some of them are still not back to pre-Sept. 11 levels," said Warren
Morningstar of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, which represents
375,000 general aviation pilots.

Dekkers puts the blame for that squarely on the government, which adopted
restrictions that choked off the flow of foreign students.

"They have scared them off," Dekkers said. "We have politicians who push through
rules and regulations that are basically window dressing."

One regulation, for example, requires background checks for foreign students
flying a plane heavier than 12,500 pounds. But the terrorists trained on much
lighter aircraft, Dekkers said.

"The government wants to show the public they are doing a lot to make it safe,
but they are destroying the flight schools," he said.

Other school officials say the political climate, both here and overseas, is the
culprit.

"There are still people out there who are a little scared," said Hans Tschupp of
American Flying Adventures at St. Petersburg-Clearwater International.

Foreign news media played up the backlash against foreign flight students here,
Tschupp said.

"This was used in some of the European flying magazines, "Don't go to the U.S.;
you might wind up in prison.' They [foreign students] were scared."

But overall, the industry came away relatively unscathed by post-Sept. 11 red
tape. The FAA issued 11 "recommendations" after student pilot Charles Bishop's
suicide flight in Tampa, but none was mandatory.

The FAA advised using different keys for the ignition and door lock, keeping all
student pilots under the supervision of an instructor at all times and requiring
a photo identification check before each lesson, among other things.

Most schools voluntarily adopted the recommendations, the pilot association's
Morningstar said.

"We're taking a closer look at the people who are walking in the door and making
sure they are who they say they are and they have the proper credentials," he
said. "It's just the kind of reasonable steps that any business would take."


"A Screeching Halt'

Bill Wilde, an instructor at Tampa Flying Service, talked about the state of the
industry as he watched student Susan Hersh run through preflight checks on a
Piper Tomahawk at Peter O. Knight Airport.

"It came to a screeching halt for about two weeks, but things are back to
normal," he said. "General aviation got such a bad rap from these terrorists."

Despite the drop in foreign students, things are even looking up for Dekkers,
finally. Fuel sales, car rentals and an airport restaurant he operates are
bringing in money.

And after he testified before the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee,
Dekkers said, the public has had a change of heart about his school.

"They saw that I did everything by the book," he said. "Now, people come up to
me in restaurants and say, "I think you are a legitimate business.'

"I went from famous and notorious to famous."

(CHART) TRAINING AIRCRAFT FLIGHT HOURS
Tampa Flying Service, a flight school at Peter O. Knight Airport, tracks the
hours each of its training aircraft fly every month. The record illustrates the
dramatic impact of Sept. 11 on Florida's flight schools, and their rapid
recovery.
Month/Year Total Flight Hours
May 2001 702.7
June 2001 627.4
July 2001 639
Aug. 2001 718.5
Sept. 2001 364.1
Oct. 2001 544.9
Nov. 2001 679.2
Dec. 2001 609.5
Jan. 2002 605.8
Feb. 2002 623.7
March 2002 687.9
April 2002 794.2
May 2002 708
Source: Tampa Flying Service

(CHART) TIGHTENING UP FLIGHT SCHOOL
The Federal Aviation Administration didn't make new rules but did make
suggestions many flight schools have adopted.
Create difficult-to-counterfeit pilot certificates that include a photograph.
Demand photo identification from anyone renting or buying an airplane.
Have the pilot verify the identity of all passengers and ensure that the
passengers know what is in their baggage and the cargo.
Ask pilots to look for and report suspicious activity.
Have separate ignition and airplane door-lock keys; the instructor should keep
the ignition key.
Keep student pilots under a flight instructor's supervision at all times until
the solo flight.
Establish a positive identification of student pilots before each lesson.
Have students check in with a dispatcher or other employee before being allowed
access to parked aircraft.
Source: Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3(1C) CHART 2
The Associated Press

(C) Rudi Dekkers owns Huffman Aviation in Venice. His school trained two men
believed to be pilots of the planes that hit the twin towers.
Tribune photos by JASON BEHNKEN

Susan Hersh is a student of Tampa Flying Service instructor Bill Wilde, who said
aviation training ground to a halt immediately after Sept. 11, but things are
back to normal now. "General aviation got such a bad rap from these terrorists,"
he said.
The Federal Aviation Administration has issued guidelines since Sept. 11, both
for flight schools and commercial airlines.

NOTES: NO LIFE UNTOUCHED America After 9/11

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 7, 2002, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Small Ways Consumers Can Make Big Energy Impact

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 513 words


Here's an interesting and disturbing fact: The average home pollutes more than
the average car, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

Yet relatively scant attention is given to such matters in discussions of power
plant emissions.

The government's Energy Star is designed to curtail greenhouse emissions by
alerting the public to easy ways to reduce energy consumption. The EPA awards
the Energy Star designation to products that substantially curtail power use.
Those products include more than 7,000 items, consisting of appliances, home
electronics, office equipment, heating and cooling products, light bulbs,
residential lighting fixtures, roofing, transformers and windows.

The program is voluntary and underpublicized, but even so, it is having an
impact. EPA officials say that the Energy Star has helped save enough energy at
peak time to power 10 million homes and reduce greenhouse gas emissions
equivalent to those of 10 million cars.

But of particular interest to homeowners is that Energy Star products save
money. Lots of it.

Maria Tikoff Vargas, who oversees the program for EPA, says a typical American
household can save more than 30 percent of its energy bills with Energy Star.
Last year Americans saved more than $5 billion on their energy bills thanks to
the program.

And Vargas stresses that these cost savings and pollution reductions can be
achieved without sacrificing style or comfort.

For instance, the Energy Star labels TVs that require only 3 watts of power or
less when switched off. Most televisions use up to 12 watts when turned off.

Energy Star refrigerators use less electricity than a 75-watt light bulb.
Long-life Energy Star light bulbs last from six to 10 times longer than standard
light bulbs yet use only about a third of the energy.

Energy Star addresses both commercial and residential uses, including
recommended features for new homes.

More information on the program can be obtained by calling 1-888-STAR-YES
(1-888-782-7937) or visiting www.energystar.gov.

According to the EPA, if all households and businesses in the United States
bought Energy Star labeled products instead of conventional new equipment over
the next 15 years, the nation's annual energy bill would be reduced by about
$100 billion, and the resulting reduction in pollution would be equivalent to
taking 17 million cars off the road for each of those 15 years.

Energy Star is unlikely to achieve such results, however, unless federal, state
and local officials begin to put far more emphasis on energy efficiency.

We agree the program should be mostly voluntary, but it would seem reasonable
for state governments to begin incorporating some of the technologies into
building codes and providing incentives for the use of particularly efficient
products.

This would, after all, not only cut pollution and power bills, but also help the
nation become more energy-independent. Still, Energy Star is already helping
consumers and the environment. Its worthy efforts merit more attention and
support.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 15, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Artistic Oasis

BYLINE: KAREN HAYMON LONG , klong@tampatrib.com; Reproductions of Homer's
paintings are displayed at Homosassa Springs Wildlife Park, just north of the
refuge on U.S. 19. They also are posted on the park's Web site at
www.hsswp.com/homer/; paintings.html; Reporter Karen Haymon Long can be reached
at (813) 259-7618.

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words


The wilderness scenery of Chassahowitzka looks much the same as when Winslow
Homer painted it in 1904.

CHASSAHOWITZKA - Winslow Homer's 1904 watercolors of palm trees and rivers near
Homosassa Springs seem to mystically lure visitors to this peaceful part of
Florida.

Remarkably, in a state that has changed so much, his 11 paintings capture the
soothing beauty of the crystalline rivers and islands of towering palms skirting
the Gulf of Mexico still evident almost 100 years later.

"Thank heavens, it still looks the way it did in Homer's paintings," says area
resident Susan Dougherty.

"If you were on a river here and came upon a rowboat, it could be The Red
Shirt," she says, referring to Homer's watercolor of a man in a red shirt
fishing in a rowboat in the Homosassa River. The original hangs in the National
Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.

Graceful great blue herons still soar over the clear, cold waters of the
Chassahowitzka River (pronounced Chaz-wits-kuh). Kids still dive down into the
river's turquoise springs.

One of the larger springs, a few minutes by canoe from the Chassahowitzka River
Campground, is 45 feet deep and pumps 350,000 gallons of pristine water a day.

The campground's store rents canoes and gives out free canoe trail maps that
guide visitors up the Chassahowitzka River and into the Chassahowitzka National
Wildlife Refuge toward the Homosassa River to the north.

Throughout the year, dozens of great blue herons and snowy egrets fly through
the skies over the refuge. Come winter, thousands of white pelicans will join
them.

Congress created the national refuge in Hernando and Citrus counties in 1943 to
protect the 250 species of birds that live in this corner of the state,
nicknamed the Nature Coast. American Indians had named the area Chassahowitzka,
which means pumpkin opening place, because they likely grew pumpkins here.
Bird-watchers can best see birds by canoeing or kayaking in the 30,843-acre
refuge.

But even if wintering birds didn't flock to this peaceful oasis, the sultry
scenery would be reason enough for a visit. The long, thin trunks of cabbage
palms grow from watery islands of grass, sometimes extending parallel from the
ground over the water, just as they do in Homer's "Palm Trees" watercolor.

Otters frolic in silky waters they share with lazy alligators. Silvery schools
of mullet gracefully glide just below the surface of the river, when they aren't
arching out of the waters, then belly-flopping back down, slapping the water as
they hit.

The water here is so clear, blue crabs can't hide from families reaching out of
their boats with nets on long poles to snatch them from the riverbed.

The only time the water looks murky is when redfish churn brown clouds of river
bottom sand.

Homer Inspired To Paint And Fish

Homer, a Boston native, was a famous painter when he first visited this area in
January 1904 at age 67, coming north from Key West by steamship. In the five
weeks he stayed at the Homosassa Inn that year, he painted 11 watercolors that
now hang in museums and private collections around the country.

And he went fishing.

"Delightful climate here about as cool as our September," he wrote his brother,
Arthur. "Fishing the best in America as far as I can tell."

In one note, he sketched a black bass and a sheepshead.

Fishing is still the primary pastime here - for tarpon, trout and bass as well
as mullet, sheepshead and redfish.

"Fishing really was his life. He loved bass. He went for bass, but he fished for
trout, too," says Kathy Foulk, whose parents live in the old Homosassa Inn her
grandparents bought in 1914.

"In those years, he started painting a lot of animals and fish, because he liked
their actions," Foulk said.

Foulk's parents, Wilma and Duncan MacRae, still have the inn's ledger with
Homer's name in it, along with the amount - $17.50 to $20 a week - that he paid
for the five weeks he stayed there, his food, his boat rental and a fishing
guide.

When the MacRaes moved into the former inn in 1994, they found reproductions of
Homer's paintings, which still hang in their front rooms.

Wilma MacRae says gratefully that Homer's paintings of cabbage palms and
fishermen, a black bass, a turkey buzzard and a panther climbing a tree in a
woodsy Gulfside jungle still reflect parts of the Homosassa-Chassahowitzka area.
But she worries about the impact of developers who are eyeing nearby wetlands
for a condominium. Traffic by boaters also is eroding the delicate islands.

But then she mentions the cabbage palms her husband's father planted in the
inn's yard in the 1920s that are still hearty, and her beloved Homosassa River
bordering their home.

"It is still a beautiful river," she says, wistfully.

Peaceful Paddle For Wildlife Watchers

Accessible only by boat, the Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge is one of
the most pristine parts of this area that Homer immortalized. And because
airboats are banned in the refuge's Citrus County section leading north toward
Homosassa Springs, the canoe trail is peacefully tranquil.

Birds are the most visible wildlife. On a recent Sunday, at least 15 great blue
herons and as many snowy egrets and ibises perched in trees and sailed overhead.
Chattering kingfishers dove from magnolia trees into thick palmettos, then rose
back again to their branches.

Among the day's few kayakers, Homosassa Springs resident Nick Nickerson searched
the Chassahowitzka River for alligators.

"I only saw a couple, but I saw four or five otters," he says, explaining that
he often kayaks in the area just to see alligators.

"I get a thrill seeing [alligators]. They're so wild," he says before paddling
off, sitting under a colorful umbrella attached to his kayak.

Refuge wildlife biologist Joyce Kleen says the best time to see birds is in the
winter, when white pelicans by the thousands come here. The refuge also is home
to raccoons, bobcats, manatees, Florida black bears and dolphins in the higher
tides.

The Chassahowitzka draws locals and out-of-town visitors, many of whom stay in
the Chassahowitzka River Campground. The park has recreational vehicle and tent
sites, a bathhouse, camp store and boat ramp. Sites rent for $14 to $18 a night.


Watercolorist's Works Prized

Marian Fox, a humanities instructor at Central Florida Community College in
nearby Lecanto, says Homer visited the Homosassa area at least twice after 1904.
His watercolors of the area are among some of the most admired of the 700
watercolors he painted, she says.

Homer died of a stroke in Maine in 1910, and his fame grew after his death. Not
long ago, Microsoft founder Bill Gates paid $30.8 million for one of Homer's oil
paintings.

The scenery that sparked Homer's Florida legacy lives on, too.

"In spite of all the changes," Fox says, "there are some places around here
where you can still see the Florida jungle he painted."

(CHART) Taking Refuge
Tips for the trip to Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge
How to get there: The refuge is about 60 miles north of Tampa and Pinellas
County on the Gulf coast in Hernando and Citrus counties. Access is only by
boat. The Chassahowitzka River Campground, off Miss Maggie Drive (County Road
480) in Hernando County, is a good place to put in a canoe, kayak or motorboat.
To get there, take the Suncoast Parkway north until it ends at U.S. 98. Head
west, and cross U.S. 19 onto Miss Maggie Drive. Take that 1.8 miles to the
campground on the right. Look for the signs. Parking is $1.50.
Canoe rentals: The campground's store rents canoes for $10 for four hours and
$15 for eight hours; the price includes parking. The store sells water, soft
drinks, sandwiches and snacks.
Camping: The campground has a bathhouse and shaded spaces for RVs and tents.
Sites range from $14 to $18 a night. Weekly and monthly rates also are
available.
For more information: Call the campground at (352) 382-2200.
Call the wildlife refuge at (352) 563-2088, or see www.chassahowitzka.fws.gov/

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C) MAP CHART
National Gallery of Art

(C) During a five-week visit to the Homosassa area, Winslow Homer painted "The
Red Shirt" and 10 more watercolors. His favorite pastime was fishing.
Tribune photos by KAREN HAYMON LONG

(2C) Nick Nickerson sits under an umbrella for shade as he paddles his kayak
along the Chassahowitzka River. The Homosassa Springs resident enjoys spotting
wildlife, especially alligators. Islands of towering palm trees, left, still
skirt the Gulf of Mexico coastal area as they did about 100 years ago, when
Homer put them on his canvases.
Tribune photo by KAREN HAYMON LONG

(C) Teenagers play in the crystal-clear water fed by one of the larger springs
in the Chassahowitzka River. The spring, a few minutes by canoe from the
Chassahowitzka River Campground, is 45 feet deep and pumps 350,000 gallons a
day.
Tribune map

(C) (map) Chassahowitzka River

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 2, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Danka To Move HQ Across Road

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS , tjackovics@tampatrib.com; Reporter Ted Jackovics can be
reached at (813) 259-7817.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words


COMPANY SELLING OFF PROPERTY TO LEASE INSTEAD

ST. PETERSBURG - Danka Business Systems will move its headquarters across the
highway by next summer in a lease arrangement that means the copier services
company no longer will own real estate.

The net cash result for the move will be a wash, said Sanjay Sood, senior vice
president of marketing and finance. The work force at the new site will stay at
about 600, Sood said.

"The move gets us out of the real estate [holdings] business and we believe will
result in savings in the future," he said. "Plus we will be more consolidated in
the new complex."

Corporate Property Associates 14 Inc. will pay $31.4 million for three underused
buildings Danka controlled in an operating lease agreement at 11101 Roosevelt
Blvd. The buildings, including an unfinished 157,000-square-foot building that
will become administrative headquarters, are directly across Roosevelt Boulevard
from Danka's current headquarters complex.

In exchange, Danka will pay $21.2 million to terminate financing and other costs
for the complex, $7.7 million for improvements for the new headquarters, and the
remainder in closing and other costs. The result is no cash changes hands.

Danka said last month it sold three buildings at its current headquarters
complex. It will vacate and sell the remaining three buildings.

Danka also said Tuesday that it extended its credit with its bank lenders for
two years through March 2006, for loans and a line of credit totaling $221
million. Danka will pay about 9.3 percent interest.

Danka was pleased to get the extension during a difficult lending period, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Wolfinger said in a release. Danka can seek better terms
if the lending climate improves.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 21, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Abuse Of Elderly

BYLINE: CANDACE J. SAMOLINSKI , csamolinski@tampatrib.com; Reporter Candace J.
Samolinski can be reached at (813) 948-4215.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words


Many victims - dependent on their abusers - fear reporting it.

They came of age in a time when women kept secrets to preserve wedding vows and
there were no social workers waiting in the wings to help.

Today's social climate might be different, but for many senior citizens, it's
still taboo to report domestic violence.

"This generation grew up in the Great Depression, and their families couldn't
afford to let them move back home after they got married, even if their husbands
began abusing them," said Kathy Cornwell, a senior advocate with the Area Agency
on Aging of Pasco-Pinellas. "So they learned to deal with it, and some have paid
quite a price."

As victims age, domestic violence takes on a new twist because unlike the young,
older people may find themselves dependent upon their spouses for care.

Worse yet are the personality changes associated with Alzheimer's disease that
can make an already violent domestic situation worse or bring about violence in
an otherwise peaceful household.

"A lot of people think if a couple has been married 50 years or more, their
lives together must be happy ones," Cornwell said. "That's not always true."
Florida has the fourth largest number of residents 60 or older. According to the
U.S. Census, nearly 27 percent of Pasco's population is older than 65. National
studies have shown 41 of every 1,000 couples who are 65 or older will be
involved in domestic violence. Of those, 58 percent of abuse is inflicted by a
spouse, compared to 24 percent of abuse committed by the victim's children.

This year, the state Department of Elder Affairs in conjunction with the Florida
Coalition Against Domestic Violence began a campaign titled "Domestic Violence
Does Not Respect Age." It's targeted at elderly persons in abusive situations
and puts them in touch with agencies that can help.

Domestic violence differs legally from the crime of elder abuse because it's
committed against an adult who is physically and mentally healthy, and occurs at
the hands of a spouse or companion, senior advocates say.

Educating seniors who may have come to see abuse as a way of life about the many
forms of domestic violence can be difficult, said Michele Anderson, director of
the Salvation Army Domestic Violence Program of West Pasco.

"Not allowing someone to go to the doctor or make friends, withholding
medication or over-medicating someone - people don't always think of this as
domestic violence," she said. "A lot of seniors who are being abused by their
kids are afraid to tell anyone for fear their kids are going to put them away."

Other victims fear for the lives of their pets, which may have been their only
source of love and comfort during years of abuse.

"There may be threats that if the victim doesn't do what the abuser wants, they
will kill or give away their pet," Anderson said. "This kind of thing goes on
much more than we realize."

Convincing victims to reach out to community resources for help is difficult.
However, once a victim files a police report, they can become eligible for state
and federal funding available for victims. This can make a big difference for
senior citizens on fixed incomes or dependent upon their abusers for financial
support.

"There are programs out there to help someone get a new Social Security number
or get money to help them start a new life," Anderson said. "All they have to do
is be willing to trust someone enough to ask for help."

For information about help for domestic violence victims, call the Area Agency
on Aging of Pasco-Pinellas at (727) 849-0865.

To report domestic violence, call 1-800-500-1119. To report elder abuse, call
1-800-963-5337. In an emergency situation, dial 911.

(CHART) (C) ABUSE AMONG SENIORS RARELY REPORTED
Domestic violence against seniors by their spouses, children and caregivers is a
rarely reported but serious problem, aging experts say. Victim advocates from
the Area Agency on Aging of Pasco-Pinellas use this cycle of family violence
wheel to illustrate behaviors abusers employ to control victims. A number of
local programs are available to assist seniors in domestic violence situations,
including state and federal funding to help battered spoused start a new life.
Abusing dependencies or neglecting
Takes walker, wheelchair, glasses, dentures
Takes advantage of confusion
Denies or makes you wait for food, heat, care or medication
Does not report medical problems
Understands but fails to follow medical, therapy or safety recommendations
Makes you miss medical appointments
Ridiculing values or spirituality
Denies access to church or clergy
Makes fun of personal values
Ignores or ridicules religious or cultural traditions
Emotional abuse
Humiliates, demeans, ridicules
Yells, insults, calls names
Degrades, blames
Withholds affection
Uses silence or profanity
Engages in behavior to make you doubt sanity
Using family members
Magnifies disagreements
Misleads family members about extent, nature of illnesses or conditions
Excludes or denies access to family
Forces family to keep secrets
Isolation
Controls what you do, who you see and where you go
Limits time with friends and family
Denies access to phone or mail
Using privilege
Treats you like a servant
Makes all major decisions
Financial exploitation
Steals money, titles or possessions
Takes over accounts, bills and spending without permission
Abuses power of attorney
Threats and intimidation
Threatens to leave, divorce, commit suicide or institutionalize
Abuses or kills pets or prized livestock
Destroys property
Displays or threatens with weapons
Source: Area Agency on Aging of Pasco-Pinellas

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C) CHART (C)
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

(C) Victim advocate Kathy Cornwell discusses the problem of elderly abuse during
a recent seminar at the New Port Richey Library.
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

Michele Anderson says educating the elderly about the many forms of domestic
violence can be difficult.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 24, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 579 words



Al-Arian's Views Are Protected By First Amendment

In "Al-Arian vs. USF: Probing A Great Legal Mind" (Commentary, Nov. 17),
Professor Lionel Lewis distorts both the views of U.S. Supreme Court Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. and the current status of First Amendment law.

In 1919, Holmes formulated the "clear and present danger" test to clarify when
the government may punish "dangerous" speech. However, both Holmes and the
Supreme Court subsequently came to define the phrase in a way that is quite
different from that asserted by Lewis.

Holmes dissented when the court applied the test to uphold the conviction of
Jacob Abrams, a Russian immigrant, who distributed leaflets that attacked the
U.S. government for intervening in Russia after World War I and urged a general
strike. Holmes believed the government could punish speech that created a "clear
and present danger," but he concluded that Abrams' expressions and exhortations
did not meet that test. He dissented again in 1925, when the court upheld
Benjamin Gitlow's conviction for publishing a manifesto that urged general
strikes and condemned moderates who sought change through political action.
Holmes argued, "The government must show that speech poses a real and immediate
danger to be punishable."
The Supreme Court gradually adopted Holmes' idea that speech cannot by punished
unless it is likely to result in immediate danger. In 1957 the court overturned
the Smith Act (which made it illegal to conspire to overthrow the U.S.
government) convictions of Yates and other American Communists, holding that
their advocacy "though uttered with the hope it may ultimately lead to violent
revolution, is too remote from concrete action" to be punishable. In Brandenburg
vs. Ohio (1969), the Supreme Court overturned an Ohio statute used to convict a
Klansman (Brandenburg) for seditious speech and established the test courts now
use to determine when government might punish "subversive or seditious speech."
To be illegal, a speaker must explicitly incite "immediate" lawless action and
the "immediate" action must be "likely to occur."

More than 10 years ago in a different political and social context, Sami
Al-Arian made statements calling for "death to Israel" and damning the United
States for supporting Israel against the Palestinians. I do not share his views,
but they are clearly protected by the First Amendment. Today, we are threatened
by a clandestine terrorist organization, not the decade-old utterances of a
college professor who advocates an unpopular cause. While we deal with the
threat posed by al-Qaida, we can tolerate dissenting political views. If the
government has or acquires evidence that Al-Arian committed a crime, charge him
for specific illegal actions, not for his political speech.

Reading Holmes' famous dissents, I believe he would deplore Al-Arian's
statements but affirm his right to make them. This is precisely the course that
University of South Florida President Judy Genshaft and the board of trustees
should have taken. Freedom of speech means nothing if exercising it results in
the loss of your job. This is particularly important if your employer is a great
public university. In the current climate and since many know I am employed by
USF, I will make explicit what should be self-evident: My views do not represent
those of USF.
MIKE PHENEGER
Tampa
The writer is treasurer of the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 20, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Bus Fuels Greenpeace's Environmental Fight

BYLINE: KATHY STEELE , ksteele@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kathy Steele can be
reached at (813) 259-7920.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words


GROUP SEEKS SUPPORT OF BUSH AND McBRIDE

TAMPA - Greenpeace is on the road with a solar-powered bus in search of an
environmental commitment from the two men running for Florida's governor.

On Friday, the bus, Rolling Sunlight, and two Greenpeace members got a warm
welcome at Bill McBride's campaign headquarters in Hyde Park. But there was no
hoped-for pledge to take a stand against global warming. Last week, Greenpeace
members met for 30 minutes with Gov. Jeb Bush and left disappointed.

"Neither one of them is there yet and providing the leadership we want to see,"
said Karl Riber, a global warming and energy campaigner with Greenpeace.

What the group wants is "bully pulpit" advocacy to pursue alternative fuel
sources, such as solar energy, Riber said. Greenpeace also wants Florida to join
25 other states that have global warming action plans.

Several of Florida's largest counties, including Hillsborough and Pinellas, have
approved resolutions in support of a state action plan.

McBride shares the concerns of Greenpeace and others about reducing greenhouse
gas emissions, said Tony Welch, a McBride spokesman. However, Friday was the
first time McBride's staff had heard about the action plan.

McBride has no position on the issue but will meet with Greenpeace about its
concerns, Welch added.

"It's important to reverse the effects of global warming," Welch said. "Florida
is especially vulnerable."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
WFLA-TV photo by PAUL LAMISON

Marcel Buob, right, of Greenpeace talks with Rick Minor, left, and Tony Welch of
Bill McBride's campaign staff in front of the group's solar-powered bus, Rolling
Sunlight, on Friday.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 30, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Yow's Coaching Journey Leads To Hall Of Fame

BYLINE: LENOX RAWLINGS , Media General News Service

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words


RALEIGH, N.C. - Kay Yow comes from a time before women's college basketball had
a pulse, but her time has long since come.

The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame applied the ultimate validation
Friday night, enshrining Yow as its 13th female inductee.

Yow learned the game's elements under a backyard goal her parents stuck in the
Piedmont, N.C., clay and rode basketball's rising global tide. Yow eventually
anchored her unplanned career at North Carolina State, where she turned a
rudimentary program into an established power.

She spread her name across oceans and gender gaps as coach of American gold
medalists at the 1986 World Championships and 1988 Olympics. Between those
adventures, Yow survived breast cancer through surgery and a vitamin-intensive
diet. Only one health problem bothers her today: the 10 pounds she packed on
during a recent recruiting tour.

The coaching journey seems far from over. Yow, 60, recently agreed to a new
contract that will keep her on the payroll five more seasons. The Wolfpack, who
reached the Final Four in 1998, slipped to 14-15 last winter. With five of the
top six scorers returning, however, Yow should improve her career record
(568-249 at State, 625-268, including four seasons at Elon).

In the audience Friday night was Hilton Yow, her 82-year-old father and lifelong
promoter, who made the trip to Springfield, Mass., only six months after
suffering a near-fatal stroke. He had brain surgery, heart surgery, a
tracheotomy.

"For over two months, he couldn't eat or even have a drop of water - nothing,"
Coach Yow said. "They put a peg in his stomach. He couldn't pass the swallow
test. If he took anything, it would go in his lungs. His heart actually stopped
at one point, and they had to resuscitate him. For close to 50 days, I drove
from here to Greensboro and back every day, starting March 20. ... He's had a
miraculous recovery. He walks with a cane. He's not paralyzed. He can drink and
eat anything now. He's been to every football game so far. I have a second
cousin who brings him up here."

Mrs. Yow encouraged her three daughters to play on the backyard goal, offering
house chores as the only alternative. Kay, born soon after the Japanese bombed
Pearl Harbor, set the Gibsonville (N.C.) High record with 52 points back when
three girls stayed on the offensive end and three others played defense.

Her playing career ended abruptly because East Carolina, like other large
colleges, did not field a team. After graduating in 1964, Yow took a job at High
Point's Allen Jay High despite the worrisome condition that she coach girls'
basketball.

Yow changed jobs to coach her youngest sister, Susan, at Gibsonville. Susan, now
the Providence head coach, soon became Kay's first All-America at Elon and
followed her to N.C. State.

"When Willis Casey hired me in 1975, I had no idea what I was really getting
into," Kay Yow said. "The day I accepted that job and arrived at N.C. State, he
said: "You need to order 18 home jerseys, 18 away jerseys and 18 warm-ups.' I
hadn't even had warm-ups anywhere I coached. We bought our own uniforms and
ironed our numbers on. ... That just blew me away, that one statement. I was
just on the tip of the iceberg."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Associated Press

North Carolina State coach Kay Yow became the 13th female inducted into the
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.

NOTES: WOMEN IN SPORTS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 13, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Baitfish Soon Will Head South For Winter

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT, fsargean@tampabay.rr.com

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words


If you're waiting for it to start happening, you've almost waited too long.

Anglers as far south as Boca Grande report that the fall baitfish migration from
the Panhandle to the Keys is now underway and the time to hit the water is right
now.

Gulf water temperature is still in the low 80s, normally much too warm for the
bait to migrate. But the bait are on the move, perhaps due to the shorter days.
The cooler weather allegedly headed our way should speed things up even more.

Bait schools are already attracting masses of bonito, Spanish mackerel,
ladyfish, jacks and bluefish, but the guests of honor, the kingfish, are not yet
at a peak.

Kings usually are pushed south by water temperatures of 70 or lower, but these
days - perhaps due to global warming - they often travel by the calendar more
than the thermometer.

Kings typically show up from late October through Thanksgiving, and often big
fish linger until Christmas. If enough food remains in the waters, the fish stay
late. If the bait moves south, the fish go with it.

Some anglers fishing off Tarpon Springs in the past week ran into a large school
of kings, but this appears to be the leading edge of the migration. Other
anglers have been making spotty catches here and there.

Todd Wood of St. Petersburg, fishing for Spanish mackerel off the beaches,
landed two 10-pound kings on 8-pound-test spinning tackle last week.

One of the more interesting reports has been an unseasonable massing of tarpon
off St. Pete Beach.

"There are big schools out there, in the same areas where the mackerel are,"
said captain Tom Tamanini of Tampa. "If you drop a sardine where the macks don't
get it, you hook up with the tarpon."

Finding the fish is usually not difficult - get out on the water at dawn and run
along the beaches a quarter- to a half-mile out and scan the horizon. Sooner or
later you'll see birds diving and fish jumping.

The best offering, by far, is a live threadfin, sardine or blue runner,
slow-trolled on a "stinger rig," with a treble hook dangling near the tail of
the bait to prevent short-strikers from getting away.

Many anglers also do well by anchoring off the beaches or outside the larger
passes, then making fresh chum by dumping threadfins into a meat grinder and
dribbling the remains over the side. In 30 minutes, the chum slick extends a
half-mile downtide, drawing in fish from a distance.

BIG REDFISH: Bob Icenogle of Ruskin, fishing for grouper in the ship channels of
Tampa Bay, recently ran into some unexpected customers.

"We were trolling Mann's Plus 25 diving plugs in about 27 feet when all four
rods went down," said Icenogle. "Two of those fish straightened the hooks, which
is amazing considering how strong those hooks are. One fish just got off, and we
got the last one in. It was the biggest redfish I have ever seen, and it had a
half-dozen the same size swimming with it."

How big was the red?

"I lifted it into the boat just to actually see how big it was, and when I
lifted it shoulder high, the tail was still on the deck so I think that fish was
close to five feet long," said Icenogle.

MONSTER COBIA: Captain Art Paiva of Ruskin ran into another mystery fish last
week inside Bishop's Harbor.

"I had on a snook almost two feet long, and all of a sudden it got really
heavy," said Paiva. "I looked into the water and there was a monster cobia with
my snook halfway down its throat!"

Paiva said he had never seen a cobia so big in Tampa, and had never seen any
cobia in Bishop's Harbor before.

He said the monster finally let go of the snook at boatside, and swam off before
he could offer it a sardine.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FRANK SARGEANT

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               90 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 26, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Women Work Way To Front

BYLINE: BILL WARD, wward@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words


AMERICAN MEN FADE TO BACK

TAMPA - At the International Triathlon Union's first World Cup race of the 2002
season two weeks ago in Australia, Barb Lindquist of Wyoming noticed something
peculiar about the men's field - no Americans had bothered to show up for the
event.

So, while she and another American woman, Siri Lindley, reached the awards
podium with a 2-3 finished, U.S. males were nowhere to be found.

It's not the first time American men have been conspicuously absent from the
global stage. In the year-end ITU world rankings for 2001, the top American was
Longwood's Hunter Kemper, who held the No. 27 spot. Six of the top 10 places
where held by men from Australia and New Zealand. Lindley finished the 2001
season ranked No. 1, Lindquist was No. 3 and Joanna Zeiger of Baltimore was
12th.

At Saturday's ITU St. Anthony's Triathlon World Cup race in St. Petersburg,
Lindquist is seeded No. 1 in the 56-woman field, North Palm Beach's Laura Reback
is fourth and Zeiger, who won the race two years ago and was fourth at the
Sydney Olympics, holds the No. 7 bib. In the 100-plus men's list, Kemper (22)
and Californian Victor Plata (23) are the top U.S. seeds.

Considering American men were the ones who invented the triathlon some 25 years
ago and U.S. icons such as Mark Allen, Dave Scott, Scott Tinley and Scott Molina
helped popularize the sport around the world with their Ironman exploits, why
are American women now their nation's flag bearers?

Lindquist says there's no secret to her success and that of other U.S. women.

"I think U.S. women embraced the idea of going overseas to race with the best
and train with the best," said Lindquist, who was a successful swimmer prior to
taking up triathlons. "It doesn't always pan out the first year and it's a big
sacrifice. But to be your best, you have to face the rest of the world
eventually."

After turning pro in 1996, Lindquist has spent the past five winters training
and racing in Australia. In her first two years, Lindquist said she barely broke
even because of travel and expenses. But now, at 32, she's among the best and
most consistent triathletes in the world.

Already in 2002, Lindquist has won the Aussie Sprint triathlon (events shorter
than the Olympic distance) series, becoming the first non-Australian to take the
title.

USA Triathlon executive director Steve Locke agrees with Lindquist about the
lack of travel by the top U.S. men in the sport. But he also believes that when
triathlon was first approved for the 2000 Olympic program in 1995, American
males were slow to warm up to the idea of the draft-legal format on the bike
leg.

"At that time, some of our top American men, like Mike Pigg and Jimmy
Riccitello, avoided ITU [drafting] races because cycling was their strongest
leg," Locke said. "That took away what they felt was their big advantage in a
triathlon."

Meanwhile, Locke said, the rest of the world accepted the drafting format and
learned how to use it to their advantage. The up-and-coming American men in the
sport seem to have accepted drafting as a reality on the ITU level but there
still are numerous prize-money triathlons in the United States where drafting is
not allowed.

Among them is Ironman Hawaii, easily the most prestigious and most famous
triathlon in the world, and Mrs. T's in Chicago. Kemper, who had the highest
profile of any American triathlete prior to and during the Sydney Games,
believes that as long as there are American races like these offering big money
in no-draft formats, many top American men will be missing from ITU races.

"When it comes to ITU races, a lot of U.S. guys say "forget this' because their
sponsors could care less about how they do at a race in Japan or Australia,"
Kemper said. "With the exposure they can get here in the U.S., it's just not
worth it for some guys to go overseas."

Kemper said he has no problem with nondraft races like St. Anthony's. In fact,
he likes the excitement it creates. With cyclists packing up in large groups to
draft, the race is often decided in the closing stages of the run. Kemper says
that makes the sport "very TV friendly."

But what to do about the lack of American men in those ITU rankings that will
eventually determine how many slots a country gets in the next Olympics? St.
Anthony's is the lone ITU race in the United States and there are just two in
Canada this season. USA Triathlon recently upgraded its stipend and travel
reimbursement program for elite athletes and with that money and other
incentives, Locke says he's not too worried - not yet, anyway.

"It [the ITU rankings by U.S. men] will concern me if I don't see them near the
top at the end of the year," Locke said. "I'm confident we have the talent to
compete with any nation if we can get them to the starting line."

(CHART) TRIATHLON FACTS
WHAT: St. Anthony's Triathlon Weekend
WHEN: Today through Sunday
WHERE: Straub Park and North Shore Pool, downtown St. Petersburg
SCHEDULE: Today - Quintana Roo Multi-Sport Expo, Straub Park. Saturday - Meek &
Mighty Triathlon for youths and first-timers, North Shore Pool, 8 a.m.-10 a.m.;
ITU St. Anthony's Triathlon World Cup for professionals, Straub Park, noon
(women) and 2:30 p.m. (men). Sunday - St. Anthony's Triathlon for amateurs,
Straub Park, 7:30 a.m.
REGISTRATION: Pro and amateur divisions closed; Meek & Mighty on site Saturday.
MORE INFORMATION: http://www.satriathlon.com/ or (727) 825-1271.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) CHART MAP 3
Getty Images

(C) Barb Lindquist is the top-seeded woman in Saturday's ITU St. Anthony's
Triathlon in St. Petersburg.
Tribune maps by CAITLIN HOPE WRIGHT (3) COURSE ROUTES

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 5, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Across The Region

BYLINE: ELLEN GEDALIUS; GARY SPROTT; ELLEN GEDALIUS; WILL RODGERS, A staff
report

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1092 words


HIGHLANDS Lake Istokpoga To Get New Park

LAKE PLACID - A 38-acre park will be developed at Windy Point off Highlands Lake
Drive, at Lake Istokpoga, after a unanimous vote this week of the Highlands
County Commission.

Commissioners approved two agreements with the landowner and the Florida Fish
and Wildlife Conservation Commission, which will allow improvements to the
vacant land. A county boat ramp, one of four around Lake Istokpoga, is adjacent
to the property.

Parks and Recreation Director Vicki Pontius said no county money would be used
for the project.

A public hearing will be held in two months on a proposed application for an
unspecified amount of Florida Recreation Development Assistance Program funding.

BOB BALGEMANN; JIM TUNSTALL

HILLSBOROUGH
Kelton Health Center Set To Open On Time

Wait times for patients could be cut in half at the Kelton Health Center,
scheduled to open this month on Hillsborough County school district property.

The $1.7 million project will be finished on budget and on time, said Drew
Drabik, health center administrator. Doors will open at 7:30 a.m. July 22. The
old clinic will be closed July 17 through July 19 as staff members move from
portables to the new building.

In the 1990s, Kelton's Community Planning Advisory Council, Port Tampa
neighborhood groups and local groups made a new center their goal.

The current clinic operates out of three cramped portables on Montgomery Avenue.
Babies are examined in hallways, storage space is limited and the roof leaks.

The new 10,000-square-foot building is about twice the size and located next to
Lanier Elementary School. The school will have a nurse's station in the center.

Kelton Health Center is a satellite clinic of the Hillsborough County Health
Department, which is part of the Florida Department of Health. The clinic
handles about 8,000 patient visits annually.


County Bar Association Honors 4 Lawyers

TAMPA - The Trial Lawyers Section of the Hillsborough County Bar Association has
honored four people for contributions to the legal profession.

Tampa lawyer William Reece Smith received the Herb Goldberg Award, given to a
"senior statesman" of the local Bar, said Jim Felman, the section's past
chairman.

The James Kynes Award for excellence in criminal law was given to Assistant U.S.
Attorney Robert Mosakowski, the first prosecutor to receive the honor.

Tampa lawyer David Maney received the Michael Fogarty Award for excellence in
civil law, Felman said.

Carrie Williams, assistant to U.S. Magistrate Thomas Wilson, also was honored.

The awards were presented at the Bar's annual luncheon Monday.


Principals Seek To Build Covered Play Courts

TAMPA - The principals of Chiaramonte and Ballast Point elementary schools are
searching for money to build covered play courts, which cost about $100,000.

Few Hillsborough County schools have the coverings, and the state Department of
Education does not include them in its minimal standards to build schools.

Covered courts are needed in Florida, several educators said. All Pasco County
elementary schools have them, paid for by the district.

In Hillsborough, the price puts them out of reach for most Parent Teacher
Associations, even with the $50,000 district match.

Tampa Palms Elementary got a covered play court in the early 1990s, thanks
mostly to a generous PTA, Principal Betty Lou Turner said.

In south Tampa, Mabry Elementary School benefited from a $25,000 donation from a
family whose children and grandchildren attended the school. The PTA also played
a significant role in funding the $150,000 court, Principal Joyce Wieland said.


PASCO
Pasco Attacks Mosquitoes Where They Breed

ODESSA - Much-needed downpours are spawning mosquitoes.

Throughout the weekend and on Monday, trucks and helicopters sprayed areas
around Pasco County where mosquitoes are breeding, said Jim Robinson, the head
of Pasco County Mosquito Control.

Mosquito control is operating six trucks on double shifts and flying two
helicopters to spray larvicide.

"There are a bunch of [mosquitoes] around now," Robinson said. "We're doing our
level best to get to these critters before they become too much of a nuisance."

Marc Yacht, director of the Pasco County Health Department, said there has been
no outbreak of West Nile virus or Eastern Equine encephalitis. But last year's
scare didn't come until later in the summer, he said.


PINELLAS
Kayaking Trip Planned In Support Of Earth Charter

CLEARWATER - A moonlight-kayaking trip is planned for those interested in the
Earth Charter.

The event is planned on flat water along a river and on Tampa Bay. Participants
will supply food and drinks.

Earth Charter, a document written by an international contingent, spells out
principles of building a just, sustainable and peaceful global society. The plan
is to present it to the United Nations in September for endorsements.

The trip will start at 7 p.m. Wednesday and last about two hours. Osprey Bay
Kayaks will supply the launch point and boats.

To participate, call Osprey Bay Kayaks at (727) 524-9670 and ask for the Earth
Charter sign-up list.

Those with boats should e-mail josegovic@yahoo.com so organizers know how many
people are expected.

Boat and equipment rental starts at $20 for a single boat and $30 for tandem
boats.

Osprey Bay is at 17910 U.S. 19 N. in Clearwater. Participants should arrive
about 6:30 p.m.


CITRUS
FPC Canals Stay Off Limits To Boats

CRYSTAL RIVER - Two of Citrus County's better fishing holes will remain off
limits to anglers and boaters, at least for the foreseeable future.

The intake and discharge canals at Florida Power Corp.'s generating complex long
have been favorite haunts of fishermen.

The warm-water discharge canal was particularly attractive in winter when fish
sought refuge in it. That was closed about three years ago for liability
reasons, FPC spokesman Mack Harris said. In late November, the Coast Guard made
the intake canal and other waters up to three miles from the complex off limits
for security reasons, a post-Sept. 11 step to limit access to FPC's nuclear
power plant.

Although there hasn't been a specific threat to the plant, authorities say there
have been terrorist threats against nuclear plants in general.

The site also has four coal plants.

The no-access zone was to have expired late last month, but the Coast Guard says
it will remain in place another six months.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACROSS THE REGION

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               93 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 11, 2002, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Tournament Takes Anglers Into Blue Yonder

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT , fsargean@tampabay.rr.com

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 712 words


Running 100 miles offshore before wetting a line is a bit much for most anglers,
but for at least 20 boats participating in the Old Salt Loop Tournament this
Thursday through Saturday, that's likely to be just the starting point.

The winners of last year's event found most of their fish, including two blue
marlin, about 135 miles out in 1,400 feet of water, and the second-place boat
traveled up to 200 miles out to depths of 10,000 feet.

The Old Salt event offers anglers an opportunity to probe deep into the Gulf
with plenty of company nearby in case something goes wrong. It's a run most
recreational boats don't try on their own, because it's a heck of a long swim if
worst comes to worst.

The attraction of fishing so far out is the "pelagic," or bluewater, fish found
there. Because the continental shelf extends 100 miles out along Florida's west
coast, these fish are not often seen close to shore. But they abound along the
edge of the drop-off and beyond, where the depth increases rapidly from about
200 feet to more than 1,000 feet.

Among the species taken regularly are blue marlin (to 400 pounds), sailfish,
wahoo, dolphin and blackfin and yellowfin tuna.

Oceanographers say that in addition to the rapid drop-off, the Gulf Loop Current
contributes to the good fishing at "The Edge." The loop is a stream of warm salt
water that runs north into the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean. It splits off
the mouth of the Mississippi River, with part looping down the coast of Texas,
part looping down the continental shelf off Florida. (The loop sometimes
meanders inshore, as it did this spring, bringing sails and dolphin within 5
miles of the beaches, but more commonly it's found 100 miles out and beyond.)

The current creates vast rips filled with floating sargasso weed, and the weed
provides the food-chain base.

It's common to see tiny sargasso fish and other plant imitators floating in the
weeds, larger baitfish below them eating these smaller fish, and dolphin below
them attacking the bait. And much deeper wait the blue marlin, tuna and wahoo
that eat the dolphin. Mako and blue sharks, along with thousands of porpoises
and the occasional whale, add to the bluewater spectacle.

Anglers bring the gamefish to the surface by pulling big lures at speeds amazing
to those accustomed to the slower pace of inshore fishing. Trolling speeds of 8
to 15 knots are not uncommon, and the offshore speedsters seem to have no
problem running down the big lures used in this tactic.

Anglers pursuing sails and dolphin often pull rigged ballyhoo, mullet or flying
fish at slower speeds, 4 to 8 knots, and those concentrating on tuna sometimes
stop the boat completely, toss cut or live chum overboard, and lure the fish
with free-lined blue runners or other baitfish.

Needless to say, fishing this far out requires a big boat with lots of fuel
capacity. Most anglers prefer hulls 40 feet and up, powered by diesels, for the
run.

However, the new high-pressure, direct-injection two-stroke and the big V6
four-stroke outboards, both much more fuel-efficient than earlier OBs, are
opening these waters to smaller boats. The outboards offer more speed and
maneuverability offshore, though the smaller rigs lack the creature comforts for
overnighting.

Long-range navigation equipment is also a must; global positioning systems allow
anglers to come back to their home inlets without any complicated calculations.

Communications gear is also necessary. The cell phones that have now nearly
replaced VHF radios inshore don't work at all offshore, because of the distance
to the nearest towers. So a good VHF is essential for keeping in touch with
nearby boats, and a single-sideband radio or satellite phone is needed if you
want to relay messages back to land.

The Old Salt tournament awards $10,000 to the top boat. The captains' meeting is
Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Longboat Key Moorings, 2600 Harbourside Drive in Longboat
Key. Fishing hours are 6 a.m. Friday to 9 p.m. Saturday, with weigh-ins at
Longboat Key Moorings at 1 p.m. next Sunday. All billfish are photographed and
released, but wahoo, tuna and dolphin can be weighed in. For details, call (727)
346-0498 or (941) 383-8383 or visit www.oldsaltfishing club.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FRANK SARGEANT OUTDOORS

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               95 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 29, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

VIDEO GAMES

BYLINE: WES PHILLIPS

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!, Pg. 45

LENGTH: 229 words


UNREAL CHAMPIONSHIP

System: Microsoft Xbox

Publisher: Infogrames

Reviewer's rating: A

ESRB rating: Mature

Game type: First-person shooter

Kind of like: "Halo"

Best feature: Blasting people from around the globe using the Xbox Live service.

Worst feature: The default control settings are too sensitive. This can be
easily fixed by reducing the sensitivity in the options menu.

The bottom line: "Unreal Championship" is the hyper cousin of "Halo." This
first-person shooter doesn't have the attention span to form a meaningful plot
but more than makes up for it with speed and carnage. It isn't meant to be
played alone, since the single-player mode just feels like a warm-up for its
real purpose.

"UC" is the marquee title for the launch of Xbox Live. Online PC gamers are
familiar with the "Unreal" series and the translation to a console system should
even please seasoned Internet warriors.

There are numerous maps and six game modes - Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch,
Survival, Capture the Flag, Bombing Run and Double Domination. New maps and game
modes will be downloadable in the future - and maybe new vehicles, too.

Using the Xbox Communicator helps organize the chaos with multiple audio
channels and the global stat tracking is comprehensive.

Trade in that keyboard and mouse for the couch; fragging has never been this
comfortable.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VIDEO GAMES TECH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               96 of 96 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 20, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Obituaries

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3651 words


ANH, Lam Thi, 92, of Wisconsin, passed away December 17, 2002. She is survived
by her daughter, Diep N. Gotich and her husband, Tom of Dover.

Hopewell Funeral Home

& Cemetery

(813) 737-3128

Family owned and operated


CAIN, Joan F., 59, of Thonotosassa, died Dec. 11, 2002. SUrvived by one son; two
daughters; two brothers; one sister; and four grandchildren. Eastside Funeral
Home, Tampa.

CANNELLA, Mary Lou, 64, of Tampa, passed away on December 17, 2002 after a
courageous battle against cancer. Her husband, Stephen I. Cannella, her parents
and sister, preceded her in death. Survivors include one son, Stephen M.
Cannella of Tampa; daughters, Kathleen Courtney and husband, Brent of McCall,
Idaho, Lori Cannella of Tampa and Deanna Gaylor and husband, Ron of Tampa;
grandchildren, Dustin, Stephanie, and Daniel Wallace, Kyle, Heather, and Daniel
Gaylor; and brothers-in-law, George and Eugene (and wife Nina) Cannella. Mary
Lou was born in Ft. Worth, Texas. She graduated from the Academy of Holy Names
in Tampa in 1956. She was retired from the Hillsborough County School System
where she was a teacher's aide for 15 years. Mary Lou showed great empathy
toward others by always putting the feelings and needs of others, before her
own. Her fortitude and sense of humor greatly inspired all who knew her. She was
a beloved mother and grandmother whose warm smile, generosity, and caring nature
will be deeply missed by all. Honorary Pallbearers include George and Eugene
Cannella, Kyle Gaylor, and Larry Coombs. The Cannella family expresses
appreciation to LifePath Hospice of Tamp a for their professionalism and
compassion. Funeral services will be Saturday, 10 a.m. at the funeral home
chapel. Entombment to follow at Garden of Memories Cemetery. Family will receive
friends Friday from 7-9 p.m.

BLOUNT CURRY & ROEL

Carrollwood Chapel

(813) 968-2231


CORNYN, Charles A. Jr. "Chud", age 81, of Tampa, died on Monday, December 16,
2002. He was the beloved husband of the late, Catherine "Kitty" McCaffrey
Cornyn; father of Ann Cornyn Murphy of Tampa, Charles A. Cornyn III of Ft.
Pierce, Fla., Daniel, James and Michael, all of Pittsburgh, Pa.; grandfather of
Alexis and Austin Murphy and Lauren Cornyn; son of Elizabeth (Murtha) and the
late, Charles A. Cornyn, Sr.. He is also survived by siblings, family and
friends. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held in the Oratory, Pittsburgh, Pa.
on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. If desired, contributions may be made to the Campaign
of the Heart for the Restoration of Sacred Heart Church, Tampa.

McCabe Bros., Inc. Funeral

Homes, Pittsburg, Pa.


DEESE, Duell, 85, of Tampa, died Tuesday, December 17, 2002. He was born in
Cullman, Ala. and moved to this area in 1964. He was a 30 year Air Force Veteran
serving in World War II, The Korean Conflict and Vietnam. He also retired from
the Hillsborough Co. Water Dept. after 10 years. He is predeceased by his wife
of 57 years, Fannie Belle Deese; and one son, Robert Tatum. He was a devoted
husband, father and grandfather and is survived by his daughters, Christine
Carter of Panama City, Fla. and Donna Davis of Brandon; sons, Bryant Deese and
Ronnie Deese of Tampa and William Tatum of Panama City, Fla.; brothers, Buell
Deese and Jean Deese; one sister, Merle Welch; 11 grandchildren; six
great-grand-children; and four great-great-grandchildren. Visitation will be
December 20, 2002 from 6-8 p.m. with services on December 21, 2002 at 2 p.m.,
both at Hillsboro Memorial F.H.

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


FIELDS, Ila Thompson, deceased December 17, 2002, is survived by her son and his
wife, Ernest and Doriece Wallace; four grandchildren; six great-grandchildren;
and many beloved family and friends. Funeral services will be held in Durham,
N.C.

MARSICANO-B. MARION REED

STOWERS

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


FRITZ, Mariann, 92, of Largo, died Dec. 18, 2002. Survived by sons, Edward and
Arthur Carpentieri; 10 grandchildren; 11 great-grandchildren; and two
great-great-grandchildren. Hubbell Funeral Home.

GAUBECA, Felix A., 78, of Tampa, passed away Dec. 18, 2002. Survivors include
his wife, Maria Gaubeca; and son, Hugo A. Gaubeca.

GONZALEZ FUNERAL HOME

(813) 931-1833

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


GRIFFIN, Margaret C. "Margie", 76, of Dover, passed away on December 19, 2002.
She was a lifelong resident of Florida, a Protestant, and a loving mother,
grandmother and friend. She is survived by her daughters, Peggy Huffer, Terry
Steinacker, Sheri Griffin, and Patty Harper; brother, Richard Claville; sisters,
Jo Barnwell, Totsie Harrell and Ann Wheeler; six grand-children; and two
great-grand-children. Graveside Services will be held on Saturday, December 21,
2002 at 10 a.m. at Hillsboro Memorial Gardens. Hillsboro Memorial Funeral Home.

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


GYDEN, Clement A., of Tampa, died December 11, 2002. Survived by parents,
Clarence and Mary; brothers, Clarence Jr. and Christopher; sister, Secrett. Ray
Williams Funeral Home, 253-3419.

HEADLEY, David M., 59, of Tampa, passed away on December 18, 2002. He is
survived by his sisters, Winell Rodriguez and Jean Hansen.

Hillsboro Memorial F.H.

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


HOPPER, David D., 40, of St. Petersburg, died Dec. 16, 2002. Survived by
parents; one brother; one sister; and two nephews.

American Heritage Cremation


JAMES, Elizabeth Belin Heath, of Tampa, passed away Dec. 13, 2002. Funeral
service will be Saturday, Dec. 21, 2002 at 12 Noon at Mt. Tabor M.B. Church,
2606 W. Grace St. with Rev. T.D. Leonard, Pastor, officiating. Interment will
follow in Memorial Park Cemetery. Survivors include two sons, Ronald (Sadarria)
James, Sr. and Theron (Annette) James, Sr.; one daughter, Belinda (Richard)
Houston; 11 grand-children; eight great-grand-children; one
great-great-granddaughter; one sister, Mattie B. Brady; one aunt, Cora Chattine;
and one godson, Dea Keith Smalley. Viewing will be Friday from 5-8 p.m. at
Everett- Derr & Anderson Funeral Home.

KELLER, Elizabeth, 68, of Lakeland, died Dec. 15, 2002. She is survived by two
daughters; two sons; one brother; and one sister.

Heath Funeral Chapel


KENDRICK, Norman R., 71, passed away December 18, 2002. He is survived by one
brother, Donald and his wife, Barbara; nephews, Mike and Kevin; and nieces,
Donna and Kathe. National Cremation.

KIEFER, Frank Sr., 84, of Lakeland, died Dec. 18, 2002. Survived by daughter,
Janet Franklin; son, Frank Kiefer Jr.; four grandchildren; and two
great-grandchildren. Ott-Laughlin Funeral Home.

KNIGHT, Dolores (Dori), of Sun City Center, Fla., formerly of Key Largo, Fla.,
passed away on December 13, 2002 after a long battle with cancer. She joined her
beloved son, David Gene; her father, Eugene; and her mother, Anna, who preceded
her in death. Dori is survived by her loving husband, Judge Phillip W. Knight
(retired); two brothers; and her daughters, Frances of Key West, Della of
Pompano Beach, Monica of Key Largo, Anita of Temple Terrace and their spouses.
In addition to loving step-children, she leaves behind many grandchildren,
great-grandchildren and dear friends. A former judicial assistant of Monroe
County, she retired in 1992. Her life was celebrated by immediate family at a
private service. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests a donation in her honor
to your local American Cancer Society or raise a glass and toast to her love of
life. Arrangements by Sun City Center Funeral Home, Sun City Center, Fla.,
634-9900.

KUPPERS, John "Jay", 60, of Lakeland, died Dec. 17, 2002. Survived by wife,
Leslie Kuppers; two sons; one brother; two sisters; and his mother.

Heath Funeral Chapel


LACHANCE, Donald N., 68, of Tampa, passed away Wednesday, December 18, 2002 at
Tampa General Hospital. Survivors include his wife, Eleanor; son, Michael;
daughters, Lynn, Jeannie, Bonnie, Beverly, Tammy, and Theresa; a brother, Roger;
a sister, Rita; 17 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. A native of
Sanford, Maine, Donald retired from the US Air Force as a Staff Sergeant and was
a member of American Legion Post #138.

MARK III South Tampa

Chapel

813-831-9444


LAY, Edward, age 85, of Lakeland, passed away on December 19, 2002. Mr. Lay came
from Clinton Township, Mich. in 1980. He is survived by his wife, Ruth of
Lakeland; one son, Thomas Lay of Chester- field Township, Mich.; three
daughters, Patricia Wessels and Barbara Lay, both of Warren, Mich. and Sharon
Blankinship of Plant City; one sister, Mona Doris Parrot of Indian River, Mich.;
eight grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held
on Friday, 4:30 p.m. at Wells Memorial Chapel with Reverend H. Richard Bills
officiating.

Wells Memorial Funeral Home

Lacey McClellan and Staff

1903 W. Reynolds Street

Plant City, Florida 33563

813-752-1111

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


LEEK, Austin, of Tampa, died December 13, 2002. Survived by five siblings,
Elouise, Elois, Robert, Rudene and Della; cousins; nieces; and nephews. Ray
Williams Funeral Home, 253-3419.

LYNN, Mary E., died Dec. 17, 2002. She leaves a loving husband and family.
Services will be Dec. 23 at 11 a.m. at St. John Progressive M.B. Church. Aikens
Funeral Home.

MACKLIN, Harry E. "Mac", US Navy CPO-Retired, 78, died Dec. 18, 2002.

Survived by wife, Nancy; daughter, Margaret; son, Charles; and five
grandchildren. Veterans Cremation


MANLEY, Janie Inez, 93, died on December 18, 2002. She was born in Adel, Ga. She
is predeceased by son, Joseph Hiers. Survived by son, Robert Manley of Seffner;
daughters, Marilyn Long of Wesley Chapel and Lois Johnson of Tampa; 12
grandchildren; 21 great-grand-children; and two great-great-grandchildren.
Services will be at 2:00 p.m., Dec. 21, 2002 at Sulphur Springs First Baptist
Church, with Rev. D. S. Smith, officiating. Visitation will be 6-8:00 p.m. on
Friday, Dec. 20, 2002 at Swilley Funeral Home, 1602 W. Waters Ave. Interment
will be in Garden of Memories.

MAYS, Melva V., age 77, of Tampa, died Dec. 17, 2002. She is survived by nephew,
Sidney; and other relatives. Services will be Saturday at 12 Noon at Wilson
Funeral Home.

O'NEAL, Alfred Sr., of Tampa, passed away December 16, 2002. Survived by
wife,Inez; son, Alfred Jr.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. Ray
Williams Funeral Home, 253-3419.

PACE, Marion R., of Clearwater, died Dec. 19, 2002 at home. She was born in
Durham, N.C. and moved here in 1955 from N.C. She was a homemaker and active
locally in civic activities and volunteer work. She is a past president of the
Clearwater YWCA, and a past president of the Clearwater Questers Club. Prior to
her marriage she worked at Duke University and was a Red Cross Volunteer worker
at Duke Hospital during World War II. She has been a member of the Clearwater
Community Women's Club; The La Sertoma Club of Clearwater; the Pinellas County
Medical Society Auxiliary; and a Cub Scout Den Mother. She is a member of
Trinity Presbyterian Church and in the past has been an active Circle member.
Survivors include her husband, Dr. Sherman Pace; a son, Deputy Sheriff Michael
Pace of Clearwater; two daughters, Bettie Stewart of Lakewood, Colorado and
Janet Kaufmann of Lutz; a sister, Mozette Rollins of Durham, N.C.; a brother,
Albert Riggsbee of Charlotte, N.C.; and five grandchildren.

Moss Feaster Funeral Home


PRADO, Margaret M., 86, of Tampa, passed away in Miami, December 19, 2002. She
was a member of Wells- wood Baptist church and a retired Pharmaceutical Office
Clerk. The family will receive friends at the church from 10:00-11:00 a.m. There
will be a precession to Myrtle Hill cemetery for a graveside service conducted
by Pastor William Phillips. She is survived by her sons, Richard of Miami and
Robert of Jacksonville; a brother, Stephen Barcena of Mechanicsville, Va.; a
sister, Stella Barcena of New York; and two grandchildren. Interment will follow
in Myrtle Hill Cemetery. Hamilton Funeral Home, 10619 Cone Grove Road,
Riverview, Fla., (813) 677-9109.

ROBERTS KELLY, Robin Lea, age 45, of Tampa, passed away Monday, December 16,
2002. She was of the Baptist Faith and worked for Jabil Global Services in
Tampa. She is survived by her beloved husband, Paul Kelly; her mother, Elois
Roberts of Jenkins, Kentucky; step-daughter, Michele Curtis and husband, Chris
of Mountain Home, Idaho; sister, Karen Miller and husband, Mike of Jenkins,
Kentucky; grandchildren, Laurel Curtis and Racheal Curtis of Idaho. Memorial
services will be held at 4:00 p.m. today at the Boza & Roel Funeral Home, 4730
N. Armenia Ave. Family will receive friends today, 3:00 to 4:00 p.m. at the
funeral home. Contributions may be made to the Leukemia Society of America
Suncoast Chapter 3725 W. Grace St., Suite 225, Tampa, FL 33607.

BLOUNT CURRY & ROEL

Armenia Chapel

A.P. Boza Memorial Chapel

(813) 877-7676


ROWLEY, Nancy G., of Temple Terrace, went to her eternal home December 17, 2002.
Nancy was born Oct. 23, 1947 in Charleston, W.Va., and is greeted in her
afterlife by her father, Galen C. Rowley; and sister, Mary R. Holley of Jupiter,
Fla., who went home to be with the Lord on November 21, 2002. She is survived by
her loving mother, Ellyn H. Rowley; husband, Larry Lewis; brother- in-law, Ken
Holley; and niece, Janel Holley. Nancy graduated from Lakeland High, Class of
'65, and attended Mercer University and USF. Nancy dedicated her life giving to
others, first as a counselor at the Spring of Tampa and later at The Center for
Women as a supervisor for the Senior Home Improvement Program ("S.H.I.P.") A
special Thank You and debt of gratitude is extended to all of her friends and
family, who were her constant companions during her illness, especially Cathy
Wheeler of Alaska who unselfishly cared for Nancy during her last three months.
A celebration of her life will be held on January 11 at 11:00 a.m. at the Temple
Terrace Community Church. In keeping with her wishes, her remains will be spread
along with her sisters at a later date. Memorials may be made in Nancy's name to
LifePath Hospice, Red Team, or Center for Women's S.H.I.P. program.

Swilley Funeral Home


SALM, Dorothy, age 67, of Northdale, died Wednesday, December 18, 2002. Mrs.
Salm came to Tampa in 1979 from St. Louis, Missouri. She was an avid tennis
player having been a longtime active member of the Northdale Tennis Club and
enjoyed Mah Jongg. She was a member of Congregation Beth Am and Brandeis Women's
Organization. Survivors include her beloved husband of 47 years, Peter; son and
daughter-in-law, Marc and Ellen Salm of Lakeland; daughter and son-in-law, Karen
and Mitchell Padnos of Holland, Michigan; and grandchildren, Louis Padnos and
Jonathan and Catherine Salm. A memorial service will be held Today (Friday),
3:45 p.m. at Congregation Beth Am, 2030 W. Fletcher Avenue. Cantor Vicki
Silverman will officiate. In lieu of flowers the family requests contributions
be made to the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, GYN/ONC Fund or to the charity of
ones choice.

BETH DAVID FUNERAL

CHAPEL-TAMPA

(813) 874-3330


SANCHEZ, Angel A., age 64, of Tampa, passed away December 19, 2002. A native of
Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resident of Tampa since 1970, Mr. Sanchez is survived by
his wife, Isolina Sanchez; son, Angel Sanchez; brother, Braulio Sanchez and
wife, Stella; and his nieces and nephews.

GONZALEZ FUNERAL HOME

(813) 931-1833

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


SAWYER, Milford L., 67, of Ruskin, died Dec. 18, 2002. Surviving are his wife,
Hallie; a son; a daughter; two sisters;and three grandchildren.
LEWERS FUNERAL HOME

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


SLATER, Lee, 59, found his way home, December 17, 2002. He's preceded in death
by his parents, Bill and Ethel Slater; and his brother in arms, Joe DeSimone. He
is survived by his soulmate and loving wife, JoAnn; and Mama, Livia DeSimone;
sons, Danne and wife, Maureen, Jason and wife, Genna and Michael; grandchildren,
Christopher, December, Savanah, Bailey, and Colin; brothers and sisters, Jerry
and Lois, John and Judy, Tony and Linda, Dave and Rita, Steve, and Anna; many
other loved family members; also, friends, his "adopted" in his heart sons,
John, Mike, Jimi, Clint, and Frank. PROCLAMATION, Whereas Lee Slater was born in
West "By God" Virginia at a very young age and Whereas he was a "Golden Gloves"
Boxing Champion at the age of 16, and Whereas he took the rodeo circuit by storm
until an accident in 1964 put him in a personal 4-wheel drive recreational
vehicle, and Whereas he put himself through school, earning a degree in history
education, and subsequently taught two years in a Catholic school and Whereas he
then became a state employee as a Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor for the
severely disabled and proceeded to put himself back in school to earn his
Masters Degree in Psychology, and, Whereas he had the good fortune to meet, and
the good sense to marry the lovely JoAnn, and Whereas he operated as a Marriage
and Family Therapist, a contributing editor for the "New Mobility" magazine, and
as the chairman for New Horizons Apartment complex, chairman for Self Reliance
Inc., as a board member for the State of Florida's Head and Spinal Cord Injury
Council Whereas he was directly responsible for the construction of a 24 unit $2
million Health and Urban Development facility for the disabled, for which the
recreational building is named the "Lee Slater Activity Building" and Whereas he
wrote a grant for the Disabled Exchange that earned him a 6 week trip to Hungary
and the Czech Republic, and Whereas he maintained the respectable hobbies of
hunting and fishing, often with his three stalwart sons, and Whereas he liked to
cast his fishing pole for hours in his front yard, all the while sharing dirty
jokes with anyone who will listen and Whereas in January of 1999, after hundreds
of man hours, thousands of dollars, frost bite and 34,000 mosquito injections he
finally harvested a nice 8 point buck on the Overstreet Ranch and Whereas he
completed his beloved mountain hideaway in North Carolina and Whereas he enjoyed
hours of floating around in his backyard Florida pool, and Whereas we all feel
damn lucky to have known and loved this illustrious character... Whereas his
ashes will be scattered over the mountain he loved so much. The family request
in lieu of flowers please send donations to New Horizons Apartment complex,
12718 N. 19th St.- Office, Tampa, FL 33612. Memorial services will be held 2
p.m. Saturday, Dec. 21, 2002 at the Stowers Brandon Chapel. The family will
receive friends one hour prior to services. A deep heart felt thanks to John
Justice who was not only a friend and neighbor but provided love, companionship
and care beyond all expectations.

STOWERS-BRANDON

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


SULLIVAN, Robert R., age 84, of Tampa, passed away December 18, 2002. A native
and lifelong resident of Tampa, Mr. Sullivan was retired from the American
Broad- casting Co. and the Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center. He was a member of
the IATSE Local 321 for over 60 years. Survivors include his beloved wife of 54
years, Ada Sullivan; sisters-in-law, Dora and husband, Tony Suarez, Laura
Ferlita and Vi Giglia; nieces and nephews, Sandy and Chano Rodriguez, Bill
Carlton, Julie and Bill Sands, Elaine LaRocca, Patty and Charles Heath, Sylvia
Ferlita, Lorraine and Jose Insausti; many great-nieces and great-nephews and
dear friends, Virginia Polak and Carey and Debbie Williams. Memorial services
will be held Saturday afternoon at 12 noon at the chapel of Gonzalez Funeral
Home. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to LifePath Hospice Pewter Team
in memory of Mr. Sullivan. A special thanks to the LifePath Hospice Pewter Team,
especially Cheryle and John for their loving care and attention. The family will
receive friends Saturday morning from 11:30 a.m. until 12 noon at the chapel of

GONZALEZ FUNERAL HOME

(813) 931-1833

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


SWILLEY, Allie Lou, 83, died Dec. 17, 2002. She was born in Linden, Fla. and was
a member of the Church of God. She was retired from TECO, as a customer service
rep for 39 years. Survivors are brother, William Eudelle Swilley of Land O'
Lakes; sister, Nedine Sims of Temple Terrace; nephews, Tommy and Dean; niece
Suzanne; and dear devoted friend, Armenia Kizer. Funeral services will be held
11:00 a.m., Saturday, Dec. 21, 2002 at Swilley Funeral Home, 1602 W. Waters Ave.
with Rev. Rapley C. Armstrong officiating. Visitation will be 10:00 a.m. until
service time. Interment will be at Linden Cemetery, Linden Fla.

TRENT, Thomas Edward, 54, of Tampa, passed away Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2002. He is
survived by his son, Darren Trent of Miami; two daughters, Hillary Trent of
Casselberry, and Ashley Trent of Miami; mother, Hilda J. Trent of Tampa, Fla.;
two brothers, James P. R. Trent, II and wife, Laura of Tampa, Charles Ernest
Trent and wife, Linda of St. Charles, Mo.; one sister, Portia "Pat" Trent of
Tampa; and several nieces and nephews. A native of Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, he
moved to the Tampa Bay area in 1955. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated 10 a.m.
Saturday, Dec. 21, 2002 at Christ the King Catholic Church. The family will
receive friends Friday, Dec. 20, 2002 from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. at the Marsicano
Chapel, 4040 Henderson Blvd, Tampa. In lieu of flowers the family request
donations to Jude Christian Clinic or LifePath Hospice.

MARSICANO-B. MARION REED

STOWERS

Dignity Memorial

www.dignitymemorial.com


WITHERS, Jane Charlotte, 77, of Tarpon Springs, formerly of Tampa, died Dec. 18,
2002. Survived by two daughters; two sons; one brother; nine grandchildren; and
three great-grandchildren. Vinson

FH.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OBITUARIES

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
