
                              17 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Sanders' Keystone amendment heats up progressive wackiness

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 745 words



HIGHLIGHT: 25 INCHES. The latest all-new episode.


Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

The early days of the Republican-controlled 114th Congress are reminding America
nothing matches the hilarity of out-of-power Democrats. Exhibit A: Vermont Sen.
Bernie Sanders' - not a Democrat, technically, but a devoted leftist - attempt
to amend the Keystone XL pipeline bill with a massive donation to the Church of
Climate Change Hysteria.

The only thing wackier than Sanders' amendment is Democrats' conviction that
having to vote on it exposes Republicans to some sort of nightmare choice. Vote
against it, so the lefty delusion goes, they reveal their knuckle-dragging
anti-science ignorance. Vote for it, they alienate their anti-science
fundamentalist throwback base.

Oh, puh-leeze.

The Sanders bauble is a compilation of the left's most dearly held climate
change fantasies, including that human activity causes climate change and
climate change has already caused devastating problems in the United States and
around the world.

In fact, although humans possibly contribute to climate change, the amount of
that contribution is disputed and virtually unknowable. It must be tiny,
however, because even climate scientists advising the United Nations through the
International Panel on Climate Change - the same bunch whose models cannot
account for the 17-year pause/lull in global warming - concede that if every one
of their recommendations were adopted, their projections of rising temperatures
would reduce by only a fraction of a degree by the end of the century.

Meanwhile, the economic damage would be massive. Limiting greenhouse gas
emissions by squeezing use of abundant, cheap and power-packed fossil fuels
would keep third-world people in poverty while shaving billions of dollars and
thousands of jobs from first-world economies.

Still, Sanders' fawning allies in the progressive media think he has devised a
master stroke. The New Republic headlined its story, Bernie Sanders Is Forcing
Republicans to Embarrass Themselves on Climate Change. Nevermind the report
fails to deliver the goods.

TNR's fabulously overreaching headline is better represented in what Jason
Easley wrote for Politicus[#x2028]usa.com :

Sen. Sanders (I-VT) and the Democratic caucus are already upsetting the plans of
the Republican Senate majority. Republicans were under the impression that they
were going to be able to pass legislation by rolling over Democrats. This has
not happened. Congressional Democrats and the Independents who caucus with them
have united with the president against the Republican plans.

Although the bill authorizing Keystone will pass, Easley concedes, President
Obama will veto it, but only after debates on climate change ... slap
Republicans in the face.

Right. Meanwhile, American consumers are practically giddy over five-year low
prices at the pump, a situation that will only be improved, or at least
prolonged, when nearly 900,000 barrels of crude from Canadian oil sands are
flowing daily to U.S. refineries on the Gulf. Make it absolutely clear it's
Republicans who favor keeping supplies of the energy source that gives
prosperity - and therefore liberty - abundant and inexpensive.

Tough vote? Guess again. In a poll last fall, slightly more than a third of
Americans (the usual climate church parishioners, no doubt) said Congress and
the president should make climate change a top priority; more than twice as many
said they should work together to clamp down on ISIS and help create jobs.

That was months before a commando squad linked to al-Qaida in Yemen assassinated
a dozen innocents in a raid on the French satire magazine Charlie Hebdo. Perhaps
a Republican senator could pose a more timely amendment/resolution to counter
Sanders:

In the interest of promoting prosperity within the U.S. and among its neighbors,
as well as reducing our dependence on imports from unfriendly countries in the
Middle East as well as Venezuela, all the while acknowledging the work of
experts who have ruled the importation of Canadian crude will result in no
measurable environmental impact, the Senate resolves it is in the best interest
of Americans to approve the Keystone XL pipeline.

Unlike Sanders' tantrum, the attachment above would certainly pass with a
bipartisan majority bordering on the robust, with results worth remembering all
the way to Election Day 2016.

tjackson@tampatrib.com

(813) 371-1851

Twitter: Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday

Historic pact to slow global warming is celebrated in Paris;
Applause erupts, some weep, after agreement is gaveled

BYLINE: KARL RITTER, SETH BORENSTEIN and SYLVIE CORBET; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: LE BOURGET, France


Nearly 200 nations adopted the first global pact to fight climate change on
Saturday, calling on the world to collectively cut and then eliminate greenhouse
gas pollution but imposing no sanctions on countries that don't.

The Paris agreement aims to keep global temperatures from rising another degree
Celsius (1.8 Fahrenheit) between now and 2100, a key demand of poor countries
ravaged by rising sea levels and other effects of climate change.

Loud applause erupted in the conference hall after French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius gaveled the agreement. Some delegates wept, others embraced.

It's a victory for all of the planet and for future generations, U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry said, adding that the pact will prevent the worst, most
devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening.

Brazilian Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira added: Today, we've proven that
it's possible for every country to come together, hand in hand, to do its part
to fight climate change.

In the pact, the countries pledge to limit the amount of greenhouse gases
emitted by human activity to the levels that trees, soil and oceans can absorb
naturally, beginning at some point between 2050 and 2100.

In practical terms, achieving that goal means the world would have to stop
emitting greenhouse gases - most of which come from the burning of oil, coal and
gas for energy - altogether in the next half-century, scientists said. That's
because the less we pollute, the less pollution nature absorbs.

Achieving such a reduction in emissions would involve a complete transformation
of how people get energy, and many activists worry that despite the pledges,
countries are not ready to make such profound, costly changes.

The deal needs to be ratified by individual governments - at least 55 countries
representing at least 55 percent of global emissions. It is the first pact to
ask all countries to join the fight against global warming, representing a sea
change in U.N. talks that previously required only wealthy nations to reduce
their emissions.

History will remember this day, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said. The
Paris agreement on climate change is a monumental success for the planet and its
people.

The deal commits countries to keeping the rise in global temperatures by the
year 2100 compared with pre-industrial times well below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit), and says they will endeavor to limit them even more, to 1.5
degrees Celsius. The world has already warmed by about 1 degree Celsius since
pre-industrial times.

Ben Strauss, a sea level researcher at Climate Central, said limiting warming to
1.5 degrees instead of 2 degrees could potentially cut in half the projected 280
million people whose houses will be submerged by rising seas.

More than 180 countries have already presented plans to limit greenhouse gas
emissions - a breakthrough in itself after years of stalemate. But those pledges
are not enough to achieve the goals in the accord, meaning countries will need
to cut much more to meet the goal.

We've agreed to what we ought to be doing, but no one yet has agreed to go do
it, said Dennis Clare, a negotiator for the Federated States of Micronesia. It's
a whole lot of pomp, given the circumstances.

The agreement sets a goal of getting global greenhouse gas emissions to start
falling as soon as possible; they have been rising since the industrial
revolution.

It says wealthy nations should continue to provide financial support for poor
nations to cope with climate change and encourages other countries to pitch in
on a voluntary basis. That reflects Western attempts to expand the donor base to
include advanced developing countries such as China.

In a victory for small island nations, the agreement includes a section
highlighting the losses they expect to incur from climate-related disasters that
it's too late to adapt to.

Nicaragua said it would not support the pact. Its envoy, Paul Oquist, said the
agreement does not go far enough to cut global warming and help the poor
countries affected by it.

Nicaragua is one of eight participating countries that haven't submitted
emissions targets, after Venezuelan envoy Claudia Salerno said her country -
which had been holding out - liked the agreement and had submitted its pledge.

Thousands of protesters demonstrated across Paris, saying the accord is too weak
to save the planet. People held hands beneath the Eiffel Tower and stretched a
1.2-mile-long banner from the Arc de Triomphe to the business district La
Defense.

Kumi Naidoo of Greenpeace said the accord is a good start but isn't enough.

Today the human race has joined in a common cause, but it's what happens after
this conference that really matters, he said. This deal alone won't dig us out
the hole we're in, but it makes the sides less steep.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Shutting down the debate about climate change

BYLINE: Hans Von Spakovksy and Hope Steffensen; The Heritage Foundation

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 667 words



HIGHLIGHT: climate debate


Are you skeptical of human-caused global warming or climate change like many
respected scientists and climate experts? Then you should be prosecuted like a
Mafia mob boss, according to 20 academics at ivory towers such as Columbia,
Rutgers and the University of Washington.

Apparently, these professors either don't believe in the First Amendment or are
profoundly ignorant of the basic rights it protects.

They recently wrote an open letter to President Barack Obama and Attorney
General Loretta Lynch asking for anyone who questions the climate-change dogma
to be criminally prosecuted under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act, or RICO, because they have knowingly deceived the American
people about the risks of climate change.

RICO is a federal law passed in 1970 as part of the Organized Crime Control Act.
It was intended to be used as a tool to go after organized crime, including
dangerous drug cartels and Mafia operations.

The letter-writers believe that any individuals and organizations involved in
questioning the science behind global warming are the equivalent of the
racketeers the RICO law was supposed to stop - racketeers like the kind Marlon
Brando portrayed as Vito Corleone in The Godfather or Edward G. Robinson played
as Enrico Rico Bandello in Little Caesar. In fact, the acronym for the federal
law, RICO, comes from that Edward G. Robinson character.

The professors seem totally oblivious to the fundamental infringement of free
speech they are urging. Not only that, but they seem completely insensible to
the basic mission of academic institutions, which is to foster, as the
University of Washington - where two of the academics who signed this letter
teach - mission statement says, an environment for objectivity and imaginative
inquiry and for the original scholarship and research that ensure the production
of new knowledge in the free exchange of facts, theories, and ideas.

These academics are trying to foster the exact opposite of a free exchange of
facts, theories, and ideas. They want to end all scientific debate.

These academics could also use a remedial course in the history of scientific
development. There have been many fierce debates over new scientific theories
that have occurred over the past 2,000 years of human development. There are
countless examples of theories that became accepted wisdom that later turned out
to be completely wrong, in which dissenters from the original accepted wisdom
were greeted with a range of reactions from skepticism to derision.

Suggesting, however, that so-called dissidents on the climate issue be
prosecuted is a whole different story and amounts to a modern-day academic
Inquisition.

Have these professors never heard of Galileo Galilei ? Galileo was attacked by
the Inquisition for advocating the Copernican theory of the universe, which
violated the consensus of the times.

Like the supposed consensus of the overwhelming majority of climate scientists
today (which actually isn't true), these lofty academics know what the absolute
truth is about climate change - just like Pope Urban VIII knew what the absolute
truth was about the nature of the universe and our solar system.

These academics want anyone who disagrees with their absolute truth to be
prosecuted, just like Galileo. Should the skeptics be put in prison? Or would
these professors be satisfied with the skeptics being confined to house arrest
and formally abjuring their errors, as Galileo was?

The final word here is this: The heads of George Mason University, the
University of Washington, Rutgers University, the University of Maryland,
Florida State University, the University of Miami, the University of Texas at
Austin, and Columbia University should be embarrassed to have professors on
staff with such a profound ignorance or intentional disregard for the First
Amendment. The need for robust, unchecked, vibrant debate - not just in the
university setting, but in American society, culture and politics - has never
been greater.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

Monster cyclone study stars Tampa [JUMP]Scientific paper says 36-foot storm
surge is possible;
Scientific paper says 36-foot storm surge is possible

BYLINE: KEITH MORELLI Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1005 words



HIGHLIGHT: Climatologists say the change in climate may result in more grey swan
events, hurricanes that are difficult to predict, and that Tampa is among the
top three locations around the globe that, statistically, are the favorites to
be targets.


TAMPA - Before the end of the century, Tampa could be hit by a grey swan

The reasons for the frightening prediction, which cites Tampa, the United Arab
Emirates and Australia as three possible targets, are climate change, location
and the odds.

The paper, written by

atmospheric scientists Ning Lin at Princeton University and Kerry Emanuel of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was published in Nature Climate Change
last week.

In the paper, the scientists say they defined gray swan tropical cyclones as
catastrophic storms that would not be predicted based on history but may be
foreseeable using physical knowledge together with historical data.

The term gray swan derives from a theory developed by noted risk analyst Nassim
Nicholas Taleb, whose black swan theory refers to unexpected world events that
have changed or have the potential to change the course of history. Such events
include the rise of the Internet, the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the
9/11 terrorist attacks.

We identify a potentially large risk in the Persian Gulf, where tropical
cyclones have never been recorded, the paper says, and larger-than-expected
threats in Cairns, Australia, and Tampa, Florida.

Emanuel, reached by telephone Friday afternoon, stressed that though the paper
specifically looked at what would happen if a gray swan storm hit Tampa, the
scientists were talking more about the increased likelihood of such monstrous
storms rather than saying where they were likely to hit.

We're talking about a small probability of events, Emanuel said.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

He said the west coast of Florida is susceptible to such a storm because the
shallow offshore Gulf of Mexico waters make for higher storm surges.

Tampa knows it has a hurricane problem, he said, but what it may not know is the
extremity of the surge problem it has.

Climate change over the next several decades, he said, will result in bigger
hurricanes that come more frequently.

The predictions have brought criticism by others in atmospheric science circles,
including some who say the methods and models used to reach those conclusions
aren't that reliable in making such long-range forecasts.

While it is widely acknowledged that Tampa Bay is extremely vulnerable today to
a hurricane-caused storm surge disaster because of the number of people living
in low-lying areas, the methodology employed giving a 235 mph Category 7 to
possibly hit Tampa producing a 36-foot storm surge by the end of this century is
flawed and gives results that are simply not possible, said Chris Landsea,
science and operations officer with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration in an email to The Tampa Tribune this week.

Landsea said he has read the paper closely and has some serious concerns
regarding its conclusions.

He said his opinions were his own and not the official response of NOAA or the
National Hurricane Center in Miami, where he is headquartered.

There is no evidence, he said, that hurricanes will get bigger or more frequent.

The intensity change indicated for Tampa's worst case hurricanes between today's
climate and that near the end of the 21st Century is completely unrealistic, he
wrote. Both theory and explicit numerical modeling with downscaled hurricane
models suggest very tiny increases to hurricane's winds, not a drastic increase.

The paper says that as the decades come and go and global climate change takes
hold, the chances and intensity of such a storm hitting Tampa increase. Global
warming, the paper says, will skew historical patterns of hurricanes.

The predictions are based on six separate climate models, each of which is based
on historical environmental data and predictions for the future. They combine
climate data and hydrodynamics, calculating the statistical likelihood of
hurricanes and storm surges.

The result was a prediction that gray swan storms most likely will hit unlikely
places such as Dubai in the Persian Gulf, which has never had a hurricane, and
Cairns, on Australia's northeast coast.Tampa hasn't had a hurricane since 1921,
which swamped parts of town with a storm surge of 9 feet. Under the paper's
predictions, a gray swan storm surge here could reach 20 feet, and up to 36 feet
if the storm hits near the end of the century.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

That would submerge large parts of the region that have been developed into
residential, business and industrial areas over the nine decades since the last
hurricane landed. Such a storm could cause billions of dollars in damage.

The scientists looked at areas worldwide that have vulnerable coasts and chose
the Tampa Bay area because most of the region is just a few feet above sea level
and is next to a bay with shallow water. That puts the city at a high risk for
damaging storm surge.

A storm surge of 5 meters is about 17 feet, which would put most of Tampa
underwater, even before the sea level rises there, said Emanuel in a story
published last week in MIT News. Tampa needs to have a good evacuation plan, and
I don't know if they're really that aware of the risks they actually face.

Hillsborough County Emergency Management Director Preston Cook has seen the
paper. He said the safety of the region's residents lies mostly with the
residents themselves and their level of preparedness.

We have our threats every day, he said.He is aware Tampa is long overdue for a
direct strike by a hurricane. But we practice and train every day for the
worst-case scenarios. Plans are in place for any current situation. We have to
be as prepared as we can.

Those articles, they come and go. They're interesting to read, but we have to be
prepared for anything that happens today, Cook said.

He said gray swan cyclones by definition don't give much warning that they're
coming.

Still, we prepare for the unknown, he said. Tornadoes pop up out of nowhere.
It's nature. We have enough to think about on a regular basis, from gray swans
to tsunamis, whatever.

We get a warning, he said, and we take action.

kmorelli@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7760

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 23, 2015 Wednesday

Weird U.S. weather pattern turns winter upside-down;
New York may be warmer than Los Angeles at Christmas

BYLINE: GENE JOHNSON; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


- A weather pattern partly linked with El Nino has turned winter upside-down
across the U.S. during a week of heavy holiday travel, bringing spring-like
warmth to the Northeast, a risk of tornadoes in the South and so much snow
across the West that even skiing slopes have been overwhelmed.

In a reversal of a typical Christmas, forecasters expect New York to be in the
mid-60s on the holiday - several degrees higher than Los Angeles.

The mild conditions have helped golf courses in New England do brisk business,
but the pattern comes at a steep cost for ski resorts that have closed and for
backcountry skiers who confront avalanche risks. And many Americans complain
that it just doesn't feel like the holidays without a chill in the air.

It's been a great snow season so far from the Rockies to the higher elevations
in the Cascades and the northern Sierras, and it's been the total opposite on
the East Coast, said Bob Oravec, lead forecaster with the National Weather
Service.

Big parts of the county are basking in above-average temperatures, especially
east of the Mississippi and across the Northern Plains. Record warmth was
expected on Christmas Eve along the East Coast, Oravec said.

He laid the credit - or blame - with a strong El Niño pattern, the warming of
surface waters in the Pacific Ocean near the equator. That's helped drive warm
air west to east across the Lower 48 and kept colder air from the Arctic at bay,
he said.

California is in its driest four-year span on record, and experts anticipate a
possible fifth year of drought. Weather forecasters say a strong El Nino weather
system could drench the state, but one good, wet winter won't be enough to
rehydrate the parched land.

A fresh round of chilly rain was expected to hit San Francisco late this week.
The same system was expected to drop some 4 feet of snow in the Sierra Nevada
Mountains.While ski resorts celebrated a deluge that threatened to drop almost 2
feet of snow in parts of Colorado's mountains, forecasters warned of serious
avalanche risks.Elsewhere, severe thunderstorms and possible tornadoes were
forecast for Wednesday in Arkansas, northern Alabama, northern Mississippi and
western Tennessee. Tornadoes are not unheard-of in the region in late December,
but the extreme weather, driven by warm temperatures and large amounts of
moisture in the atmosphere, was nonetheless striking, said Jeff Masters,
director of meteorology at Weather Underground.

In addition to El Nino, a weather pattern called the North Atlantic Oscillation
is also helping keep cold air bottled up in the Arctic.

Combine that with warm temperatures around the planet from man-made global
warming, a forecaster said, and you have a recipe for intense weather.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 27, 2015 Friday

Staunch Republican says climate change is real, pitches CO2 tax

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 615 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson column on Bob Inglis, former Republican congressman from
South Carolina who was voted out of office for, among other things, telling
voters he believes climate change is real. He is making the rounds today in
Tampa, including a stop at USF.


Bob Inglis is a Republican who preaches the gospel of gun rights, lower taxes
and less government. He spent 12 years in the U.S. House of Representatives,
sent there by voters from one of South Carolina's most conservative districts.
The American Conservative Union gave him an approval rating of 93. The Christian
Coalition gave him a 100.

He opposed just about everything that President Barack Obama proposed, even
though he did refuse to call Obama a socialist. The folks back home loved him
anyway.

But then, in his words, I committed heresy. He told people that climate change
is real. Words like that have consequences. In 2010, in a primary runoff, the
good people of his state's 4th District voted against this otherwise
down-the-line conservative by 71-29 percent.

In my first six years (in Congress), I said that climate change was hooey, a
figment of Al Gore's imagination, Inglis said. All I knew was that if he was for
it, I was against it. But then I saw the science. Climate change is real. Let's
do something about it.Inglis was in Tampa on Thursday to speak at the University
of South Florida and to make a case for what he calls a conservative,
free-enterprise approach to this issue. He is the executive director of the
Energy and Enterprise Initiative, which favors the elimination of all fuel
subsidies and what he calls a revenue-neutral tax swap - tax carbon dioxide
emissions, eliminate taxes of income and capital.It's an idea worth discussing,
one that rewards lower emissions and encourages responsible growth.

Conservatives see the environmental left as people who want to eat bugs, walk
and destroy the economy, he said. But really, they just haven't seen a solution
they like yet. What they see are big-government initiatives that cost them a lot
of money, so they say, 'What problem?'

Maybe they should listen to the insurance companies that are studying this very
closely and setting their actuary tables by the data.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Acknowledging the problem is, well, a problem - especially in Tallahassee, where
it apparently is policy that officials cannot say the words climate and change
in the same sentence. Judging by that and the message South Carolina voters sent
to Inglis, denial has become institutionalized.I don't think you can dismiss the
impact of relentless mockery by conservative talk radio hosts and bloggers on
this issue. People hear words like junk science and assume anyone saying the
opposite must be liberal scum out to confiscate their SUV. Anger drives radio
ratings and keeps talk show hosts on the air, and a conservative host won't get
far by telling listeners, No, we ought to believe scientists on this one.

I don't think they realize they're being played, Inglis said. I don't think they
realize these are entertainers. They think these are Rush's (Limbaugh) sincere
beliefs.

He told of calling into a local radio station manager in South Carolina after
hearing the host complain that he was basically approaching an endorsement for
Obamacare. This, after Inglis posted 17 reasons to oppose that measure.

The manager told me, 'The best way to destroy a talk show is to make the host a
fact-checker,'  Inglis said.Dear reader: Back away from the keyboard for a
second. No need to remind me how MSNBC hosts are just as one-sided. Of course
they are. Their message may be from the extreme opposite, but the tactics of
fear and division are the same.That's how we get political purity tests for
candidates from both major parties. Anyone who doesn't check all the boxes gets
kicked off the boat. And that's how you get leaders in Tallahassee who won't
even say the magic words because they might be accused of political heresy like
Bob Inglis was.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

City targeting greenhouse gases [JUMP]Department leaders to look for ways to
reduce carbon footprint;
Department leaders to look for ways to reduce carbon footprint

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER O'DONNELL Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 560 words



HIGHLIGHT: City may be about to get serious about reducing its carbon footprint.
Mayor Buckhorn has assembled a committe to look into lowerign emissions.


TAMPA - Climate change may still be a politically contentious issue but that is
not stopping the city from pushing ahead with efforts to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, cited by scientists as a factor in global warming.

Tampa has formed a working group of department leaders to brainstorm ideas on
how city operations like trash pickup, transportation and wastewater can be
improved to reduce the city's carbon footprint, the term used to describe how
much greenhouse gases are produced to support human activities.

A first step will be to identify quick and easy changes in the way the city
operates that will not require substantial investment, said Thomas Snelling, the
city's planning and development director.

Tampa fire rescue; fleet management; wastewater, parks and recreation; and
stormwater are among the departments taking part.

We will identify policies and procedures that can be implemented that won't
break the bank, Snelling said.

The group will also look for state and federal grants that could fund a more
substantial investment in green technology and practices.

Tampa has already taken steps to lower emissions. In 2014, Mayor Bob Buckhorn
unveiled Tampa's first five natural-gas garbage trucks, a more environmentally
friendly alternative fuel source than diesel. The city also set a target of this
year having roughly 25 trucks running on compressed natural gas, roughly 12
percent of its overall fleet.

Other policies the city has pursued include lowering energy use, planting more
trees, and less use of landfills, which emit methane gas, Snelling said.There
have also been tweaks to land-use regulations to encourage more in-fill
development and downtown living. That results in less sprawl and shorter
commuter trips, Snelling said.They get in their vehicles less, do more walking
and use public transportation more, he said.

Those efforts helped the city get a gold certification from the Florida Green
Building Coalition, which rates local governments on their in-house
environmental practices.

Tampa's rating of 52 percent from the coalition is one of the highest in the
state among governments that have sought the rating. Dunedin, with a rating of
71 percent, leads the state.

Adopting policies to tackle cli

mate change has been a partisan issue in recent years with some Republican
leaders disputing climate change is happening and claiming that regulations
intended to limit greenhouse gases are unnecessary and stifle businesses.

Gov. Rick Scott garnered national attention in March after it was reported by
The Florida Center for Investigative Reporting that he had banned Florida
Department of Environmental Protection employees from using the term climate
change.

Even Tampa planning officials working this year with the Planning Commission on
changes to Hillsborough's comprehensive plan to account for future sea-level
rise avoided the term and opted to use climate adaption instead.

Some city council members have for the past four years been calling on the city
to adopt more environmentally friendly practices. Councilwoman Lisa Montelione
applauded the city's new staff working group.

If we're asking others to be mindful of carbon emissions, we should be leading
the way and be mindful of our own impact on climate change, Montelione said.

codonnell@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

Twitter: @codonnellTBO

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday

The heat is way on;
NOAA, NASA say 2014 was hottest year on record

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Earth warms like a broken record; For 3rd time in 10 years, globe
sets mark for hottest year


For the third time in a decade, the globe served up the hottest year on record,
federal scientists announced Friday.

Both the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and NASA calculated
that in 2014 the world had its hottest year in 135 years of record-keeping.
Earlier, the Japanese weather agency and an independent group out of University
of California Berkeley also measured 2014 as the hottest on record.

NOAA said 2014 averaged 58.24 degrees Fahrenheit, 1.24 degrees above the
20th-century average.

But NASA, which calculates temperatures slightly differently, put 2014's average
temperature at 58.42 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 1.22 degrees above the average
of the years 1951 through 1980.

Earth broke NOAA records set in 2010 and 2005. The last time the Earth set an
annual NOAA record for cold was in 1911.

NOAA also said last month was the hottest December on record. Six months in 2014
set marks for heat. The last time Earth set a monthly cold record was in
December 1916.

The globe is warmer now than it has been in the last 100 years and more likely
in at least 5,000 years, said climate scientist Jennifer Francis of Rutgers
University, who wasn't part of either research team. Any wisps of doubt that
human activities are at fault are now gone with the wind.

Texas A&M University climate scientist Andrew Dessler and other experts said the
latest statistics should end claims by nonscientists that warming has stopped.
It didn't. Climate change denial sites still tout claims that the world has not
warmed in 18 years.

2014's heat was driven by record warmth in the world's oceans that didn't just
break old marks: It shattered them. Record warmth spread across far eastern
Russia, the western part of the United States, interior South America, much of
Europe, northern Africa and parts of Australia. One of the few cooler spots was
in the central and eastern United States.

Every continent had some aspect of record high temperatures in 2014, said Tom
Karl, director of NOAA's National Climatic Data Center.

Nine of the 10 hottest years in NOAA global records have occurred since 2000.
The odds of this happening at random are about 650 million to 1, according to
University of South Carolina statistician John Grego. Two other statisticians
confirmed his calculations.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday

Warming called factor in California drought;
Study attributes up to 20% to climate change

BYLINE: Sean Cockerham; McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


New research shows the fingerprints of global warming in worsening the
California drought and suggests a future of more dryness for the suffering
state.

A major new study released Thursday adds to the growing scientific consensus
that rising temperatures linked to the burning of fossil fuels are intensifying
the crisis, although climate scientists think natural weather variations are
responsible for the lack of rainfall that created the drought.

The study in the journal Geophysical Research Letters estimates that global
warming has worsened California's drought by up to 20 percent, the first time a
figure has been placed on the phenomenon.

The current drought in California would still be occurring just based on pure
natural climate variability, said the lead author of the study, Columbia
University climate scientist A. Park Williams. But over the last 120 to 130
years, as the greenhouse gases have been accumulating in the atmosphere, there
has been this extra thing going on.

What's happening is the warming atmosphere robs moisture from plants and soil on
the surface, he said.A lot of people think that the amount of rain that falls
out the sky is the only thing that matters, Williams said. But warming changes
the baseline amount of water that's available to us, because it sends water back
into the sky.

The study adds to earlier research from scientists such as Noah Diffenbaugh, a
climatologist at Stanford University.

We're seeing more and more the role of temperature in intensifying the drought
and prolonging the drought, Diffenbaugh said.

His research shows drought is far more likely to happen at higher temperatures
and that California's warming trend is increasing the chances for more droughts
in the state's future.

Scientists said it could be just a temporary reprieve when California's rains
resume, which might happen this winter.

When this happens, the danger is that it will lull people into thinking that
everything is now OK, back to normal, said Columbia University climate scientist
Williams. But as time goes on, precipitation will be less able to make up for
the intensified warmth. People will have to adapt to a new normal.

California is in the fourth year of the drought, with more than 70 percent of
the state classified as in exceptional or extreme drought. Wildfires are
accelerating, reservoirs are drained, cropland is out of production and
farmworker unemployment is growing. The University of California, Davis,
estimates the state's agricultural economy will lose about $1.84 billion this
year.

California Gov. Jerry Brown has declared that his drought-stricken state proves
climate change is not a hoax. President Barack Obama has linked the drought to
global warming as well, warning of increasing environmental disasters tied to
human emissions. But Republican leaders are not convinced.

California and the West are being stifled by a natural drought that has been
exacerbated by man-made, radical environmental policies that divert water from
communities that badly need it, said Republican Rep. Rob Bishop, of Utah,
chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 17, 2015 Friday

Man-made global warming fueling records;
Report finds oceans taking a lot of heat

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In their annual detailed physical of Earth's climate, scientists say the world
is in increasingly hot and rising water.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the American
Meteorological Society's annual state of the climate report, released Thursday,
delves into the details of already reported record-smashing warmth globally in
2014, giving special attention to the world's oceans.

The report says ocean surface temperatures were the warmest in 135 years of
record-keeping, with the seas holding record levels of heat energy down to 2,300
feet below the surface. Sea levels also hit modern highs, partly because warmer
water expands.

About 93 percent of the man-made heat energy from the burning of fossil fuels
went into the world's oceans, said NOAA oceanographer Greg Johnson. And that
heat energy trapped in the ocean affects all sorts of weather, including
providing more fuel for tropical cyclones, said Tom Karl, director of NOAA's
National Centers for Environmental Information.

All sorts of warming events shifted into overdrive, especially in the Pacific.
In addition to a brewing El Niño - where weather worldwide is changed by warm
water in parts of the central Pacific - there was a warming of the northeast
Pacific nicknamed The Blob and a larger scale warming called the Pacific Decadal
Oscillation that often coincides with faster warming of the planet, Johnson
said.

Johnson said subtropical fish not normally seen that far north were appearing
off the coast of an unusually warm Alaska.

More than 400 scientists wrote the peer-reviewed 292-page study, the 25th  year
that the climate checkup was conducted. Its highlights include:

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 694 words



HIGHLIGHT: Daily wrap


Tampa Bay Water is conducting a test of its emergency siren system at the C.W.
Bill Young Regional Reservoir at 9 a.m. Wednesday to ensure the sirens are
effective in the event of an emergency.

Three to five short blasts will sound, lasting 10-20 seconds each.

Anyone with questions about the tests can call Tampa Bay Water at (866) INFO-H2O
(463-6426) or email reservoir@tampabaywater.org Tests are scheduled through the
year at 9 a.m. on the following days: Feb. 4, March 4, April 1, May 6, June 3,
Aug. 5, Sept. 2, Oct. 7, Nov. 4, Dec. 2.

Manatee County has received a $10,000 grant to prepare for the health effects of
climate change.

The Florida Department of Health awarded the grant to the county's health
department to develop plans to safeguard public health against the effects of
climate change.

Officials say some of those potential health effects include heat
exposure-related illness from rising temperatures. They also worry about the
spread of mosquito- and water-borne diseases resulting from higher temperatures
and flooding.

County officials say they have to fine-tune emergency preparedness plans to
account for the health effects of climate change.

The grant focuses on a five-step framework from the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention to incorporate climate change models into health departments'
routine planning.

Two sheriff's deputies received minor injuries in a crash Sunday night on Hanley
Road in Tampa.

Deputies Christopher Barfield-Craig and Dana Graham were traveling south in
their patrol vehicle on Hanley Road, crossing West Waters Avenue, just before 11
p.m. when they were struck by a northbound Honda Civic driven by 18-year-old
Alina Quintana, the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office said.

Quintana failed to yield the right of way while making a left turn and struck
the rear driver side of the patrol vehicle, the sheriff's office said, causing
it to spin across a concrete median into the northbound lanes and strike a BMW.

Barfield-Craig, Graham and the driver of the BMW - 50-year-old James Rivera -
were taken to St. Joseph's Hospital with minor injuries, the sheriff's office
said.

Quintana and a passenger in the Civic, 20-year-old Victoria Romero, were not
injured, deputies say.

Tampa police are investigating two shooting deaths that happened early Monday
and appear to be unrelated, police said.

The first shooting happened around midnight in the 3100 block of North Jefferson
Street, police said. Officers arrived at the home and found Lyfe Coleman, 18, of
Tampa, lying on the ground in the front yard. Coleman was taken to Tampa General
Hospital where he died, police said.

The second shooting happened outside an apartment building in the 8700 block of
Del Ray Court just before 6 a.m., police said.

Officers found James Strouse, 51, of Tampa, lying on the ground unresponsive
with a gunshot wound to his upper body, police said. Strouse died at the scene.

The shootings do not appear to be random acts of violence, police said.

Police are interviewing witnesses to identify suspects.

Investigators say they have recovered a gun that might have been used by Jareem
Roach to fire at a suspect in the Dec. 21 shooting death of a Tarpon Springs
police officer.

Marco Antonio Parilla Jr. fired the shots that killed Officer Charles Kondek as
Kondek arrived at an apartment complex to check on a noise complaint involving
Parilla, investigators said. Roach then emerged from a second-story apartment
and fired a handgun, striking the back window of Parilla's car, according to a
search warrant obtained in the case.Roach was arrested three days later on a
charge of felonious possession of a firearm. In a search of his apartment, a
Ruger 9mm LC9 handgun and a box of ammo were recovered.Roach told police the day
of the slaying that he never saw Kondek or a Tarpon Springs police patrol car,
but did see a white car drive over something he had assumed was a bicycle and
then back over it before fleeing. Investigators say it was Parilla's car.

Roach and Parilla lived together in the apartment complex, investigators said,
but after a falling out over women, Roach moved into a separate apartment.

From staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

Florida continues to ignore danger of rising seas

BYLINE: JASON DEAREN [#x2028]and JENNIFER KAY The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words



HIGHLIGHT: As sea level rise threatens massive Florida coast, state offers no
clear plan or coordination


ST. AUGUSTINE - America's oldest city is slowly drowning.

St. Augustine's centuries-old Spanish fortress sits feet from the encroaching
Atlantic, whose waters already flood the city's narrow streets about 10 times a
year - a problem worsening as sea levels rise. The city relies on tourism, but
visitors might someday have to wear waders at high tide.

If you want to benefit from the fact we've been here for 450 years, you have the
responsibility to look forward to the next 450, said Bill Hamilton, whose family
has lived in the city since the 1950s. Is St. Augustine even going to be here?
We owe it to the people coming after us to leave the city in good shape.

St. Augustine is one of many chronically flooded communities along Florida's
coast, and officials in these diverse places share a concern: They're afraid
their buildings and econ

omies will be further inundated by rising seas in just a couple of decades. The
effects are a daily reality in much of Florida. Drinking water wells are fouled
by seawater. Higher tides and storm surges make for more frequent road flooding
from Jacksonville to Key West, and they're overburdening aging flood-control
systems.

But the state has yet to offer a clear plan or coordination to address what
local officials across Florida's coast see as a slow-moving emergency.
Republican Gov. Rick Scott is skeptical of man-made climate change and has put
aside the task of preparing for sea level rise, an Associated Press review of
thousands of emails and documents pertaining to the state's preparations for
rising seas found.Despite warnings from water experts and climate scientists,
skepticism over sea level projections and climate change science has hampered
planning efforts at all levels of government, the records showed. Florida's
environmental agencies under Scott have been downsized, making them less
effective at coordinating sea level rise planning in the state, documents
showed.If I were governor, I'd be out there talking about it (sea level rise)
every day, said Eric Buermann, former general counsel to the Republican Party of
Florida and a former water district governing board member. Unless you're going
to build a seawall around South Florida, what's the plan?

The issue presents a public works challenge that could cost billions here and
nationwide. Insurance giant Swiss Re has estimated that the economy in southeast
Florida could sustain $33 billion in damage from climate-related damage in 2030.

Communities like St. Augustine can do only so much alone. Cities lack the
technology, money and manpower to keep back the seas by themselves.

In a brief interview with the AP in March, Scott wouldn't address whether the
state had a long-range plan. He cited his support for Everglades restoration and
some flood-control projects as progress but said cities and counties should
contact environmental and water agencies to find answers - though Scott and a
GOP-led legislature have slashed billions from those agencies. Spokespeople for
the water districts and other agencies disputed that cuts have affected their
abilities to plan.

In a statement, Scott said the state will continue investing in Florida's
environment.

Florida's Department of Environmental Protection is in charge of protecting the
state environment and water but has taken no official position on sea level
rise, according to documents.

In St. Augustine, flooding has long been problematic, but residents say it's
worsened over the past 20 years. St. Augustine's civil engineer says the
low-lying village will probably need a pumping system to keep water out - but
the state has been unhelpful.

There's no guidance. ... Everything I've found to help I've gotten by searching
the Internet, engineer Reuben Franklin said.

Water quality is one of the biggest concerns. It's especially bad in South
Florida - Hallandale Beach has abandoned six of eight drinking water wells
because of saltwater intrusion.

While South Florida water officials have led the charge in addressing concerns
in their area, their attempt to organize a statewide group was unsuccessful,
documents show. Scott's administration has organized just a few conference calls
to coordinate local efforts, records show.

Meanwhile, government officials have been adamant that employees and scientists
not assign cause in public statements about global warming, government emails
show.

For example, a 2014 email approving a DEP scientist's request to participate in
a National Geographic story came with a warning: Approved. Make no claims as to
cause ... stay with the research you are doing, of course, the DEP manager,
Pamela Phillips, warned.

I know the drill, responded Mike Shirley, the state scientist.

DEP spokeswoman Lauren Engel said Phillips was a lower-level staffer whose views
did not necessarily reflect the entire administration. Scott refuted allegations
that his administrations urges scientists not to assign cause when discussing
climate change.

Scott administration officials are moving forward on a five-year plan that will
provide basic guidance to cities dealing with sea level rise.

The Department of Economic Opportunity has received nearly $1 million in federal
grants for the plan. More than half has been spent on staff time and travel or
hasn't yet been allocated, according to documents. The rest, about $450,000,
went to contract researchers who are helping create the document, due in 2016.
Agency spokeswoman Jessica Sims would not comment and refused requests for the
program's manager to be interviewed.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday

Papal visit may benefit Obama;
President's aides hope administration's priorities get a boost from Francis

BYLINE: Christi Parsons and Michael A. Memoli; (Chicago) Tribune Washington
Bureau

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- President Barack Obama will personally welcome Pope Francis at the airport
when he arrives for his first U.S. tour today, a change for a protocol operation
that normally only rolls out the red carpet at the White House.

But Obama's aides expect the immensely popular pope to shine a spotlight on some
of the president's higher-priority domestic and international concerns.

Climate change, economic justice and criminal justice reform are not only at the
top of Obama's to-do list for his final 16 months in office. They're also the
subject of writings and public remarks of the church leader whose star power is
on the rise.

In addition to public Masses and an address to both houses of Congress, the
pope's planned schedule in Washington, Philadelphia and New York from today
through Sunday includes a school, a prison and other telegenic stops where one
could imagine Obama pushing his own policy agenda.

The two leaders already share one foreign policy achievement that shows their
shared interests.

After Obama visited the Vatican in March 2014, Pope Francis and his senior aides
helped to secretly broker a thaw between the United States and Cuba. The two
longtime adversaries restored diplomatic relations this summer, and both Obama
and Cuban President Raul Castro publicly thanked Francis for his intervention.

During his U.S. visit, the pope will chat with inmates at a prison in northeast
Philadelphia to highlight his call for prison reform. It's no coincidence that
two months ago, Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to visit a federal
prison and talk to inmates as part of his own efforts to overhaul parts of the
criminal justice system.And as Obama pushes for an international consensus to
battle global warming ahead of the United Nations conference on climate change
this fall, White House aides cite the power of the pope's passionate entreaties
to Christians worldwide about caring for the creation.

Some Catholics hope Francis will publicly oppose abortion and same-sex marriage,
among other sensitive issues that set him apart from Obama and most Democrats.

Lawmakers from both parties are likely to embrace parts of the pope's message -
and ignore other parts.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday

Study links major storms to a rise in sea level;
Researcher: New York, New Jersey to face more frequent flooding

BYLINE: WAYNE PARRY; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: MANTOLOKING, N.J.


A new study looking back over 1,000 years finds the flooding risk along the New
York and New Jersey coasts increased greatly after industrialization, and major
storms that once might have occurred every 500 years could soon happen every 25
years or so.

The study by Penn State, Rutgers, Princeton and Tufts universities and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology finds that flood heights have risen nearly
4 feet since the year 850, largely because of a sea level rise. The study
advocates better risk management strategies to cope with storms.

It was released before the third anniversary of Superstorm Sandy, which
devastated the coasts of New York and New Jersey.

A storm that occurred once in seven generations is now occurring twice in a
generation, said Benjamin Horton of Rutgers, one of six lead researchers
involved in the study. What we do know is that as sea level rise accelerates
into the future, we are going to have more frequent flooding.

The study was published recently in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences journal.

Adam Sobel, an atmospheric scientist at Columbia University and author of the
book Storm Surge about Superstorm Sandy, said this study, like many others
before it, leaves little doubt that sea level rise will be more rapid than it
has before.

This is just one more good study adding certainty to what we know already, which
is that coastal cities around the world  - including New York, but we're not the
only one, nor the worst - are in trouble, he said.  This makes the direction of
change certain: We are at increasing risk for Sandy-like disasters here in New
York City and in many other places as well.The study does not explicitly state
that the changes are due to human activity but implies it by the timeframes,
Horton said. The researchers wanted to compare recent decades to the period
before the Industrial Revolution.

The climate community knows the conditions were different in the last 30 years
than they were in the last 1,000, he said.

The researchers said that in a changing climate, future inundation of the United
States' Atlantic coast will depend on storm surges during tropical cyclones and
the rising sea levels on which those surges occur. However, the record of
tropical cyclones in the North Atlantic basin is too short to draw meaningful
conclusions, from 1851 to the present.

To reconstruct sea levels for earlier periods, the research team used
microfossils, called foraminifera, that were preserved in sediment cores from
coastal salt marshes in Cape May Court House and Galloway, New Jersey. The ages
of these cores were estimated using radiocarbon dating and other techniques.

Every inch deeper in a core takes you further back in time, Horton said. We can
stretch this technique back hundreds of years and thousands of years.

The study went as far back as the year 850.

It found that changes in tropical cyclone characteristics have led to increases
in the extremes of the types of storms that create the largest storm surges for
New York and New Jersey.

The next phase of the research, led by Andra Reed, a doctoral candidate at Penn
State, will use the data gathered to predict sea levels and hurricane activity
and when major storms like Superstorm Sandy might strike.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday

Global warming speeds bee evolution;
Species' tongues shortened as flora shifted, study says

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Global warming and evolution are reshaping the bodies of some American
bumblebees, a new study finds.The tongues of two Rocky Mountains bumblebee
species are about one-quarter shorter than they were 40 years ago, having
evolved because climate change altered the buffet of wildflowers they normally
feed from, according to a study published recently in the journal Science.

In one of these species, the tongue had been half the size of the bee's body -
the equivalent of a human tongue going down to the waist. But because the
flowers where the long tongue is required have dwindled, the bees didn't need
that much tongue. Keeping long tongues requires bees use more energy, so the
bees evolved a shorter tongue that allows them to sample a wider variety of
flowers, said study lead author Nicole Miller-Struttmann at the State University
of New York, Old Westbury.

Biologists have tracked how global warming has altered the developmental,
migration, timing and other behavior in plants and animals. What makes this
study unusual is physical changes in the bees, said study co-author Candace
Galen of the University of Missouri. It speaks to the magnitude of the change of
the climate that it's affecting the evolution of the organisms, Galen said. It's
a beautiful demonstration of adaptive evolution.

Sydney Cameron, at the University of Illinois, wasn't part of the study but
praised it as well done and significant for the ecosystem of mountain flowers.

The team of biologists studied the bees on three isolated mountaintops in the
Rockies, where they had been the most dominant species. Not so much anymore,
Miller-Struttmann said. The longer-tongued of the two bees, the golden belted
bumblebee, shrank from 50 percent of all the bees to 20 percent, she said.

Because these were so isolated and so high, more than 10,000 feet, pesticides
and pathogens, often blamed for bee declines, weren't a problem, the scientists
said. Something else had to be an issue. They compared the bees to those of 40
years ago or more and found the tongues dramatically shorter.

They also found that the temperature in the area had warmed by about 3.6 degrees
since the 1960s and that the type and amount of flowers had changed.

At first the scientists figured the flowers were evolving with the bees, as
often happens over long periods in nature, but Miller-Struttmann said that's not
the case.

The silver lining is that (the bees) are evolving very quickly,
Miller-Struttmann said. The story may not be as rosy for the flowers.

Galen worries that without long-tongued bees, some flowers will falter. Also,
she said shorter-tongued bees often cheat and bite a hole in the flower's side,
which doesn't help the plant spread its seeds.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

Dutch ruling on warming considered 'game-changer';
Judge orders Netherlands to cut greenhouse gas emissions 25%

BYLINE: MIKE CORDER; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Netherlands



HIGHLIGHT: Landmark Dutch ruling: Govt must back 25 percent cut in emissions by
2020 to protect citizens


In a sweeping victory for environmental activists that could have global
repercussions, a Dutch court ordered its government on Wednesday to cut the
country's greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25 percent by 2020 to help fight
global warming.

The ruling by The Hague District Court could lay the foundations for similar
cases around the world, said the director of Urgenda, the organization that took
the government to court on behalf of 900 Dutch citizens.

Climate activists in the packed courtroom clapped and cheered as Presiding Judge
Hans Hofhuis read the ruling, which Greenpeace called a game-changer in the
fight against climate change.

The ruling came in the same month that Pope Francis released a massive
encyclical on the environment urging nations to quickly overhaul their economies
to cut emissions and save the Earth. Neighboring France will host a key U.N.
conference this year in Paris where it is hoped that a worldwide accord to fight
global warming will be signed.

The Dutch plaintiffs argued, and the court agreed, that the government has a
legal obligation to protect its people against looming dangers, including the
effects of climate change on this low-lying country. Large swaths of the
Netherlands are below sea level and vulnerable to rising sea levels blamed on
global warming.

This is a great victory. The judge said exactly what we wanted and had the
courage and wisdom to say to the government, 'You have a duty of care toward
your citizens,'  said Marjan Minnesma, the director of Urgenda.

This is fantastic, said Sharona Ceha, another Urgenda worker. This is for my
children and grandchildren.

The Dutch government, which can appeal, said it was studying the ruling.

Environment Minister Wilma Mansveld said the government and Urgenda share the
same goal. We just hold different opinions regarding the manner in which to
attain this goal.

Mansveld said the Dutch are working toward European Union greenhouse targets -
cutting emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020, compared with benchmark 1990
levels.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday

A wise regulatory step on fracking

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 488 words



HIGHLIGHT: methane and fracking


The Obama administration released new pollution rules on oil and natural gas
production Tuesday to predictable howls from industry. The danger, though, is
that the rules won't do enough to achieve the United States' climate goals.

The fracking boom has opened vast deposits of American oil and natural gas for
extraction, and that's been a good thing. The industry has created jobs and cut
fuel imports. Natural gas, now cheap, has substituted for dirty coal in
electricity production. When burned, natural gas produces significantly fewer
greenhouse emissions than coal. Fuel switching has therefore helped the country
advance toward its climate change targets.

But there's a major problem: Methane, the primary constituent in natural gas, is
an extremely potent greenhouse agent when it escapes from wells or pipelines
without being burned. Even relatively small amounts of leakage can wipe away the
climate benefits of switching to natural gas. That's why President Barack Obama
set a goal of reducing methane leakage by 40 percent to 45 percent by 2025.

The Environmental Protection Agency took a step toward that goal on Tuesday. The
agency rolled out rules requiring the oil and gas industry to take more care not
to leak methane from new or significantly altered wells, compressors, pneumatic
pumps and other potential sources. Environmental groups have long argued that
these sorts of upgrades are among the cheapest ways to cut greenhouse emissions.
The EPA, meanwhile, points out that the rules should also prevent unhealthful
air pollution around oil and gas facilities.

The industry counters that companies have already cut methane leakage even as
oil and gas production have shot up, pointing out it has an economic incentive
to keep its product from leaking. That's true, up to a point, but these
companies don't have to account for the climate impacts of that leakage so their
incentive may be less than what society's interests would dictate. Until the
country has an effective price on carbon that would force companies to account
for their greenhouse impact, this line of argument will not be convincing.

Also released Tuesday was a report underscoring the need to act on methane
emissions, and soon. The study, published in the journal Environmental Science &
Technology, found that previous EPA estimates of leakage rates from natural gas
collection and processing facilities were far too low. It is findings such as
these that have convinced environmental groups that the Obama administration
must set comprehensive rules that would be much more ambitious than those
announced Tuesday, covering existing infrastructure, not just new or
significantly rebuilt facilities. If, after serious study, the EPA is confident
that the government will reach its methane goal without a broader crackdown, so
much the better. But federal and state regulators shouldn't hesitate to go
further if that promise won't be realized.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

In U.S. milestone, Pope Francis will address Congress this fall;
His views on social issues, global warming likely prickly for some

BYLINE: ALAN FRAM; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Pope Francis to address Congress, a milestone that could have many
holding their breath


 - In a landmark event that could have many holding their breath, Pope Francis
has agreed to address a joint meeting of Congress this fall. That sets the stage
for an oration by an outspoken pontiff whose views on immigration and global
warming clash with those of many Republicans who run the House and Senate.

Francis will speak Sept. 24, marking the first time the head of the world's
Roman Catholics will address Congress. It will come during the first U.S. visit
of Francis' two-year-old papacy, a trip also expected to include a White House
meeting with President Barack Obama, a speech to the United Nations in New York
and a Catholic rally for families in Philadelphia.

Saying he had a bit of good news, House Speaker John Boehner delivered first
word of Francis' speech at his weekly news conference Thursday.

We're humbled that the Holy Father has accepted our invitation and certainly
look forward to receiving his message on behalf of the American people, Boehner,
R-Ohio, said.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a written
statement that she looks forward to hearing his call to live our values, to
protect the poor and the needy, and to promote peace.

When he speaks to lawmakers, Francis will address a Congress that is 31 percent
Catholic, well above the 22 percent of all Americans, according to a survey
released last month by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. Boehner and Pelosi
are both Catholic.

Francis, an Argentinian Jesuit and the first pope from the Western Hemisphere,
has made helping immigrants a cornerstone of his papacy and has called on
wealthy nations to do more for the poor.

By this summer, he also plans to release an encyclical, or teaching document, on
climate change, which he says is mostly man-made. He plans to use his trip to
the United States to urge world leaders to take bold steps to curb global
warming ahead of this fall's U.N. climate change conference in Paris.Republicans
have battled Obama's efforts to make it easier for many immigrants in the U.S.
illegally to remain in the country, and want to strengthen border security to
keep more of them out. Many of them have also opposed efforts to reduce
pollutants that contribute to global warming.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 19, 2015 Sunday

Usher, Gwen Stefani among headliners for Earth Day rally

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words


An all-day Earth Day rally and concert Saturday drew some big names to the
National Mall and into the world of politics to confront the issues of climate
change and poverty.

Usher, Mary J. Blige, Gwen Stefani, Common and Train were all set to perform
during the free Global Citizen 2015 Earth Day rally hosted by will.i.am and
Soledad O'Brien. The event near the Washington Monument drew a crowd of
thousands.

Backstage before performing, Train frontman Patrick Monahan said he didn't know
much before about the environmental movement and the push to end extreme
poverty. But now he wants to stay involved permanently.

It's about all of us being aware but getting our hands dirty because it's not
going to be an easy thing, he said.

Patrick Stump from Fall Out Boy said he wanted to show everyone has a
responsibility to help solve global problems.

How do you wake up every day knowing that a lot of these things are within our
grasp and just kind of be like oh, OK, whatever, Stump said. I think we're here
for the reality that it's hopeful. We can actually do something.

Earth Day organizers also announced plans with developers of the popular Angry
Birds game to create a new in-game experience this year about climate change.

The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Pope's politics are based on helping others

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 656 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson column re: Pope visit


You know who can relate best to Pope Francis?

It's not the politicians and other elite who had prime seats on Thursday for his
address to Congress. It's the people who serve in soup kitchens so the hungry
will have something to eat. It's those who venture out on freezing nights with
coffee and blankets for the homeless. It's the ones who volunteer to help the
elderly, even if it's just to hold their hand and talk.

It's those who adopt special-needs kids, or make an out-of-the-way visit to give
words of comfort. Or they answer the phone when someone calls at midnight and
doesn't know where to turn.

It's those indispensable people who serve without being asked and place a higher
priority on your well-being than theirs. They don't give two hoots about
politics and the ongoing social Armageddon between liberals and conservatives.

They are all around us every day. We just have to look for them.

This is their guy.

That's the real message from this pope. The question is whether some people will
tune out the static of their own voices and listen.

Take U.S. Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Arizona, for example.

He is a self-styled proud Catholic who boycotted the pope's address to a joint
session of Congress. Why? Because the pontiff believes humans are contributing
to global climate change.

Gosar, it should be noted, tried to impeach Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator Gina McCarthy. He really hates any sort of environmental rules.
So, because the pope disagrees ... well, there you have the essence of the
paralysis in American politics today. It's all or nothing.

If the Pope stuck to standard Christian theology, I would be the first in line
... but when the Pope chooses to act and talk like a leftist politician, then he
can expect to be treated like one, Gosar wrote on the conservative website
townhall.com .

Although he remains hugely popular overall in this country, a Gallup poll in
July showed the pope's favorability rating among conservatives dropped to 45
percent from 76 percent a year ago. It's mostly over dogma.

This is a political pope for sure.

Besides his stance on climate change, he helped broker the thaw between the
United States and Cuba - a fact underscored by meeting with Fidel Castro before
flying here.

He endorsed the nuclear deal with Iran. In his address Thursday, he spoke of his
strong opposition to the death penalty.

I'm all about the separation of church and state, even when the church is led by
a dynamic person who has only the people's needs in mind.  Public policy can't
be set by religious principles, whether they come from a county court clerk in
Kentucky or the global leader of 1.2 billion Catholics.

The pope's opinion on social and planetary issues should be taken as just that -
his opinion.

He also expressed an opinion in July when he told the faithful in Bolivia that
unchecked greed ruins society, it condemns and enslaves men and women, it
destroys human fraternity, it sets people against one another and, as we clearly
see, it even puts at risk our common home.

For what it's worth, that opinion about greed also was expressed about 2,000
years ago by the guy who billions of Christians worship.Then there's this thing
about servant leadership, like when he went to a prison and washed the feet of
inmates. If he's not too big to do something like that, no one is. It's no
coincidence that as part of his trip to this country, the pope will visit the
maximum-security Curran-Fromhold Correctional Facility in Philadelphia.This is
what happens when someone with his kind of faith decides to live it instead of
preaching it. It becomes a life of humility, service, and lifting up instead of
tearing down.

It's not liberal or conservative to care for the downtrodden, homeless, and
victims of famine and war. That's called taking the light where it is needed.

You don't have to be Catholic or even religious to appreciate that. You just
have to be human.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 20, 2015 Sunday

Don't count out Jeb Bush

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 746 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bush


Many national commentators were quick to dismiss Jeb Bush's effective
performance in last week's Republican debate as too little, too late.

This strikes us as dumbfounding, given that the first primary vote has not taken
place, and the GOP presidential campaign remains fluid. Beyond a zealous core of
David Trump supporters, most Republican voters still seem to be making up their
minds.

There definitely has been unanticipated resistance to the Bush name, and he
seemed rusty in the early going, but the former Florida governor retains a
robust war chest and still possesses, in our view, the most impressive
leadership resume of anyone in the race.

During a recent visit to The Tampa Tribune Editorial Board, Bush seemed the same
as when he first energized the Florida Republican Party and revolutionized state
government.

He remains the analytical and determined champion of conservative values that he
was when he turned Florida's bureaucratic status quo on its head.

Bush thinks the polls are irrelevant now and the outlook for his campaign will
brighten when voters get serious in upcoming primaries. Wishful thinking?
Perhaps. But he's not going to reinvent himself to curry favor with voters who
are impressed by anger and bombast.

From dealing with the Islamic State to revitalizing the economy, Bush provides
detailed - and realistic - strategies, not vague promises or grandiose boasts.

Bush, for instance, would seek to quickly ignite the tepid recovery by freeing
the nation of unnecessary and costly regulations.

He promises to shift programs and rules back to the states wherever possible,
and create a regulatory budget that determines the cost benefits of any
regulation. He also supports a measure that would require Congress to review and
vote on any executive branch rule with an economic impact of more than $100
million. Bush stresses that while he favors a strong executive, the president
should not be able to simply create laws without Congress. Yet while he faults
regulations of questionable necessity and legality, he also doesn't dismiss the
need for environmental protections, and acknowledges the importance of the Clean
Water Act and other laws that have proved beneficial to the nation's environment
and economy. You don't hear Bush talking about getting rid of the Environmental
Protection Agency - only curbing its abuse of power, particularly acting without
congressional sanction.

On climate change, he is neither denier nor Chicken Little. He says he learned
to be skeptical about scientific models when working on Georgia's water
diversions from the Apalachicola River, where the slightest change in a computer
model number would dramatically alter water flow.

But he doesn't dismiss the need to be prepared, particularly for the possibility
of sea level rise.

We should be concerned about it and have long-term plans, with a special
emphasis on managing coastal development. The federal government's role should
be to provide support for local communities that determine they need to adapt.

Bush is more worried about the immediate threat of Islamic terrorists.

He is specific about how he would defeat the Islamic State, which he says would
never have gathered so much strength if President Obama had not pulled our
forces from Iraq and allowed former Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to run
wild in sowing sectarian division, creating an opportunity for the Islamic State
to gain support.

Bush is under no illusions about nation-building in the Middle East. But in
contrast to Obama, Bush believes radical Islamic terrorism must be destroyed,
not contained. The containment policy has been devastating. In the mind of the
jihadist, they win by existing, he says.

Bush would let the war fighters fight by arming the Kurdish forces fighting the
Islamic State in northern Iraq and embedding 3,500 U.S. troops with them, and
recruiting Sunni tribal leaders as Gen. David Petraeus did during the surge.

Unlike Rand Paul and Ted Cruz, he recognizes Congress has damaged national
security by handcuffing the telephone metadata program, which collected the
numbers, times and duration of telephone calls but not the content of what was
said. This provided national security officials useful information without
violating anyone's civil liberties.

Although Bush may not be the type to reduce the nation's daunting challenges to
provocative sound bites, he is a proven leader who isn't afraid to take a stand
- with facts, figures and a plan of action.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

Pope: Humans are a factor in global warming;
Draft of encyclical blames wasteful behavior of rich

BYLINE: NICOLE WINFIELD; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: VATICAN CITY


-A draft copy of Pope Francis' eagerly awaited encyclical on the environment
calls for urgent action to protect the Earth and fight global warming, which the
pope says is mostly due to human activity and the burning of fossil fuels.

The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the document that was
leaked to the Italian newsweekly L'Espresso and published on its website Monday
was not the final version and that the official encyclical would still be
released as scheduled on Thursday.

The L'Espresso draft, which was published in galley form in Italian, makes many
of the same points that Francis and his advisers have been making in the
monthslong rollout of the document.

In the draft, Francis lays out both the scientific and the moral reasons for
protecting God's creation, noting that the poor are already suffering the most
from air pollution and toxic dumping and will continue to bear the brunt of
rising sea levels and extreme weather conditions. The draft says population
growth isn't to blame for ecological problems but rather the consumerist,
wasteful behavior of the rich.

Francis backs up his comments with science showing the impact on the planet of
the continual loss of biodiversity in Amazonian rainforests, the melting of
Arctic glaciers, the overfishing of the seas and the pollution of the world's
water supply.

Francis has said he wanted the encyclical to be read by everyone - not just
Catholics - and he notes in the introduction that the document is now part of
the formal teaching magisterium of the Catholic Church. That could be read as a
warning of sorts to climate skeptics, including many Catholics in the U.S. who
have suggested they simply will ignore the encyclical since the pope's views on
the environment clash with their doubts about climate change.Francis in
September will travel to the United States and address both the United Nations
and Congress. Some Republicans are vocal climate skeptics and many conservatives
have criticized the pope for even taking up the environment in an encyclical.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

St. Pete mayor targets green projects with BP oil spill money [JUMP]Council
members have their own ideas of how to spend $6.5M;
Council members have their own ideas of how to spend $6.5M

BYLINE: steven girardi Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 769 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mayor Kriseman rolls out a list of projects for the city's $6.5
million settlement from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil disaster in 2010


ST. PETERSBURG - Mayor Rick Kriseman has rolled out his suggestions of how to
spend the city's $6.5 million from the BP oil spill lawsuit settlement, with a
heavy emphasis on environmental and energy-saving projects.I believe these funds
should be used to make us a greener city, to make us a more sustainable city, to
make us a more resilient city, Kriseman said at a news conference Wednesday.
About 75 people attended the announcement at the city's Water Resources
Building, an energy-efficient and storm-fortified building that Kriseman called
an appropriate example of his spending priorities.

The mayor's proposals, which must go before the city council for review and
approval, include $1.24 million for infrastructure to protect the city's
vulnerable areas against extreme weather and climate change, $250,000 for a plan
to help the city become a carbon-neutral city and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, and $1 million to retrofit city buildings with  LED lighting and
energy-efficient windows and heating and air-conditioning systems.

The proposal also includes $1 million for a bike-sharing program that Kriseman
promoted as another way to reduce automobile emissions and as a healthy
activity. The city is awaiting proposals from bike-sharing vendors. The city may
end up buying and maintaining the equipment itself, which Kriseman said would be
about $2 million, or contract with a company to operate the

program.

The mayor wants to set aside $350,000 for a pilot program to run a ferry from
downtown St. Petersburg to the Channel District in Tampa if other parties will
share in the program.

A viable ferry service would help to reduce vehicle traffic for commuters who
cross Tampa Bay each day, Kriseman said.

Of more immediate concern, Kriseman proposes using $1 million to repair and
replace the city's aging wastewater infrastructure.

The need for better sewage disposal was emphasized during rainstorms in July and
early August that overwhelmed the city's system and caused 31.8 million gallons
of sewer water to be dumped in Clam Bayou and near Albert Whitted Airport.

That money would be added to $24.45 million budgeted for the project during the
next five years, the mayor said.

That was of particular interest to Councilman Karl Nurse, who noted the council
will discuss the mayor's spending proposals today and is expected to discuss the
sewer situation next week.

Kriseman also wants to allocate $1 million for an arts endowment fund that could
yield about $40,000 a year for the arts community and attract other
donations.Councilwoman Darden Rice called the allocation absolutely the right
thing to do. Kriseman pointed to the contributions that the city's burgeoning
arts scene has made to the city's economy and its reputation.Councilman Wengay
Newton questioned the effectiveness of the arts endowment.

What's $40,000 to do? he asked.

Newton said rather than spending the money on one-time expenses as Kriseman
proposed, it might better be used where it can have a recurring benefit.

He said investing in solar panels on city buildings could mean significant
annual savings in the city's electric bills, which then could be used on other
projects.

He also would like to see the city use $2.2 million to buy property in the Dome
Industrial Park in south St. Petersburg to redevelop with homes. The U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development owns the land and has restrictions
on how it may be used, he said.Councilman Steve Kornell  said he had no
objections to the mayor's proposal but might like to consider other projects as
well.Kriseman's proposal also includes $266,500 to expand and improve the Shore
Acres Recreation Center; a $250,000 contribution to replace the Bellows Research
Vessel operated by USF Marine Sciences, which did research during the spill, if
other partners contribute; and $125,000 to plant 250 trees throughout the city.

St. Petersburg learned in July that it would get about $8 million from the
lawsuit it filed against BP for damages and losses caused by the Deepwater
Horizon explosion that sent oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico for three
months. The city hired outside lawyers to handle the case, and paid them $1.4
million, or 18 percent of the settlement.

BP was ordered to pay $20.8 billion to cities and counties in five Gulf states
based on a formula to estimate the economic impact of the spill.

Some of the local settlements include: Pinellas County, $9.5 million;
Clearwater, $8.1 million; Dunedin, $3.9 million; Hillsborough County, $28.5
million; Tampa, $20 million; and Pasco County, $5.8 million.

sgirardi@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

Some real creatures haunted horror movie [JUMP]Cast battled spiders, mosquitoes,
and lots of gators were around;
Cast battled spiders, mosquitoes, and lots of gators were around

BYLINE: PAUL GUZZO Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1039 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wind Walkers is a horror film made in the Tampa Bay area in 2013 that
premieres locally this Friday. While it is full of frights, perhaps what
occurred behind the scenes while filming in the Florida wilderness was scarier.


TAMPA - In many classic horror films - Friday the 13th, The Blair Witch Project,
The Texas Chain Saw Massacre - the savagery and isolation of the great outdoors
enhances the on-screen scare.

Filming there can be pretty frightening off-screen as well. Just ask the cast
and crew of Wind Walkers, who still are trying to resolve what was shadowing
them as they filmed deep in the mangrove forests of Manatee County in November
2012.

The movie, showing at 7:45 p.m. Friday at Studio Movie Grill, is about friends
stalked by a Native American curse as they hunt together in the remote
Everglades.

To begin with, said producer Dori Sperko, who has lived in the Tampa area 45
years: Huge gators seemed everywhere.

And that's not all.We'd move something in a trailer and a bunch of huge wolf
spiders would scurry out. In the walk from base camp to set, you had to keep an
eye out

for a panther that hung out throughout filming.Added Sperko, They were after us.

Wind Walkers will be shown during 8 Films to Die For, a weeklong national
independent horror film festival produced by After Dark Films in conjunction
with 20th Century Fox.Other festival films spooked-up by their outdoor settings
are Lumberjack Man, featuring a demon logger who seeks to feast on flapjacks
soaked in the blood of staff members at Good Friends Church Camp; Unnatural, in
which global climate change prompts a corporation to genetically modify Alaska
polar bears with horrific results; and Bastard, where five strangers are both
suspects and victims as a masked murderer makes its presence known in an
isolated mountain town.A schedule is at www.studiomoviegrill.com .

The movies will all scare you for sure, Sperko said.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Russell Friedenberg, who pulled triple duty on Wind Walkers as writer, director
and actor, found plenty of real things to be afraid of during his 18 days of
filming in Manatee County.Mosquitoes are everywhere, Friedenberg said in a
prepared statement. I mean everywhere. These aren't normal mosquitoes. They are
giant mangrove mosquitoes. They drink 100 percent Deet Bug Spray for happy hour
and stick around long after the two-for-one special is over. And then there are
the wolf spiders. They travel in packs, are as fast as wolverines and they can
jump. They love meat.

Friedenberg recalled an evening when he ran into a herd of wolf spiders.

My flashlight caught an array of a thousand eyes moving like a unicellular
organism toward me through the skeet grass, he said. Needless to say, I turned
into a wood sprite and covered the three miles to base camp in under 10 minutes.

Isolation is why the outdoors makes such a popular setting for horror films,
said Tyler Martinolich, a film professor at the University of Tampa.

Movies are typically made with the idea that the audience will invest in the
characters, Martinolich explained, but that is difficult in horror because
everyone knows many will die.

So instead, a horror film asks the audience to invest in the decisions the
characters make.

If we know help is nearby and they can escape easily then it is not as scary, he
said. We need to believe they are isolated and have only themselves to depend
upon. If we believe that then we invest not in the characters but their
decisions and that is why something as simple as opening a door can elicit fear
in a horror movie.

Then there is the mystery of what lurks in such places.

Not many have the opportunities for a lot of time out in the deep, deep woods,
so there is still a lot of mystery of what is out there, Martinolich said. It's
why most known myths occur there.

The legend of the Wind Walkers was born in the forests of North America.

Also known as windigos, evil that devours, Wind Walkers date to Native American
tribes who lived in the northeastern United States and Canada in pre-Colonial
days.

Legend has it that these cannibalistic beasts, like werewolves and vampires,
roam the forests searching for humans to snack on, walking in the sky as easily
as on the earth.

They grow in proportion to their last meal so they can never get full, the
legend goes.

Humans can turn into Wind Walkers if bitten.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Wind Walkers the movie originally was to be set in Idaho but Sperko persuaded
Friedenberg to tweak his script so it could take place in the Sunshine State.

Sperko, who splits time between Bradenton and Los Angeles, was searching for a
new movie to be made in Florida to bring film jobs to the area.

Russell is a real New York City boy and I think he pictured Florida as nothing
but beaches, Sperko said. But he handled the outdoors of Florida pretty well
after the initial shock.

The script actually called for one natural nuisance to appear - a rainstorm. But
it never did. They filmed in November, at the tail end of hurricane season,
figuring they could count on at least one downpour to produce natural effects.

Nothing but blue skies the whole time, Sperko said. So we had to create a storm
in postproduction.

Navigating the wiry branches and muck of a mangrove forest  presented quite a
contrast from Sperko's last Tampa area film location: The sacred surroundings of
a shuttered Catholic school.

The movie was Sex Ed, about middle school students who take lessons from an
inexperienced teacher of the topic.

The raunchy comedy starring Haley Joel Osment caused a stir and prompted a
public apology from Bishop Robert Lynch of St. Petersburg once it was revealed
permission had been given to use Sacred Heart Academy in Tampa.

We would tell the caterers for 'Sex Ed' that they could find us in Tampa, in the
sterile and loving arms of Sacred Heart Catholic School, Sperko said. For 'Wind
Walkers,' we'd just tell them to drive to the Bradenton area and you could find
us in the mangroves, approximately halfway between an angry alligator and the
river, under that cloud of mosquitoes.

Still, the pests helped foster an air of authenticity on the set, said
24-year-old Bradenton native Castille Landon, who starred in both Sex Ed and
Wind Walkers.

It was easier to get into character, Landon said. As an actor you dream of being
in a location that makes you feel some of the same things as the character you
portray. So I loved it.

pguzzo@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7606

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 26, 2015 Monday

Icemaker parks excess energy when it's plentiful for use at peak demand times

BYLINE: IVAN PENN Los Angeles Times

SECTION: METRO; Business; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 631 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ice makers that store energy.


Mike Hopkins sells an icemaker that stores energy. It's not sexy technology, he
notes. But his Santa Barbara, Calif.-based business, Ice Energy, is growing
fast.

Greg Smith touts a more space-age approach to energy storage at Sonnenbatterie
in Los Angeles. His company makes a home unit with a sleek cabinet the size of a
refrigerator. In an emergency, it can power a home for up to two weeks.

NEC Energy Solutions banks energy for the likes of Southern California Edison
and other big utilities. The batteries are huge, about the size of a mobile
home.

All three companies are pioneers on the energy storage frontier.

Big batteries cost a lot of money. But concerns about climate change and
consumer demand for clean energy are creating more demand for energy storage
solutions - especially to fully capture the possibilities of alternative energy.

Solar and wind energy do not provide consistent generation. The sun goes down at
night. Clouds get in the way. The wind stops blowing.

At those times, utilities need backup power to even out the load. Meanwhile,
homes and businesses want to store rooftop solar energy and use it later in the
day or overnight.

Storage provides a means to temporarily park excess energy, including
renewables, when it's plentiful and cost-efficient and inject it back onto the
grid later in the day when it's needed, said Anne Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for
the California Independent System Operator, which overseas electricity
distribution in the state.

The state is stepping in to boost market demand. The California Public Utilities
Commission in October 2013 set a target for utilities to bring 1,325 megawatts -
more than half the capacity of the closed San Onofre nuclear plant - of
additional storage online by 2024.

As a result, storage is going to move quickly, said Tim Derrick, general manager
of advanced solutions for renewable energy giant SunEdison. The old model of
electricity generation is dying, he said. Grid 1.0, that is dead. We're
hastening the evolution of Grid 3.0.

Ice Energy is a part of Grid 3.0. In the past 10 months, the company tripled the
business of the previous half-dozen years. Ice Energy's main product is the Ice
Bear. On the outside it looks like any other metal box on the roof of some
commercial building.

Inside the unit is an ice maker for which the water needs changing just once
every 20 years. The ice is frozen at night, when commercial electricity rates
are likely to be lower. When it gets hot the next day, the air conditioner's
energy-hog compressor shuts down, and cold water from the Ice Bear is fed into
the air-conditioning unit for cooling. The water then recycles back to the Ice
Bear.

It's those air-conditioning units that create spikes on the grid, said Hopkins,
Ice Energy's chief executive.

Basically, the Ice Bear, known as a thermal storage unit, saves electricity
during peak demand times, when electricity is most expensive. It doesn't replace
air conditioners but helps them operate more efficiently.

Sonnenbatterie is getting ready to sell another kind of energy storage system to
U.S. homeowners. The German company recently established its U.S. headquarters
in Los Angeles and is running a pilot with 50 of the units. The company is
building a manufacturing facility in San Jose, Calif., and a research and
development operation in Atlanta.

The battery system ranges in cost from $10,000 to $24,000 for the largest unit
of 6 kilowatts, which Smith says can last up to two weeks to power a house in an
emergency.

The units are enclosed in cabinets that could fit in with the decor of most
homes and be installed by any solar installation contractor.

The lithium-ion batteries store electricity from solar rooftop panels, available
to run appliances when the sky goes dark.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 13, 2015 Friday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 905 words



HIGHLIGHT: letters


Amazing arrogance

The arrogance coming out of the White House is amazing. Killing the Keystone
pipeline in the name of the environment is a joke. Remember the Alaska pipeline?
Been there 40 years, working quite well and over much worse terrain and weather
than the Midwest. It even made room for the caribou herds to migrate.

But President Obama says there is too much danger to the ecology. How about all
those rail cars filled with crude oil lumbering through the Midwest now? Oh yeah
- a great deal of them belong to Obama's friend and benefactor Warren Buffett.

Michael Brantley

Valrico

Obama's bad judgment

When I read Obama rejects Keystone XL project (Nov. 2), I was so enraged I
thought it best to wait and avoid the use of expletives in my writing. The
people's president has demonstrated bad judgment in the past as it relates to
the environment. Readers might recall President Obama's foray into solar energy
in the form of lending the people's money ($535 million) to Solyndra, which went
bankrupt, laying off 1,100 workers. Obama's bad judgment knows no bounds. He has
shut down Yucca Mountain Repository after the government spent billions of
dollars creating this safe nuclear waste storage facility 1,000 feet underground
at a site where more than 800 nuclear weapons were tested during the Cold War -
an area that also is in restricted air space.  Today, because of the man's lack
of common sense, nuclear waste is stored at 131 temporary sites in 39 states,
which includes 66 nuclear power plants. The lunacy exposes large concentrations
of population to the possibility of a nuclear accident. As well, Obama has
essentially waged war against one of the cleanest ways to produce electricity,
nuclear power. But I digress.

Obama's unilateral Keystone pipeline decision should outrage Americans for
several reasons of which this president is seemingly ignorant. Americans will
continue to drive oil burners until alternative technology displaces them in the
distant future; they will not drive more or less because the Keystone pipeline
does or does not exist.  There are already about 2.3 million miles of pipeline
carrying oil and natural gas. Obama's supposed concern as it relates to the
environment is a straw man on many levels. His statements, America's now a
global leader in taking serious action to fight climate change, as well as, And
frankly, approving this project would have undercut that global leadership, fly
in the face of reality and common sense with even the most perfunctory scrutiny.

What the Keystone XL pipeline would have done is allowed America to trade with
our largest trading partner, Canada, buying more oil from them rather than from
countries like Saudi Arabia. As I recall, Saudi Arabia is the breeding ground of
the terrorists who brought down the World Trade Center, killing thousands of
people and resulting in wars in the Middle East where the people's president is
now escalating our involvement. I wonder how President Obama, given his concern
for the environment, can justify the many billions of gallons of oil that have
been and are being consumed (wasted) by our military in our misplaced forays
into the affairs of that area of the world?  Only a fool would reject the idea
that getting oil from our bordering friendly neighbor would not enhance our oil
security or for that matter our national security. The Canadians are correct
when they say rhetoric won out over reason.

Henry Pierson

Odessa

A simple question

The recent article about the anniversary of the Pedro Pan program brought
painful memories and then tears to me.

My family and I had applied to leave Cuba in 1962 and got stuck after the Bay of
Pigs fiasco until 1971, when we finally left the island. We had first-row seats
to the situation there that is described so painfully in your article. In
addition, my ex-brother-in-law was a Pedro Pan child, which added to my
knowledge of the situation.

But the painful and, at the end, happy story of the family portrait also opened
a simple question: Why?

Why is this administration so interested in opening a dialogue and relations
with a regime that caused so much pain and also death to thousands? The same
characters who caused the crumbling of a prosperous nation are still in charge
and have not moved an inch in their tyrannical ways. Shame on those who are
allowing it to happen.

Antonio Suarez

Tampa

Drug prices

Regarding A corporate income tax wakeup call for United States (Our Views, Nov.
6): The author of this editorial conveniently left out the fact that drug prices
offered by Pfizer and other drug manufacturing companies are 80 percent to 90
percent higher than the same drug offered by overseas manufacturers. If
consumers could take advantage of these savings, it would certainly boost the
economy due to the fact that the savings would go back into the economy with
spending that consumers could not have made with the current drug pricing in the
U.S. Also, tax revenues are seldom used for projects such as infrastructure,
etc.

You are correct on one statement: Lower corporate tax rates will be used by
corporations for their best financial self-interest in the form of more money
for their stock holders. If they really wanted to help the people in this
country and boost the economy, they would cut their profit on drugs at least 20
percent to 30 percent.

The American people are the ones being strangled, not American businesses!

D. J. Holding

Dover

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Monarch population makes royal comeback;
Number of butterflies migrating to Mexico rebounds

BYLINE: MARK STEVENSON; the Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY



HIGHLIGHT: Monarch butterflies rebound 69 percent in Mexico, but numbers still
dangerously low


 - The number of monarch butterflies that reached wintering grounds in Mexico
has rebounded 69 percent from last year's lowest-on-record levels, but their
numbers remain very low, according to the World Wildlife Fund.

Last year, the monarchs covered only 1.65 acres, the smallest area since
record-keeping began in 1993.

This year, the butterflies rebounded, covering 2.79 acres, according to a formal
census by Mexican environmental authorities and scientists released Tuesday.

The orange-and-black butterflies are suffering from loss of milkweed habitat in
the United States, illegal logging in Mexico and climate change. Each year, the
butterflies migrate from Canada to Mexico and find the same pine and fir forests
to spend the winter, even though no butterfly lives to make the round trip.

Of course it is good news that the forest area occupied by monarchs this season
increased, said Omar Vidal, head of the World Wildlife Fund in Mexico. At their
peak in 1996, the monarchs covered more than 44.5 acres in the mountains west of
Mexico City.

Lincoln Brower, a leading entomologist at Sweet Briar College in Virginia, has
said that with anything below 4.1 acres, they will remain in the danger category
and I will continue to be concerned. A population covering 9 to 12 acres would
be a sign of significant recovery, he said.

The butterfly population has plummeted before, and then partially recovered.

In 2001, driving rain and bitter cold killed millions, leading scientists to
speculate that migrating populations would be seriously depleted in 2002. To
their surprise, twice as many returned, as some had predicted.

In 2004, unfavorable weather, pollution and deforestation caused a drastic
decline in the population, but the next year, the butterflies bounced back.

The overall tendency since 1993 points to a steep, progressive decline. Each
time the monarchs rebound, they do so at lower levels. The species is found in
many countries and is not in danger of extinction, but experts fear the
migration could be disrupted if very few butterflies make the trip.

The temperate climate of the mountains west of Mexico City normally creates an
ideal setting for the monarchs. Every fall, tens of millions of the delicate
creatures fly thousands of miles to their ancestral breeding grounds, creating
clouds of butterflies.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

What can France do?

BYLINE: John R. Bowen Los Angeles Times

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 820 words



HIGHLIGHT: What can France do?


The night of Nov. 13, in the center of Paris, hundreds of people were gunned
down as they enjoyed the warm November weather, ate dinner or took in a show. At
least 132 have died. In a statement claiming responsibility for the attack,
Islamic State promised more horror to come and called France a capital of
prostitution and obscenity.

Why did Islamic State choose Paris, still recovering from January's attack on
the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo?

It's not the only target, of course: London, Madrid, New York and many cities
across the Middle East have been hit. But there seem to be more terrorist
attempts in France and more homegrown terrorists than in neighboring countries.
At least one of the murderers was a Frenchman with a criminal record. The
Charlie Hebdo killers were French, too.

One reason for France's plight, often mentioned, is its colonial past. It fought
a bloody war against Algerian independence forces from 1954 to 1962; these
battle lines spilled over to Paris and continue to shape French politics. As the
protector of Morocco, Syria and Lebanon, France left a legacy of cultural and
economic influence. France still intervenes militarily in Muslim-majority
countries. It sent troops to Mali in 2012 when radical Islamic militants
rebelled against the central government, and it has been launching airstrikes
against Islamic State in Syria.

A young, angry, potential jihadi growing up in Beirut, Damascus or Algiers might
see the United States as the greater enemy, but it's far away. France is
familiar and nearby, and he probably has cousins there. His recruiter may be
French.

France also breeds potential jihadis on its own soil - young Muslim men who feel
excluded from the secular-Christian mainstream.

The police profile of the French jihadi looks something like this: He lives in a
tall housing tower with little in the way of sports facilities or neighborhood
clubs. His town is on the outskirts of a major city, whether Paris, Lyon or
Lille. He may be of Moroccan or Algerian ancestry, but he feels few ties to
those societies. He is unlikely to find a good job; his name and his postal code
put him at the bottom of the list. He is envious of the rich - those young
people enjoying their lives in the center of Paris on Friday night. He may also
blame Jews for his distress; nowhere in Western Europe have the intifadas been
more intensely divisive than in France.

Britain has also produced homegrown terrorists, of course, but the very feature
of the British Muslim landscape most derided by its leaders - closed communities
- may be its saving grace. People from Bangladesh or Pakistan tend to live
together in British urban neighborhoods. They import imams from the old country
and try to maintain a strong sense of tradition. Ideas and behaviors change, but
social networks remain stronger than in France. Pakistanis have large and
intricate kin-based circles. Bangladeshis start charter schools, and pupils in
those schools perform better than the national average. Things aren't perfect,
but there is community.

What can France do? I leave

aside the questions of border security, surveillance and military strategy in
Syria; those are above my pay grade. But I have two recommendations for how
President Francois Hollande can improve matters at home.

One, break the isolation. Continue efforts already begun to redesign the urban
landscape so that it encourages a sense of national belonging rather than a
sense of exclusion.

Cease the repeated efforts to stigmatize practicing Muslims with silly rules
banning face coverings in public or preventing school officials from offering
non-pork meal options to children. The French prize their laicite - their strict
separation of church and state - but there should be room for religious
observance in a free, open society.

Second, recognize that mainstream Islamic teachers are part of the solution.
Many have worked hard to build cultural associations and religious schools where
young people can learn a more complex and responsible idea of Islam. Understand
that they base their teachings in a centuries-old body of work, as do Roman
Catholic, Jewish and other religious scholars, and stop telling them to devise a
brand new French Islam. They are citizens or long-term residents of France and
participants in global networks of religious scholarship. Whether they help in
religious schools or as chaplains in the prisons, they need much more
recognition and support from the French state.

Far-right leader Marine Le Pen called for closing all French Islamic
organizations. But saner minds must resist the temptation to lash out at Muslim
fellow citizens or at legitimate refugees, which can only lead to more
alienation.

This is a time for solidarity, not division.

John R. Bowen is a professor at Washington University in St. Louis and the
author of Can Islam be French? He wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 26, 2015 Monday

Millions of modified pests could be released in Keys [JUMP]Researchers altered
mosquito's DNA to fight dengue, chikungunya;
Researchers altered mosquito's DNA to fight dengue, chikungunya

BYLINE: JENNIFER KAY The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 737 words



HIGHLIGHT: FDA mulls releasing genetically modified mosquitoes to fight growing
threat of viral diseases


KEY WEST - Millions of genetically modified mosquitoes could be released in the
Florida Keys if British researchers win approval to use the bugs against two
extremely painful viral diseases.

Never before have insects with modified DNA come so close to being set loose in
a residential U.S. neighborhood.

This is essentially using a mosquito as a drug to cure disease, said Michael
Doyle, executive director of the Florida Keys Mosquito Control District, which
is waiting to hear if the Food and Drug Administration will allow the
experiment.

Dengue and chikungunya are growing threats in the U.S., but some people are more
fright

ened at the thought of being bitten by a genetically modified organism. More
than 130,000 people signed a Change.org petition against the experiment.

Even potential boosters say those responsible must do more to show that benefits
outweigh the risks of breeding modified insects that could bite people.

I think the science is fine, they definitely can kill mosquitoes, but the GMO
issue still sticks as something of a thorny issue for the general public, said
Phil Lounibos, who studies mosquito control at the Florida Medical Entomology
Laboratory.

Mosquito controllers say they're running out of options as climate change and
globalization spread tropical diseases farther from the equator.  Storm winds,
cargo ships and humans carry these viruses to places like Key West, the
southernmost U.S. city.

There are no vaccines or cures for dengue, known as break-bone fever, or
chikungunya, so painful it causes contortions. U.S. cases remain rare.

Insecticides are sprayed year-round in the Keys' charming and crowded
neighborhoods. But Aedes aegypti, whose biting females spread these diseases,
have evolved to resist four of the six insecticides used to kill them.

Enter Oxitec, a British biotech firm that patented a method of breeding Aedes
aegypti with fragments of genes from the herpes simplex virus and E. coli
bacteria as well as coral and cabbage. This synthetic DNA is commonly used in
laboratory science and is thought to pose no significant risks to other animals,
but it kills mosquito larvae.

Oxitec's lab workers manually remove modified females, aiming to release only
males, which don't bite for blood like females do. The modified males then mate
with wild females whose offspring die, reducing the population.

Oxitec has built a breeding lab in Marathon and hopes to release its mosquitoes
in a Key West neighborhood this spring.

FDA spokeswoman Theresa Eisenman said no field tests will be allowed until the
agency has thoroughly reviewed all the necessary information.

Company spokeswoman Chris Creese said the test will be similar in size to
Oxitec's 2012 experiment in the Cayman Islands, where 3.3 million modified
mosquitoes were released over six months, suppressing 96 percent of the targeted
bugs. Oxitec says a later test in Brazil also was successful, and both countries
now want larger-scale projects.

But critics accused Oxitec of failing to obtain informed consent in the Caymans,
saying residents weren't told they could be bitten by a few stray females
overlooked in the lab.

Instead, Oxitec said only non-biting males would be released, and that even if
humans were somehow bitten, no genetically modified DNA would enter their
bloodstream.Neither claim is entirely true, outside observers say.I'm on their
side, in that consequences are highly unlikely. But to say that there's no
genetically modified DNA that might get into a human, that's kind of a gray
matter, said Lounibos.Creese says Oxitec has now released 70 million of its
mosquitoes in several countries and received no reports of human impacts caused
by bites or from the synthetic DNA, despite regulatory oversight that encourages
people to report any problems.We are confident of the safety of our mosquito, as
there's no mechanism for any adverse effect on human health. The proteins are
non-toxic and non-allergenic, she said.

Oxitec should still do more to show that the synthetic DNA causes no harm when
transferred into humans by its mosquitoes, said Guy Reeves, a molecular
geneticist at Germany's Max Planck Institute.

Key West resident Marilyn Smith wasn't convinced after Oxitec's presentation at
a public meeting. She says neither disease has had a major outbreak yet in
Florida, so why are we being used as the experiment, the guinea pigs, just to
see what happens?

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday

Transgender teen [#x2028]living life of transition;
She and others like her are challenging their schools

BYLINE: ERIN KOURKOUNIS Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2451 words



HIGHLIGHT: What's it like to be a transgender teenager in 2015 in Hillsborough
County?


TAMPA - Clad in a baggy button-down shirt, tight black pants, light makeup and
combat boots, 16-year-old Angel Zavala steps off the school bus at the largest
public high school in Hillsborough County, ready to face whatever the day throws
at her.

Being a teenager comes with its share of angst, but the Alonso High School
junior and others like her endure more than typical high school troubles.

The gender Zavala identifies with does not match the body she was born with.

Since she came out to her family as a transgender girl about two years ago, the
Zavalas have been navigating an emotional transition process - mastering new
pronouns, beginning hormone therapy, working with school leaders to get her
support.

It's hard for me to look in the mirror, Zavala said. I don't see the person I'm
supposed to be.

In recent years, awareness of the transgender community in America has grown.
Openly transgender celebrities appear in television shows and on YouTube videos
documenting the transition for transgender people.

In Florida, lawmakers are debating a bill that would restrict people from using
single-sex public restrooms that don't represent their legal gender, angering
transgender Floridians and their allies. The proposal has passed two committees
in the House of Representatives.

People who study the trend say there's a growing need for training in
transgender issues among schoolteachers, staff and students as more children are
making gender identities known at a younger age.

We're seeing a lot more people coming out much earlier than they did 10 or 15
years ago, said Randi Kaufman, a New York psychologist specializing in gender
issues. Kids growing up today understand this is an option.

In turn, school officials - including those in Hillsborough County public
schools - are finding themselves working with more transgender students, making
sure they get support and accommodations.

While gender identity is protected under the district's anti-discrimination and
bullying policies, there is no defined protocol in place in Hillsborough on how
schools can accommodate Zavala and others like her. Schools work with these
students on a case-by-case basis.

We need to do whatever we can to give them the best learning environment, Alonso
Principal Kenneth Hart said. Each of the youngsters is at a different stage.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Zavala's outfit on this day is gender-neutral, a far cry from what she would
wear if she knew she could avoid teasing at school.

She feels more herself in something more fashionable and out there - a crop top
with tight plaid pants and high heels, for example, adding a couple of inches to
her already tall, slender frame. She also feels her best in full makeup,
including faux eyelashes.

She has an outgoing personality and a diverse group of friends at school. She
loves reality television shows, like Keeping Up With the Kardashians.

Senior year, she said, she will make her full transition. She plans to wear
skirts to school and run for prom queen.

For now, some parts of her appearance she does not suppress at school are her
fingernails, which are currently long and painted pale pink, dotted with sparkly
rhinestones.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

To be transgender means to have a gender identity that differs from the
biological sex a person is born with. It is a term that includes people assigned
a female body at birth who are or want to be living as men, as well as people
assigned a male body who are or want to be living as women.

Two other terms that fall under the transgender umbrella are two spirit -
identifying as both male and female - and genderqueer - defying or refusing to
accept stereotypical gender roles.

We grow up believing our genitals determine our gender identity, said Helen
Friedman, a psychologist in Saint Louis, Missouri. Gender is hard-wired in the
brain.

As a child, Zavala didn't know enough about transgender to recognize she might
fit into the category.

It started at a very young age, knowing I was different, she said. I wasn't
drawn to the boy stuff. It was more the Barbies, the high heels, the makeup.

In the eighth grade, Zavala - still living as a boy - told her parents she was
bisexual, and then gay. But that still did not feel quite right.

It wasn't until later that school year, after watching drag-queen reality show
RuPaul's Drag Race, that Zavala discovered she might be transgender. She spent
hours in her room conducting research on therapy and surgery.

Something clicked.

As I started getting introduced to more of the trans community, I knew that's
what I identified with, she said.

The families of transgender children are not always supportive of them, but that
has not been the case for Zavala.

She told her older sister, Mariah Zavala, first and then her mother, Monica
Zavala, through letters.

I was up two hours researching 'What is transgender?' Monica Zavala said. That's
when our whole world changed.

Monica Zavala, a hairdresser, uses he and she interchangeably when referring to
her daughter. She is still getting accustomed to referring to the female pronoun
her daughter prefers.

It took Zavala's dad a little while to come around to the idea she would be
anything but a straight boy. He worried what his Hispanic, Catholic extended
family would think and wondered if he did something wrong.

I took the dad way of trying to fix things, said Arturo Zavala, who works for
Price Waterhouse Cooper in Tampa. Over time, I realized I needed to look more at
saving her, making sure she's protected and forget about what people think about
me. I told her I didn't care. I was there for her, forever. I realized
unconditional love means unconditional love.

And to his surprise, the rest of the family welcomed his daughter's transition.

It was shocking how open and accepting they were, across the board.

A couple of hours into the school day, Zavala heads to her favorite class,
fashion essentials. Today, Patty Alonso's students - mostly girls - are watching
the film Marie Antoinette as a study in 18th-century fashion.

Alonso, who is not related to the school's namesake, has Zavala in her classroom
for two periods each day. She describes her as well-mannered, polite, mature and
brave.

I can't imagine being that age and dealing with normal teenage problems in
addition to that, Alonso said.

Looking back to her freshman year, Zavala remembers seeing a therapist a few
times to provide some guidance as she began her transition. She had become
suicidal, and she and her parents decided it would be best for her to take
classes online for her sophomore year. During that time, her anxiety lessened,
and she became more comfortable with herself.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

I felt more confident, Zavala said. I was wearing a lot more makeup. I felt
happy. I felt like who I was supposed to be.

Some transgender people make both a social and medical transition to their
desired gender, but everyone's transition is different. Social transition may
include changes in clothing, grooming, pronouns, names and identification
documents. Medical transition may include hormones and surgeries.

Transgender teens who opt to get sex-reassignment surgery are advised by mental
health professionals and medical doctors to live as their desired gender for one
year before getting surgery, and to wait until age 18. As these surgeries cost
thousands of dollars, some choose to only get top surgery, breast implants for
transgender women or mastectomies for transgender men. Some transgender women
also have Adam's apple reduction surgery.

Zavala and her parents found a doctor to administer hormone therapy safely. Nine
months ago, she started taking feminizing hormones in the form of pills three
times a day.

Once Zavala has taken the pills for a year, her doctor says they can talk about
the three surgeries she wants to undergo - breast implants, Adam's apple
reduction and sex-reassignment.

Zavala has already noticed some changes in her appearance, thanks to the
hormones. She has softer facial features than before and has seen some breast
growth. She still isn't quite comfortable in her body yet, but she's getting
there.

Junior year rolled around, and Zavala got ready for her return to Alonso. She
and her mother met with the school psychologist and assistant principal before
school started to see what accommodations could be made. An email went out to
all of her teachers at the beginning of the school year.

She will not set foot in the men's or women's restrooms; she doesn't feel she
would be welcome in either. The school agreed she could use a unisex restroom in
the nurse's office. She also is permitted to leave her classes a few minutes
early so she doesn't have to walk the packed hallways.

For the first month of the school year, Zavala ramped up the makeup to show the
other kids she is going to live as a woman. The girls have been much more
accepting than the boys.

They look at me like I'm some kind of alien, Zavala said.

Zavala still asks that her teachers use male pronouns for her in class, for
protection, so certain students don't give her a hard time. When kids do try to
stir up trouble by using derogatory language, she doesn't respond.

The Zavalas say administrators and teachers at Alonso have done what they can to
help, but they wish there could be more education for other students about their
transgender peers.

We're not private about our situation, Monica Zavala said. We've come to find
there's a lot of kids out there that need help.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Zavala spends her lunch period in her fashion teacher's classroom to avoid the
cafeteria.

Kids can be mean, said Alonso, the teacher, but she added that the students at
her school have gotten better about bullying and teasing.

Transgender students are typically considered at risk because the suicide rate
for the group is high. According to a 2014 study by the American Foundation for
Suicide Prevention, 46 percent of transgender men and 42 percent of transgender
women said they have tried to kill themselves. This month, a 16-year-old
transgender girl who spoke on YouTube about being bullied at school in Southern
California killed herself, a support group said.

A 2013 school climate survey by the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network,
found that about half the 410 Florida secondary students surveyed had been
verbally harassed based on the way they express their gender.

The statistics are why many experts in gender issues say schools should take the
needs of transgender students seriously.

The school should make sure to show everyone at large that they are supportive
of this kid, said Kaufman, the New York psychologist.

Laura Edwards-Leeper, a clinical psychologist and professor at Pacific
University in Portland, Oregon, said schools should make it a priority to
educate their students, faculty and staff about gender diversity, and come up
with policies and procedures to protect transgender students.

A lot of these kids often end up dropping out of school or decide to do
home-schooling because school doesn't feel like a safe place for them,
Edwards-Leeper said. When schools have taken it upon themselves to figure out
the best protocol and bring in groups to do diversity training for the staff and
students, those are the schools that become identified as safe places for these
youth.

It is difficult to say how many transgender students attend local public schools
because many keep their gender identity to themselves.

Eight Alonso students this school year - including Zavala - have revealed their
transgender status to school psychologist Amanda Privé.

Kids are feeling more comfortable in their own skin, Privé said. Every year,
we've had more and more students we need to work with.

Privé wants to see more training for faculty on the topic and a set of
procedures created for school officials when transgender students come to them
for help. She suggests gender-neutral bathrooms and changing rooms, or perhaps
safe rooms at schools.

The Hillsborough County School Board has not discussed crafting a policy this
year to protect transgender students, but member Cindy Stuart said the issue is
on the board's radar.

How we protect those students and respect their rights is an issue, she said. I
think it's definitely something we're going to have to think about.

Esme Russell, 54, said transgender students today face a tough road like she did
as a teen, but she is glad to see that more of them are coming out at an earlier
age, which was almost unheard of when she was in school.

Russell, now an entertainer at Hamburger Mary's in Ybor City, part of a
gay-friendly chain of restaurant franchisees, told her parents she was
transgender when she was in middle school. She was open about her gender
identity while attending Hillsborough High School in the 1970s, but dropped out
to finish school in an adult education program because she was bullied so much.

I was the only person in that whole school that was like that, she said. I stood
out like a sore thumb. It was a terrible time. Every time you're in school,
somebody is yelling some kind of vicious name - 'he-she,' 'fag,' 'it,' sissy.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

After fashion class, Zavala and three other students spend the next period
selling snacks in the school store before heading off to algebra class. There
are not many customers today, so they sit behind the counter and chat.

While the bullying at school this year is down to a minimum for Zavala, she
still steers clear of many boys at Alonso. Most of her friends are girls.

The one exception is Nick Kyler, an 18-year-old football player, who Zavala
refers to as her body guard. While some other kids are uncomfortable with
Zavala's gender identity, Kyler hasn't thought twice about it.

At the end of the day, Angel is going to be stronger, Kyler said, then told his
friend: You're a great person. Why would I not be your friend?

Zavala plans on changing her first name to Ariel, inspired by the movie The
Little Mermaid, once her transition is complete. She dreams of becoming a model
in New York City.

Dating is tough because it's difficult to find a guy, gay or straight, who is
interested in being with a transgender girl, she said.

My hope is to see myself be very successful, Zavala said. If I can find love on
the way, yeah I'll take it.

Zavala's dad said his daughter has come out of her shell since she began
transitioning. In many ways, she's a typical teen girl.

High drama, he quips.

She was very, very shy, Arturo Zavala said. Now, she's very opinionated, not
afraid to speak her mind. It's night and day. She's very strong now.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

ekourkounis@tampatrib.com

(813)259-7999

Twitter: @ErinKTBO

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 661 words


Sept. 23, 1952: In what became known as the Checkers speech, Sen. Richard M.
Nixon, R-California, salvaged his vice-presidential nomination by appearing live
on television to refute allegations of improper campaign fundraising.1779:
During the Revolutionary War, the American warship Bon Homme Richard, commanded
by John Paul Jones, defeated the HMS Serapis in battle off Yorkshire, England;
however, the seriously damaged Bon Homme Richard sank two days later.1780:
British spy John Andre was captured, along with papers revealing Benedict
Arnold's plot to surrender West Point to the British.1806: The Lewis and Clark
expedition returned to St. Louis more than two years after setting out for the
Pacific Northwest.

1846: Neptune was identified as a planet by German astronomer Johann Gottfried
Galle.1908: An apparent baserunning error by Fred Merkle of the New York Giants
cost his team a victory against the Chicago Cubs and left the game tied 1-1. The
Cubs won a rematch and with it, the National League pennant.1939: Sigmund Freud,
the founder of psychoanalysis, died in London at age 83.1955: A jury in Sumner,
Mississippi, acquitted two white men, Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam, of murdering
black teenager Emmett Till. (The two men later admitted to the crime in an
interview with Look magazine.)1957: Nine black students who'd entered Little
Rock Central High School in Arkansas were forced to withdraw because of a white
mob outside.1962: New York's Philharmonic Hall (later renamed Avery Fisher Hall)
formally opened as the first unit of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.
The Jetsons, an animated cartoon series about a Space Age family, premiered as
the ABC television network's first program in color.

1973: Former Argentine president Juan Peron won a landslide election victory
that returned him to power; his wife, Isabel, was elected vice president.1987:
Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., withdrew from the Democratic presidential race
following questions about his use of borrowed quotations and the portrayal of
his academic record.1999: The Mars Climate Orbiter apparently burned up as it
attempted to go into orbit around the Red Planet.Ten years ago: Hurricane Rita,
down to Category 3, steamed toward refinery towns along the Texas-Louisiana
coast, creating havoc even before it arrived; levee breaks caused new flooding
in New Orleans, and 23 people were killed when a bus carrying nursing-home
evacuees caught fire in Texas. Embattled FDA Commissioner Lester Crawford
abruptly resigned. Puerto Rican nationalist Filiberto Ojeda Rios, wanted in a
1983 robbery of a Connecticut armored truck, died during a gunbattle with FBI
agents in Puerto Rico.

Five years ago: The U.S. delegation walked out of a U.N. speech by Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad after he said some in the world had speculated
that the U.S. staged the September 11, 2001 attacks in an attempt to assure
Israel's survival. Congressional Republicans unveiled their Pledge to America, a
strongly worded manifesto promising to return government to the people. Teresa
Lewis, 41, was executed by the state of Virginia for arranging the killings of
her husband and stepson to collect on a $250,000 insurance policy. The
children's show Sesame Street announced it wouldn't televise a taped segment in
which the Muppet character Elmo sang with bustier-clad pop star Katy Perry.

One year ago: In the first international test for his climate-change strategy,
President Barack Obama pressed world leaders at the United Nations to follow the
United States' lead on the issue. The U.S. struck the al-Qaida-linked Khorasan
group with Tomahawk missiles and other ordnance near Aleppo in northwestern
Syria based on fears it was planning terrorist attacks on the U.S. and Europe. A
man wearing his work uniform opened fire inside a UPS sorting facility in
Birmingham, Alabama, a day after he was fired from the company, killing two
supervisors before committing suicide.

The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

Castor shows off co-generation energy plant;
She calls hospital facility 'a model for the nation'

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER O'DONNELL; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor AND U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone, ranking member of
U.S. House Energy & Commerce Committee tour TGH's co-generator plant.


On the day that the World Meteorological Organization reported that carbon
dioxide levels are at a record high, U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor called on businesses
and governments to put more resources into lowering greenhouse gases.

To make her point, Castor gave fellow U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone of New Jersey,
ranking member of the U.S. House Energy & Commerce Committee, a tour of a
co-generation energy plant at St. Joseph's Hospital.

The plant burns natural gas and produces enough energy to power 250 homes. That
reduces the hospital's energy bill by roughly $200,000 per year, hospital
officials said.  The heat produced by the plant is also captured, converted into
steam and used to sterilize medical equipment.

It is a model for the nation, Castor said. We've got to get creative.  In
Florida, we have to reduce our carbon pollution by well over 30 percent over the
next 20 years.Pallone also got a tour of the hospital's medical waste treatment
system.

In 2014, some 2.4 million pounds of medical waste was pulverized into a
mulch-like substance that is then burned to create energy at the Mckay Bay
Refuse to Energy Facility.

This is something we would love to replicate in New Jersey and other parts of
the country, Pallone said.

The push to cut Florida's greenhouse gases comes from President Barack Obama's
Clean Power Plan announced in August. It requires a 30 percent reduction in
carbon emissions by 2030.

The plan is a response to reports like the one from the World Meteorological
Organization that shows the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
has risen by 43 percent since the Industrial Revolution. Consensus among
scientists is that greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide are behind global
warming.

The plan, which the Environmental Protection Agency plans to enforce through the
Clean Air Act, has been challenged in the courts by at least 24 states,
including Florida.  All but two of the states have Republican governors.

Among the criticisms of the plan are that it will drive up costs, including
utility bills for consumers, and decimate the coal industry.

Castor warned that the cost to the nation will be much greater if action isn't
taken now.

Remember Florida is the most vulnerable state when it comes to the changing
climate, Castor said. Unless we can tackle those challenges now, it's going to
be desperate time for the folks who live here and our businesses later on.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 27, 2015 Friday

Scientists tweaking genes of mosquitoes;
They hope to create insects that can spread an immunity to malaria

BYLINE: LAURAN NEERGAARD; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


California researchers hatched some malaria-resistant mosquitoes and then gave
evolution a shove - using a groundbreaking technology to ensure the insects pass
on that protective gene as they reproduce, with implications far beyond the
promise of fighting malaria.The experiment involves what's called a gene drive,
a technique that, if it pans out, promises to alter the genetics of populations
of insects and certain plants and animals faster than Mother Nature
could.Normally, genes have a 50-50 chance of being inherited. University of
California researchers created a strain of mosquitoes that could pass a
specially engineered malaria-blocking gene to about 99 percent of their
offspring.The mutant mosquitoes, kept in a secured lab, highlight the promise of
this technology along with questions about when and how it might be safe to try
it in the wild.This is a major advance because it shows that gene drive
interventions will likely be effective in mosquito vectors of disease, said
biologist Kevin Esvelt of Harvard's Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired
Engineering, a gene drive researcher who wasn't involved with the newest study.

Because no one knows how such rapid genetic change might impact habitats, Esvelt
has urged the public to weigh in. The California study published online in
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences adds some urgency.

This work suggests that we're a hop, skip and jump away from actual gene drive
candidates for eventual release in nature, he said.Malaria kills more than half
a million people a year, mostly children in Africa, and sickens about 200
million more. Mosquitoes pick up the parasite by biting an infected person, and
spread it when they bite someone else. Mosquito-killing insecticides and bed
nets are the main protection.At the University of California-Irvine, molecular
biologist Anthony James is developing what he calls sustainable technologies -
rather than killing mosquitoes, instead rendering them unable to infect people.

James engineered immune system genes that could spur a mosquito's body to
develop antibodies to attack the parasite, so that it couldn't transmit the
infection. The new genes worked as intended when injected into the eggs of a
particular malaria-spreading mosquito species, Anopheles stephensi.

Altered mosquitoes would have to gradually spread their new genes by mating with
wild mosquito populations - and the next challenge is how to speed that process
quickly enough to make a dent in malaria in any given region.

Enter gene drives, a technique that proponents say one day might be used to wipe
out invasive species like kudzu or cane toads, or reverse pesticide resistance
in weeds, or suppress insect populations. The idea comes from a few examples in
nature where certain genes spread disproportionately, and scientists have longed
for a way to control that process. Recently they've had some success using a
powerful new tool named CRISPR-Cas9 that allows precise editing of DNA in living
cells, sort of like cut-and-paste software.

This year, University of California, San Diego, biologists Ethan Bier and
Valentino Gantz announced a CRISPR-fueled gene drive that worked in fruit flies.

For the study, the San Diego researchers teamed with James - packing the
malaria-resistance genes with the CRISPR-based gene drive, boosting chances of
inheriting the malaria protection by targeting the change to a specific spot in
the mosquito's reproductive DNA. To measure, they tacked on a fluorescence gene
that made mosquitoes' eyes look red if they harbored the new gene.

The malaria protection spread remarkably well, proving the concept even though
far more work is needed before this kind of mosquito could be tested in the
wild, James said. Among the findings to be addressed was that the transgenic
male mosquitoes passed their new trait to the next generation more efficiently
than transgenic females did.

Gene drive experiments are controversial. One worry is the possibility of
altered organisms escaping the laboratory before scientists know how to use
them. The California team took safeguards including special lab security and
using a mosquito species that can't survive in California's climate.

Additional questions involve what's appropriate to try - wiping out a species or
just altering it, for example - and how to approach such research in low-income
countries.

The prestigious National Academy of Sciences is studying ethical issues
surrounding gene drive research, and the California team says countries that
struggle with mosquito-borne diseases in particular should be involved. Somebody
sitting in the U.S. making up a list of rules has to appreciate that these
countries have their own concerns, James said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Looking forward by looking back

BYLINE: LEE H. Hamilton; Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 376 words



HIGHLIGHT: Congress


With the 114th Congress just underway, the political world is focused intently
on the road ahead. Taxes, trade, immigration, climate change, job creation, the
Affordable Care Act - there's a long list of issues and one burning question:
whether a Republican Congress and a Democratic President can find common ground.

Yet before we get worked up about what's to come, we need to take a hard look at
the Congress that just ended and ask a different question: Why was it such an
abject failure?

Let's start with a basic number. According to the Library of Congress, 296 bills
were passed by the 113th Congress and signed by the president. Just for
comparison's sake, the do-nothing Congress of 1947-48 got 906 bills through. The
Financial Times called this most recent version the least productive Congress in
modern U.S. history.

Congress failed most spectacularly on the basics. Not one of the dozen annual
appropriations bills passed, and the budget resolution, which is supposed to set
overall fiscal policy, never even got to a vote.

When Congress did legislate, it did so in the worst possible way - by using an
omnibus spending bill into which it crammed everything it could manage.
Congress' reliance on omnibus bills, which are written in secret, violates every
rule of good legislative process and denies transparency and accountability. It
allows Capitol Hill to curry favor with all sorts of special interests and
forces - or allows - members to vote for provisions that would have had very
little chance of surviving on their own.

The last Congress maintained one other lamentable trend: it took oversight to
mean injecting its investigations with partisanship - Benghazi, the IRS'
examination of conservative groups, the VA's mishandling of health care for
veterans - while forgetting the crucial, ongoing oversight of government. The
congressional leadership is now under pressure to show Americans that they can
be successful. Let's hope they consider success to include avoiding the bad
habits of the past - by paying more attention to their constituents than to
special interests; enforcing their own ethics rules more vigorously; and most of
all, allowing the full debate and votes Congress needs to serve as a true
coequal branch of government.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

In reference to attacks in Paris, pope says free speech has limits;
'You cannot insult the faith of others,' he says on Philippines leg of Asia tour

BYLINE: NICOLE WINFIELD and TERESA CEROJANO; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: MANILA, Philippines


Pope Francis began his visit to Asia's largest Catholic nation Thursday with a
provocative statement about one of Europe's largest Catholic nations: Referring
to the Paris attacks, Francis said there are limits to freedom of expression,
especially when it insults or ridicules someone's faith.

Francis made the comments en route to the Philippines, where hundreds of
thousands of people lined Manila's streets to cheer him as he arrived from Sri
Lanka for the second and final leg of his Asia tour. Francis said his visit
would focus on the plight of the poor, the exploited and victims of injustice,
themes sure to resonate in a nation where poverty afflicts nearly one-fourth of
its 100 million people.

Francis weighed in on the debate raging in much of the world after the massacre
by Islamic extremists at the satirical French newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a
subsequent attack on a kosher supermarket that left 17 people and the three
gunmen dead.

Francis defended freedom of speech as a fundamental right and even a duty to
speak out for the common good. But he said there are limits to free speech,
especially when confronting another equally fundamental human right: the freedom
of religion.

By way of example, he referred to Alberto Gasparri, who organizes papal trips
and was standing by his side aboard the papal plane.

If my good friend Dr. Gasparri says a curse word against my mother, he can
expect a punch, Francis said jokingly, throwing a pretend punch his way. It's
normal. You cannot provoke. You cannot insult the faith of others. You cannot
make fun of the faith of others.

He by no means said the violent attack on Charlie Hebdo was justified. He said
such horrific violence in God's name can't be justified and is an aberration.
But he said a reaction of some kind is to be expected.

As he emerged from his plane, church bells rang out across the country and
hundreds of children danced and waved small Philippine and Vatican flags.

Francis also said he is convinced that global warming is mostly man-made and
that he hopes his upcoming encyclical on the environment will encourage
negotiators at a climate change meeting in Paris to make courageous decisions to
protect God's creation.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Too many 'sheep' in Tallahassee? Former lawmakers say yes

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 699 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bowen and sheep


Although two former influential legislators acknowledged in comments at the
Tiger Bay Club of Tampa last week that many members of the Florida Legislature
still must follow along like sheep, there are early signs that may be changing.

Observations by former Florida congressman and state representative Jim Davis
and former state representative and senator Mike Fasano will be passé to old
political hands, but how things really work in Tallahassee may evoke shock and
awe in ordinary folk.

There are some problems up in Tallahassee ... and it's time some changes were
being made, commented Fasano, who is Pasco County tax collector.

Using the Medicaid expansion debate as an example, Davis declared: The
leadership in the Legislature will not let these state representatives vote
their conscience. They can't even ask permission. Forget about asking
forgiveness. This is an incredibly autocratic process. Ironically, in one of the
most democratic countries in the world, our legislative bodies tend to be the
least democratic.

Historically, major decisions about the state budget and what bills will pass
and fail are made well in advance of the opening of the session by a few
legislative leaders.

In the Senate, it is a little different because you are a little more
independent, said Fasano, who served in the Legislature for 20 years. But in the
House, it's a problem. It's sheep in the House. It's sheep. There is an
understanding that, 'You will follow me as speaker and do what I tell you to do
if you want that appropriations for your hometown or a decent office space; you
will do what I am doing as well.'

There are some rays of hope, Fasano added: There are new Republican freshmen
members who don't want to go in the direction we've seen in the past few years.
They are not just going to play follow the leader because they want to get
parking spots, they want to get office spots or get their bills passed. It's
good to see young representatives taking the position that 'We're not going to
go down that road anymore.'

About the need for individuality and personal commitment, Davis was adamant:
When you get somebody with a backbone, somebody running, when you find someone
who will stand up and say what they believe, in this wretched political climate
authenticity still matters, you want to embrace them and get them up there.

Why do some of the Republican House members even bother to go to Tallahassee?
Fasano asked. I have seen firsthand less and less and less influence that a
legislator has in the Florida House. It is really sad. In some cases, all they
do is go up there and press the green button if that's what leadership wants, or
the red button if that's what leadership wants. What they do is they go around
and say, 'Representative So-and-So, what do you want in the budget? OK, so sit
there and keep your mouth shut, and vote the way we want you to.'

Some other observations and opinions the two offered under rigorous questioning
by Tiger Bay Club members:[diams]  Candidates themselves are having less and
less influence in their own campaigns. Fasano observed: The Republican Party
will pick them and tell them, 'Go sit over there. We will run your campaign.'
[diams]  Davis on that subject: The Koch brothers rented space at the corner of
Platt and South Boulevard, and David Jolly ... could have gone to the beach or
the mountains for two weeks because they were running it, his campaign, like a
driverless car. ... Here's the problem: Pick your favorite villain. George Soros
or the Koch brothers, and they say, 'I don't like that person. I'm gettin' rid
of them.' At least they're being honest in public about it, and $10 million can
do a lot of damage on a candidate.

[diams]  Davis again: Let's talk about the money for a minute. It is dreadful.
If you are a Democrat running for office right now and you start asking people
for money who can be punished in Tallahassee, they get phone calls from
Republican leadership saying if you give money to these people, we are going to
punish you. If that is not illegal, it should be. Very difficult to prove, by
the way. That is what is happening. It is intolerable. It is unforgivable. If
the Democrats did it too, shame on them, too.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday

Someone step up and lead Florida

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 619 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson column


Adam Putnam.

Bob Buckhorn.

If only there was a way for somebody, please, to offer leadership and save the
citizens of Florida from the lunacy run amok in Tallahassee. One of those two
gentlemen, perhaps.

One is a Republican, one is a Democrat. Who cares?

It's not about red or blue ideology, at least not for me.

We can disagree on issues, but this isn't about policy. It's about competence.

Putnam, a Republican, is the state's agriculture secretary. He is bright,
personable, well-liked and respected, and he probably is going to run for Gov.
Rick Scott's job in 2018. He was born and raised in Bartow, so his roots in
Florida are deep. He served 10 years in the U.S. House of Representatives and
four years in the Florida House.

Buckhorn is equally smart, determined, and popular. He is in his second term as
Tampa's mayor, and we all see the results of his leadership - a word with which
Scott is not familiar - in the renaissance of this city. He is a Democrat, but
works both sides of the aisle with aplomb (what a concept). He, too, is probably
going to run for governor.

Can they just do it now?

Otherwise, we have 31/2 more years of Scott's incomprehensible brand of
governing. That's a lot of time we'll have to spend trying to figure out what,
if anything, this man stands for.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

It's also a lot of time for the Legislature to essentially pat the governor on
the head while pointing him to the latest ribbon-cutting ceremony. It's a lot of
time to spend wondering how much better Putnam or Buckhorn - or, really, anyone
else - would do at that job.

This last week, for instance, Scott again showed his lack of political savvy
when he asked state agencies to prepare emergency budgets in case the government
shuts down. Perhaps he is unaware that the executive branch of state government
doesn't set the budget; that's up to the Legislature.

We wouldn't even need to have this debate if the governor had an ounce of
political skill. A leader would never have let the impasse between the state
House and Senate - both Republican-controlled, by the way - escalate to the
point where we will need a special session just to set a budget.

Meanwhile, the state is facing the loss of federal money that subsidizes health
care

for its neediest citizens. Scott's response is to demand the state's hospitals
share profits if they receive public dollars for such treatment.

Huh?

Imagine the howl if that was Barack Obama's proposal and not one from our tea
party/Wawa-loving governor turned socialist?

The Washington Post summed it up thusly: Florida Gov. Rick Scott is taking
irrational to new lengths.

But that's not all. Did you see the Associated Press story last week about how
rising water from the Atlantic Ocean is threatening St. Augustine's historic old
Spanish fortress?

St. Augustine is a jewel, a major historic attraction in our state. The story
detailed how flood waters cover its streets near the fort at least 10 times a
year. I don't expect Scott to get out there with a bucket and start bailing, but
I do expect him to champion a plan to deal with this.

What's his plan, though? I mean, besides having any reference to climate change
edited out of state documents?

He doesn't have one. He doesn't want one.

This is nuts.

Three-and-a-half years is a long time to wait for Florida government to get its
head out of the sand, so to speak.

I mentioned Putnam and Buckhorn deliberately, because neither has made a secret
of his interest in wanting the job Scott holds.

Either one would be infinitely better than the current occupant of that office.
If another person with leadership skills emerges, that's OK, too. Because if
it's this crazy now, what will it be like by 2018?

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              June 14, 2015 Sunday

Clinton formally kicks off 2016 bid in NYC;
Candidate promises to carry on liberal legacies

BYLINE: LISA LERER; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



HIGHLIGHT: Hillary Rodham Clinton, in kickoff to 2016 campaign, embraces her
potential to make history


 Hillary Rodham Clinton formally kicked off her presidential campaign on
Saturday with an enthusiastic embrace of her potential to become the first woman
to win the White House, asking supporters gathered at an outdoor rally to join
in her building an America where we don't leave anyone out, or anyone behind.

With the downtown New York skyline and new World Trade Center over her shoulder,
Clinton offered herself as a fierce advocate for those still struggling from the
great recession.She promised to carry on the liberal legacies of President
Barack Obama, and former Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Bill Clinton, her
husband, saying real and lasting prosperity must be built by all and shared by
all.

While Clinton ended her first campaign for president in 2008 by conceding she
and her backers weren't able to shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling, she
vowed Saturday to push ahead toward an America where a father can tell his
daughter: Yes, you can be anything you want to be - even president of the United
States.

I think you know by now that I've been called many things by many people,
Clinton said to cheers and laughter from a crowd of roughly 5,500 on Roosevelt
Island in the East River. Quitter is not one of them.

The 67-year-old former secretary of state, first lady and Democratic senator
from New York did not make her gender a core element in 2008, but it provided
the cap to the first major speech of her 2016 bid.I will be the youngest woman
president in the history of the United States. And the first grandmother as
well, she said.

Two months after starting her campaign with a simple video that showed her only
briefly, Clinton outlined a broad vision intended to attract the coalition of
young and minority voters that propelled Obama to two victories.In her roughly
45 minute speech, Clinton laid out a wish list of Democratic policies: universal
pre-K education, increased regulation of the financial industry, paid sick leave
and equal pay for women, a path to citizenship for immigrants living in the
country illegally, campaign finance overhaul and a ban on discrimination against
gay people and their families.In doing so, Clinton tried to cast the 2016
election as a choice about the economic future of the middle class, saying the
Republican field is singing the same old song.

The GOP's candidates, she said, want to give Wall Street banks free reign, take
away health insurance, turn their backs on gay people and ignore the science of
climate change.

Fundamentally, they reject what it takes to build an inclusive economy, Clinton
said. It takes an inclusive society. What I once called 'a village' that has a
place for everyone.Republicans jumped on Clinton's decision to cite her ties to
Obama and were trying to raise money off the speech almost as soon as it ended.
In an email appeal asking for donations, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry wrote, We
want to look toward a brighter future, not backward at the failed policies of
the Obama-Clinton years.As part of an effort to reintroduce herself to the
public, Clinton stressed her career of advocacy - a calling she said was
inspired by her mother's difficult upbringing.

After the rally, she headed to Iowa for a campaign event Saturday night,
followed this week by a tour of early voting states. There, she will focus on
her relationship with her mother and her father's background as a veteran and
small businessman.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 4, 2015 Saturday

INDOOR VS. OUTDOOR EXERCISING: Which is more productive?

BYLINE: Alina Gonzalez; Byrdie (TNS)

SECTION: 4YOU; 4U; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 474 words



HIGHLIGHT: where to work out


People tend to lean heavily on the gym when it comes to exercise, even in places
where summer is endless. The gym is just an easy concept: You go, the machines
are right there, you get the workout done, and you leave.

But maybe that's the point/problem. Is it better for your body, health, and
fitness goals to work out outdoors, where terrain varies and nothing is as
smooth as the treadmill belt or class floor?

It depends on so many factors, but the short answer is yes: Science says it is,
in fact, better to exercise outdoors.

There are variations depending on the workout you're doing. Take running, for
example. In a study that looked at runners who covered the same distance on a
treadmill and outdoors, the group that ran inside expended less energy than the
outside group. This is because of terrain changes and wind velocity, which you
don't face in the controlled climate of a gym. You get more bang for your buck
running 3 miles outside than running 3 miles inside.

Your body has to work harder to do so, and thus you burn more calories. Running
inside also doesn't enable you to run downhill, a movement that  flexes and
engages different muscles. The same has been shown for biking, with regard to
wind resistance outside, downhill movements and turning.

There's another consideration that makes exercising outside more strenuous,
whether you're running, biking or hiking: temperature. In most gyms, unless
you're taking a hot yoga class, the A/C will be blasting to keep you cool and
comfortable. More pleasant? Yes. But does it mean you're expending less energy
(aka calories) and sweating less than you would if you were doing the same
activity in the great outdoors? Also yes.

Additionally, a systematic study on the effects of physical activity outside in
a natural environment versus indoors showed that among people doing the same
activity, the outdoor exercisers showed greater feelings of revitalization and
positive engagement; decreases in tension, confusion, anger and depression; and
increased energy afterward. Participants also reported greater enjoyment and
satisfaction with outdoor activity and declared a greater intent to repeat the
activity at a later date - i.e., they were more motivated to work out again.

All that said, working outside has its limitations. From inclement weather to
safety concerns, it's not always an option. And although working out among
trees, fresh air and the sun offers more beautiful and stimulating surroundings
than the walls of a gym, the gym provides variety in the form of options, from
the weight machines to Zumba or boxing.

The bottom line? Switch up your workout and get outside as much as you can for
its physical and mental health benefits, but don't sweat it (pun intended) if
the gym is a more practical choice for you. Doing any workout is amazing for
your body and health.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday

Environmental impact of burning coal examined

BYLINE: Len Boselovic; Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (TNS)

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 526 words



HIGHLIGHT: Russ


Coal Wars: The Future of Energy and the Fate of the Planet by Richard Martin;
Palgrave Macmillan (284 pages, $28).

There is no doubt about which side of the great divide over coal Richard  Martin
stands on. If we don't shut down Big Coal, the fight against global warming is
lost, the energy analyst says early on inCoal Wars: The Future of Energy and the
Fate of the Planet.

Still, Martin does more than an adequate job of laying out both sides of the
debate, in the United States and in China, the world's largest carbon emitter
since it surpassed the U.S. in 2007. Both countries struggle with the task of
weaning themselves off the cheap, abundant energy coal provides despite the
increasing damage it does to the environment.

Mention environmental catastrophes and incidents like the Exxon Valdez leap to
mind. Martin reminds us that coal more than holds its own in this category. He
cites the 2008 failure of a containment dam at a Tennessee mine that released a
billion-gallon flood of coal ash, 100 times the amount of pollutants from the
Exxon Valdez, as well as a 2013 coal storm in China that left a grimy black coat
on people and the environment.

The author examines the difficult transition away from coal through the lives of
those who rely on the rock for a living, the environmentalists who clean up
after them and the well-intentioned who are attempting - vainly for the most
part - to create a post-coal economy that won't impoverish the coal dependent.

The coal wars make people think and speak in biblical terms. Environmental
catastrophe on the one hand, economic meltdown on the other, Martin writes.

He is likewise inclined, describing the coalition of coal and utility officials
who convinced Ohio to roll back state clean energy mandates last year as
prehistoric creatures. The meteor was hurtling toward Earth. In Ohio, though,
dinosaurs still walked the earth, grazing contentedly, he writes.

The prose will not endear Martin to the science deniers on the other side of the
divide, people like Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who makes a
living routinely knocking those who analyze the issue with a more nuanced
approach than he does.

Big Coal also will be infuriated by his judgment that China stands a better
chance of addressing the climate change challenge than the U.S. But his
reasoning - that China is a more dynamic, energetic society that is accustomed
to upheaval and is not encumbered by democratic considerations - makes sense
unless your thinking is clouded by misguided patriotism.

Despite what advocates on both sides stubbornly maintain, Martin's second
greatest service is assuring us that there is no simple elegant solution.

His biggest contribution is reminding us that this is a global problem and that
we are all complicit, from the miners who expose themselves to health and safety
risks to scrape coal out of the earth, to those far removed from the mines and
power plants who innocently flip the switch without realizing the consequences
of their unfettered consumption of cheap energy.

Martin's Coal Wars provides plenty of information and analysis needed for a
productive debate on coal's future.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

Flood insurance: Choice and competition a consumer's best friend

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 696 words



HIGHLIGHT: flood insurance


As South Florida residents know all too well and Tampa residents found out this
month, this is the time of year that we may experience heavy flooding due to a
combination of heavy rain, low elevation and inadequate infrastructure. With
scientists warning of impending doom due to sea level rise, it is critical that
local and state leaders put in place the proper amount of mitigation to plan for
the future.

We can do this.

The Miami Herald reported last month that Florida has more private property at
risk from flooding linked to climate change than any other state, with $69
billion in coastal property at risk of flooding at high tide by 2030, maybe
sooner. That climbs to $152 billion by 2050, according to a recent report.

The advocates of Stronger Safer Florida have worked for years to push state
leaders to reduce the number of high-risk coastal properties insured by Citizens
Property Insurance in order to avoid the possibility of post-hurricane
assessments. We also support measures to plan for the increased risk of
flooding, and our recommendations include stronger building codes, the
elimination of subsidies for coastal development and better protection through
the use of natural defenses and available and customizable flood insurance.

Earlier this year, state Sen. Jeff Brandes pushed through legislation and Gov.
Scott signed into law language that would improve coastal development standards
and provide consumers additional choices regarding flood insurance protection.
The law provides consumers the option of flexible flood insurance, which
specifies coverage amounts and options of what is and isn't covered by a policy.

Federal lawmakers are bringing the issue to Congress.

Two members of the U.S. House from Florida - Patrick Murphy and Dennis Ross -
have filed The Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act. We think
it's a good thing for Florida and our country. The bill authorizes equal
treatment of the National Flood Insurance Program and private flood insurance,
allows for private flood insurance for the remaining principal on the mortgage
instead of the full value of the mortgage and allows consumers to switch between
private and federal insurance without penalty. These options must be approached
with care because we do not want underinsured homeowners asking for additional
taxpayer help, and we want to discourage rebuilding in high-risk areas.

Informed consumer choice is always important, especially when dealing with
insurance. The act seeks to improve the private flood insurance market, removing
federal restrictions that don't allow locally specific options and solutions for
coverage. NFIP has implemented some steep rate hikes and revised flood maps,
with the intention of making the cost match up with the actual risk. But this
may lead to problems for homeowners, whether it is because the maps or values
are wrong, or because the cost is simply too high.

We recognize that it is too risky to live in some places, and the cost has to
rise, but perhaps the program needs to move more slowly to avoid the rate shock
and should look at market solutions for help.

And as the effects of rising seas and flooding intensify, we will need to take
steps to mitigate the problems before they cripple our economy. Major flood
claims could have the same effect on Florida's consumers as a season of
hurricanes. It's something that local and state leaders must address through
improved building codes and the reduction of insurance and other subsidies for
coastal development. The act also will give more power to state insurance
agencies, which know their states better than federal regulators. It will allow
for specifically tailored policies based on local factors.

Choice and competition are a consumer's best friend, and in the arena of
insurance, this Florida-born solution should be supported by Sunshine State
residents and business owners.

Poorly constructed federal regulations and problems with the NFIP necessitate
the move to increased private market solutions. Consumers should have more
choices and fewer penalties for exercising those choices. This legislation is a
win-win for consumers and a big win for Florida.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday

Still waiting on the Vatican

BYLINE: Mary Hughes; Newsday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 420 words



HIGHLIGHT: women in church


When a corporation names a new chief executive, it's typical for staffers with
special interests and projects to jockey for attention. When a new pontiff is
elected, a similar phenomenon can be observed in the Catholic Church, which also
has overarching pastoral and sacramental duties.

Add to that the compassion and listening ability of Pope Francis and the list of
interests competing for his attention deepens in intensity.

The list was long even before Francis' election: reform the Curia; clean up the
Vatican Bank; establish accountability for those who protected priests who
committed crimes against children; create a welcoming environment for the LGBT
community; find a way to welcome the divorced and remarried into the church.

But there are also those seeking greater roles for women in the church. This
group is not simply comprised of those who might be described as feminists. It's
populated by mothers, grandmothers, fathers, grandfathers, brothers and clergy.

Unfortunately, there has been little so far to suggest that they have been
heard. But we should not lose heart, despite some missteps by the Vatican.

The Pontifical Council For Culture advertised its conference on women with a
video that so outraged women in the Western world that the English-language
version was pulled from its website. Then, the pope's unfortunate remarks before
the European Parliament about women and grandmothers went viral.

Could it be that Pope Francis has missed the cry to include women? Is Pope
Francis so conditioned by his European and Latino upbringing that he is unable
to imagine women in more significant roles? Is Pope Francis afraid of
conflict?We should suspect not.

Among the many gifts Pope Francis brings to the papacy is his ability to be
strategic. Bypassing traditional curial roles, he surrounded himself with
advisers of varying strengths and talents. It's a company of thinkers that, for
instance, has helped to spur reforms at the Vatican Bank, created a process to
handle ecclesial failures, and helped the pontiff to deliver the church's
strongest message to date on climate change.

Those of us who advocate for meaningful roles for women within the church should
not give up and go home. We need to remember that Francis has touched nerve
endings on many controversial issues.

He has great devotion to Mary the Undoer of Knots. We might be pleasantly
surprised that ongoing debates may suddenly lead us to find women as an integral
part of the church as if they had always been there.

We can only hope.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

Obama, Putin spar over Assad's role in Syria;
Russian president says the status quo is the only option to defeat the IS

BYLINE: JULIE PACE and VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin sharply
disagreed on Monday over the chaos in Syria, with Obama urging a political
transition to replace the Syrian president but Putin warning it would be a
mistake to abandon the current government.

Obama and Putin's dueling speeches at the United Nations General Assembly summit
served as a public preview of their private meeting late Monday. The sit-down
marks their first face-to-face encounter in nearly a year and comes amid
escalating Russian military engagement in Syria.

Obama said he was open to working with Russia, as well as Iran, to bring Syria's
civil war to an end. He called for a managed transition that would result in the
ouster of Syrian President Bashar Assad, whose forces have clashed with rebels
for more than four years, creating a vacuum for the Islamic State and other
extremist groups.

We must recognize that there cannot be, after so much bloodshed, so much
carnage, a return to the prewar status quo, Obama said.Putin urged the world to
stick with Assad, arguing that his military is the only viable option for
defeating the Islamic State.

We believe it's a huge mistake to refuse to cooperate with the Syrian
authorities, with the government forces, those who are bravely fighting terror
face-to-face, Putin said during his first appearance at the U.N. gathering in a
decade. Obama and Putin's disparate views of the grim situation in Syria left
little indication of how the two countries might work together to end a conflict
that has killed more than 250,000 people and resulted in a flood of refugees.

The Syria crisis largely overshadowed the summit's other discussions on
peacekeeping, climate change and global poverty. French President Francois
Hollande backed Obama's call for Assad's ouster, saying nobody can imagine a
political solution in Syria if he is still in power. Hollande called on
countries with influence in Syria, including Gulf nations and Iran, to be
engaged in a transition. However, Iran - which along with Russia is a strong
backer of Assad - said the Syrian president must remain in power to fight
extremists. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that while Syria's government
needs reform, the country will fall to the Islamic States if the international
community makes getting rid of Assad its top goal.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

Developer tells how 'healthy' city emerged [JUMP]Scialla teaming with Vinik on
downtown project;
Scialla teaming with Vinik on downtown project

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 879 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paul Scialla, founder and chief executive of Delos, the New York
developer that will work with Jeff Vinik, describes what a "WELL certified city
district" is all about.


TAMPA - The largest asset class in the world? Real estate, at about $180
trillion. The fastest-growing industry in the U.S.? Health and wellness, at
about $3 trillion.

What if you were able to merge the two?

That was Paul Scialla's thinking when he started Delos, a New York developer of
healthy buildings that will be teaming up with Strategic Property Partners, a
partnership with Jeff Vinik and Cascade Investment, on making the 40-acre
downtown devel

opment the world's first WELL certified city district.

I started to take note of something about six years ago or so, said Scialla,
then working on Wall Street for Goldman Sachs. I recall continued articles on
sustainability and green building. What I noticed was that almost all the focus
was on environmental impact. I just thought, 'That makes perfect sense, but what
about all the people inside those buildings?'

Scialla said he convened doctors and architects in a room to kick some tires and
figure out how to proactively eliminate risk factors for chronic disease.

He learned one thing quickly - Architects and doctors never spoke to each other
before, and it shocked me - but he also learned how to place health and wellness
at the center of design and construction decisions.

Delos is involved with the first WELL certified office tower in New York City;
it partnered with the CBRE real estate firm on its global headquarters in Los
Angeles; and its Stay Well hotel program has been adopted by the MGM Grand Hotel
& Casino in Las Vegas.

Now, Delos will take on Vinik's $2 billion vision for the 40 acres surrounding
Amalie Arena,

What might a WELL certified city district look like? It would have plenty of
green space, wide sidewalks and enhanced walkability. Offices might feature air
and water purification, appropriate temperatures, circadian lighting that is
conducive to the body's sleep-wake cycle and sit-stand desks.

If the Las Vegas hotel is any indication, a Vinik hotel would also feature
healthy mattresses with hypoallergenic bedding, cedar baseboards in closets,
aromatherapy and vitamin C-induced showers.

What Strategic Property Partners and Delos won't do, Scialla said, is act as the
health police, banning behaviors or choices that the area's employees, students,
residents, tenants and guests have the right to make.

Like any successful urban developments, the Vinik project will likely have its
share of bars and burger joints.

This is much less about restricting certain elements and much more about
providing access and options to healthier outcomes, Scialla said. It's not about
creating a red list of restrictions and banning certain elements. There's so
many things to consider in a community. This is not a checklist of yes's and
no's. We're looking to motivate and drive certain behavior in a passive manner
through design and planning.

As the pioneer of wellness real estate, Scialla's company is establishing the
WELL building standard, based on the LEED certification that builders can seek
for green buildings. Well building is an incredible complement to green
building, not competition, he said.

The peer-reviewed standard developed by Delos will be third-party certified by
the auditing service Green Business Certification.

Vinik's project will aspire to that WELL certification.

It will include the University of South Florida's Morsani College of Medicine
and its new heart institute at Channelside Drive and Meridian Avenue; a related
medical office tower and parking garage adjacent to the school; a new 400- to
500-room hotel; a 650,000-square-foot office tower; and 200,000 square feet of
retail, restaurants and entertainment venues.

With additional construction in later phases, the development will be roughly 6
million square feet.

It's exciting that we have such a canvas to do this on, Scialla said.

He was in Tampa meeting with Tampa General Hospital executives on the hospital's
expansion plans several months ago when one of the TGH hosts recommended he
reach out to Vinik. The two met about six months ago, and things quickly
clicked.

I knew immediately that this was a fantastic idea, Vinik said in a conference
call on the potential certification of his city district earlier this week. I
knew immediately it was something I wanted us to adopt in a big manner.

Local economic development officials are impressed.

I think it's bold, and it's the kind of initiative that can cut through at the
national level and help establish a strong brand and identity for the entire
community, said Rick Homans, head of the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development
Corp.

Homans accompanied Vinik on a recruiting swing through New York last week and
said he saw first-hand how the wellness angle impressed executives.

This was compelling, Homans said. It triggered an enormous amount of
conversation and interest.

Also impressed was former president Bill Clinton, who announced the project
earlier this week as part of the annual meeting of his Clinton Global Initiative
program.

He called the SPP-Delos plan an innovative model for urban development, one that
would be good for our campaign against climate change and good for the health of
the people who live in the building and walk the neighborhood.

jstockfisch@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7834

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 10, 2015 Saturday

House votes to end 1975 ban on oil exports;
White House says lawmakers should focus on clean energy

BYLINE: Sean Cockerham; McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- The House of Representatives voted Friday to end the 40-year-old ban on
exporting American oil to foreign nations, launching a showdown with the Senate
and the president in the nation's latest battle over energy and climate change.

The ban was a response to the 1970s Arab oil embargo, ostensibly to protect
Americans from gasoline shortages and price spikes. The oil industry is lobbying
furiously to end the ban, calling it outdated in an era of enormous U.S. oil
production and saying that exports would spur more drilling.

The industry won a major victory when a bill by Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, to end
the ban passed 261-159, with 26 Democrats joining 235 Republicans in favor.
Barton argued the bill would lead to the creation of jobs nationwide.

Those are real people, that's not Big Oil, Barton said.

President Barack Obama is threatening to veto the bill, though, and there
weren't enough supportive votes in the House to override a veto.

Legislation to remove crude export restrictions is not needed at this time.
Rather, Congress should be focusing its efforts on supporting our transition to
a low-carbon economy, the White House said. It could do this through a variety
of measures, including ending the billions of dollars a year in federal
subsidies provided to oil companies and instead investing in wind, solar, energy
efficiency, and other clean technologies to meet America's energy needs.

While the bill might not make it further than the House at this point, Friday's
vote still marks a major milestone. Just a few years ago, the idea of ending the
export ban was politically unthinkable. But a series of studies saying that
ending the ban wouldn't raise gasoline prices have eased the fears of lawmakers
worried that voters would punish them. Oil CEOs now believe that it is just a
matter of time before the ban is gone.

For now the bill faces opposition from Democrats who are emboldened by Obama's
veto threat. Kevin Book, managing director of the energy research firm ClearView
Energy Partners, gives only a 15 percent chance for the measure to make it
through Congress before Obama leaves office because of ongoing White House
opposition and limited incentives for Senate Democrats to cooperate.

Democrats are under political pressure from a coalition of refiners who benefit
from keeping the crude oil in America. Some refiners in the Midwest and the
Northeast argue that the global competition would force them to start paying
more for American shale oil, hurting their industry.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

Democrats affirm what Wasserman Schultz wouldn't admit

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 766 words



HIGHLIGHT: 25 INCHES. This week's all-new episode.


Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

For pure, deep-dyed, goggle-eyed, pie-in-the-sky(ed) leftist inanity, it would
be practically impossible to outdo Tuesday night's first Democratic presidential
debate. Or, as RedState's Erick Erickson described it, a bunch of overly
wined-up Ivy League professors who go to the Hamptons for vacation staying in
the subsidized [palaces] of inherited wealth.

It turns out Democrats didn't need an Elizabeth Warren candidacy to get
Elizabeth Warren's populist philosophies.

Jim Geraghty extrapolates at National Review Online:

Sure, this batch of candidates sounded like a bunch of loons. They contended
socialism is mostly about standing up to the richest one percent and promoting
entrepreneurialism and small business; climate change is the biggest
national-security threat facing the nation; college education should be free for
everyone; all lives don't matter, black lives do; and Obama is simultaneously an
enormously successful president in managing the economy and the middle class is
collapsing and there's a need for a 'New New Deal' which is in fact an Old Old
Idea, considering how FDR called for a Second New Deal in 1935.

The audience in Nevada applauded higher taxes, believes that Hillary Clinton
doesn't need to answer any more questions about her server, that we need a
complete shutdown of the NSA domestic surveillance program, and that Obamacare
benefits should be extended to illegal immigrants. There are kindergarten
classes with more realistic assessments of cost-benefit trade-offs than the
crowd watching this debate at the Wynn Las Vegas.

That's it in a pistachio shell.

The problem - and, yes, it is a problem - is there's a roiling, energetic and
not insubstantial audience eager to support America's Warrenesque leftward
lurch. My social media feeds effervesced Wednesday with praise for the
candidates' tone, tenor and cohesion. So fresh. So uplifting. So unified.

Yes. Democrats being joyful about the ways they want to steer other people's
money to their desired social-engineering purposes. Who's shocked? The better
question: Who's appalled?

A nation founded on the notion that humans have certain unalienable rights, a
nation preserved four-score-and-seven-years later by a president who declared it
strange anyone would dare seek to wring their bread from the sweat of other
men's faces now has a major political party committed to the undoing of the
first in service of the second.

Tuesday night, the frontrunners for the Democratic presidential nomination
wrangled not over why socialist practices are so tempting in theory but
soul-killing in practice - as they would have when Hillary Clinton's husband was
president - but rather just how openly they could pursue their socialist aims.

So now we know. Party chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz can't articulate the
difference between Democrats and socialists because the differences are only in
diminishing degrees. It is quibbling, at this point, to restate the classic
definition of socialism. Implementing their endless wish list of mandates,
Democrats will command the means of production without soiling their hands on
the levers. Po-TAY-to, po-TAH-to.

Bernie Sanders is all-in, of course. By contrast, Hillary Clinton is a
self-described get-things-done progressive.

Ibis white, meet marshmallow.

How they mean to pay for their generosity is by dipping into the bottomless well
inhabited by the wealthy, who must, at last, pay their fair share. Again: While
their demand is ever at the ready, liberals are elusive about just what
constitutes fair share. Fifty percent? Seventy? The answer, duh, is, How much
you got?

Only because a portion of the American public that is both sensible and
substantial stubbornly clings to quaint notions about the sanctity of private
property and earning one's way are leftists prevented from declaring their
ambition, just as they cannot yet admit their ultimate goals regarding the
Second Amendment are (a) repeal and (b) confiscation.

President Obama tipped his cards a few weeks ago on the latter - our gun
policies should copy the Australian (mandatory buy-back) example - and if you
listen closely to Bernie Sanders, you know his definition of a handful of
billionaires that his collectivist policies would hammer extends, ultimately, to
any household boasting an above-poverty income. Because the math cannot work
otherwise.

Ask Sanders' favorite social-Democratic example, Denmark.

Yes, they're ebullient on the left today. Ebullient and misguided. And above
all, worrisome.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 12, 2015 Thursday

Twin solar [#x2028]power plays[#x2028]promise[#x2028]confusion [JUMP]Two
conflicting initiatives vie for slots on 2016 ballot;
Two conflicting initiatives vie for slots on 2016 ballot

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 823 words



HIGHLIGHT: If you're approached by a petition gatherer advocating solar power,
pay attention to what you're signing. There are two competing solar initiatives
in the pipeline for the 2016 ballot. One is a grassroots campaign to eliminate
many of the barriers to household solar systems. Another, largely backed by
utilities, would keep solar under the control of the power companies.


TAMPA - If you're approached by a signature-gatherer advocating solar power in
the coming months, pay attention to what you're signing.

There are two competing Florida solar initiatives in the pipeline for the
November 2016 ballot. One is a grass-roots campaign intending to eliminate many
of the barriers to household solar systems. Another, largely backed by
utilities, would maintain regulatory protections while keeping solar under the
control of the power companies.

The focus on solar began in January when a disparate group of free-market
conservatives and clean-energy environmentalists joined forces in Floridians for
Solar Choice, intent on loosening state utilities' iron grip on power
production.

Florida is one of only four states prohibiting citizens from buying electricity
from anyone other than a regulated utility, along with North Carolina, Kentucky
and Oklahoma. The advocates say this prohibition limits consumer choice and
blocks growth in solar.

The Sunshine State ranks third in the nation for rooftop solar potential but
14th for cumulative solar capacity installed, according to the Solar Energy
Industries Association.

Tory Perfetti, a Tampa Bay area resident and longtime conservative ac

tivist, picked up the torch and rounded up like-minded people and groups into
Floridians for Solar Choice.

Being a conservative individual, I thought it was highly anti-free-market and
highly anti-choice, said Perfetti, who runs a marketing consultancy here. For
other people, it was also about competition, and for others, it was about having
safer and cleaner energy.

Now everyone from the Christian Coalition of America to Conservatives for Energy
Freedom to the Florida Alliance for Renewable Energy and the Florida Retail
Federation are on board.

The group has the financial support of the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy
and hopes to obtain the required 683,149 signatures to get the measure on the
ballot by a deadline of Feb. 1.

Few expected the state's big utilities to sit idly by.

This summer, a group called Consumers for Smart Solar, led by Jim Kallinger,
head of the Florida Faith and Freedom Coalition and a former state
representative, launched a second petition drive.

Consumers for Smart Solar says its rival's proposal would entice big
out-of-state solar companies to sign Florida consumers to long-term contracts -
but those companies would not be regulated like public utilities.

The Floridians for Solar Choice language prevents government and electric
utility imposed barriers to supplying local solar electricity.

I don't know of any other private industry that enjoys some sort of freedom from
regulation in the state constitution, said Screven Watson, a political
strategist and former executive director of the state Democratic Party. If
you're going to give somebody a chance to go unregulated, you're going to have
consumer issues, safety issues, all of that.

Consumers for Smart Solar also argues that under its rival's plan, solar
companies will make money pumping excess electricity from rooftops into the
electricity grid but won't pay to maintain or upgrade that grid.

Who's going to pay for that? It's going to be non-solar users, Watson said.

The battle over solar is likely to be an expensive one.

Consumers for Smart Solar had raised $3.8 million as of the end of October, with
roughly half of that coming from the state's four biggest utilities: Tampa
Electric, in for $556,000; Duke Energy, which serves Pinellas County and parts
of Pasco County and points north, $355,000; Florida Power & Light, which serves
south and east Florida, $595,000; and Gulf Power, in the Panhandle, $380,000.
Altogether, it had 64 contributors by the end of October.

Floridians for Solar Choice listed 460 contributors on Oct. 30, most in small
donations. About $1.6 million of its $1.7 million came from the Southern
Alliance for Clean Energy, an Atlanta-based advocate for clean energy and
climate change awareness. Its ballot language has been approved by the state
Supreme Court, a key step in proceeding.

Signature gatherers already have fanned out across the state. Floridians for
Solar Choice reported gathering 207,018 signatures, with Consumers for Smart
Solar at 154,747. The latter group is awaiting its court hearing.

There are reports of confusion as petitions with similar titles and similar
language on similar subjects are being circulated.

It's about confusion; it's about taking advantage of the individual citizens of
Florida, said Perfetti, who accuses the state's utilities of intentionally
crafting an initiative to obfuscate the issue.

Watson denies that was the intention.

We plan to go through with this regardless of what happens with theirs, said the
Consumers for Smart Solar representative. I can tell you that if we were there
to mess with them, if we were only there to confuse them, we wouldn't go forth.
Our intention is to be on the ballot in 2016.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

Turkish president rues shoot-down;
His nation is 'truly saddened' by downing of Russian bomber

BYLINE: SUZAN FRASER; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey


Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Saturday voiced regret over Turkey's
downing of a Russian warplane, saying his country was truly saddened by the
incident and wished it hadn't occurred.

It was the first expression of regret by the strongman leader since Tuesday's
incident in which Turkish F-16 jets shot down the Russian jet on grounds that it
had violated Turkey's airspace despite repeated warnings to change course. It
was the first time in half a century that a NATO member shot down a Russian
plane, and it drew a harsh response from Moscow.

We are truly saddened by this incident, Erdogan said. We wish it hadn't happened
as such, but unfortunately such a thing has happened. I hope that something like
this doesn't occur again.

Addressing supporters in the western city of Balikesir, Erdogan said neither
country should allow the incident to escalate and take a destructive form that
would lead to saddening consequences.

He renewed a call for a meeting with President Vladimir Putin on the sidelines
of a climate conference in Paris this week, saying it would be an opportunity to
overcome tensions.

Erdogan's friendly overture, however, came after he again vigorously defended
Turkey's action and criticized Russia for its operations in Syria.

If we allow our sovereign rights to be violated ... then the territory would no
longer be our territory, Erdogan said.

Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu also said he hoped Erdogan and Putin
would meet in Paris.

In such situations it is important to keep the channels of communication open,
he said.

Putin has denounced the Turkish action as a treacherous stab in the back and has
insisted that the plane was downed over Syrian territory in violation of
international law. He has also refused to take telephone calls from Erdogan.

On Saturday, Turkey issued a travel warning urging its nationals to delay
non-urgent and unnecessary travel to Russia, saying Turkish travelers were
facing problems in the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 6, 2015 Sunday

Post-San Bernardino, missing the point, again

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 708 words



HIGHLIGHT: This week's all-new edition.


Tom Jackson's The Right Stuff blog updates throughout the week at TBO.com .

Leave it to a president who, in the face of contradictory evidence and despite
the overwhelming alarm of the people he purports to lead, continues to claim
climate change is humanity's greatest threat - what strain, exactly, was the
well-employed, upwardly mobile Syed Farook enduring (besides the presumed
hectoring of his lying, mail-order bride, Tashfeen Malik?) - to completely miss
the point of the terrorist slaughter in Southern California.

Then again, it's not like President Obama is out there by himself. Not to be
left out, Democratic senators and The New York Times raced to join the clamor
for enhanced gun control measures. Never mind that precisely the sorts of
national laws they demand - universal background checks, waiting periods,
weapons registration, limited magazine capacity, fingerprinting gun-purchasers -
already exist in California.

Indeed, each of the four weapons used by the butchers of San Bernardino was
obtained legally under the Golden State's tight gun-buying regime. Not one or
two but all four. So what is it, exactly, President Obama, posturing Democratic
senators and the Gray Lady's editorialists are attempting to achieve? Only,

it seems, the goodwill of Americans devoted to the concept of doing something,
presented in a tissue of common sense.

Well. Whether that something would have prevented the last mass shooting, or the
one before that, or the one before that, is plainly immaterial. When people want
to feel better, like they have changed course, the prudence or effectiveness of
that course is beside the point.

Consider two of the proposals rejected by the Senate on Friday (and how those
rejections sent the Left a-swooning).

One, proposed by Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va, would have required background checks
for online gun purchases. Good idea? Yes. In fact, it's such a good idea, it's
already law. Guns bought on the Internet are not shipped to the buyer's home
address but to a federally licensed gun dealer. To complete the transaction, the
buyer must appear, fill out all regulatory paperwork and get clearance.
Manchin's bill would have been like mandating seat belts and air bags on all new
vehicles. Bulletin: They're already required.

Another, which has been knocking around since the latter years of the Bush
administration - demonstrating that Democrats do not have a monopoly on
feel-good nonsense - would have prevented people who turn up on the FBI's terror
watch list from buying guns.

While this sounds modest and reasonable - you can't fly but you can buy an
AR-15? - there is plenty of mischief contained within. The process of winding up
on the list is opaque (the late Sen. Ted Kennedy famously made the grade, as did
The Weekly Standard's Stephen Hayes) and getting off it is beyond an act of
Congress.

Worse, lawmakers had proposed - still propose; this isn't going away - stripping
legal American residents of a constitutional guarantee based on suspicion alone.
If you think that's OK, think ahead to the day an administration unfriendly to
your point of view is deciding who goes on the terror watch list. Just now it's
a White House whose sympathies favor the views of the Southern Poverty Law
Center, whose list of hate groups includes tea partiers, Second Amendment
activists and traditional-marriage boosters.

Imagine Lois Lerner heading the division that assigns suspects to a list capable
of denying a constitutional guarantee. Now, consider the same division under the
direction of Liz Cheney ... especially after Congress decides the root of our
trouble is as much communications among suspected troublemakers as it is the
weapons they choose, and moves to curb the First Amendment rights of suspected
terrorist recruiters and collaborators.

Yes, once more and with a breathtaking persistence, Obama, opportunistic
Democratic senators and The New York Times missed the obvious points - radical
Islamic terrorism is a real and growing threat, and gun-free zones enable
predators - in favor of facile, demonstrably ineffective somethings that would
serve only as slippery-slope infringements on the rights of peaceful,
law-abiding citizens.

Follow Tom on Twitter: @tjack[#x2028]sonTBO.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 344 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

White House announces state visit March 10 of Canada's recently elected prime
minister

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin; The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 201 words


Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his wife will come to Washington for
a state visit on March 10, the White House announced Monday, a sign of the
deepening ties between President Barack Obama and his Canadian counterpart.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest said in a statement that the visit by
Trudeau and his wife, Sophie Grégoire-Trudeau, will include a state dinner as
well as working meetings. It will mark the first state visit by a Canadian prime
minister since 1997.

The visit will be an opportunity for the United States and Canada to deepen
their bilateral relationship, which is one of the closest and most extensive in
the world and is based on a shared history, common values, and a vast and
intricate network of cultural, familial, and commercial ties, Earnest said in
the statement. The visit also is intended to advance cooperation on important
bilateral and multilateral issues, such as energy and climate change, security,
and the economy.

The 43-year-old leader of Canada's Liberal Party, who ousted Prime Minister
Stephen Harper, a Conservative Party member, in October, already has garnered
international attention for his telegenic looks and exuberant approach to
governing.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
