
                               1 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 22, 2016 Friday

A look at our frightened, fragmented world in one map

BYLINE: Mark Gilbert; Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 540 words



HIGHLIGHT: state of the world


There's plenty to be anxious about in the world at the moment, from terrorism to
the ever-present threat of a pandemic. What's disturbing though, is how
splintered the world's worries are on a regional basis, according to the 11th
edition of the annual Global Risks report produced by the World Economic Forum.
And the threat that's deemed most troubling is one that you would hope world
leaders are on the way to eliminating.

The WEF says it surveyed almost 750 experts and decision-makers, drawn from
business, academia, civil society and the public sector to rank 29 global risks.
Respondents were asked for their 10-year views on the likelihood and impact of
threats divided into five categories: societal, technological, economic,
environmental and geopolitical.

The world's worries seem to be geographically dispersed, arguably reflecting the
truism that all politics is local. For Americans, high-profile hacking in recent
years against companies including Target, Home Depot and the extramarital
affairs website Ashley Madison put cyber attacks at the top of the anxiety menu
of most likely perils. In Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa, enduring
kleptocracy and corruption make failure of national governance the most credible
threat. Europe, wrangling with a refugee crisis, sees large-scale involuntary
migration as the likeliest menace, while natural catastrophes dominate in the
east Asia/Pacific region where El Nino is killing Japan's ski resorts with warm
weather and stifling palm oil output in Indonesia with droughts.

Maybe trying to predict the future is something of a pointless exercise anyway:

Who in 2006 could have foreseen Islamic State sponsoring terrorism on a global
scale, or the arrival of a million refugees threatening to break up the European
Union?

The most worrying survey outcome, though - and the exception to the overall
sense of short-termism - is what the WEF says it found when it aggregated the
survey results:

The failure of climate change mitigation and adaptation has risen to the top and
is perceived in 2016 as the most impactful risk for the years to come. The risk
rated most likely was large-scale involuntary migration, with last year's top
scorer - interstate conflict with regional consequences - giving way to the
environmental risks of extreme weather events and the failure of climate change
mitigation.

The emphasis on refugees is understandable given how the aftershocks from the
crisis in Syria have dominated the political agenda for months. But the
prevalence of climate-change concern is encouraging and puzzling. It's good news
if the great and good that gather each year at the WEF's Davos shindig recognize
that climate change needs addressing.

But it does suggest a lack of faith in the agreement reached among 195 countries
at talks convened by the United Nations in Paris just over a month ago on
slashing fossil-fuel emissions. And if that accord - covering everything from
capping global temperature increases to implementing carbon-credit markets to
funding pollution reduction for developing nations - can't reverse the trend
that's driving temperatures near levels that the U.N. says threaten catastrophic
results, then all of those other risks become kind of irrelevant.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 2, 2016 Monday

Desalination plant keeps an eye on rising seas [JUMP]Multiyear study looks at
rainfall, dangers of climate change;
Multiyear study looks at rainfall, dangers of climate change

BYLINE: KEITH MORELLI Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 933 words



HIGHLIGHT: Checking on Tampa Bay Water's desal plant, which they say is
beginning to crank up for the coming dry months. Will chat about longterm
future, including how it will be called upon when the climate and patterns
change and the seas rise.


TAMPA - With a backdrop of rising seas in Florida that in 80 years could be 3
feet higher than now, the owners of the sea-level-situated desalination plant in
Apollo Beach have embarked on a multiyear study to determine how to avoid the
potential swamping of the $158-million plant that changes saltwater into water
people can drink.

The 15-year-old plant, which began amid a controversy of construction and design
cost overruns, currently supplements the 157 million gallons of water a day
provided by Tampa Bay Water, the wholesale dealer of potable water in the
region. It's been offline since Jan

uary, but now is beginning to crank up its process of pulling saltwater in one
end and spewing freshwater out the other.There may come a time when water from
the plant will be a year-round key component to slaking the thirsts and
sprinkling the lawns of Tampa Bay area residents, and that could be around the
time when the rising sea levels become the plant's biggest threat.The plant is
right at sea level, which is expected to rise 6 inches or more over the next
couple of decades as global warming melts the polar ice caps.

In terms of the physical location of the plant versus sea-level rise, said
Alison Adams, chief technical officer with Tampa Bay Water, we are beginning a
process - an asset management program - to determine what infrastructures will
be vulnerable to rising seas and storm surge.

The agency is part of a climate science advisory committee, which is looking at
all its infrastructures and how they will be affected by sea-level rise and
other climate change threats. The assessment is not yet completed.

It's a process that takes a couple of years, Adams said.

The plant does not push out freshwater all the time. Among the reasons: It's
expensive to do that and Tampa Bay Water has been judicious about cranking it up
when other, cheaper sources of water - the Floridan aquifer and the 15.5 billion
gallon C.W. Bill Young Regional Reservoir - are readily available.

The water that comes from the desalination plant is twice as expensive as the
water drawn from the massive reservoir and four times as expensive as water that
is pumped from the aquifer.

Those sources provide abundant water during the rainy season, but when it turns
dry, like now, the desalination plant kicks into gear.

We brought it up over the past couple of weeks, said Adams. We're in the
start-up process, pushing out about 12 million gallons a day. We will increase
that over the next week or so to 16 million gallons and run it through the end
of the dry season, probably through May.

Its production capacity is 25 million gallons a day and provides water to public
utilities in Hillsborough, Pinellas and Pasco counties and the cities of Tampa,
St. Petersburg and New Port Richey, which in turn sell it to residents.

The desalination plant's life expectancy is about 40 years, Adams said.

At that point, rising seas may threaten the structure, which is next to the TECO
Big Bend power producing complex along the southern shore of Tampa Bay.

Besides sea levels rising, climate change also may impact rainfall in Florida,
an integral - and unpredictable - piece of the water-supply machinery.

It's never too soon to talk about shifting rainfall patterns, said Adams. We're
working with the University of Florida and Florida State University researching
potential changes in rainfall patterns.

Changing patterns will have a direct impact on surface water withdrawals, she
said, and that could push the agency into round-the-clock use of the
desalination plant, which now runs an average of 237 days a year.

Tampa Bay Water has contracted with American Water-Acciona to run the plant for
$6.2 million a year.

That pays for the production of water, having the plant ready to produce water
at any time, and the upkeep of the facility, with 23 full-time employees.

There are a lot of maintenance activities, a lot because it's a desalination
plant, Adams said. They always have a full crew there.

The plant runs even when it is not producing potable water, circulating
saltwater through the system to keep wet the membranes that are key in the
desalination process.

This past wet winter meant the other water sources were abundant, Adams said.
Because of the higher-than-normal winter rains, rivers flowed and the reservoir
brimmed.

But rainfall, about 52 inches a year in Tampa, may change in the decades to
come.

In the climate model projections, there is a wide range in the rainfall
predicted and none of it is definitive, Adams said. We're closely watching it
from year to year to see if there are any changes in rainfall.

And some summer rainfall pattern changes already have taken place, she said.

The way it arrives is different, she said. It's not the volume, but the timing.
Now, we're getting series of heavy rains over three to four days and then no
rain for weeks. Becoming less frequent are the daily afternoon thundershowers in
July, August and September.

We are noticing it happening right now, she said, and we will continue to watch
and evaluate the changing rainfall patterns.

As the region grows and the climate remains an uncertainty, the need for more
water sources is imperative, Adams said.

Agency projections say that though it may be two decades before new sources will
be needed, preliminary plans call for a second desalination plant on the Gulf of
Mexico, probably near the mouth of the Anclote River in Pasco County.

The next source of water will not be inexpensive, she said. We've tapped out all
of those.

kmorelli@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7760

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday

Where do they stand on the issues?

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2399 words



HIGHLIGHT: Summarizing how candidates stand on the issues of importance to
Floridians.


Rates a 10 out of 10 on a How conservative scale for views on energy and
environment, according to insidegov.com . Would abolish Environmental Protection
Agency.[diams] It's incredible how slowly we're drilling for oil.[diams] On
climate change: I believe there's weather. I believe there's change. ... And it
changes depending on years and centuries, but I am not a believer, and we have
much bigger problems.

Says job creation will flow from tax reform. Opposes raising the minimum wage,
would discourage corporations from moving jobs overseas.[diams] I will be the
greatest job-producing president in American history.[diams] Grow the American
economy by discouraging corporate inversions, adding a huge number of new jobs,
and making America globally competitive again.

Would replace Affordable Care Act passed by Congress, known as Obamacare, with
health savings accounts. Rates a 4 out of 10 on How conservative scale for his
views on health care issues.[diams] We don't win in any capacity with health
care. We have terrible health care. Obamacare is going to be repealed and
replaced. We just don't win.[diams] You'll get your doctor; you get everything
you want to get; it'll be unbelievable. But you've got to get rid of the lines.
You've got to have competition.

Only candidate from either party who favors deporting all the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants in the U.S. Would keep database of refugees who
identify as Muslims, wall off Mexico at the border and punish Mexico if it
refused to fund it.[diams] Total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the
United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going
on.[diams] A nation without borders is not a nation. There must be a wall across
the southern border.

Wants to see more done by Iraq and Russia. Rates a 10 on How conservative scale
for views on expanding the military, but a 4 on the How liberal scale for
opposing more foreign intervention.[diams] Better to have Mideast strongmen than
Mideast chaos.[diams] We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different people
... about, maybe in certain areas, closing that Internet up in some way.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie; former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin; U.S. Sen. Jeff
Sessions, R-Alabama; evangelical leader Jerry Falwell Jr.; former Phoenix-area
sheriff Joe Arpaio; celebrities Aaron Carter, Kid Rock, Tila Tequila, Mike
Tyson, Dennis Rodman, Terrell Owens, Mike Ditka, Lou Ferrigno, Gary Busey.

Helped lead the fight against President Obama's Moratorium on Offshore Drilling
in the Gulf of Mexico in 2011. Would eliminate certain clean water and clean
power regulations. Rates 10 out of 10 on a How conservative scale for views
rejecting green energy, according to insidegov.com .[diams] We must harness our
nation's energy resources and remove federal impediments to energy exploration,
development and trade.[diams] I apologize to the hard-working men and women in
the state of New York who have been denied jobs because Gov. Cuomo won't allow
fracking.

Believes the key to reforming the economy and job growth is tax reform. Has
proposed his own 16 percent business flat-tax plan. Would abolish Internal
Revenue Service.[diams] Jobs, growth and opportunity will reignite promise for
millions of American families who are currently being crushed by the Obama
economy. The best way to jump-start growth is through fundamental tax reform.

Supports market-based health insurance; would repeal Affordable Care Act passed
by Congress and known as Obamacare. Rates a 10 on How conservative scale for
views on health care.[diams] We should expand health savings accounts so people
can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine health care needs. [diams] We
should work to de-link health insurance from employment so if you lose your job,
your health insurance goes with you and it is personal, portable and affordable.

Would build a wall along Mexico border and improve border security. Would
suspend and audit H-1B foreign worker visas and halt any increase in legal
immigration while U.S. unemployment remains unacceptably high.[diams] I think it
is a mistake to forgive those who break the law, to allow them to become U.S.
citizens, and that's why I've led the fight against granting citizenship to
those here illegally.[diams] We can build the fence. We can triple the border
patrol. We can end sanctuary cities by cutting off funding to them.

Would dramatically expand armed forces, rating a 10 out of 10 on the How
conservative scale for his view on the military. Would arm the Kurds to fight
Isis but not Syrian rebels without a clear overall plan.[diams] Isis seeks to
destroy our very way of life. We must defeat them. [diams] If we withdraw from
the Middle East, the radical jihadists will not be content to stay there - they
are going to attack our allies in the region and beyond.

Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry; U.S. Rep. Mark Sanford, R-South Carolina; Florida
state Rep. Neil Combee, R-Lakeland; Jack Welch, former General Electric CEO;
Thomas Sowell, conservative economist; broadcast host Glenn Beck; Phil Robertson
of TV's Duck Dynasty.

Recognizes the existence of climate change. Would repeal impediments to offshore
drilling. Says he created 20,000 jobs in petroleum fracking as Ohio governor but
instituted environmental protections. Would raise severance tax on oil and gas,
leave environmental regulation to states.[diams] The environment was given to us
by the Lord and it should be taken care of. But it shouldn't be worshiped.
That's called Pantheism.[diams] I know that human beings affect the climate. I
know it's an apostasy in the Republican Party to say that.

Would repeal Affordable Care Act passed by Congress, known as Obamacare, but not
all public programs. As governor, accepted Medicaid expansion under Obamacare.
Says his tax cut plan would enable people to pay for their own health care.

[diams] Obamacare must be repealed and replaced with efforts that instead
improve access by actually lowering health care costs without interfering with
Americans' personal health care decisions or imposing punishing burdens on job
creators.

Would consider a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants, but doesn't like
it. Opposes bringing in refugees from Syria. Believes focus of immigration
policy should be keeping families together.[diams] I would prefer for
(immigrants) to be legalized once we find out who they are. I think they
contribute a lot to America. [diams] I'd make them pay a fine, some back taxes,
maybe some community service.

Believes a more competitive tax environment will create more jobs. Rates a 9 out
of 10 on the How conservative scale for his views on the economy, according to
insidegov.com .[diams] We can help those who are the working poor be able to
have more incentive to work. We can bring the capital gains tax down to 15. We
can reduce the corporate tax rate to 25. [diams] We have now created in the
state of Ohio over 400,000 private sector jobs back from a loss of 350,000.
That's 400,000 families that are better off.

U.S. Rep. Kate Campanale, R-Massachusetts; Tom Ridge, former director of
homeland security and former governor of Pennsylvania; billionaire financier
Stanley F. Druckenmiller; The New York Times (as Republican nominee);
celebrities Tim Allen, Charles Barkley, Montel Williams.

Would open new areas to offshore oil and gas drilling while expanding renewable
energy opportunities. Believes addressing climate change will hurt the economy.
Rates a 4 out of 10 on the How conservative scale for his views on energy,
according to insidegov.com , but 10 out of 10 on the environment.[diams]  We're
not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue
policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate.[diams]
Policies that expand access to oil, gas, and coal development can also expand
access to the development of wind, solar, nuclear, and hydropower energy.

Would repeal Affordable Care Act passed by Congress, known as Obamacare,
replacing it with consumer-centered health reforms that expand coverage and
lower costs. Rates 4 out of 10 on the How conservative scale for his views on
health care.[diams]  Ending this failed law will be an urgent priority of his
administration.

Would deport illegal immigrants who commit other crimes, hire 20,000 new Border
Patrol agents and implement an entry-exit visa tracking system. No path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, no Green Cards for 10 years. Proposed but no
longer favors comprehensive immigration reform.[diams] Install $4 billion in new
cameras and sensors on the border.[diams] If we do not know who you are and why
you are coming, you are not getting into America.

Would confront Isis in Iraq and Syria by expanding U.S. air strikes and
providing arms directly to Sunni tribal and Kurdish forces if Baghdad fails to
support them. Rates a 10 on the How conservative scale for views on expanding
the military.

[diams]  ISIS is only the most prominent manifestation of radical Islam, an
ideology bent on destroying the West and eradicating its values. In this clash
of civilizations, either we win, or they win.

Would place a ceiling on U.S. regulation of businesses. Opposes hiking the
minimum wage, saying it would accelerate automation and outsourcing. Would
create a single-rate tax system. Scores in middle on a How conservative scale of
10 for views on the economy.

U.S. Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen; Mario Diaz-Balart; Carlos Curbelo; Gus
Bilirakis; Tom Rooney; and Jeff Miller, all Republicans; former U.S. Sen. Bob
Dole; 18 Florida state representatives and two state senators; Miami Mayor Tomás
Regalado.

Would remove certain areas from exploration and drilling. Would set goal of 25
percent renewable energy by 2025. Helped negotiate international deals to combat
climate change.

[diams] I'm against drilling of the Atlantic ... the Arctic is a unique
treasure. Given what we know, it's not worth the risk of drilling. [diams] Lead
the world in the fight against climate change by bringing greenhouse gas
emissions to 30 percent below what they were in 2005 within the next decade -
and keep going.

Would confront Isis without involving U.S. troops in another ground war by
working with allies there. Four out of 10 on How liberal scale for her views on
military expansion, but 6 on the How conservative scale for views on U.S. role
in the world.[diams]  ISIS and the foreign terrorist fighters it recruits pose a
serious threat to America and our allies.[diams] This is what we call smart
power - using every possible tool and partner to advance peace and security,
leaving no one on the sidelines, showing respect, even for one's enemies ...
helping to define the problems, determine the solutions.

Helped create foundation as first lady for later Affordable Care Act passed by
Congress, known as Obamacare. Would challenge drug companies charging excessive
prices, slow growth of out-of-pocket costs and provide a new credit to those
facing high health expenses.[diams] I've fought for quality, affordable health
care my entire career. As president, I'll defend the Affordable Care Act, build
on its successes, and go even further to reduce costs.

Favors a pathway to citizenship for guest workers and illegal immigrants and
accepting refugees from strife-torn countries such as Syria. Favors
comprehensive immigration reform.[diams] Focus enforcement resources on
detaining and deporting those individuals who pose a violent threat to public
safety.[diams] The American people support comprehensive immigration reform not
just because it's the right thing to do ... but because it will strengthen
families, strengthen our economy, and strengthen our country.

Would raise the minimum wage to $12 and provide tax relief for small businesses.
Rates an 8 on How liberal scale for her views on the economy.[diams] Our economy
grows when businesses and entrepreneurs create good-paying jobs here in America
and workers and families are empowered to build from the bottom up and the
middle out - not when we hand out tax breaks for corporations that outsource
jobs or stash their profits overseas.

Former President Bill Clinton; former Florida Gov. Charlie Crist; seven current
and three former members of the Florida congressional delegation; Tampa Mayor
Bob Buckhorn; St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Kriseman; 20 members of the Florida
Legislature; celebrities Amy Schumer, 2 Chainz, Will Ferrell.

Would ban offshore drilling and transition away from fossil fuels. Introduced
legislation to put solar panels on low-income housing.[diams] It's time for a
political revolution that takes on the fossil fuel billionaires, accelerates our
transition to clean energy, and finally puts people before the profits of
polluters.

Would work to join forces with other nations to stop terrorism. Rates a 10 out
of 10 on How liberal scale for his views on the role of the U.S. in the world,
according to insidegov.com .[diams] I have supported U.S. air strikes against
ISIS and believe they are authorized under current law, and I support targeted
U.S. military efforts to protect U.S. citizens.[diams]  While we must be
relentless in combating terrorists who would do us harm, we cannot and should
not be policeman of the world, nor bear the burden of fighting terrorism alone.

Would reverse what he calls the criminalization of immigrants and create a path
to citizenship. Would redirect resources away from building walls to modernizing
the immigration system.[diams] The growth of the immigrant detention,
deportation machine and the expansion of border militarization has perpetuated
unjust policies and resulted in the separation of hundreds of thousands of
immigrant families.

Would raise minimum wage to $15 an hour. Introduced Rebuild America Act to
invest $1 trillion in infrastructure improvement and employment. Would make
every public college and university tuition free.[diams] If we are truly serious
about reversing the decline of the middle class, we need a major federal jobs
program which puts millions of Americans back to work at decent paying jobs.

Would work to provide universal health care to everyone. [diams] The Affordable
Care Act was a critically important step towards the goal of universal health
care. ... But as we move forward, we must build upon the success of the ACA to
achieve the goal of universal health care.[diams]  I believe that health care in
this country should be a right of all people, not a privilege.

U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii; Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Inc.;
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.; celebrities Spike Lee, Danny Glover, Daniel Craig, John
Cusack, Danny DeVito, John C. Reilly, Chad Ochocinco, Ronda Rousey.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Global warming causes some extreme weather;
Degree of certainty varies with different events

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Climate science has progressed so much that experts can accurately detect global
warming's fingerprints on certain extreme weather events, such as a heat wave,
according to a high-level scientific advisory panel.For years scientists have
given almost a rote response to the question of whether an instance of weird
weather was from global warming, insisting that they can't attribute any single
event to climate change.

But the science has advanced to the point that this is no longer true as an
unqualified blanket statement, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering
and Medicine reported.Starting in 2004, dozens of complex peer-reviewed studies
found the odds of some extreme events - but by no means all - were goosed by
man-made climate change. This new field of finding global warming fingerprints
is scientifically valid, the academies said in a recently released 163-page
report. The private nonprofit has advised the government on complex,
science-oriented issues since the days of President Abraham Lincoln.When it
comes to heat waves, droughts, heavy rain and some other events, scientists can
say whether they were more likely or more severe because of man-made global
warming, said academies report chairman David Titley, a Pennsylvania State
University meteorology professor. And that matters.

While we plan for climate, we live in weather, Titley, a retired Navy admiral,
said. These extremes are making climate real when in fact they are attributable
to climate change.

Not all weird weather can be blamed with any degree of certainty on global
warming, according to the report.

For a certain class and type of event there is a human fingerprint, said report
co-author Marshall Shepherd, a University of Georgia meteorology professor. The
report says there is high confidence in studies looking for climate change
connections between extreme hot and cold temperatures, such as the Russian heat
wave of 2010. There's medium confidence in efforts trying to attribute droughts
and extreme rainfall.

Hurricanes and other tropical cyclones, wildfires and severe thunderstorms are
on the low end of the confidence range, the report found.

In some cases heat and lack of rain combine and the studies find a viable
connection to global warming, such as in the recent four-year California drought
and the drought that hit Syria and neighbors, Titley said.

The fog of uncertainty that obscured the human role in individual events is
finally lifting, said Princeton University professor Michael Oppenheimer. He
wasn't part of the study, but is on the board of Climate Central, which manages
a large climate attribution project.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 22, 2016 Friday

There are no sidelines in the fight against climate change

BYLINE: KATHLEEN ROGERS; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 730 words



HIGHLIGHT: Earth Day commentary


On April 22, 1970, 20 million Americans hit the streets to protest the
environmental effects of more than 100 years of uncontrolled fossil-fueled
industrial development. It was the first Earth Day.

What was intended to be a college campus teach-in soon spread to every community
and city across the United States. It was, and remains, the single largest
secular event in history. The sheer size of the protest - along with increasing
visual evidence of dire health threats associated with air and toxic pollution -
soon forced Congress to pass some of the world's toughest environmental laws,
most of which include community right-to-know provisions and allow citizens to
sue their government if it fails to enforce the law.

Citizens' rights have been enshrined in every major environmental law from that
point on. These laws spawned others around the world - many more stringent than
those in the U.S. - and most recognize the role of citizens in the enforcement
of environmental laws.

Nearly 50 years later, Earth Day remains a day of reckoning, and now more than 1
billion people take action each year in almost every country on Earth. Some
protest, many clean up their communities and plant trees, and millions more have
their first exposure to environmentalism through educational programs at schools
and universities. Governments large and small make commitments and meet with
their constituents, while corporations make pledges to be more sustainable and
responsible for the pollution they create.

It is fitting, then, that United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon chose
Earth Day for world leaders to sign the historic Paris climate agreement at U.N.
headquarters in New York. At least 150 world leaders are expected to sign,
making it the largest single signing of an international agreement in world
history (another Earth Day first!).

And it's happening not a moment too soon. On every front, global warming is
becoming more immediate, more threatening and more irreversible, while
scientific consensus and data on the health effects of climate change -
particularly on the poor - mount.

Critics warn that the agreement's specific emissions targets are too low, that
the pace of implementation is too slow, and it fails to specify penalties for
noncompliance. That's where we the people come in.

Included in the climate agreement are provisions that recognize the critical
role civil society must play to make it work. It calls on citizens to scale up
their efforts and support actions to reduce emissions. It signals the need for
all of us to be actively engaged in transforming our world from one dominated by
fossil fuels to one driven by renewable energy.

Although these words don't amount to a call for revolution, it's clear the
United Nations and world leaders recognize that citizen participation in solving
global warming has been missing. The success - or failure - of the agreement is
on our shoulders.

This isn't a fight in which any of us can remain on the sidelines and hope for
the best. Unless we take these matters into our own hands, the agreement alone
won't save the world's ecosystems from collapsing, or our biodiversity, which
supports all living things on Earth, from disappearing.

Doing our part doesn't mean merely buying green products or inquiring how things
are going. It means action. It means a direct challenge to the status quo. It
means holding our elected officials accountable and voting out of office
national, state and local leaders who won't take action on climate change. It
means not passing the buck and hoping others do the hard work.

For many, getting involved means knowing how your retirement accounts and
pensions are invested and demanding divestment from fossil fuel stocks. It means
demanding that your children be educated for green jobs of the future. It means
showing up at town hall or city council meetings and asking about your
community's survivability in a climate crisis. It means saying no to every new
coal or fracking project, and retooling those communities for safer green
powered jobs.

And there are countless other ways to act. Undoubtedly, the climate agreement
makes it clear that governments don't have the power to solve climate change
alone. We all must do something more than we currently are. Earth Day 2016 is
not about crossing the finish line. When the agreement is signed, the hard work
begins anew.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 3, 2016 Sunday

Broaden 'hit list' to [#x2028]include other pollutants

BYLINE: VEERABHADRAN RAMANATHAN AND DANIEL PRESS Los Angeles Times

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 658 words



HIGHLIGHT: chemicals


Among climate scientists, the consensus is that we must become carbon-neutral by
2050 to avoid catastrophic environmental disruptions. Negotiators at the recent
summit in Paris accordingly focused on curbing carbon dioxide emissions.

There's a major problem, however, with a CO2-centric strategy. Because carbon
dioxide remains in the atmosphere for a century or more, and because we won't
abandon fossil fuels overnight, neutrality by 2050 simply isn't good enough to
keep the Earth from warming 2 degrees Celsius - the generally agreed-upon limit
- much less the ambitious goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius that many nations support.

If we're serious about preventing or at least slowing climate change, we have to
broaden our hit list; even as we move toward carbon neutrality, we must also
restrict methane, carbon soot, ozone and hydrofluorocarbon coolants. These
pollutants are about 25 to 4,000 times more potent warmers than carbon dioxide,
but they remain in the atmosphere from

mere days in the case of carbon soot, to 15 years in the case of HFCs.

Curbing the emissions of these short-lived climate pollutants, or SLCPs, unlike
curbing carbon emissions, will have an immediate effect and can dramatically
slow global warming within a few decades.

To put real numbers on it: If we reduce our emissions of methane 50 percent,
black carbon 90 percent and fully replace HFCs by 2030, then we'll cut in half
projected global warming over the next 35 years. These steps will delay
environmental disaster and give us time we desperately need to radically change
our energy diet.

Existing technologies, clean alternatives and regulatory mechanisms such as the
1987 Montreal Protocol that have proved effective for other climate pollutants
can be quickly repurposed to deal with SLCPs.

In November, the 197 parties to the Montreal Protocol agreed to work toward an
HFC amendment in 2016. Some parts of the world aren't waiting. India and
Pakistan committed to phase down HFCs. Mexico has pledged to cut SLCPs 25
percent by 2030. California has already cut its carbon soot and ozone-forming
gases 90 percent and is on its way to curbing all four SLCPs.

There's no downside to this approach. By curbing short-lived pollutants, not
only will we obtain short-term relief from rapid warming, but we will also slow
sea-level rise, increase crop yields and score a major victory for public
health. Indoor and outdoor pollution today causes more than 7 million premature
deaths annually. Curbing SLCPs can benefit us now, saving potentially 40 million
lives over the next 20 years.

What we have in front of us isn't a choice between pulling lever one (carbon
dioxide) or lever two (SLCPs); it's crucial that we pull both levers with all of
our collective might. We have a moral imperative to act immediately with
everything at our disposal, not only because there's no Planet B - as
environmental activists put it - but because climate change seriously harms
human well-being.

Beijing's air quality index hit 253 last month, registering in the very
unhealthy zone. Many cities around the world have reduced urban air pollution
using technologies and rules that have stood the test of time, while constantly
evolving. California is already pulling both levers, while its population and
its economy are growing and its people are breathing cleaner air.

By acting unilaterally or in small alliances, it's possible to make real
progress on climate change now, above and beyond what the Paris agreement calls
for. We have the levers; we just need to pull them.

Veerabhadran Ramanathan is a distinguished professor of climate sciences at the
Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego,
and a council member of the Vatican's Pontifical Academy of Sciences. Daniel
Press is a professor of environmental studies at UC Santa Cruz and author of
American Environmental Policy: The Failures of Compliance, Abatement and
Mitigations.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 8, 2016 Friday

December's wild weather vies for variety of records;
Heat, moisture and other extremes marked extraordinary month

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


December's wild El Niño pushed 2015 in the United States to near-record levels
for heat, moisture and downright extreme conditions, federal weather officials
said Thursday.

The year that just ended was the second warmest and third wettest in 121 years
of record-keeping for the lower 48 states, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration announced.

The 54.4 degree average last year was second only to 2012. The combination of El
Niño plus climate change clearly has brought the U.S. some weirdly memorable,
highly unusual, and quite troubling weather, said climate scientist Michael
Oppenheimer of Princeton University. As for the influence of climate change,
it's just the beginning.

These are just U.S. statistics. Globally, it's almost certain to be hottest on
record with exact figures coming out later this month, and the U.S. near-record
is emblematic of that, said Deke Arndt, NOAA's climate monitoring chief.

We live in a warming world and a warming world is bringing more big heat and
more big rain events to the United States, Arndt said during a NOAA press
conference.

For much of the spring and summer, climate change was the big factor pushing
U.S. temperatures above normal. But in November and December, El Niño took over
and supercharged the global warming effect while turning on the heavy rains,
said Victor Gensini, a meteorology professor at DuPage College outside Chicago.

El Niño is the natural warming of the central Pacific that changes weather
worldwide. It occurs every two to seven years or so with one of its most
noticeable affects being heavy downpours in California.Going into December, it
was just the fifth-warmest and ninth-wettest year in the United States. Then a
record-setting December pushed everything up a few notches.

At 38.6 degrees - 6 degrees warmer than the 20th century average - December was
nearly a full degree warmer than the record set in 1939. And the 3.93 inches of
precipitation in December surpassed the old record by more than a sixth of an
inch.

This was the first time that a month was both the warmest and wettest on record,
said NOAA climate scientist Jake Crouch.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday

Make climate change a priority

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 178 words



HIGHLIGHT: LOD


If I've learned anything from observing the presidential campaign thus far, it's
that the two parties are on opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to
addressing the most pressing economic and environmental crisis of our time:
climate change.

Republican candidates have ignored the need to address climate change and
refused to offer any clean energy solutions. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio's failure
to acknowledge the need to act on climate is particularly disappointing since
officials in his hometown of Miami are already scrambling to offset the impact
of rising seas.

Democrats, on the other hand, have embraced climate change solutions. Hillary
Clinton has pledged to transition to more than 50 percent clean energy economy
by 2030, and Sen. Bernie Sanders has put forth a detailed plan to reduce our
dependence on polluting fossil fuels and expand clean energy.

Florida's coastline is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of rising seas,
and I hope Florida voters make climate a priority when casting their ballots in
next month's primary and beyond.

Maya Goss

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 27, 2016 Saturday

Questionable efforts to combat climate change beyond Paris

BYLINE: Markos Kounalakis; The Sacramento Bee

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 720 words



HIGHLIGHT: climate change fun


Germany has long been a leading advocate for confronting and ameliorating
climate change. But actions speak louder than words - or signatures on an
international accord. The recent Volkswagen scandal is only the latest case of
climate policy hypocrisy.

Meeting in Paris last December, countries around the globe finally recognized
the generally accepted scientific evidence that climate change is real. They
also accepted some responsibility to do something about it.

To much fanfare, 195 countries, including Germany and the United States, signed
the Paris agreement pledging to hit targets to drop emissions, cut carbon and
keep our aging Earth from experiencing too many hot flashes and cold
extremities.

Developed democratic countries, pushed by their citizens, led the charge for a
comprehensive agreement to atone for past polluting and to prevent developing
states from repeating their own sins. Canada, England, France - they all chimed
in and tried to convince, coerce and cajole those developing countries to be
energy ascetics. That was a tough sell. The developing world now wants its turn
to crank out the carbon and catch up to the already rich, gas-burning and
global-warming recidivists.

Looking beyond the narratives of the industrialized world's planned sacrifice,
however, some of the stories seem a little less noble or credible.

France, for example, is fine with less fossil fuel because it depends mostly on
nuclear power for progress: Up to 78 percent of its electrical needs are met by
the near zero-carbon emitting nuclear plants. Future plans to cut its dependency
on nuclear plants while also cutting carbon emissions will certainly be a
challenge.

Germany laudably boasts that it is able to reduce the amount of carbon it emits
and shut down its nuclear power plants because it has developed enough
alternative wind and solar power to provide clean and nearly free energy for
all. In fact, German statistics recently peaked when satisfying more than 50
percent of its electricity demand through solar power, and nearly 80 percent
through all renewable resources.

In each case of selective carbon curtailment, it is expected that a nation seeks
its self-interest while also acting simultaneously to protect its competitive
advantages. But Germany recently went one step further by publicly advocating an
anti-polluting stance, while at the same time a dominant corporation powering
the German economic juggernaut acted surreptitiously to undermine environmental
goals.

Volkswagen, Germany's industrial behemoth, figured it could advocate for tougher
rules for others but cheat its way to success by developing a workaround to
America's basic EPA auto-emission requirements. VW crafted an elegant,
difficult-to-detect and fraudulent solution to the inconvenient pollution
standards. It installed software in 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide that
triggered a clean-emissions setting calibrated for a laboratory - not actual
road use.

Moreover, there is evidence that in the case of auto emissions, the European
Union was, if not complicit, suspiciously aware of autos failing emission tests
years before the VW scandal, according to European tests done as early as 2007.

Denied military clout to build and project power, modern German governments have
forged uniquely strong ties with industry. Business-friendly industrial policies
and an export-focused foreign policy support and underwrite the economic
powerhouse that is a 21st-century Germany's Wirtschaftswunder - economic
miracle. Achieving that new modern miracle sometimes seems to take precedence
over any other policy, principle, norm, standard or goal.

Economics have trumped global environmental and public health concerns in the
past. In the 1980s, when the country was still divided, West Germany tried to
export domestically unacceptable radioactively contaminated milk to developing
countries, including Egypt. Other European countries were complicit in the
practice and caught.

So while the world's leaders are self-congratulating and citizens applaud the
historic Paris agreement, the world must not turn a blind eye to the ways that
rules can be broken. When a powerful nation like Germany dominantly projects
power and influence by export, consumers and countries need to cry foul when
those export goods are not so good for the world.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday

Why we fear spiders and snakes more than climate change

BYLINE: Mark Buchanan; Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 528 words



HIGHLIGHT: climate change


People tend to fear spiders and snakes more than they do electrical sockets or
fireworks, even though the latter present a far greater danger. This might help
explain why humans have such a hard time seeing the threat of climate change.

Evolutionary psychologists argue that much of human behavior can be understood
only by studying our ancient ancestors. Through 99 percent of human history,
they lived in small groups of hunter-gatherers, with brains evolved to handle
specific tasks, such as recognizing quickly a poisonous reptile or the emotions
and intentions betrayed by facial expressions. The kind of rational thinking
needed to weigh payoffs far in the future developed only recently, in the last 1
percent of our existence.

Now, climate change is presenting humans with the ultimate long-term thinking
task.

In a recent paper, Stanford psychology professor Lee Ross and a team of other
psychologists, economists and biologists suggest that the problem is in the way
our brains are put together. The nature of climate change, they argue, makes it
nearly impossible for us to exercise foresight intelligence - to diagnose the
problem in advance, and then take planned action to address it. A threat that
emerges only gradually, with consequences coming only in the future, just
doesn't excite our ancient mental circuits with the urgency of a scuttling
spider or terrorists on the television. It resides in a mental blind spot.

So what can we do?

Ross and colleagues suggest finding ways to get around our brains' limitations
and instead play to its strengths. Targeting social instincts, for example, can
be effective. Studies show that appeals to self-interest (saving money) don't
work nearly as well as social norms in encouraging people to use less energy -
people conserve more if they think others around them are already doing so. As a
result, information campaigns could be far more effective in changing behavior
than policies targeting the calculating mind through monetary incentives.

Another approach is to frame choices differently.

In European nations, nearly everyone allows their organs to be donated for
medical uses in the event of a fatal auto accident. In the U.S., the number is
only 15 percent, even though surveys show broadly similar attitudes toward
donation on both sides of the Atlantic. Why the difference? Europeans
participate in the program by default - they must opt out if they do not wish to
donate. In the U.S., people have to opt in by signing the back of their driver's
licenses. This suggests that getting more people to save energy could be as easy
as changing the default mode on furnaces and air-conditioners.

One final point: Ross and his co-authors suggest that the most difficult but
perhaps most important task is to move away from the economic vision of endless
growth, because the production of an ever-widening spectrum of new material
things has put too much of a strain on the planet.

Most economists would see this as a radical proposition, yet the second author
on the paper, Nobel Prize winning economist Kenneth Arrow, is about as
mainstream as you can get.

Maybe the shift in thinking we need is already starting.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 7, 2016 Thursday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 872 words



HIGHLIGHT: letters


Rhetoric

Regarding Bumper sticker talk:

President Obama will not come out and say he will disarm the people because
there would be a revolution. Obama passively pushes for an assault weapons ban,
magazine restrictions and creating more paperwork restricting the law-abiding
citizen to comply with laws that do nothing to control shootings in gun-free
zones or keep criminals from obtaining illegal weapons. Obama was in favor of
passing the United Nations Small Arms Treaty, which unequivocally stated there
would be total disarmament and gun confiscation of the countries that pass this
treaty.

The bumper-sticker talking point of being old and inflammatory is rhetoric
toward the assault on our Second Amendment, which is never-ending. The vigilance
of the American people to preserve the Constitution will prevail.

Stephen Burchett

Seffner

Savoring every moment

We tend to live lives that are never satisfied. We lie, cheat, blame, complain.
We hurt the ones we say we love, and we hurt ourselves. We spend an incredible
amount of time in other people's business, and then we judge them and spend even
more time talking about them. We continue searching for that person, place or
thing to make us happy when we should probably be searching within. None of us
are promised tomorrow, and our lives can change in a split second. Embrace each
day without regret, and here's to a happy and healthy new year.

This letter to the editor was printed in The Tampa Tribune on Dec. 31, 2009. I
know because I wrote it.

Six years later, I am still happy to be here.

I am a 57-year-old medical professional and have exercised on my lunch hour for
17 years. I don't smoke, don't drink and have no family history of heart
disease.

But last year I had a severe heart attack.

Working in medicine, I am humbled every day, and now I appreciate my blessings
even more than before. I shall be savoring every moment of every day. Here's to
a wonderful new year for all.

D.J. Streeter

Plant City

Where's the proof?

Regarding Revenue-neutral carbon tax needed (Other Views, Bloomberg View, Jan.
2):

Bloomberg Views appears sympathetic in establishing a carbon tax of $25 a ton.
Great idea.

Remember how the income tax was initiated at 3 percent?

How has that worked out?

I've read that this National Carbon Board would be based in Chicago,
establishing an entirely new tax structure and business in the city with the
highest tax rate in the nation - not to mention the squeaky-clean reputation
that Chicago politics and politicians have.

Bloomberg links climate change to our carbon footprint without any proof, as if
its view is irrefutable. Show me the proof.

John Coleman, co-founder of the Weather Channel, insists that the theory of
man-made climate change is no longer feasible; climate change scientists are
still trying to re-establish their credibility after that embarrassing expose of
the IPPC in 2007.

Although some scientists are still struggling to find consensus, politicians are
struggling to find new ways into our wallets.

John Dautovic

Largo

No apologies

Henry Pierson of Odessa uses the phrase imperialistic misadventures when
describing how the United States handles foreign policies (Other 'victims,'
Your Views, Jan. 2). Like him, I too spent a tour in Vietnam, and when I saw how
people there lived, I believe we should be more imperialistic.

We should occupy and teach these backward cultures that you can no longer toss
virgins into a volcano to ensure a good harvest.

We should spread our idea of how humanity should comport itself when it comes to
human rights.

Just think: a Disneyland in Mogadishu. Sipping a martini by the Euphrates at the
Baghdad Hilton with your new bride. Being able to drive your family through
Mexico and Central America without the fear of disappearing into the rain forest
so your SUV can be re-sold overseas.

I will never apologize for America - we got it right.

I believe we have a duty to raise the rest of the world to be as us.

I dream of traveling anywhere in the world as easily as I drive from Tampa to
Philly.

Ron Stokes

Lutz

Frankenstein on loose

By trying to do everything in its power to make President Obama a failed
president, the Republican Party has created the Frankenstein monster known as
Donald Trump. Its seven years of obstructionism has succeeded in proving that
government doesn't work, at least not for the general welfare of the country.

The result is a lot of people are mad as hell and not going to take it anymore.

Angry people don't want empty promises and platitudes; they want action. They
have found a spokesman in Donald Trump.

The Republican Party has lost control over the very creature it created. It is
on the loose and wreaking political havoc.

Apparently they used a brain from Ab Normal.

How much damage it will ultimately do to the country is frightening.

Alan Raun

Largo

Unintended consequences

Regarding Volunteering: A fraying bond in our selfish society, Other Views, Jan.
2):

What was true in the Depression is increasingly true now: Pay your taxes (and
more and more don't even do that), hire a pro and stay home.

Look at Europe, where volunteerism - and charity - are rare.

There are (perhaps) unintended consequences to the tendency toward the nanny
state.

Cathy Lane

Trinity

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 2, 2016 Saturday

Revenue-neutral carbon tax needed

BYLINE: Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 326 words



HIGHLIGHT: carbon tax


In 2016, voters in Washington will get the chance to enact the first state
carbon tax. To make sure they provide a good example for the other 49, they
should adopt the smartest policy with the broadest bipartisan appeal: a
revenue-neutral tax.

Carbon Washington, an organization that has gathered some 350,000 signatures to
put a $25-per-ton carbon tax to a vote, has long favored the revenue-neutral
strategy. Its measure would return the money generated by cutting income and
corporate taxes. Unfortunately, many left-leaning carbon-tax supporters in
Washington feel strongly that the revenue should be used to make new investments
in clean energy, education and other social programs.

Their strategy undercuts one of the most powerful arguments in favor of a carbon
tax: Climate change is everyone's problem, regardless of political philosophy,
so the effort to lower greenhouse-gas emissions should be undertaken in the
least partisan manner possible. Putting a price on carbon can encourage energy
efficiency and the use of cleaner fuels, and it can be done without getting
sucked into the eternal debate over the proper size and scope of government.

A revenue-neutral carbon tax would sidestep that controversy and focus on its
one essential goal: cutting emissions.

A second advantage would be transparency. If revenue from a carbon tax were used
to enable other tax cuts, politicians would have less opportunity to reward
their favored constituencies. That would make it easier to assure voters that
the higher prices they'd have to pay for electricity, gasoline and home-heating
fuel are working to fight climate change, not to play politics.

Washington's legislature will soon decide whether to pass the revenue-neutral
tax or put it on the November ballot - possibly alongside an alternative carbon
tax that would expand the state budget. In that case, voters should stick with
the original version, and support the broader fight against climate change.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 8, 2016 Friday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 788 words



HIGHLIGHT: letters


Saturating our towns

Regarding CCW thicket demands fed's resolution (Tom Jackson, Dec. 28):

Tom Jackson displays a clear sense of urgency regarding the carrying of firearms
across state lines as though the country can benefit from additional
reciprocity. But Jackson fails to see concealed carry as an ideological movement
that has little or no relationship to public safety.

In fact, a study this year by Texas A&M professor Charles D. Phillips states
that we found no relationship between the actual crime rate and an increase in
concealed carry permits. This exhaustive study was published in the Journal of
Criminology.

Although there is a trend since the early 1990s that sees a reduction in crime
rates, the professor is stating there is no cause and effect relationship
between these two variables.

It is noteworthy that the catalyst for concealed carry comes from the NRA, which
receives substantial money, as noted on its website, from firearms companies
that benefit financially by the increased proliferation of guns.

But my response to Jackson is that CCW/open carry is not a public safety issue
but a movement to further saturate our towns with firearms.

Thomas Burke

Clearwater

We can't win

Regarding Broaden 'hit list' to include other pollutants (Views, Jan. 3): The
author used the term short-lived climate pollutants, or SLCPs. They consist of
four categories: black carbon, methane, HFCs and tropospheric ozone. I
researched this and found that, among other things, these include emissions from
diesel cars and trucks, residential stoves, forest fires, agricultural open
burnings, industrial facilities, coal mines, natural gas and oil systems,
landfills and, last but not least, sunlight-driven oxidation. This long and
often vague list virtually touches every phase of human life and solar. It is
obviously a laundry list of things that so-called climate scientists do not
like.

All of their claims are, of necessity, based on computer modeling, which is, in
turn, based solely on the data inputted. Predictions from the models have
largely proven to be inaccurate at best.

In my lifetime, they have forecast ice ages and massive global warming. Since
neither of these has occurred, they now simply predict climate change, which is,
and always has been, the norm of our planet.

If we experience unusual weather, we are told that it proves the problem is
real. If we do not, we are told that is an anomaly and reminded that current
weather and climate are two very different things.

We can't win, but those receiving funds for studies can, and do.

Jack C. Bolen

Brandon

Expel cronyism

Regarding Take back education system (Your Views, Jan. 4): Betty Castor is
absolutely right.

We need bipartisan sponsorship for HJR 767/SJR 942 to remove the Florida
commissioner of education's office from the political spoils system because it
has a taint of cronyism.

Everyone needs to recognize that our school children are 100 percent of
Florida's future.

James J. Harkins IV Esq.

Sun City Center

Bucs' last hope

Every week it seems we hear the same old stories about the Tampa Bay Bucs. We
have a so-called young team (consisting of grown men), which for the most part
hasn't grown up yet, and new hires who, because they don't know much about
football, are hired on the cheap.

The Bucs haven't had a decent coach since Tony Dungy, who was fired, and his
team won the Super Bowl the next year.

Until the Bucs get an owner and a coach who actually know what they are doing
and can hire the right players, nothing will change. Where is Jeff Vinik when
you need him? He is the Bucs' last hope.

John Lallemand

Dade City

Hire me

First things first. I am not, nor have I ever been, part of any NFL management
team. That being said, I strongly believe the Bucs need to hire me. Why, you
ask? My common sense would hopefully override the lame-brain decision that was
made to fire head coach Lovie Smith. Common sense would tell you that this past
season, with a great QB (probably Rookie of the Year) and an inspired locker
room and the national exposure that was obvious, could only bring positive
future results. Coach Smith was an integral part of this. Now back to my hiring
- consider this my initial interview.

Charles Trujillo

Lake Placid

Fire the owners

Coach Lovie Smith was fired after just two years. It is clear that the team
owners have no idea about what it takes to build a winning team. It should be
noted that Tony Dungy was let go just before the Buccaneers went to the Super
Bowl. Of course, the credit for that went to Jon Gruden, who had nothing to do
with building that team. The only thing we can glean from this is that this is
Tampa, and it is not always fair here. What a tragedy. I wish we could fire the
owners

R. Taylor

Tampa

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 18, 2016 Thursday

Earth sets 9th straight monthly record for heat;
Regions near Arctic at least 9 degrees warmer than normal

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The January figures are in, and Earth's string of hottest-months-on-record has
now reached nine in a row. But NASA said January stood out: The temperature was
above normal by the highest margin of any month on record.

And January 2016 set another record: Arctic sea ice reached its lowest point for
that ice-building winter month.

NASA said January was 2.03 degrees Fahrenheit above normal.  The National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which calculates temperatures
differently, said last month was 1.87 degrees above normal, which is the second
biggest margin in history. NOAA said the greatest was this past December.

January's average global temperature was a record 55.5 degrees Fahrenheit,
easily beating the old January record set in 2007, according to NOAA. Records go
back to 1880.

There were colder-than-normal patches in parts of the United States, Europe and
Asia in January, but they were overwhelmed by incredible off-our-chart warming
in the Arctic region, said NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden. Siberia,
northwest Canada, and a lot of Alaska were at least 9 degrees Fahrenheit warmer
than normal, she said.

That heat was why there was record low sea ice in the Arctic for this time of
year, when sea ice grows, Blunden said.

January Arctic sea ice averaged only 5.2 million square miles in January, 90,000
square miles below the previous record set in 2011, according to the National
Snow and Ice Data Center. It's also 402,000 square miles - about the size of
Texas and New Mexico, combined - less than the 30-year normal.

The string of nine consecutive record hot months matches June 1997 to February
1998, which was the last time Earth had a large El Niño. It is still behind the
10 straight months of record heat in 1944, Blunden said. It's likely we'll tie
that record in February, she said.

The current El Niño - an occasional natural warming of parts of the Pacific that
changes weather around the world and spikes global temperatures - is tied with
1997-1998 for the strongest on record, according to NOAA.

And while it has been predicted to ease soon, it has not lessened yet, said NOAA
Climate Prediction Center deputy director Mike Halpert.

NASA chief climate scientist Gavin Schmidt blamed the record heat mostly on
man-made climate change, with an assist from El Niño.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 28, 2016 Monday

EPA mileage mandate means drivers will save big

BYLINE: MICHAEL E. KRAFT; Tribune News Service

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 642 words



HIGHLIGHT: EPA two


In 2010 and again in 2012, the Obama administration negotiated agreements with
auto companies on new fuel economy standards.

Passenger vehicles were to get an average of 34.5 miles per gallon by the model
year 2016 and 54.5 mpg by 2025. The rules also set greenhouse gas emission
limits for cars, trucks and SUVs.

Anyone who has driven a newer vehicle cannot help but notice the improved fuel
economy. It represents the biggest jump in federal efficiency standards since
their introduction in 1975. Yet the value of the rules could be greatly
diminished if consumers maintain their current preference for SUVs and light
trucks over cars.

Presumably, buyers' decisions reflect currently low gasoline prices as well as
an improving economy.  And why should buyers change given minimal incentives to
choose more efficient vehicles?

Adopting a carbon tax or raising gas taxes to pay for much-needed highway and
related infrastructure improvements could provide a big incentive to conserve
fuel.

That said, are the new fuel economy and greenhouse gas emission rules a good
deal for us?

Yes, they are, although analysts differ in how they estimate the impacts. To get
the fullest picture, we should include direct financial gain from improved fuel
economy and indirect benefits related to climate change and improved air
quality.

The direct financial gain for new car buyers depends on the cost of gasoline and
the anticipated rise in the cost of new vehicles attributable to the higher fuel
economy standards. We don't know the latter precisely. Much depends on how auto
companies alter vehicle designs and which technologies they employ.

In its most recent analysis, the Environmental Protection Agency estimates that
the buyer of a 2016 car will save $3,000 over its lifetime. The anticipated
savings are even greater for a 2025 car, about $10,000.

In short, the EPA says the new standards generate far more savings to consumers
than they will cost. These estimates are for those paying cash for a car, but
there are substantial savings as well for those who finance a vehicle.

What about indirect benefits of the rules?

Improved fuel economy also translates into gains in public health, reduction in
the risk of climate change, and improved energy security related to lowering the
nation's dependence on imported oil.

All of these benefits are substantial, particularly the public health impacts
for those suffering from lung diseases such as asthma - 23 million people, or
over 7 percent of the population.

The agencies' regulatory impact analysis for the 2016 model year standards puts
the monetized or measurable benefits at nearly five times the costs, or $240
billion in benefits compared to $52 billion in costs.

The benefits for the 2017 through 2025 model years are about three times the
anticipated costs even when many benefits were not taken into account at all or
were not fully measured.

There are additional gains from the new rules that often are ignored. For
example, the standards encourage automakers to innovate and invest in new
technologies that may well make the U.S. more economically competitive and
resilient in a shifting and uncertain global economy.

How the rules were developed is also important. They were adopted only after
extensive consultation with the auto industry, auto workers, consumer groups,
environmental and energy experts, and state governments.

Thirteen major automakers supported the initiative to develop a consistent
nationwide standard and create regulatory certainty going forward. In addition,
the agencies continue to work with auto companies on many details of how the
rules will be applied.

We are well on our way to a far brighter future in vehicle efficiency. We should
recognize the enormous value of the new standards and strongly encourage
automakers to do even better in developing new transportation technologies.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 23, 2016 Saturday

175 nations sign landmark Paris deal on climate change;
Agreement is seen as a key step toward emissions reduction

BYLINE: EDITH M. LEDERER and CARA ANNA; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


- Leaders from 175 countries signed the Paris Agreement on climate change Friday
as the landmark deal took a key step forward, potentially entering into force
years ahead of schedule.

Secretary of State John Kerry, holding his young granddaughter, joined dozens of
world leaders for a signing ceremony that set a record for international
diplomacy: Never have so many countries signed an agreement on the first
available day. States that don't sign Friday have a year to do so.

We are in a race against time, U.N. secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the
gathering. The era of consumption without consequences is over.

Many now expect the climate agreement to enter into force long before the
original deadline of 2020. Some say it could happen this year.After signing,
countries must formally approve the Paris Agreement through their domestic
procedures. The United Nations says 15 countries, several of them small island
states under threat from rising seas, did that Friday by depositing their
instruments of ratification.China, the world's top carbon emitter, announced it
will finalize domestic procedures to ratify the Paris Agreement before the G-20
summit in China in September.

Kerry said the United States absolutely intends to join the agreement this year.
The world is watching anxiously: Analysts say that if the agreement enters into
force before President Barack Obama leaves office in January, it would be more
complicated for his successor to withdraw from the deal because it would take
four years to do so under the agreement's rules.

The agreement will enter into force once 55 countries representing at least 55
percent of global emissions have formally joined it.

Under the Paris Agreement, countries set their own targets for reducing
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to reach the goal of
keeping global warming below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, compared with
pre-industrial times.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 20, 2016 Sunday

Beyond record hot, February was 'staggering';
Earth reached new levels of heat, worrying scientists

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- Earth got so hot last month that federal scientists struggled to find words,
describing temperatures as astronomical, staggering and strange. They warned
that the climate may have moved into a new and hotter neighborhood.

This was not just part of the drumbeat of 10 straight broken monthly global heat
records, triggered by a super El Niño and man-made global warming.

February 2016 obliterated old marks by such a margin that it was the most
above-normal month since meteorologists started keeping track in 1880, according
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

The old record was set just last December and the last three months have been
the most above-normal months on record, said NOAA climate scientist Jessica
Blunden. And it's not just NOAA.

NASA, which uses different statistical techniques, as well as a University of
Alabama Huntsville team and the private Remote Sensing System team, which
measures using satellites, also said February 2016 had the biggest departure
from normal on record.

NOAA said Earth averaged 56.08 degrees Fahrenheit in February, 2.18 degrees
above average, beating the old record for February set in 2015 by nearly
six-tenths of a degree.

These were figures that had federal scientists grasping for superlatives.

The departures are what we would consider astronomical, Blunden said. It's on
land. It's in the oceans. It's in the upper atmosphere. It's in the lower
atmosphere. The Arctic had record low sea ice.

Everything everywhere is a record this month, except Antarctica, Blunden said.
It's insane.

In the Arctic, where sea ice reached a record low for February, land
temperatures averaged 8 degrees above normal, Blunden said.

That's after January, when Arctic land temperatures were 10.4 degrees above
normal.

Worldwide, February 2016 was warmer than about 125 of the last 136 Marches.

It was also the warmest winter - December through February - on record, beating
the previous year's record by more than half a degree.

Georgia Tech climate scientist Kim Cobb said she normally doesn't concern
herself much with the new high temperature records that are broken regularly.

However, she added in an email, when I look at the new February 2016
temperatures, I feel like I'm looking at something out of a sci-fi movie. In a
way we are: it's like someone plucked a value off a graph from 2030 and stuck it
on a graph of present temperatures. It is a portent of things to come, and it is
sobering that such temperature extremes are already on our doorstep.

Scientists at NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information in
Asheville, North Carolina, were astonished by the staggering numbers, said Deke
Arndt, the centers' global monitoring chief.

Usually these are monthly reminders that things are changing, Arndt said. The
last six months have been more than a reminder, it's been like a punch in the
nose.

NASA's chief climate scientist, Gavin Schmidt, usually discounts the importance
of individual record hot months, but he said this month was different, calling
it obviously strange.

This was due to the long-term warming from heat-trapping gases and the powerful
El Niño, so these types of records will continue for a few more months but
probably will not be a permanent situation, Schmidt said in an email.

But others were not so sure, including Arndt, who compared it to moving into a
new hotter neighborhood.

We are in a new era, Arndt said. We have started a new piece of modern history
for this climate.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday

Biodiesel fans say it's just good business [JUMP]Conferencegoers: It's a smart
investment and helps the environment;
Conferencegoers: It's a smart investment and helps the environment

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Business; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 600 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's tough to get people excited about alternative forms of fuel the
price of gas is so low. But with more than half the states in the nation
requiring some sort of carbon credit, biodiesel proponents say it's the future
and getting in now could mean money.


TAMPA - With gas prices sinking, it's difficult to whip up excitement for
alternatives to fossil fuels.

But proponents of plant-based biodiesel see their industry growing exponentially
in the decades to come, especially now that 29 states have some sort of carbon
credit or carbon tax program in place to cut down on greenhouse gas emissions.

About 1,000 marketers, producers, distributors and others are gathered this week
at the Tampa Convention Center to learn about the state of the growing industry,
the hurdles it faces and the opportunities ripe for the picking.

One such opportunity could be production, and for Florida entrepreneurs ready to
cash in on this emerging industry, it's a good time, said Shelby Neal, with the
National Biodiesel Board.

You could make it in Florida, put it on a ship to the Northeast, then sell it
for the per-gallon price plus the carbon credit, Neal said. If you are the
biodiesel producer, you sell it to the obligated party, like a power plant that
needs carbon credits.

Biodiesel, which is made of a blend of soy oil, animal fats, used cooking oil
and other fats and oils, is considered nearly carbon-neutral. It most commonly
is added to diesel - most gas stations include a 5 percent blend - and can be
used in any standard diesel engine. As time progresses, those in the industry
hope to see an ever higher percentage of biofuel mixed with diesel to clean it
up.

At a time on the planet when world leaders are working to cut the carbon spewing
into the air, the biodiesel industry is finding carbon reduction to be its
focus.

We are in the business of providing carbon reductions, Neal said. To ignore that
is to ignore a business opportunity. Just last year, he said, California used
250 million gallons of bio

diesel. The interesting part is the carbon credits are attached. By 2023-24, he
said, $980 million in revenue will be added to the industry just in California
through those carbon credits.

All we have to do is continue doing what we do and get all of this additional
revenue in the form of carbon credits, Neal said.

Creating a cleaner planet by eliminating greenhouse gases that contribute to
climate change isn't an economy killer, as some politicians would have the
conservative public believe, said Bob Inglis, a former Republican U.S.
congressman from the reddest district in the reddest state in the nation -
Greenville, South Carolina.

His nonprofit organization, RepublicEn.org, seeks out conservatives who aren't
afraid to say they believe the science and want to find a solution.

When Inglis crossed the tribal boundary, saying out loud that he believed the
science that shows manmade pollution is hastening global warming, he was dubbed
the Al Gore of the Republican Party. That's a tough label in his neck of the
woods and one he thinks eventually lost him his seat in Congress.We call
ourselves energy optimists and climate realists. We want more energy, more
mobility and more freedom.

RepublicEn.org encourages innovation in new technologies that will reduce
harmful pollutants like carbon, according to its website, which also says that
is a philosophy embraced by 68 percent of Republican-leaning voters.

Inglis said biodiesel advocates are part of the innovative group that makes
positive change and grows business at the same time.

Joe Jobe, president and CEO of the National Biodiesel Board, said the industry
produced and sold 2.1 billion gallons of biodiesel in 2015, a new record, and is
positioned to set more records in the next two years.

yhammett@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7127

Twitter: @Yvette_Hammett

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 28, 2016 Sunday

While Obama fiddles

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: The Hammer


 - State of the world, Year Eight of Barack Obama:

1. In the South China Sea, on a speck of land of disputed sovereignty far from
its borders, China has just installed anti-aircraft batteries and stationed
fighter jets. This after China landed planes on an artificial island it created
on another disputed island chain (the Spratlys, claimed by the Philippines,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam). These facilities now function as forward bases
for Beijing to challenge seven decades of American naval dominance of the
Pacific Rim.

China is clearly militarizing the South China Sea, the commander of the U.S.
Pacific Command told Congress on Tuesday. Its goal? Hegemony in East Asia.

2. Syria. Russian intervention has turned the tide of war. Having rescued the
Bashar al-Assad regime from collapse, relentless Russian bombing is destroying
the rebel stronghold of Aleppo, Syria's largest city, creating a massive new
wave of refugees and demonstrating to the entire Middle East what a Great Power
can achieve when it acts seriously. The U.S. response? Repeated pathetic
attempts by Secretary of State John Kerry to propitiate Russia (and its ally,
Iran) in one collapsed peace conference after another. Last week, he stepped out
to announce yet another provisional agreement in principle on a cessation of
hostilities that the CIA director, the defense secretary and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs deem little more than a ruse.

3. Ukraine. Having swallowed Crimea so thoroughly that no one even talks about
it anymore, Russia continues to trample with impunity on the Minsk cease-fire
agreements. Vladimir Putin is now again stirring the pot, intensifying the
fighting, advancing his remorseless campaign to fracture and subordinate the
Ukrainian state. Meanwhile, Obama still refuses to send the Ukrainians even
defensive weapons.

4. Iran. On Feb. 18 Iran received its first shipment of S-300 anti-aircraft
batteries from Russia, a major advance in developing immunity to any attack on
its nuclear facilities. And it is negotiating an $8 billion arms deal with
Russia that includes sophisticated combat aircraft. Like its ballistic missile
tests, this conventional weapons shopping spree is a blatant violation of U.N.
Security Council prohibitions. It was also a predictable - and predicted -
consequence of the Iran nuclear deal that granted Iran $100 billion and
normalized its relations with the world. The U.S. response? Words.

Unlike gravitational waves, today's strategic situation is not hard to discern.
Three major have-not powers are seeking to overturn the post-Cold War status
quo: Russia in Eastern Europe, China in East Asia, Iran in the Middle East. All
are on the march. To say nothing of the Islamic State, now extending its reach
from Afghanistan to West Africa. The international order built over decades by
the United States is crumbling. In the face of which, what does Obama do? Go to
Cuba. A supreme strategic irrelevance so dear to his anti-anti-communist heart.

Is he at least going to celebrate progress in human rights and democracy - which
Obama established last year as a precondition for any presidential visit? Of
course not. When has Obama ever held to a red line? Indeed, since Obama began
his historic normalization with Cuba, the repression has gotten worse. Last
month, the regime arrested 1,414 political dissidents, the second-most ever
recorded.

No matter. Amid global disarray and American decline, Obama sticks to his
cherished concerns: Cuba, Guantanamo (about which he gave a rare televised
address last week) and, of course, climate change.

Obama could not bestir himself to go to Paris in response to the various jihadi
atrocities - sending Kerry instead to share a big hug with Paris (as Kerry
explained) with James Taylor singing You've Got a Friend - but he did make an
ostentatious three-day visit there for climate change.

So why not go to Havana? Sure, the barbarians are at the gates and pushing hard
knowing they will enjoy but 11 more months of minimal American resistance. But
our passive president genuinely believes that such advances don't really matter
- that these disruptors are so on the wrong side of history, that their reaches
for territory, power, victory are so 20th century.

Of course, it mattered greatly to the quarter-million slaughtered in Syria and
the millions more exiled. It feels all quite real to a dissolving Europe, an
expanding China, a rising Iran, a metastasizing jihadism.

Not to the visionary Obama, however. He sees far beyond such ephemera. He knows
what really matters: climate change, Gitmo and Cuba. With time running out, he
wants these to be his legacy. Indeed, they will be.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

THE BATTLE FOR FLORIDA Clinton, Sanders make their case to supporters in Tampa

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER O'DONNELL Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words



HIGHLIGHT: Get Out The Vote Rally with Hillary Clinton Hillary Clinton will be
in Tampa to encourage Floridians to take advantage of early voting in
preparation for the March 15 primary. She will also discuss her commitment to
break down the barriers that hold too many Florida families back. If you are
arriving in a car, please utilize parking at the Centro Ybor Garage (1500 E. 5th
Ave.). Doors Open at 9:45AM.


TAMPA - Thousands of people flocked to political rallies for front-runner
Hillary Clinton and her opponent Bernie Sanders on Thursday as the fight for the
Democratic presidential race zeroed in on Tampa.

The vast majority were at the Florida State Fairgrounds, where a raucous crowd
of about 9,000 cheered Vermont Sen. Sanders on Thursday evening as he laid out
his plans to rein in Wall Street institutions and reform a corrupt campaign
finance system.

Earlier in the day, Clinton spoke to an enthusiastic crowd of about 700 people
at the Ritz Ybor in Ybor City, saying she would break down the barriers that
keep working families from better jobs and affordable health insurance and work
to ensure women receive pay equal to men.

Clinton also slammed Republican Gov. Rick Scott for turning down $2.4 billion in
federal funding for a high-speed rail

link in 2011, pledging to revisit that decision and bring more infrastructure
projects and jobs to the Tampa area to support Port Tampa Bay.

Cheryl Seronick, 69, traveled from Crystal River to see Clinton, not wanting to
miss a chance of a lifetime.

Seronick said Clinton has shown she can handle the barrage of attacks likely to
come from the Republican Party during the general election.

I think that she has been ripped apart by [#x2028]the Republicans for the last
20 years and she has proven that she could stand up to things like that, she
said.

Mackenzie Winters, a 23-year-old student from Plant City, attended the Sanders
campaign wearing a T-shirt with a large image of the candidate's face. She said
Sanders' record over 40 years showed his commitment to working people.

Hillary is the establishment to me and the establishment is everything I want to
get away from, Winters said. After we won Michigan, that's when I thought, 'This
might actually happen.' I have hope.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

At stake for both candidates is Tuesday's vote in Florida, a key battleground in
both the primary and general elections. The pair will also contest primaries in
Ohio, Illinois and Missouri the same night. The elections come on the heels of
Sanders' surprise win in the Michigan [#x2028]primary, which breathed new life
into a campaign that seemed to have run out of steam once Clinton scored
crushing wins in states including South Carolina, Alabama and Louisiana.

Clinton still has a big lead in pledged delegates with 760 compared to Sanders'
546. Unlike the Republican winner-take-all Florida primary, the Democratic
contest will award Florida's 246 delegates proportionately based on the
percentage of votes earned.

In her 23-minute speech, Clinton said discrimination still plagues many
Americans, including women, minorities, the poor and the LGBT community. She
said she will work to improve the Affordable Health Care Act, known as
Obamacare, and to make it easier for every American to succeed.

We realize America's potential when we make it possible for every American to
achieve his or hers, she said.

Clinton said Port Tampa Bay is one of the region's more important economic
drivers and said she will work to improve infrastructure around the port. She
also blasted her Republican opponents for failing to acknowledge the risk of
rising sea levels from climate change that already is blamed for flooding in
parts of Miami.

It is the height of irresponsibility and neglect for anybody in a position of
authority not to recognize that Florida will be the most at risk from climate
change of any place in the United States, she said.

She also pledged to end the crippling debt of student loans for working and
middle-class families, but not to make education free for the rich like Donald
Trump's kids. She would also like to see more jobs tied to renewable energy in
the Sunshine State.

Infrastructure, clean energy, those jobs can be exported; they've got to be done
right here, she said. We need more good jobs - rising incomes is one of the ways
we can knock down barriers. That really lights a fire under people.

Many of the rights earned by progressives over the last few decades are under
attack from Republicans, she said. She promised to fight to preserve abortion
rights, marriage equality and to take on the National Rifle Association by
introducing common-sense gun safety measures.

Sanders' speech outlined his belief that a political revolution is needed to
reduce end income inequality, introduce universal health care and make higher
education free for all.

He focused on many areas where he is viewed as more progressive than Clinton,
including the introduction of free higher education for all, a $15 per hour
minimum wage and universal health care.

While Clinton favors making improvements to the Affordable Health Care Act or
Obamacare, Sanders said there are 20 million Americans without insurance and
many more hurt as underinsured or by spiraling prescription costs.

I believe that health care is a right of our people; it is a right, not a
privilege, he said.Higher education should be free for all students, he said.
Too many people graduate and cannot afford to buy a home or a car, or to get
married. Making public college and universities free would give the United
States a better trained workforce. We should be rewarding people for getting an
education, not punishing them, he said.

Like Clinton, Sanders rapped Republicans for not taking climate change
seriously. He said he will take on the fossil fuel industry and promote solar
energy and other renewable energy sources.

The state of Florida has an extraordinary natural resource - it's called
sunlight and this state should be a leader in the world, he said.

The two rallies highlighted the contrast between the two candidates. Sanders
drew a large, eclectic crowd that included many young people. Thousands arrived
hours in advance of the 7 p.m. event and erupted in spontaneous chants of Bernie
and Feel the Bern. Clinton's rally was an enthusiastic but more sober affair
with the presence of half a dozen or so local elected leaders, reflecting her
support among the established wing of the Democrat party. Clinton supporters
began lining up several hours before her noon appearance, with lines outside the
concert hall stretching down Seventh Avenue. An overflow room was needed to
accommodate about 300 people who could not get in the main hall, Clinton said.

The event was free but those with $1,500 to spare could meet Clinton backstage
and get a picture taken with the former first lady.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The Tampa Bay area is considered vital to electoral success in Florida.
Hillsborough County, with about 309,000 registered Democratic voters, is the
biggest in the so-called I-4 corridor - the swath of Central Florida that runs
from the Bay area through Orlando along Interstate 4.

Polls suggest Sanders faces an uphill battle in Florida. A News 13/Bay News 9
poll released Tuesday gives Clinton a 31-point lead over Sanders with 61 percent
of likely primary voters saying they will support the former secretary of state.

But Sanders bucked the polls in Michigan, where some gave Hillary a lead of more
than 20 points. He was bolstered by strong support from independent voters. The
Florida primary is closed, however, meaning only Democrats can vote.

Steve Schale, a Democratic strategist who directed President Barack Obama's
Florida campaign in 2008, said Florida favors Clinton because of its older
electorate and more diverse population, groups who in other states have
preferred her over Sanders. The popularity of her husband, former President Bill
Clinton, and their frequent visits to the state will also benefit her.

He made Florida a competitive state for Democrats, Schale said. They haven't got
a big campaign here but they've got that many friends and family here.

Sanders' Tampa stop was his fourth Florida rally in two days after largely
ignoring the state before. Based on his victory in Michigan, he may be more
inclined to focus more of his campaign funds and time in Ohio than in Florida,
Schale said.

Every campaign has to make decisions and in Ohio and Illinois it makes more
sense for him to spend money where he can sneak another win rather than dump $5
(million) or $6 million into Florida on a hail Mary.

Tribune staff writer Brianna Kwasnick contributed to this
reportcodonnell@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7871

@codonnellTBO

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday

U.S. bans oil drilling off coast of Atlantic;
Environmentalists cheer the reversal in policy, but business groups criticize it

BYLINE: MATTHEW DALY; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a major reversal, the Obama administration said Tuesday it will bar oil
drilling off America's Atlantic Coast, a move cheered by environmentalists and
consistent with the president's aggressive steps to combat climate change.

Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said the decision protects the Atlantic for
future generations. She said the administration had listened to thousands of
people in coastal communities from Florida to New England who said, Now is not
the time to start leasing off the Atlantic Coast.

Business groups and most Republicans criticized it as another example of what
they call executive overreach.

Despite a surge in oil and natural gas production in the past seven years that
has helped push gasoline prices below $2 a gallon, Republicans and industry
groups have criticized President Barack Obama for imposing what they say are
unnecessary regulations on drilling, especially on federal lands.

Most of the drilling boom has occurred on state and private lands and in the
Gulf of Mexico, long the center of U.S. offshore oil production.

The decision reverses a proposal made last year in which the administration
floated a plan that would have opened up a broad swath of the Atlantic Coast to
drilling.

That January 2015 proposal would have opened up sites more than 50 miles off
Virginia, North and South Carolina and Georgia to oil drilling no earlier than
2021.

The proposal on Atlantic drilling is likely to become an issue in the 2016
presidential campaign.

Both Democratic candidates oppose it, while Republicans vow to expand drilling.

The plan announced Tuesday covers potential lease sales from 2017 to 2022 and
calls for leasing 10 areas in the Gulf and three off the Alaska coast.

A coalition of groups that oppose Atlantic drilling had organized protests and
petitions in southeastern and mid-Atlantic states, often running into opposition
from governors and other political leaders.

Republican governors in North and South Carolina back drilling off their states'
coasts, as does the Democratic governor of Virginia. The state's two Democratic
senators also support drilling.

President Obama has taken a giant step for our oceans, for coastal economies and
for mitigating climate change, said Jacqueline Savitz, vice president of Oceana,
an environmental group. Tuesday's decision appeases extremists who seek to stop
oil and natural gas production in the U.S., said Jack Gerard, president and CEO
of the American Petroleum Institute, the nation's largest oil and gas lobbying
group.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 27, 2016 Sunday

Unlocking polar secrets [JUMP]Aircraft at MacDill helps track Earth's shrinking
ice a world away;
Aircraft at MacDill helps track Earth's shrinking ice a world away

BYLINE: HOWARD ALTMAN Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1865 words



HIGHLIGHT: On the morning of the last test flight of the first joint NASA-NOAA
mission to measure ice melting over Greenland, Miss Piggy is being stubborn. The
newly refurbrished Orion P-3 is having a bit of a hydrolic leak. And later,
before takeoff, the No. 2 engine wont fire up because of a stuck valvue. But for
the men who will fly out on this day, it is just another day of science


TAMPA - It is the morning of the last test flight before the first joint
NASA-NOAA mission to map melting ice caps, and Miss Piggy is being difficult.

Sitting on the flightline just outside Hangar 5 at MacDill Air Force Base, the
venerable Orion P-3, refurbished three years ago, is oozing some hydraulic
fluid. And just before the first take-off attempt, the No. 2 engine has to be
shut down because of a stuck valve.

Miss Piggy, famous for flying into hurricanes to gather information about storm
tracks, now is being pressed into service for NASA because of what can only be
described as a perfect storm.

The mission is part of Operation IceBridge, a $15-million-a-year NASA program to
investigate Earth's polar ice in the greatest detail ever to better understand
processes that connect the polar regions with the global climate system.

By using the most advanced

radar, lasers and other equipment, the project's goal is to track the annual
changes in thickness of sea ice, glaciers and ice sheets. The data collected is
used to predict how Earth's polar ice reacts to climate change and how sea
levels rise as a result.

The trouble is that the first Earth elevation satellite NASA launched in the
program, called ICE-SAT 1, failed in 2009, and the next one, ICE-SAT 2, isn't
set to go up until 2017. Operation IceBridge was created in 2009 to plug the
data gap so scientists can still keep track of the ice. Each spring, pilots fly
over the Arctic to the north, and in the fall, over the Antarctic to the south.

To do that, NASA needs a plane. But the agency's own Orion P-3, which has been
helping bridge the gap, is getting new wings now like Miss Piggy. So is fellow
NOAA's other P-3, Kermit. And several other NASA aircraft used for this project
are busy with other missions.

So in November, NASA officials, mindful of the lull between June-to-November
hurricane seasons, reached out to the NOAA Aircraft Operations Center at
MacDill, which has shipped off its P-3s for other science missions in the past.
The parties ironed out a $2 million deal to use Miss Piggy and 10 crew members
for about a month on Operation IceBridge.

It's amazing how quickly this came together, says John Woods, NASA's project
manager, who has come to Tampa to oversee the preparations.

In a week, 22 scientists and a flight crew jump off from MacDill to Thule Air
Base in Greenland to begin a grueling, four- to six-week mission flying over
glaciers and land and sea ice. At MacDill, final testing is underway on the
equipment for the mission.

The tests involve flying 200 miles west over the Gulf of Mexico and turning Miss
Piggy into an airborne version of Busch Gardens' SheiKra diving roller coaster,
with 60-degree rolls and sharp 200-foot pitches, all to make sure the equipment
is set properly for the mission ahead.

Each flight tests the men, their equipment and the plane. There are
frustrations, but one three-hour journey over the Gulf of Mexico last week
showcased how crews from two different federal agencies with two different
cultures can snap together in the name of science.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

More than 80 percent of Greenland's 830,000 square miles is covered in ice. But
the ice is shrinking.

This mission was created to help determine just how much, says Jim Yungel, 56, a
NASA program manager.

Every 10 years, the National Academies of Science take an Earth sciences survey.
Ice was at the top of the most recent list.

Will there be catastrophic collapse of the major ice sheets, including Greenland
and West Antarctica, and if so, how rapidly will this occur? the survey asks.
What will be the time patterns of sea level rise as a result?

Yungel points to his computer screen, showing an overlay map of the massive
frozen island.

The icepack over Greenland is like an ice cream cone, Yungel says. It's been
melting around the edges at the rate of about 70 centimeters a year for the last
decade.

He points to another slide, which paints the overall picture of what this means.

Global sea level has risen, due to warming oceans and melting glaciers, by eight
inches since 1880. It is projected to rise another one to four feet by 2100,
according to the National Climate Assessment.

As he speaks, just outside his window, a mechanic has the engine cowling open as
he works to unstick a balky valve.

The valve is the second glitch to delay this flight, which was supposed to be
wheels up at around noon.

During a pre-flight check, the crew noticed a small amount of hydraulic fluid
had leaked in a compartment next to where laser measuring equipment had been
installed. While it posed no safety risk, the thin film of oil coated a window
where Yungel's team had set up the laser. The window has to be cleaned for the
laser to measure properly.

The engine problem pushed the planned takeoff even further ahead. But no one
seems to be worried about whether the engine, which is relatively new, will hold
up. Or about the delay.

For Yungel and the other members of the science team, which includes NASA
employees as well as representatives from the University of Kansas, Indiana
State and the University of Colorado, it's no big deal.

Hurry up and wait, says John Sonntag, 48, a NASA mission scientist. These things
happen. You get used to it.

With so much equipment taking so many readings and sucking up so much data,
there has to be a place to put all the information.

That's the job of 29-year-old Aaron Wells.

Wells is a polar field engineer from Indiana University and has brought with him
a system called Forward Observer, a large data storage device that can hold more
than 40 terabytes of data. A single terabyte is the equivalent of about a
thousand copies of Encyclopedia Brittanica.

We collect about four terabytes a day, says Wells, who, unlike the clean-shaven
aircrew who are snappy in their blue jumpsuits, sports a big, bushy brown beard
and is dressed in a T-shirt and jeans.

Just after 3 p.m., the flight crew cranks up all four engines, and Miss Piggy
slowly makes her way to Runway 22, where she rumbles down the runway and takes
off, flying west over Fort De Soto, the last spit of land the team will see for
hours.

As the scientists settle into their seats and get their gear ready for the
upcoming tests, Woods, the NASA project manager, talks about what lies ahead.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

For the first part of the mission, the NASA-NOAA team will be at Thule Air Base
in Greenland for three weeks. Then they load up Miss Piggy and fly her across
the Arctic to Fairbanks, Alaska.

Thule is the U.S. military's northernmost base. It also has very limited flying
hours, Woods says. It opens at 8 a.m. and closes at 4 p.m. each weekday, and
Miss Piggy will be flying as many of those eight-hour windows as possible.

There are long days ahead.

The official work begins with a 5 a.m. weather briefing, so the team will wake
up even earlier to grab some food. After flying all day, there is an
after-mission briefing at 5 p.m., then it's off to the chow hall.

It's cold at Thule now, about three degrees below zero, according to the latest
weather forecast. Woods says for recreation, the team can tour glaciers, go
sledding and climb mountains.

After three weeks in Greenland, the team leaves for Fairbanks International
Airport for a week or two to fly the western side of the Arctic.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Shortly after 4 p.m., NOAA Cmdr. Scott Price sounds the alarm warning passengers
to strap in.

As the flight crew prepares for maneuvers, Price, who has flown the IceBridge
missions before, offers advice to the pilot, Lt. Cmdr. Nate Kahn.

The scenery is awesome, Price says. Some of the coolest flying you will ever do.
If you've got a camera, bring it.

A short while later, with Miss Piggy cruising along at 20,000 feet, Kahn turns
the yoke to the left, causing the plane to lean over.

Thirty degrees, he says, calmly. Now 45. 60.

By now the plane has rolled over nearly as far as it can go. Kahn turns the yoke
to the right, levels the plane off for a few seconds, and rolls it to the right,
again counting off 30, 45. 60.

As he does, a small needle in a small round dial registers 2.5, meaning the
maneuver pulled 2.5 g's - 21/2 times the pull of gravity. SheiKra, by
comparison, is a 5-g ride.

I didn't like that last 10 degrees, says Kahn, complaining to Price about the
reaction of the autopilot. I felt like I was fighting it.

After repeating the maneuver twice more, Kahn slowly circles downward for the
next test, which requires the plane to reach a level of 1,500 feet, then pitch
up sharply 200 feet, then drop down equally as sharply 400 feet.

After punching through some clouds, Kahn reaches his destination. He pulls the
yoke back, and Miss Piggy rises. After 200 feet, Kahn pushes the yoke forward
and Miss Piggy drops 400 feet. It's twice the distance of SheiKra's vertical
dive.

In the aft, the force of the pitch maneuver catches some of the science guys by
surprise. Coffee goes flying out of a cup.

Kahn does the pitch maneuver two more times, then guides the plane eastward back
to MacDill.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

There is one more test to go before this flight is over.

In order to calibrate the laser system, the plan is to take several passes over
MacDill, firing the laser over a known area. That will help ensure the system is
properly set up on Miss Piggy.

This test proves to be the trickiest, highlighting the difference between using
lasers on the NASA and NOAA Orion P3s.The NASA plane doesn't have to withstand
the rigors of flying into a hurricane, so it has fewer stabilizing bulkheads
below, more crawl space under the flooring and more and bigger windows for
cameras. Also, unlike Miss Piggy, the NASA plane enables the science crew to tap
directly into the autopilot system to guide the aircraft directly for the laser
test, taking over from the pilot - almost like a bombardier would in a World War
II bomber.

As Miss Piggy gets closer to land, Kahn and Price are given handheld computer
tabets, which they attach to their steering columns. The plan is to have John
Sonntag, sitting amidships, plot out the course that will allow the laser system
to get precise measurements, and for Kahn and Price to follow along looking down
at the tablets.

But the plan hits a snag.

Kahn's tablet won't turn on. And as Miss Piggy crosses MacDill, it's apparent
that air traffic is too heavy to attempt any more passes. So after one pass,
Kahn gets permission to land, banks the plane around and guides Miss Piggy to a
rest.

Once the signal is given allowing passengers to unbuckle, an excited Yungel, who
had been worried about the seeping hydraulic fluid, comes bounding toward the
cabin with a picture on his cellphone.

The image shows a low-altitude laser measuring test over MacDill, proof the
system is properly synched and working as designed.

Dead on, he says with a smile.

Though there are still a few bugs to be worked out, Woods, the NASA project
manager, says everything is on schedule. Friday, Miss Piggy flew to Texas to get
her fuel tanks repaired.

It should return this week, ready to head to Thule on Saturday.

Says Woods, When it comes back, we will load it up and go.

haltman@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7629

Twitter:

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 10, 2016 Sunday

Despite reputation, Catholic Church has strong relationship with science;
Persecution of Galileo still haunts Vatican's image

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 985 words



HIGHLIGHT: Global warming adds new twist to complicated relationship between
Catholic church and science


From Galileo to genetics, the Roman Catholic Church has danced with science,
sometimes in a high-tension tango but more often in a supportive waltz. Pope
Francis is about to introduce a new twist: global warming.

The field of genetics was started by a Catholic cleric, Gregor Mendel. Entire
aspects of astronomy, including the genesis of the Big Bang theory, began with
members of the Catholic clergy. While some religions reject evolution,
Catholicism has said for 65 years that it fits with the story of creation.

But when lay people think of the church and science, one thing usually comes to
mind: The prosecution of Galileo Galilei for heresy because he insisted that the
Earth circled the sun and not the other way around.

The Catholic Church has got an uneven and not always congenial relationship with
science, said science historian John Heilbron, who wrote a biography of Galileo.
But after ticking off some of the advances in science that the church sponsored,
the retired University of California Berkeley professor emeritus added, probably
on balance, the Catholic Church's exchange with what we call science is pretty
good.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The Catholic Church teaches that science and faith are not contradictory and
even work well together. After lukewarm opposition to the theory of evolution in
the late 19th century, the church has embraced that field of science that other
faiths do not. There are remaining clashes about the ethics of scientific and
medical practices - such as abortion and using stems cells from embryos - but
that's more about morality than reality of science.

The Big Bang, which nowadays is posited as the origin of the world, does not
contradict the divine act of creating, but rather requires it, Pope Francis said
last October, echoing comments made by his predecessors. The evolution of nature
does not contrast with the notion of creation, as evolution presupposes the
creation of beings that evolve.With that complicated history looming, Pope
Francis, once a chemist, will soon issue an authoritative church document laying
out the moral justification for fighting global warming, especially for the
world's poorest billions.

Veerabhadran Ramanathan, a Scripps Institution of Oceanography climate
scientist, briefed the pope on climate change. He said scientists felt they were
failing in getting the world to understand the moral hazard that man-made
warming presents. Now, he said, scientists who don't often turn to religion are
looking forward to the pope's statement.

Science and religion doesn't mix, but environment is an exception where science
and religion say the same thing, Ramanathan said. I think we have found a common
ground.

The church found little such common ground with Galileo 382 years ago.

Everything you know (about Galileo) is wrong but the truth unfortunately doesn't
make the church look any better, said Brother Guy Consolmagno, an astronomer and
president of the Vatican Observatory Foundation in Arizona.

Galileo was put under house arrest for the rest of his life after he continued
to publish work showing the Earth orbiting the sun, despite warnings from the
pope and the Inquisition. But it was more than a theological issue, said
Heilbron and University of Illinois science historian Ron Numbers.

It was partially a personality conflict between Galileo and Pope Urban VIII,
former friends. The pontiff felt betrayed personally by the astronomer because
Galileo had promised to include in a postscript the pope's philosophy that
contradicted Galileo's work, Heilbron said. Galileo didn't. And it was also
about geopolitics, because the church was trying to fight back against the
Protestant Reformation and felt the need to show that it would not permit
dissent, he said.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Galileo wasn't sent to prison and he had his meals catered from the Tuscan
embassy so he didn't have to eat Inquisition food, said Numbers, editor of the
book Galileo Goes to Jail and Other Myths about Science and Religion.

That past had receded until the mid-19th century when in the United States,
several books on the conflict between religion and science cited Galileo's
experience to make the church look bad, said Numbers, the grandson of a
president of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

Now politicians and others who reject mainstream climate science, like Sen. Ted
Cruz, R-Texas, compare themselves to Galileo because scientists scorn them. In
fact, Galileo was persecuted for espousing science, not denying it, said Harvard
University science historian Naomi Oreskes.

For centuries before and after Galileo, the Catholic Church was the main
supporter of astronomy, often using the rooftops of churches to study the
heavens.

The church has promoted science in different ways. Thanks to Galileo we are
here, said the Rev. Jose Funes, director of the Vatican Observatory in Italy.
Thanks to the Catholic Church, Galileo exists because he was a Catholic, a good
Catholic.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

The pioneer of solar astronomy, Angelo Secchi, was an Italian priest who
observed the sun and planets from a telescope on a church roof, Consolmagno
said. The man who came up with the idea of the Big Bang theory, Georges
Lemaitre, was a Belgian priest. The then-pope, Pius XII, didn't squelch the Big
Bang theory, but wanted to adopt it as proof of God's handiwork.Lemaitre
persuaded him to dial it back. Science evolves, he said, and was not an
immutable underpinning for church doctrine, Numbers said.The Vatican even has a
science academy.

Our job in principle is to follow scientific developments closely and then
inform on particular occasions the Vatican about new development, said the
academy's president, Nobel Prize-winning microbiologist Werner Arber. He is a
Protestant and academy members include non-Catholics, like Ramanathan, and even
atheist Stephen Hawking.

For Consolmagno, astronomer and cleric, that's no big deal: If you believe in
truth, you are worshipping the same God as I am.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday

The outrageous AG attack on Exxon Mobil

SECTION: CLEARWATER GAZETTE; CGA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rick Lowry pickup


It's not easy to make one of the world's biggest fossil-fuel companies a
sympathetic victim, but a collection of state attorneys general, led by Eric
Schneiderman of New York, has managed it.

They have launched a campaign against Exxon Mobil that is a transparent - nay,
an explicit - attempt to punish dissent on climate change. The members of the
self-described Green 20 are demonstrating a banana-republic-worthy understanding
of the law and their responsibilities. They shouldn't be entrusted with the
power of a meter maid, let alone a top position in law enforcement.

Schneiderman subpoenaed Exxon Mobil last year, in what purports to be a fraud
investigation. The alleged offense is having less alarmist views on global
warming over the years than the green clerisy deems acceptable. How this would
constitute fraud is unclear.

Investors would have found Exxon Mobil alluring even if the company had
maintained that the planet was in danger of becoming uninhabitable, for no other
reason than oil is a miraculously efficient source of energy that we aren't
close to replacing. Consumers would have filled their cars with Exxon Mobil's
product regardless, and surely only felt defrauded if the gasoline didn't get
them to work or to their kids' soccer practice as advertised.

Usually, officials charged with law enforcement at least try to obscure their
political motivations. Not the attorneys general who stood with Schneiderman at
a saber-rattling press conference a few weeks ago. Dispensing with any pretense
of disinterestedness, they dubbed themselves AGs United for Clean Power. Al Gore
appeared at the presser, not as a legal expert, but as a totem of the green
left. Schneiderman said that President Barack Obama's climate agenda has been
frustrated, so he and his colleagues would work creatively and aggressively to
advance it.

That is certainly his right - if he resigns and becomes an official at the
Sierra Club or runs for Congress. Instead, he is using the powers of his office
to harass a company with opinions he finds uncongenial.

The attorney general of the Virgin Islands, of all places, has joined in, even
though Exxon Mobil has no assets or staff there. He has subpoenaed the company's
documents going back roughly 40 years under an anti-racketeering statute and,
for good measure, also has subpoenaed the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a
free-market think tank that once got donations from Exxon.

The conceit of this campaign is that if it weren't for the likes of Exxon Mobil,
the climate debate would be settled by now. This is a view that doesn't allow
for honest disagreement about a hideously complex subject that, even if you
accept the premises of the alarmists, isn't susceptible to a ready solution.

.The Green 20 needn't win a case against Exxon Mobil or any other fossil-fuel
company to achieve its ends. The mere example of Exxon Mobil being forced to
expend resources defending itself is a warning to everyone else. And if a
settlement can be extorted out of the company and used to fund the green left,
all the better.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 4, 2016 Monday

Cheap oil's downside

BYLINE: STEVE YETIV; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 600 words



HIGHLIGHT: cheap oil's downside


Oil prices have fallen dramatically to the mid-$30s on the New York Mercantile
Exchange from more than $105 per barrel in 2014. Such extraordinarily low prices
are affecting global stock markets, big oil exporters and consumers worldwide.

How can we explain this crash and where are oil prices headed?

The global economy is in the doldrums, and China, the world's biggest oil
importer, appears plagued by structural political and economic problems that it
may or may not overcome in the next few years. Energy agencies have therefore
lowered global oil demand forecasts.

These problems have rattled traders on markets such as the NYMEX. When traders
believe that oil prices will rise, they buy futures in hopes of selling them
later for a profit. Their actions increase the price of oil and, eventually, the
price of derivatives, such as gasoline and heating oil. That's not happening now
because traders are pessimistic.

What usually happens in such circumstances is that Saudi Arabia attacks the
supply side - it cuts production to boost prices. But the Saudis have decided
not to do so, probably because they believe that low oil prices have still not
done enough to undermine the North American energy boom and hurt their nemesis,
oil-rich Iran.

Meanwhile, U.S. shale oil producers haven't cut back as much as expected. In
fact, they are overflowing with oil and are building caverns in which to store
hundreds of millions of barrels for when demand returns. Traders see such
oversupply as a bearish sign for prices.

Adding to the mix, the U.S. Federal Reserve is likely to raise interest rates
repeatedly in the coming years, which should buoy an already strong U.S. dollar.
Since oil is traded in U.S. dollars, its strength translates into even lower oil
prices.

Finally, although the Middle East is a political mess, its oil supplies are
relatively secure. The Iran nuclear agreement has removed, for now, the most
likely chance of the type of war - an attack on Iran - that could really spook
markets.

Even the Islamic State is not a significant military threat to major oil fields.
Sure, the terrorist organization is stealing oil, but what it pumps from the
areas it controls is just a drop in the global bucket of oil, even though it
makes tens of millions doing it.

Can oil prices rebound?

China's economy won't bounce back overnight, nor will that of other countries.
The Saudis may decide to cut production in the coming months, but only if they
believe other OPEC countries will follow suit. As for the U.S. dollar, it's
pretty stable. As long as America is seen as a safer bet for foreign investments
than most other places, and the Fed follows through on raising interest rates,
the dollar will remain strong.

On the other hand, American frackers will probably (finally) cut back production
in the coming months. But that alone can only push prices up so much.

All this pressure on oil prices is just fine for the American and global
economy, if not for oil producers. But there is a downside to this story.

The negotiators who struck the recent climate change agreement in Paris want to
send a message to the markets; they want to convey that burning fossil fuels is
an increasingly costly habit. Unfortunately, low oil prices are sending the
exact opposite message.

The upshot is that low oil prices aren't something to celebrate. Over time, long
investment horizons tend to generate boom and bust cycles in oil production and
prices. But if prices remain low for too long, that will hurt efforts to address
climate change, especially in the U.S., where citizens largely oppose raising
oil taxes.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 29, 2016 Friday

A win for climate, free markets

BYLINE: Bloomberg View

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 437 words



HIGHLIGHT: Climate


In a victory for environmental and free-market principles, the Supreme Court has
just made it easier for the U.S. to cut carbon emissions. Its decision rests on
the proposition that the laws of supply and demand can be used to address
climate change.

Some background: Imagine you manage a power grid. On most days, you have access
to enough electricity to meet the demands of your customers. But during peak
hours (say, a hot August afternoon), your grid needs a way to cope with a sudden
jump in demand. You can't increase supply quickly, so instead you try to reduce
demand - by paying big consumers (say, a widget factory) to use less power. This
is a strategy called demand response.

From the perspective of a grid operator trying to avoid a brownout, a megawatt
of electricity not consumed is just as helpful as an extra megawatt produced.
For the environment, that unit of unused power is superior, because it doesn't
create any carbon dioxide or other emissions. And that's on top of the benefits
to ratepayers, who don't need to pay the cost of building a new plant.

To encourage that kind of trade, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which
regulates wholesale power markets, issued a rule in 2011 saying that
demand-response companies, which negotiate agreements with large electricity
consumers to cut their use when necessary, should be paid the same amount of
money per megawatt as traditional electricity generators. That rule is critical
to enticing consumers to take part.

Generating companies didn't appreciate the competition, and that's where the
Supreme Court comes in. The industry association sued, arguing that by
encouraging electricity consumers not to use power during times of peak power
demand, FERC was effectively regulating not just the wholesale market, but the
retail market too - which is in the hands of the states, not the federal
government.

On Monday, the Supreme Court disagreed. For starters, as the decision notes, any
regulation of the wholesale market is bound to affect the retail market.
Moreover, court precedent has long given federal agencies discretion in deciding
how to carry out their responsibilities when the letter of the law is unclear.

This ruling may hurt U.S. power generators, shares of which fell after it was
issued. But U.S. energy policy must take into account larger concerns. There are
plenty of obstacles - technological, economic and political - that prevent the
U.S. from reducing emissions as quickly as it should, or from modernizing its
energy market. The Supreme Court deserves credit for allowing the federal
government to make progress on both fronts.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

Obama, Trudeau emphasize camaraderie, cooperation;
They show like-minded beliefs on trade, fighting climate change

BYLINE: ROB GILLIES and KEVIN FREKING; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


- One is leaving office soon, the other just starting, but President Barack
Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau basked in mutual affection
Thursday over all the things they share, emphasizing common ground on trade and
combating climate change. Trudeau's official visit to the United States was the
first by a Canadian leader in nearly two decades.

He and Obama announced new efforts to curb global warming and to make it easier
for the two countries to trade with one another.

They also appeared to enjoy each other's company, with Obama playing the role of
elder statesman and Trudeau sounding a youthful hope and change theme like the
one Obama campaigned on seven years ago.

From my perspective, what's not to like? Obama said.

The 44-year-old Trudeau, son of the late Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, won last
October's election borrowing the theme of optimism and said he's learned a lot
from 54-year-old Obama.

He's somebody with a big heart, but also a big brain, Trudeau said. And for me
to be able to count on a friend who has lived through many of the things that
I'm about to encounter on the political stage, on the international stage, it's
a great comfort to me.

Beginning with an ornate arrival ceremony on the South Lawn, Obama and his wife,
Michelle, welcomed Trudeau, his wife, Sophie Gregoire-Trudeau, and their three
children.

The leaders found time for some levity before heading into an Oval Office
meeting, with a state dinner to come in the evening.

The president hit on a topic of national pride for Canadians: hockey. Where's
the Stanley Cup right now? Obama joked, before answering his own question - the
Chicago Blackhawks won it last season.

Trudeau tried to match Obama's trash talk, noting that three of the Blackhawks'
best players are from Canada.

Still, the young prime minister's remarks were largely earnest. He linked his
agenda to that of the Obama administration and said the two governments share
and are working on the exact same objectives.

The leaders also sought to show progress on common areas of concern.

Obama said they had instructed aides to work on efforts that would make it
easier for goods and people to move back and forth between the two nation's
borders. Canada is the United States' largest trading partner, with more than $2
billion worth of goods and services crossing the border every day. About 75
percent of Canada's exports go to the U.S.

And to start the day off, they announced efforts to reduce methane emissions
from gas and oil production. They committed to reducing methane emissions by 40
percent to 45 percent from 2012 levels over the coming decade.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                               May 1, 2016 Sunday

Intrigue at governor's mansion

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 538 words



HIGHLIGHT: Henderson column


The job of state insurance commissioner is important to every citizen in
Florida, but it usually isn't something people talk about around the dinner
table. Then again, normal rules don't apply when Rick Scott is the governor.

So here we go again.

Scott and state CFO Jeff Atwater managed to create political theatre over who
should succeed outgoing insurance chief Kevin McCarty. It took multiple tries,
but they finally agreed Friday to give deputy insurance commissioner David
Altmaier the top job.

Praise be!

But, um, why did it take so long?

The short answer: Everything gets complicated when Rick Scott is involved.This
goes back to when McCarty resigned in early January after 13 years on the job
and much tumult. He oversaw how insurance companies dealt with four hurricanes
in 2004, which sparked sharp spikes in rates. Citizens, the state-run insurer,
always seemed to be on the verge of collapse.

The state had to adapt to the seismic changes in the health insurance market, as
well. This was not a job for the faint of heart.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

McCarty hung in, though, probably due in no small measure to the state
requirement that both the governor and the CFO have to agree if they want him
fired.

That's where the intrigue came into play.

We remember how Scott's decision in late 2014 to kick respected FDLE chief
Gerald Bailey to the curb sparked a showdown with Agriculture Commissioner Adam
Putnam. The issue was whether the governor misled the Cabinet about Bailey's job
status.

Scott never gave a reason why Bailey had to leave, but it seems to be his style
that explanations aren't necessary.

McCarty has said Scott didn't force his resignation - multiple news reports
dispute that, but whatever. However, no amount of public spin could disguise the
tension between Scott and Atwater when it came to appointing a successor.The
governor twice tried to push through his choice, Jeff Bragg, but that went
nowhere because Atwater wouldn't second Scott's motion to nominate him. The same
thing happened with Atwater's first choice; Scott balked.

This speaks less about the competence of those who vied to replace McCarty and
more to a Cabinet that has had its fill of an imperial governor.

Scott often has functioned

as lone wolf during his six years in Tallahassee. He is on his fifth chief of
staff and second lieutenant governor. The words climate change or global warming
were eliminated from state environmental releases.

After an investigation into 16 Planned Parenthood facilities in the state
revealed no mishandling of fetal remains, Scott's office ordered that fact
scrubbed from a news release.

Is it any wonder that even his own Cabinet members find themselves forced to
stand a safe distance from Scott, lest their own future ambitions be tarnished
by too close an association with him (see Bondi, Pam)?

Scott never has grasped the whole governing concept.

It means you don't run the state's business like it's a giant company and you're
the CEO. Governing means trying to work with all sides. Scott's style of
governance seems to be random acts of head-scratching chaos.

I'd like to say that's surprising, but this man has been around long enough that
nothing he does should surprise us any more.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 4, 2016 Thursday

Legislators can learn from history - and former legislators

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 759 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paula Dockery


Many of my columns include blunt assessments of bills and budgets coming out of
Tallahassee. So it was with some trepidation that I decided to attend the 2016
Legislative Reunion. And I'm glad I did.

My former colleagues - currently serving in the Legislature - were warm and
welcoming despite my sometimes-tough rebukes of what is happening in our state's
capital.

Former representatives and senators came from all over the state. Many of them
served in the past two decades, but some who attended served in the 1960s, '70s
and '80s. What a treasure trove of legislative experience, institutional
knowledge, folklore, storytelling and big personalities.

It was fascinating to hear members who came before me tell stories of how things
were done back in the day. It was inspiring to hear how collegial legislators
were to each other even during heated battles. The camaraderie that they enjoyed
seems to be missing in today's political climate.

I wandered into some conversations where former legislators lamented the lack of
civility, respect and compromise - attributes that were once highly valued.
Former legislators, whose names I had heard and whose reputations were
respected, shook their heads in disappointment over the changes in the
legislative process and demeanor.

They confirmed something I learned long ago through my 16 years in the Florida
Legislature - many issues are recycled.  They keep resurfacing. We put something
in law, and years later another legislator changes it or undoes it completely.
Someone else comes along thinking that he has a novel idea when he's really just
repeating the cycle.

Of course, with term limits, the changes come more frequently. Legislators
aren't around to defend their legislation, and there's a lack of institutional
knowledge. Sometimes there's a blatant lack of respect for the research and hard
work put into the original legislative effort. It can take years and repeated
efforts to finally pass a bill with major policy changes.  Unfortunately, after
the bill's sponsor leaves the Legislature, it becomes fair game.

Interestingly, although many of the old-timers - me included - agreed things
were better in the old days, there were differing opinions on why.

Some blamed term limits. Others thought banning lobbyists from buying
legislators a drink, a cup of coffee or a lunch was meaningless window dressing.
Although it's easy to dismiss these as self-serving opinions, they do have a
point.

Legislators used to socialize more when group events were organized. We got to
know, respect and trust each other, which led to productive working
relationships.

The lack of camaraderie hinders efforts to work out complex or contentious
issues. It also lessens the likelihood that leadership races to select future
speakers of the House and Senate presidents will be civil. Nothing destroys
relationships within a party as much as divisive and prolonged leadership
battles.

And it's ridiculous to believe that a legislator's vote would be affected if a
lobbyist buys him a cup of coffee - which is forbidden under the lobbyist gift
ban, but that it wouldn't be influenced if the same lobbyist gave a $25,000
check to his political committee - which is legal.

Wouldn't it make more sense if it were the other way around?

Reasonable expenditures -say, under $25 - with proper public disclosure makes
more sense.

The obscene amount of money flowing into campaigns and political committees is a
relatively new phenomenon as well. Legislators used to raise money for their
political party - not their political committee - and in smaller amounts.

Abolishing political committees for legislators and prohibiting lobbyists from
giving to leadership races would be good steps to curb big money influence in
the political process. Many voters have rightfully come to view the current
system as pay to play.

It wasn't always that way.

When first elected to the Florida House in 1996, I was one of five Republican
freshmen needed to flip the House to Republican control with a 61-59 majority.
Term limits were about to take effect, and some of the party elders feared the
new members wouldn't be ready to lead when the experienced members were forced
out.

Several former legislators with leadership roles took the five of us under their
wings and shared their experiences with us so we could learn from their mistakes
and successes. I found that year of tutoring to be invaluable.

The legislative reunion reminded me that we have a tremendous resource to tap
into - the statesmen and policy experts that served before us.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 16, 2016 Saturday

Wal-Mart closing 259 stores in tumultuous retail climate [JUMP]Some of the
16,000 affected workers may transfer to other sites;
Some of the 16,000 affected workers may transfer to other sites

BYLINE: SAMANTHA MASUNAGA The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: METRO; Business; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 445 words



HIGHLIGHT: Walmart closing stores in the U.S. and other countries.


Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said Friday that it will close 269 of its stores globally,
including 154 in the U.S., as the company looks to reposition itself in a
difficult retail climate.

The closures include Wal-Mart and Sam's Club locations and will affect 16,000
employees globally, about 10,000 of whom are in the U.S.

Three of the closures will take place in Florida, but none in the Tampa Bay
area. Stores in Cross City, Trenton and Interlachen will close Jan. 28.

The Bentonville, Ark., company said more than 95 percent of the affected stores
in the U.S. are within 10 miles of another Wal-Mart, and it hopes employees can
transfer.

The company said it would provide 60 days of pay if employees are unable to be
transferred, and severance for those eligible.

The decision to close stores

is difficult and we care about the associates who will be impacted, Wal-Mart
Chief Executive Doug McMillon said in a statement. We invested considerable time
assessing our stores and clubs and don't take this lightly.

In the U.S., the company will shut all 102 Wal-Mart Express locations - a pilot
program started in 2011 to appeal to customers who wanted smaller-format stores.
Wal-Mart will also close 23 Neighborhood Markets, 12 Supercenters, seven stores
in Puerto Rico, six discount centers and four Sam's Clubs.

The retailer said it will focus more on e-commerce and expanding pick-up
services for customers. Wal-Mart also said it would open 50 to 60 new
Supercenters, 85 to 95 new Neighborhood Markets and seven to 10 new Sam's Clubs
across the U.S. in fiscal 2017.

Analysts said the store closures are a way for the retailer to capitalize on
food sales and expand its multi-channel strategy by allowing pick-up for online
and in-store purchases.

We believe Wal-Mart's announcement of store closings this morning is just a
'pruning' of its voluminous network, Charlie O'Shea, Moody's lead retail
analyst, said in a statement.

Worker advocates said they fear this could be the beginning of a slew of cuts.

This sends a chilling message to the company's hard-working employees that they
could be next, Jess Levin, communications director for Making Change at Walmart,
said in a statement.

Making Change at Walmart is a coalition anchored by the United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union that is pushing for better pay and
benefits at the retailer.

Wal-Mart is the latest chain to announce store closures after the retail
industry struggled through the holiday season.

Last week, Macy's said it was closing 40 of its department stores and cutting
4,800 jobs. Two days ago, Sears Holding Corp. said it was closing a number of
Kmart stores across the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

150K penguins in Antarctica killed after giant iceberg blocked access to food;
Commonwealth Bay had been ideal for Adelie colonies

BYLINE: LUIS ANDRES HENAO; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile


Scientists say an estimated 150,000 Adelie penguins have been wiped out on
Antarctica's Cape Denison in the five years since a giant iceberg blocked their
main access to food.

A study recently published in the journal Antarctic Science says the B09B
iceberg crashed with the Mertz Glacier Tongue and got stuck in Commonwealth Bay,
an area that was rarely covered by sea-ice, making it ideal for Adelie penguin
colonies.

The B09B, with an area of about 1,120 square miles, blocked access to the
penguins' natural feeding areas beginning in December 2010. The huge piece of
ice forced the birds to walk more than 37 miles in search of food, gradually
reducing the population to just a few thousand. We saw a lot of dead carcasses,
particularly the young, which was terrible to see. But the really important
thing is that the penguins are just not coming back to that area, said Chris
Fogwill, a co-author of the study.

The survey was conducted in 2013-14 by Fogwill and other scientists at the
Climate Change Research Center at the University of New South Wales in Australia
along with New Zealand's West Coast Penguin Trust.

Adelie penguins can be found throughout Antarctica. They are known for being
sociable and gathering in groups as well as for their appearance as the classic
tuxedoed penguin. Researchers say it is hard to know how long it will take the
Adelie penguins to recolonize the Commonwealth Bay area. The worst-case scenario
is that without their natural breeding cycle and lacking new members, the colony
could die out in about 20 years.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 19, 2016 Saturday

The public benefits of public transit

BYLINE: KENT BAILEY; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 540 words



HIGHLIGHT: benefits of transit


The Tampa Bay region pays a high price to remain the only major metropolitan
area in America without a viable public transportation system. We lose
opportunities for economic growth. Many suffer expensive health issues due to
auto exhaust. Our pedestrian and cyclist fatality rates are shameful. Traffic is
the largest single source of carbon emissions in the bay area, driving climate
change and sea level rise that threaten unimaginable damage.

Permissive development policies in Hillsborough County created sprawling,
cul-de-sac subdivisions that frustrate public transportation planning. We have
lost vast areas of agricultural land and severely impacted our natural
landscape. Taxpayers subsidize new development, depressing the value of their
own homes.

Sprawl increases the cost of all essential government services, not just
transportation. New development should pay its own way and be planned to provide
access to public transit.

Tampa will not attract the best and brightest entrepreneurs and professionals so
essential to a vibrant, thriving economy if we continue to ignore their desire
for walkable, bicycle friendly communities and a modern public transit system.
Multimillion-dollar giveaways are no substitute for creating an appealing
community when it comes to attracting new businesses.

The common complaint that public transit requires public funding ignores the
many hidden subsidies that silently promote a reliance on private motor
vehicles, beyond the obvious cost of building and repairing roads. The
production and delivery of motor fuels is heavily subsidized, both directly and
indirectly. Air pollution from auto exhaust adds to the health care costs of
asthma sufferers. Recent studies now link auto exhaust to autism.

Although the reported average cost of owning and driving a car exceeds $8,600
annually (which some cannot afford), this price would be even higher if it
included the unseen subsidies.

No bus is cheaper to own and operate over its lifetime than the new electric
buses. Even when recharged from coal-fired power plants, the total air pollution
is far less than any other type of bus. And zero-emission solar power for
recharging electric buses costs no more than fossil fuel electricity.

Allowing commuters the option of a safe, stress-free, productive commute in a
clean, comfortable, Wi-Fi-enabled bus is a fiscally responsible choice that
respects the environment.

Further, the rejection of a bullet train between Tampa and Orlando was a wasted
opportunity. The possibility of converting CSX tracks to a regional commuter
rail system should be fully explored before yet another opportunity for rail
transit also is lost.

Public transportation is good for the health of our people, good for the health
of our economy and good for the health of our environment. Funding for public
transit should be increased immediately. Our options are not limited to Go
Hillsborough; they include creating a trust account from new tax revenues,
adopting a 5-cent gas tax and increasing development fees.

Although Go Hillsborough requires a referendum, other funding options require
only vision, courage and leadership from our public officials. The citizens of
Hillsborough County should settle for nothing less.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 28, 2016 Monday

Highway deaths will skyrocket as 54.5 mpg standard takes effect

BYLINE: WILLIAM F. SHUGHART II; Tribune News Service

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 570 words



HIGHLIGHT: EPA one


The Environmental Protection Agency in June will begin its multistep midterm
review of the fuel economy standards it wants cars and light trucks to meet by
the 2025 model year.

Put in place in August 2012, the EPA standards would require new American-made
cars and light trucks to average 54.5 miles per gallon less than 10 years from
now. The standard today (for model year 2016) is 34.5 mpg.

Enacted in 1975 following the Arab oil embargo, the corporate average fuel
economy, or CAFE, standards were first sold to voters as a way of reducing
American dependence on imported oil.

Today the standards are sold as an uncontroversial means of reducing fossil fuel
consumption to save the planet from climate change Armageddon.

But it's important to recognize that fuel economy standards are mostly the stuff
of fiction.

Because the standards are based on averages, few motorists will be driving
54.5-mpg vehicles anytime soon. Automakers can still produce gas-guzzling SUVs
as long as they also produce gas-sippers.

Further, the fuel efficiency ratings posted on the side windows of new vehicles
are determined by running the engines of various vehicles with ethanol-free
gasoline in an indoor factory laboratory.

Consequently, mileage ratings gathered on the highway by vehicles burning
blended fuels predictably fall short of EPA marks - much as then-Sen. Hillary
Clinton missed the mark when she claimed in a May 2008 speech at the North
Carolina Democratic Party's 2008 Jefferson-Jackson Dinner in Raleigh, North
Carolina, that automobiles getting between 100 and 150 miles per gallon would be
in our garages in a couple of years.

What EPA bureaucrats appear not to understand - or refuse to acknowledge - is
that improved fuel efficiency also can generate rebound effects.

Because the cost per mile of driving a 54.5 mpg car is lower than that of a
34.5-mpg car, consumers rationally may respond to tougher standards by driving
more miles, offsetting the standard's intended effect.

The main problem with the mandated fuel economy standards is that the least
expensive way for automakers to comply is by making vehicles lighter.

Replacing steel with aluminum and fiberglass is cheaper than re-engineering
already highly fuel-efficient engines. In fact, that may be the only way to meet
the latest rules, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration.

Lighter cars and trucks are less crash-worthy than heavier ones. Stricter
mileage standards therefore will lead to more injuries and deaths on the
nation's highways.

So while Washington politicians and EPA bureaucrats focus on being green, they
ignore the death and destruction their mandates trigger.

Another way to meet tougher mileage rules, of course, is to produce more hybrid
or plug-in cars and trucks. That strategy may have made sense to automakers when
the retail price of gasoline was $4 per gallon, but not when a gallon of gas
costs less than $2 in many places.

It is no surprise that President Barack Obama wants to curry more favor with
environmentalists before leaving the White House, but the administration's
micromanagement of the auto industry will, as usual, fall on the backs of
American consumers.

Designed in D.C. for a world fearing that crude oil would soon run out, the CAFE
standards mean that cars and light trucks will carry much bigger price tags and
offer their occupants less protection in crashes than the gas guzzlers of a
bygone era.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

'The future we want is within our reach' [JUMP]President says change is possible
'if we fix our politics'

BYLINE: JULIE PACE The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words


WASHINGTON - Eyeing the end of his presidency, Barack Obama urged Americans on
Tuesday night to rekindle their belief in the promise of change that first
carried him to the White House, declaring that the country must not allow
election-year fear and division to take hold.

The future we want, he insisted, is within our reach. But opportunity and
security for American families will only happen if we work together, ... if we
fix our politics, he added.

The nation's goals must include a rising standard of living and a sustainable,
peaceful planet for our kids, he said in his final State of the Union address.

At the heart of Obama's address to lawmakers and a prime-time television
audience was an implicit call to keep Democrats in the White House for a third
straight term. Sharply, and at times sarcastically, he struck back at rivals who
have challenged his economic and national security stewardship, calling it all
political hot air.

In a swipe at some Republican presidential candidates, he warned against voices
urging us to fall back into tribes, to scapegoat fellow citizens who don't look
like us or pray

like us or vote like we do or share the same background.

His words were unexpectedly echoed by South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who was
selected to give the Republican response to Obama's address. Underscoring how
the heated campaign rhetoric about immigrants and minorities from GOP
front-runner Donald Trump in particular has unnerved some Republican leaders,
Haley called on Americans to resist the temptation to follow the siren call of
the angriest voices.

No one who is willing to work hard, abide by our laws and love our traditions
should ever feel unwelcome, Haley said.Seeking to shape his own legacy, Obama
ticked through a retrospective of his domestic and foreign policy actions in
office, including helping lead the economy back from the brink of depression,
taking aggressive action on climate change and ending a Cold War freeze with
Cuba.

He vowed a robust campaign to take out the Islamic State group but chastised
Republicans for over the top claims about the extremist group's power.

As we focus on destroying ISIL, over-the-top claims that this is World War III
just play into their hands. Masses of fighters on the back of pickup trucks and
twisted souls plotting in apartments or garages pose an enormous danger to
civilians and must be stopped. But they do not threaten our national existence,
Obama said, using an alternate reference to Islamic State.

The message, like many in the speech, seemed aimed at the Republicans who are
seeking to replace him in the White House, many of whom have offered only bleak
views of the nation's future and the country's vulnerability to terrorists.

We don't need to build them up to show that we're serious, nor do we need to
push away vital allies in this fight by echoing the lie that ISIL is
representative of one of the world's largest religions, Obama said.

The president's words were unlikely to satisfy Republicans, as well as some
Democrats, who say he underestimates the Islamic State's power and is leaving
the U.S. vulnerable to attacks at home.

Obama was frank about one of his biggest regrets: failing to ease the
persistently deep divisions between Democrats and Republicans.

The rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better,
he conceded. There's no doubt a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt
might have better bridged the divide, and I guarantee I'll keep trying to be
better so long as I hold this office.

Mindful of the scant prospect for major legislative action in an election year,
Obama avoided the traditional litany of policy proposals. He did reiterate his
call for working with Republicans on criminal justice reform and finalizing an
Asia-Pacific trade pact, and he also vowed to keep pushing for action on
politically fraught issues such as curbing gun violence and fixing the nation's
fractured immigration laws.

Yet Obama was eager to look beyond his own presidency, casting the actions he's
taken as a springboard for future economic progress and national security. His
optimism was meant to draw a contrast with what the White House sees as
doom-and-gloom scenarios peddled by the GOP.

The United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth. Period, he
declared. It's not even close.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

Tampa and other cities need Clinton's plan, experience, backbone

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 678 words



HIGHLIGHT: Buckhorn on infrastructure


In cities across America, we mayors lie awake at night worrying about one thing
more than any other: our deteriorating infrastructure. It's a problem we face
daily, and yet one we're often powerless to solve on our own.

Like many other coastal cities, Tampa has a history of experiencing damaging
floods. On average, we see eight water pipelines break every day. And in a state
containing four of the nation's biggest traffic bottlenecks, it's no surprise
that Tampa drivers with a 30-minute commute spend an average of 73 hours of
their lives sitting in gridlock every year.

That lost time adds up to more than just frustration - it leads to financial
consequences for families and businesses. These days, economic mobility is
increasingly tied to actual mobility - so more time sitting in traffic means
less time spent earning a living or caring for a child.

As mayor, I've made it my mission to do whatever we can on our own to improve
these issues, being transparent about our efforts and measuring our progress
along the way.

But the simple truth is that cities like Tampa will always need to rely on
federal funding to make large-scale improvements to our crumbling roadways and
mass transit systems, many of which haven't been addressed in generations.

Of course, one reason why is that Republicans in Congress have continually
blocked these essential investments.

Over the years, Floridians have seen their priorities all too clearly. We
watched in stunned disbelief as Gov. Rick Scott sent more than $2 billion in
infrastructure funding back to Washington just to make an ideological point.
This funding could have created good-paying jobs and spurred economic growth all
across the state.

The reality of a Republican president would mean a federal government that
follows that same playbook. In fact, leading GOP presidential candidates like
Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz have already stated they support slashing federal
infrastructure funding by as much as 80 percent.

That means Tampa will have a lot at stake when a new president walks into the
Oval Office next year. Our city will need a leader who appreciates the critical
role that infrastructure will play in determining our economic destiny.

Once I read her plan, I decided that Hillary Clinton is the only candidate who
has what it takes to stand up to the Republicans and put our future on firmer
footing.

Hillary has laid out a five-year, $275 billion plan to save families time and
money by putting more Americans to work revitalizing our roads, railways, ports
and waterways. It would connect all American families to high-speed Internet and
expand investment in the new high-tech sectors and smart grids that will power a
21st-century economy.

I'm especially pleased that part of Hillary's plan will include a national
freight investment program.

Every day, over 10,000 trucks carry thousands of tons of freight in and out of
Port Tampa Bay, a facility that supports 80,000 jobs and $15 billion in annual
economic activity. That growth and productivity depends on continuing federally
funded projects like the I-4 Selmon Expressway Connector, which alleviates the
congestion that used to snarl commercial traffic.

These types of long-term investments are exactly the type of projects that
Hillary's plan supports.

And, finally, Hillary's infrastructure plan also will help improve our
communities' climate resilience - something Floridians have come to understand
all too well.

Even without a major hurricane hitting Florida in the past decade, we've seen
streets that flood at high tide on sunny days and drinking wells inundated with
saltwater.

The Republican approach to climate change may be to ignore the scientific
community, but citizens of Tampa simply don't have that luxury. When the water's
already at our feet, the writing's on the wall.

To build the Tampa we all deserve, we simply can't afford to leave any more
money on the sidelines. We need all the help we can get.

And I believe that Hillary Clinton has the plan, the experience, and the
backbone to stand up for great American cities like ours.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 24, 2016 Sunday

BRINGING ITSouth Florida real estate booms again as region looks more attractive
to Latin American investors

BYLINE: JOSH BOAK [#x2028]AND JENNIFER KAY The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words



HIGHLIGHT: Miami seeing more investments from Latin America.


MIAMI - Facing a teetering economy at home, wealthy Brazilians have been pouring
money into what they increasingly see as the safest place to invest: South
Florida real estate.

So are Argentinians, Colombians, Mexicans, Venezuelans, French and Turks -
almost anyone with money to shelter, a direct flight to Miami and a shaky
economy to flee.

Their cash has helped drive the latest twist in Miami's ever-evolving
transformation - from a 19th-century rail stop to a tourist-and-retiree hub to a
haven for Cuban refugees to now a harbor for global investors. No American
skyline has undergone a more drastic face-lift from foreign cash in the past
decade: Luxury condo towers and swanky retailers crowd a downtown once marred by
empty lots.

And almost no developer expects the demand to stop.

Yet Miamians as a whole have scarcely benefited from the glitz. Wages have
actually dropped for Miami workers in the past year. Area unemployment tops the
national average. Miami has the largest share of renters in the country who
devote over 30 percent of their pay to housing - the level the government deems
burdensome.

We're not seeing the benefits of that income being disposed of in the local
economy, said Ned Murray, associate director of Florida International
University's Metropolitan Center. That impacts local businesses, and we're
losing opportunities to create year-round housing for our workers. They're
moving out.

But with its glamorous locale and easy access, Miami real estate offers an asset
that's appreciating at a time when other investments have shrunk or turned
frighteningly volatile. That's despite being on a stretch of land prone to
natural disasters.

All of the insecurity around the rest of the world only reminds people how
important it is to have assets in the United States, said Alicia Cervera
Lamadrid, a developer who is leading sales efforts for the planned 57-story
Elysee, with condo units starting at $1.65 million and personal wine storage
available for residents.

No fewer than 126 residential towers are planned in South Florida. One sign of
the scale of wealth from abroad is that the majority of foreign purchases are
being paid for with cash, not debt.

Last year, foreigners spent $6.1 billion on Miami-area real estate - 36 percent
of all such investment, according to the Miami Association of Realtors.
Nationally, foreigners account for just 8 percent of sales.

The influx has been sudden enough that the federal government has announced
plans to monitor home purchases exceeding $3 million in Miami and New York City.
Starting in March, the government will temporarily require title companies to
identify buyers of property. Authorities have grown concerned that money
launderers may be using anonymous holding companies to stash money in high-end
real estate.

The average luxury condo price in Miami Beach has surged 35 percent from a year
ago to $3.7 million, according to the real estate brokerage Douglas Elliman.

Downtown Miami is similarly beginning to shift, but the question is, to whose
benefit? said Arden Shank, executive director of Neighborhood Housing Services
of South Florida. It doesn't benefit the people who have been there for a long
time.

The metro area's unemployment rate is 5.5 percent, compared with 5 percent
nationally. Average hourly earnings have dipped 0.4 percent to $22.57 from a
year ago. By contrast, the national average wage has risen more than 2 percent
during that time. Census Bureau data show that high rent prices burden 66
percent of Miami tenants, compared with 52 percent nationwide.

Regardless of wealth, everyone in South Florida faces the potentially dire
consequences of climate change. Experts warn that as the seas rise further,
flooding may become permanent, turning streets into canals, endangering access
to drinking water and eroding the man-made beaches that have long drawn people
to Miami.

There is a disconnect - there's a real estate bubble, and then there's where we
see sea level rise going, said Henry Briceno, who studies the effects of rising
sea levels through the Southeast Environmental Research Center at Florida
International University. That's what really worries me: The rush to make money
right away without thinking of the future and who is going to pay.

Yet to many wealthy international buyers, the opportunities appear to outweigh
those risks.

Because so many of her clients now own Miami property, Sao Paulo-based interior
designer Brunete Fraccaroli recently bought a condo at One Paraiso, a 53-story
tower with a beach club slated to be finished next year. She expects her Florida
clientele to grow as Brazil's plight intensifies.

Analysts say the South American country may be headed for its longest downturn
in more than a century. Operating losses and labor strikes have battered the
state oil company, Petrobras. Government spending cuts have failed to curb the
deficit. Political corruption has left the country in chaos. Its currency, the
real, lost nearly 50 percent of its value against the dollar last year.

We think that the Brazilian real (currency) is going to drop more and more -
it's going to be worse, said Fraccaroli, who also stars in her country's reality
TV show Rich Women.

For some transplants from South America, there's also a welcome lifestyle
change. They can flash their wealth in Miami instead of hiding it for fear of
criminals, expatriates say. Women can wear their diamonds instead of burying
them in their purses. Bulletproof cars are no longer necessary.

Gentrification, which helped tame Miami's gritty arts and design districts, has
been followed by luxury shops including Hermes, Cartier and Christian Louboutin.
The storefronts have brought a glossy finish and valet parking to once-empty
showrooms - and forced some independent art fairs and pop-up events to relocate
during this year's annual Art Basel Miami Beach revelries.

We're more of a luxury destination than we used to be. said William Talbert,
president and CEO of the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau. Why
they're being built is because of the international customers - this is what
they want.

The good times have sparked questions about how long money from abroad can
support the area real estate and its economy. In a survey of 42 real estate
experts, 69 percent identified Miami as facing risks of a bubble within five
years, according to the real estate data firm Zillow.

Developers downplay the risk, noting that cash, rather than debt, is driving
most of the purchases. And Miami has one advantage that should help it continue
to draw wealthy buyers: No state income taxes. It helps give Miami an
affordability edge over California and New York City, where international buyers
also cluster.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 2, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 324 words


Feb. 2, 1914: Charles Chaplin made his movie debut as the comedy short Making a
Living was released by Keystone Film Co.1653: New Amsterdam - now New York City
- was incorporated.1887: Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, held its first Groundhog
Day festival.1925: The legendary Alaska Serum Run ended as the last of a series
of dog mushers brought a life-saving treatment to Nome, the scene of a
diphtheria epidemic, six days after the drug left Nenana.1943: The remainder of
Nazi forces from the Battle of Stalingrad surrendered in a major victory for the
Soviets in World War II.1964: Ranger 6, a lunar probe launched by NASA, crashed
onto the surface of the moon as planned, but failed to send back any TV images.

1971: Idi Amin, having seized power in Uganda, proclaimed himself
president.1980: NBC News reported the FBI had conducted a sting operation
targeting members of Congress using phony Arab businessmen in what became known
as Abscam, a code name protested by Arab-Americans.2007: Tornadoes killed 21
people in Central Florida. A grim report from the world's leading climate
scientists and government officials said that global warming was so severe, it
would continue for centuries and that humans were to blame.2014: Academy
Award-winning actor Philip Seymour Hoffman, 46, was found dead in his New York
apartment from a combination of heroin, cocaine and other drugs.

Ten years ago: Tornadoes tore through New Orleans neighborhoods that had been
hit hard by Hurricane Katrina five months earlier.Five years ago: Supporters of
President Hosni Mubarak charged into Cairo's central square on horses and camels
brandishing whips while others rained firebombs from rooftops in what appeared
to be an orchestrated assault against protesters trying to topple Egypt's leader
of 30 years.One year ago: Parts of New England were buried in heavy snow for the
second time in a week, with up to 18 inches falling in the Boston area.

The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday

Marco Rubio: 'Eyes wide shut'

SECTION: CLEARWATER GAZETTE; CGA; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 465 words



HIGHLIGHT: Marty Moore pickup


Marco Rubio stumbled into the crux of the difference between Democrats and
Republicans when he embarrassingly laid into President Obama for knowing exactly
what he's doing - three times inside of six minutes and a fourth time shortly
thereafter during the Republican New Hampshire debate.

Rubio was trying to dispel the meme that Obama doesn't know what he's doing. His
opponents pounced, calling his constant repetition robotic and Rubio too tightly
scripted.

I'll leave that for the Dark Side to sort out. The real message came when Rubio
defending his talking point said: Barack Obama knows exactly what he's doing.
He's trying to change America. He wants to make us more like the rest of the
world. And I want to be the United States.

So, even when America pays two-to-three times as much for health care as other
developed nations and the World Health Organization ranks it 37th in outcomes
Rubio doesn't think it's a good idea to take a look-see?

How about student performance reported by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development that ranks American 15-year-olds 30th in math, 23rd
in science and 20th in reading literacy?

Look at the world's best infrastructures, including roads, bridges, rail, ports,
power grid, telecommunications and water supply  essential to high productivity
and good quality of life. According to the World Economic Forum the U.S. doesn't
make the top ten, ranking number 11, which may account for Forbes magazine
placing it 18th in best business climate in the world despite the leading
countries having similar corporate tax rates and greater regulatory oversight
and quality of life protections. Don't want to go there either Marco?

Here's a good one. What of the fact that America's coefficient on the CIA World
Factbook's Gini Index, which measures economic inequality, ranks 45 out of 100
placing the U.S. 100th with only 41 countries out of the141 measured having
greater economic inequality. Most of the industrial democracies rank in the 20s
and low 30s.

In another study, the U.S. has the lowest social mobility of ten countries,
mobility being a mainstay of the American myth. Finally on the Life Satisfaction
Index, the U.S. ties at 17.

Marco, anything?

It's one thing to love the United States, but to shut your eyes to its
shortcomings, to ignore that other countries are doing a much better job in a
variety of areas, is not love, it's delusion. That the richest nation in history
can't find the resources to achieve what the rest of the developed world has
accomplished in the fields of health care, education, infrastructure, fair
income distribution and social mobility is unacceptable.

Shouldn't wanting to place at least in the top three instead of bringing up the
rear be something to which all Americans should all aspire?

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           January 23, 2016 Saturday

MacDill officials remind visitors of rules;
The base posted restrictions for AirFest on its Facebook page

BYLINE: HOWARD ALTMAN; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; NationWorld; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: List of stuff not to bring


Planning to head to the Tampa Bay AirFest in March at MacDill Air Force Base?
Leave your guns and drones at home.

With MacDill set to open its gates March 19 and 20 for the air show, officials
are reminding visitors of what not to bring on base, which is home to the
commands running the wars in the Middle East.

The base posted the information on its Facebook page.Firearms are not permitted,
and concealed weapons permits are not recognized on the base.Visitors are also
advised not to bring replica or toy weapons, stun guns or any other electrical
discharge devices, knives, box cutters or any cutting device, including Swiss
army knives, laser pointers, sharp objects, batons, pepper spray, mace or any
chemical dispensing devices.

The base also prohibits fireworks, drones and any other radio-controlled device.

Because so many people received drones as gifts over the holiday season, base
officials want to get the word out that just because it is an airshow does not
mean your Christmas or Hanukkah drone is welcome.

Also prohibited: alcohol, drugs, controlled substances and drug paraphernalia.

No coolers are allowed, except for small hand-held containers with baby food or
medications, which will be subject to inspection. No food or glass containers
are allowed.

Bottled water is OK, which may come in handy because it is usually very warm.

Don't even think about barbecuing - leave grills and other cooking devices at
home.

No skateboards, in-line skates, bicycles, scooters or hoverboards, either.

Banners, signs on any poles, and clothing with objectionable language or images
- profane, racist, anti-military, anti-government or obscene - are strictly
verboten.

No pets, either, except for service dogs.

For anyone thinking about leaving a pet in a car, base officials have a strong
warning: Don't.

We will break your window and save the animal, said Terry Montrose, a spokesman
for the 6th Air Mobility Wing, the base host unit.

Montrose also said the base has not yet instituted a ban on driver's licenses
from Minnesota, Illinois, Missouri, New Mexico and Washington as proof of
identity. The ban was required as part of the U.S. REAL ID Act, which calls for
improved identification cards from states.

While other military branches have instituted the change, the Air Force is still
reviewing it and has yet to order installations like MacDill to take part.

This year's AirFest, which coincides with the base's 75th anniversary, will
feature the Air Force Thunderbirds aerial performing team.

There will also be aerial performances by both military and civilian aviators
and static aircraft will be displayed, including many of the Defense
Department's cargo, fighter and special purpose aircraft.

While the prohibitions may seem like common sense, a Tampa Tribune review of
folks arrested at MacDill's gates shows just how many people don't seem to have
it.

Each day, about 15,000 people pass through MacDill's four gates into the home of
U.S. Central Command, which runs military operations in the Middle East, and
U.S. Special Operations Command, synchronizing the global war on terror, as well
as dozens of other mission partners.

But not everybody who shows up at the gates belongs there.

Some have been so drunk that they crashed into barriers, including one motorist
who caused $60,000 in damage. Some have mental issues, including one man
detained under the state's Baker Act for threatening to kill President Barack
Obama and the base guards unless he was allowed to get to his private plane so
he could visit Al Capone.

And a number of people, despite all the signs, pull up with money in hand in the
mistaken belief they have approached a toll booth.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 20, 2016 Saturday

Titans of pro wrestling plant roots in Bay area;
Deck Deck

BYLINE: PAUL GUZZO Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Metro; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1476 words



HIGHLIGHT: it has become an annuak tradition to have a Tampa resident appear in
the main event of WWE's biggest card of the year - Wrestlemania.


TAMPA - Certain American cities gain a special identity as centers of
entertainment.

The Tampa area can lay claim to this status, a local real estate agent says, and
a look at the numbers backs him up.

Nashville has country music stars, Hollywood has actors - we have wrestlers. We
have the best wrestlers, said Vincent Arcuri, who has sold homes to more than 20
of them.

Tampa's place as a professional wrestling hotbed takes center stage each year as
World Wrestling Entertainment moves toward its world heavyweight championship
match during WrestleMania, scheduled this year for April 3 in Arlington, Texas.

Roman Reigns will be the next Tampa area representative to compete for

a chance at the championship when he takes part in an event titled Fastlane on
Tuesday in Memphis. Reigns will face Brock Lesner and Dean Ambrose in a
three-way match, with the winner taking on WWE World Heavyweight Champion Triple
H at WrestleMania 32.

Leati Anoai of Brandon, who portrays Reigns, has the odds in his favor.

In at least 22 of the 31 previous WrestleMania events, a performer from the
Tampa area has been involved in the match as either defending champion or
challenger.

What's more, the WWE had two different world heavyweight championships defended
at WrestleMania from 2003 to 2013 for a total of 41 such matches - and a Tampa
area wrestler was involved in at least 29 of them.

Win or lose, just competing for the world heavyweight title at WrestleMania
makes a competitor the face of the company, someone whose talent can draw fans.

The wrestlers all seem to migrate here, don't they? said Arcuri, the real estate
agent.

Arcuri has sold homes to these customers who were locals at the time they were
in the running for a world heavyweight title at WrestleMania: The Undertaker,
real name Mark Calaway, who competed for the title in 1997; Big Show, real name
Paul Wight Jr., 2000 and 2009; Chris Jericho, real name Chris Irvine, 2002, 2010
and 2012; Edge, real name Adam Copeland, 2008 to 2011; and Batista, real name
Dave Bautista, in 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2014.

Calaway and Copeland have since moved away from the area.

Other wrestlers who had local ties when they competed in the marquee match are
Hulk Hogan, real name Terry Bollea, 1986, 1987, 1989, 1990 and 1991; Randy
Savage, the late Randy Poffo, 1988, 1989 and 1992; John Cena, 2005 to 2011 and
2013; the late Eddie Guerrero, 2004; Sheamus, real name Stephen Farrelly, 2012;
Jack Swagger, real name Donald Hager Jr., 2013; and Reigns, real name Leati
Anoai, 2015.

The surviving wrestlers continue to live here.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756][#x2756]

On three occasions, one Tampa area man competed against another for a world
heavyweight championship - Hogan vs. Savage at WrestleMania V in 1989, as well
as Batista vs. Cena and Jericho vs. Edge at WrestleMania XXVI in 2010, a
two-title year.

And when WrestleMania XXV in 2009 featured a three-man world heavyweight title
match, each competitor was from here - Edge, Cena and Big Show.

In all, a local competitor has walked out of a WrestleMania heavyweight title
match victorious 18 times.

The only WrestleMania card not to feature a world heavyweight title contest was
the inaugural event in 1985, but Hogan was the champion at the time and competed
in a tag-team match.

I figured the total would be high since Hogan and Cena live there, but I wasn't
aware it would be that high, said wrestling historian Jason Powell, editor of
prowrestl[#x2028]ing.net, when informed of the Tampa numbers. But a lot of the
top guys do seem to have lived there at some point so it makes sense.

Barry Rose, an archivist of Florida professional wrestling history, said the
Tampa area was a popular place among wrestlers prior to the first WrestleMania.

In the era before the WWE dominated the global landscape of the industry,
individual states and cities hosted their own territorial promotions.

From the mid-1900s through early-1980s, Tampa-based Championship Wrestling from
Florida was one of the most popular, Rose said.

Legendary characters like Dusty Rhodes, Boris Malenko, Eddie Graham and Buddy
Colt sold out local arenas then returned to nearby homes as their real-life
alter egos - Virgil Runnels Jr., Lawrence Simon, Edward Gossett and Ronald Reed.
The same was true for brothers Jack and Gerald Brisco, who performed under their
real names.

These wrestlers and others remained in the area following retirement.

The best wrestlers in the world wanted to work in Florida for the obvious reason
- sunshine, Rose said. If they went to work for other promotions in other parts
of the country, they usually returned to Florida at some point to wrestle again.
When their careers were done, it was where they wanted to live permanently
because they loved it.

These stars indirectly paved the way for the Tampa area's dominance of
WrestleMania world heavyweight title bouts.

The first local wrestler to compete in that match was Hogan, who grew up in
Tampa and was inspired to get into the industry by watching Championship
Wrestling from Florida.

Next was Savage, whose father, Angelo Poffo, decided to retire to Indian Rocks
in 1985, largely because of the great experiences he had there working for
Championship Wrestling from Florida.

We came here for vacation as kids, said Lanny Poffo, brother of Randy, a current
resident of Indian Rocks and a former wrestler. I remember my dad saying he
would want to live here someday. When he did, my brother came a year later to be
close to them.

[#x2756] [#x2756] [#x2756]

Two years later, in 1988, Randy Poffo was walking toward the WrestleMania ring
as Randy Savage while his Pomp and Circumstance theme music played.

The third local man to enjoy that honor at WrestleMania was The Undertaker, Mark
Calaway, who was then followed by a number of WWE superstars.Calaway now lives
in Texas, but real estate agent Arcuri said the wrestler lived in Pinellas and
Polk counties from the early 1990s through early 2000s.Arcuri said he believes
Calaway chose this area because of all the wrestlers already residing here.

The whole aura of a wrestler's existence is wrestling, Arcuri said. They don't
have many friends outside of wrestling and seem to migrate together.

Arcuri, who sold Calaway a home in 1999, experienced this pack mentality
firsthand.

The agent was invited to the grappler's St. Petersburg wedding in 2000, and most
of the guests were other wrestlers who lived here or wanted to.

Connections he made through Calaway enabled Arucuri to land the other wrestlers
as customers.

I don't know if these guys wanted to come here because Undertaker and Hogan
lived here, he said. But they are two of the biggest names ever in wrestling and
I think it helped that they vouched for living here or talked about how great it
was to live here.

In 2007, WWE began bringing future stars to Tampa when it opened a training
center on Dale Mabry Highway in South Tampa through a development promotion,
Florida Championship Wrestling.

Same old story, said Frank Reyes, a longtime professional wrestling referee who
was born here and lived here all his life. They came to our great city and never
wanted to leave. Can you blame them?

Among WrestleMania title match participants who trained and remained here are
Sheamus, Jack Swagger and Roman Reigns.

The Tampa area seems poised to continue the WrestleMania dominance for a few
more years.

On its website, WWE lists over 90 characters - male and female wrestlers and
managers plus announcers and on-screen executives.

Of those, more than 20 live in the Tampa area, including those who have already
competed in the coveted WrestleMania contest - Jericho, Big Show, Cena, Sheamus,
Swagger and Reigns.

Others wrestlers living locally on that roster of 90 are Wade Barrett, real name
Stu Bennett; Kofi Kingston, Kofi Nahaje Sarkodie-Mensah; Big E, Ettore Ewen; and
Titus O'Neil, Thaddeus Bullard Sr.

Tampa native Ewen said the reasons his co-workers remain in the area are the
absence of a state income tax, the warm weather and Tampa International Airport.

Bullard Sr., a Tampa transplant who grew up in Boynton Beach and Live Oak,
agreed with that assessment, especially the quality of the airport.

When you travel as much as we do, that means a lot, Bullard said. We want an
airport that is easy and comfortable and Tampa's is one of the best in the
world.

In July 2013, the WWE opened a new training location, the Performance Center, in
Orlando, and since then, some who honed their skills there choose to live in
that city, said Powell of prowrestl[#x2028]ing.net.

Still, Powell said, the Tampa area may remain a popular destination for WWE
stars for years to come, keeping this community's unique connection to
WrestleMania alive for some time.

It seems to be a tradition for wrestlers to move to the Tampa area, he said. Why
change now?

[#x2028]pguzzo@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7606

@PGuzzoTBO

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday

Ohio's capital offers big city bonuses without the squeeze on your wallet and
personal space

BYLINE: ROBIN SOSLOW Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE AND TRAVEL; Baylife; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words



HIGHLIGHT: Columbus in the spring


When greenery and energy spring forth in northern cities, don't you wish you
could enjoy their big-time culture without the crowds, traffic, attitude and
prices?

You can - in Columbus, Ohio, which is an easy nonstop flight from Tampa.

The capital's downtown has been luring urbane travelers away from hotshot hot
spots with sensational food, drink, arts - and now a stunning riverfront
rejuvenation. Its neighborhoods are colorful, super-friendly and easy to explore
on foot, bike-share bikes and free buses. And thrill-wise, it's a powerhouse:
Per capita, it has twice as many cultural and recreational venues as New York
City.

Fresh tastes, sights and sensations

They're celebrating spring early this year in Columbus with a bloom of new
attractions. A huge green-space project restored the Scioto River to its natural
course and added 33 acres of new parkland along its banks. Now you can kayak,
paddleboard, bike, enjoy free concerts and stroll around the waterfront, which

sparkles by day and glows with New York-style illumination at night.

The Columbus Museum of Art recently opened a new 50,000-square-foot
copper-paneled wing that is being praised by architecture critics worldwide.
Weekly events that cost a fraction of the price of global-city counterparts (if
you even could get tickets) include pairings of artworks with performances by
Columbus Symphony Orchestra musicians, demos by masters like glass magician
Alexandra Fresch and yoga and meditation drop-ins. Exhibits feature luminaries,
visionaries and emerging talents like Graphic Novelist Residency awardee Eleanor
Davis.

North Market, one of America's historic food halls, has added tempting new
stalls to its recently renovated quarters. Gallerie Bar & Bistro, tucked in the
sunlit atrium of the Hilton Columbus Downtown, debuted a new breakfast buffet
that combines favorites with gourmet creations such as Brussels sprouts with
brown sugar hash and warm kale and couscous salad.

New stops on Columbus' simmering coffee trail include Fox in the Snow, doling
pastries from a former garage, and the Roosevelt Coffeehouse, which donates some
profits to social justice groups. Furnishings in Roosevelt's double-decker space
are made of reclaimed bowling alley wood. Besides coffee, it offers artisan
pop-up Sundays and decadent local-crafted Destination Donuts.

Speaking of treats, Lyric Donuts opened this year next to Impero Coffee,
creating treats inspired by vintage music (Ozzy's Bat Head, Velvet Underground).
Mid-spring, regional Belgian ale award-winner Rockmill Brewery will debut its
downtown tasting room. Says brewer Matthew Barbee, After winter hibernation,
Columbus turns green and beautiful.

A mini-New York City

I hit the jackpot, says Greer Pagano. After globetrotting in search of an
inspiring place to live, she took a curator job here at the Pizzuti Collection,
a joyful art habitat opened just two years ago. A crazy number of designers are
moving here from both coasts, she says, [attracted by] all of the fine craft,
culture day and night, regional growers, artisan foods, ethnic cuisines and new
green spaces.

Franklinton, a reclaimed industrial area just a walk or bike ride across the
river from downtown, is evolving into an edgy-hip district with anchors like
Strongwater Food and Spirits and 400 West Rich art studios. Some evenings in
front of 2015 newcomer Land-Grant Brewing Company, the new Aloha Streatery food
truck doles out Hawaiian lotus buns. At downtown's north edge, the Wexner Center
for the Arts expanded last year.

Newcomers to the historic Short North include Couture on High (designer
originals), Gotcha Gachapon (Japanese pop culture) and The Guild House, an
art-filled space pairing craft cocktails and small plates.

Artful, art-filled[#x2028] hotels

Two exquisitely designed hotels double as art museums that you can view without
being a guest.

The gleaming Hilton Columbus Downtown, a TripAdvisor award-winner, displays 230
originals by Ohio artists in its lobby, hallways and gorgeous sky-high atrium.
Reproductions appear in guest rooms - some mounted above beds to bid you
goodnight. Works include Christian Faur's landscape made of crayons, Curtis
Benzle's surprise-laden porcelain assemblage, and late folk art visionary Aminah
Robinson's textile narratives. You can even walk through one artwork - the glass
skyway/light show leading to the convention center. The hotel also offers guests
free use of bicycles to explore other downtown attractions.Opened in 2013 in a
restored 1923 neoclassical building, the Pizzuti Collection displays
contemporary works collected by local real-estate developer Ron Pizzuti. Having
moved here when he was 22, Pizzuti has watched Columbus grow into a cultural
powerhouse.I'm blown away by the quality of art in Columbus, he says, mentioning
talents whose works color walls of The Joseph, a boutique hotel named for his
father that opened last year.

Fresh sights[#x2028] at every turn

Street murals range from fantasy creatures to a lounging super-sized Mona Lisa.
On a bridge and by the Center of Science and Industry (COSI), one of the world's
top science museums, sculpted deer appear to gaze at the river. A jolly statue
of King Gambrinus, patron saint of beer, lords over the Brewery District. Art
brightens not only galleries but shops, coffeehouses, salons, bars and Dirty
Frank's hot dog emporium, which infuses vodka with peanuts.

City park eye-catchers include Schiller Park's Umbrella Girl, Goodale Park's
fountain topped with elephant figures and Topiary Park's trimmed foliage
interpretation of Georges Seurat's 1884 masterpiece, A Sunday Afternoon on the
Island of La Grande Jatte. At Scioto Audubon Metro Park, an extreme makeover of
an old industrial site, the free-admission 35-foot climbing wall is among the
largest of its kind.

But I prefer to get my exercise strolling the freshly paved riverside path and
wandering safe streets illuminated by colorful New York-style lights.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 1, 2016 Friday

Just how warm was it? December a record-setter;
Weather in Boston averaged nearly 11° above normal

BYLINE: MARK PRATT The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 494 words



HIGHLIGHT: M


BOSTON - Forget ice skating and tobogganing. In the Northeast this December,
outdoor grilling, golfing and children frolicking in T-shirts and shorts,
skipping rope and playing soccer were far more common activities.

Temperature records were shattered across the region, according to the National
Weather Service, which has released some preliminary month-end numbers.

The average temperature in Boston for the month was 45.4 degrees, or nearly 11
degrees above normal, according to numbers through Wednesday. The previous
warmest December on record was 2006 when the average was 41 degrees.

The average temperature in New York City's Central Park was 51, or 13.3 degrees
higher than normal for the month, and Burlington, Vermont, is running about 6
degrees above the old record for the average temperature for the month.

Concord, New Hampshire, bested a record of 35.4 degrees that had stood since
1891. Portland, Maine, beat a record of 34.8 from 2001. Both cities were running
about 3 to 4 degrees ahead of the old records as the year drew to a close.

In Providence, Rhode Island, the temperature reached 50 degrees on 21 December
days, shattering the previous record of 13 days.

A few days of 50-degree weather in December is not unusual, what was so unusual
this year is that it was such a prolonged pattern of warmer weather, said Bill
Simpson, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Taunton,
Massachusetts.

Some people loved the warmth, while others, including those who rely on the cold
to make a living, loathed it. It was a mixed blessing for farmers.

Mike Lydon, of Waltham, Massachusetts, took advantage of the warmth by getting
outside more.

You have to enjoy it while you can, he said as he shoveled out a parking spot
Wednesday, a day after the area's first snowstorm of the season when
temperatures finally returned to near normal ranges. I wish it had lasted longer
because I know I am going to be cooped up for a few months now.

At Wachusett Mountain ski area in Princeton, Massachusetts, business was off 20
to 25 percent, spokesman Tom Meyers said. This has been one of the toughest
Decembers we've had, he said.

The area opened on weekends only in the first month of the season. There has
been no natural snow, and it's been too warm to make snow.

The warmth has helped farmers in some ways, hurt them in others, said John
Lebeaux, commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources.

The warmth has been good for growing cover crops, like winter rye, and the
harvesting of some crops, including lettuce and kale, continued into December,
he said.

But as far as crops planted in the fall, including garlic, the warm weather has
hurt because it has caused some top growth. Insects have also continued to
flourish, he said.

Winter enthusiasts needn't worry, said Simpson, the National Weather Service
meteorologist.

At least the first two or three weeks of January are going to be more normal, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 17, 2016 Sunday

Raise a stein, catch a concert, visit a park and walk on water (sort of) this
year

BYLINE: BETH J. HARPAZ The Associated Press

SECTION: BAYLIFE AND TRAVEL; Baylife; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 900 words



HIGHLIGHT: look ahead for travel


Rio and Cuba. The Pope's Year of Mercy and artist Christo's walk on water.
Philadelphia, Cleveland and the next U.S. president. Super Bowl in California
and the Indy 500 at 100. A centennial for America's National Park Service, 400
years since Shakespeare died and 500 years of pure German beer.

These are among the places and events driving travel in 2016.[diams] RIO AND THE
OLYMPICS: Rio de Janeiro hosts the Summer Olympics, Aug. 5 to 21.[diams] SUPER
BOWL 50: America's most important football game takes place Feb. 7 at the San
Francisco 49ers' stadium in Santa Clara, California. San Francisco hosts a free
public fan village, Super Bowl City, and other pregame events beginning Jan.
30.[diams] PHILADELPHIA AND CLEVELAND: Democrats choose their presidential
candidate at a convention in Philadelphia from July 25 to 28. Republicans choose
their candidate in Cleveland from July 18 to 21.[diams] CUBA MANIA: Cuban
tourism will likely keep booming after a year in which visits by Americans rose
more than 50 percent and travel from elsewhere surged, too.[diams] ROME'S YEAR
OF MERCY AND CHRISTO'S WALK ON WATER: Up to 10 million pilgrims may visit Rome
during Pope Francis' Holy Year of Mercy, which began Dec. 8 and runs through
November. Events include the September canonization of Mother Teresa. And in
northern Italy, fans of Christo will walk on water thanks to his Floating Piers
project on Lake Iseo in Lombardy, June 18 to July 3, weather permitting. The
2-mile walkway will consist of floating cubes covered in shimmering yellow
fabric. Lakeside mountains will offer a bird's-eye view.[diams] NATIONAL PARKS:
The National Park Service turns 100 on Aug. 25. A campaign called Find Your Park
is designed to inspire a new generation to visit. Individual sites marking
centennials include Acadia in Maine, established as a national monument July 8,
1916; Abraham Lincoln Birthplace in Kentucky; New Mexico's Capulin Volcano and
Bandelier national monuments; and in Hawaii, Volcanoes and Haleakala parks,
originally part of Hawaii National Park. [diams] SHAKESPEARE: Seems like only
yesterday that Wil

liam Shakespeare died, but it was 400 years ago, on April 23, 1616. His
birthplace, Stratford-upon-Avon, and many other places around England plan
tours, performances, festivals and exhibitions.[diams] GERMANY AND BEER: Happy
Oktoberfest! Germany celebrates 500 years since the Reinheitsgebot was signed
into law on April 23, 1516, guaranteeing beer purity by specifying its
ingredients.[diams] NEW MUSEUMS: The National Museum of African American History
and Culture opens in the fall on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., part of
the Smithsonian Institution. Objects range from slave shackles to Louis
Armstrong's trumpet to a segregation-era railcar.

The Met Breuer, a modern and contemporary art space for the Metropolitan Museum,
opens March 18 in New York City. The landmark building designed by Marcel Breuer
on Madison Avenue and 75th Street formerly housed the Whitney Museum, which
moved downtown.

The Louvre Abu Dhabi is supposed to open in late 2016, but the project has been
repeatedly delayed and plagued by controversies over the treatment of
workers.[diams] INDY 500 AT 100: The Indy 500, one of the most famous car races
in the world, celebrates its centennial May 29 in Indianapolis. A citywide
celebration with parties, concerts and more is planned. The Indianapolis Motor
Speedway is also undergoing a $100 million renovation.[diams] GLACIERS AND
NORTHERN LIGHTS: Northern lights and other magical winter experiences are
drawing more tourists in the coldest, darkest months of the year to places like
Alaska, Iceland and Norway. Norway also has seen more tourists from fans of the
movie Frozen.

Glaciers around the world have become must-sees, too, as some tourists worry
that glaciers may disappear due to climate change. Glacier National Park in
Montana has been experiencing record tourism, including over 2.5 million
visitors in 2015.[diams] SAFARIS: The new year may also be a big one for trips
to see Africa's wildlife.  Botswana marks its 50th anniversary of independence,
and South Africa and East Africa are on several travel industry lists for top
destinations in 2016 - especially Tanzania and Zimbabwe, which are offering new
safari options.[diams] THEME PARKS: Shanghai Disney Resort opens in China in
spring 2016 with the tallest, grandest castle of any Disney park. Other Disney
news: a new Frozen boat ride at Epcot; a new Frozen stage show at Disney
California Adventure; new Star Wars experiences at Disney parks on both coasts;
and at Disney's Animal Kingdom in Florida, night tours and a Rivers of Light
nighttime illumination show.

Universal Hollywood in Los Angeles opens its own Wizarding World of Harry Potter
on April 7. Universal Orlando Resort in Florida expects a summer opening for
Skull Island: Reign of Kong, themed on King Kong.[diams] AND DON'T FORGET:

A massive Noah's Ark attraction opens in northern Kentucky in July.

Las Vegas gets two major debuts in April: The Park, an outdoor area with
restaurants, entertainment and more, and the Arena, a concert venue with
performances scheduled by George Strait, Janet Jackson and Garth Brooks.

Australia is turning up on many travel industry lists of top places to go in
2016. The island of Tasmania in particular - known for wildlife and scenery - is
seeing record numbers of visitors.

The strong U.S. dollar is expected to drive more travel abroad by Americans.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday

Democrats participate in Iowa town hall;
Sanders defends tax hike designed to eliminate health care premiums

BYLINE: JULIE PACE and CATHERINE LUCEY; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Iowa


Bernie Sanders defended his call for raising Americans' taxes in exchange for
lower heath care costs as he opened a candidate forum Monday that was a platform
for Democratic presidential hopefuls to make a closing argument to voters one
week before the Iowa caucuses.

Yes, we will raise taxes, said Sanders, an admission rarely heard in
presidential campaigns. We may raise taxes, but we are going to eliminate
private health insurance premiums for individuals and businesses.

Sanders would replace the nation's existing employer-based system of insurance
with one in which the government becomes a single payer, providing coverage to
all. It would eliminate co-pays and deductibles and, Sanders argues, bring
health care spending under control.

A self-described democratic socialist, Sanders cast his governing philosophy
Monday as one reflecting that the right for economic security should exist. He
sidestepped a question about whether his policies would mean an era of big
government.

Sanders' was the first of three candidates to address voters at the CNN town
hall at Iowa's Drake University. Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton and
former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, who has struggled to gain traction in the
race, were to appear later in the event.

All three have been zig-zagging the state in recent days, trying to shore up
support before the caucus Monday.

Clinton has led the field for months, but she is being challenged anew in Iowa
as well as in New Hampshire, which votes second in the primary contest.

The latest Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics poll found Clinton with 42
percent, Sanders with 40 percent and O'Malley with just 4 percent of likely
Democratic caucusgoers.

The poll, conducted between Jan. 7 and 10, had a margin of error of plus or
minus 4.4 percentage points, suggesting it could be a toss-up between the former
secretary of state and the Vermont senator.

Sanders, an independent from Vermont who caucuses with Democrats on Capitol
Hill, has energized young voters in particular with his call for a political
revolution.

We are touching a nerve with the American people who understand that
establishment politics just aren't bold enough, Sanders said Monday.

The 74-year-old Sanders pledged to release his medical records before Iowa
votes, saying there's nothing in the papers that will surprise anybody. Though
Sanders typically avoids veering into personal topics, preferring to focus
squarely on policy, he spoke emotionally about what his late parents would think
to see their son running for president.

This would be so unimaginable, Sanders said.

Former Secretary of State Clinton is offering herself as a pragmatic leader who
can build on President Barack Obama's legacy and manage D.C. gridlock.

I believe I have the experience, the judgment and the vision to get us back,
moving further than we got with President Obama, Clinton said Sunday during an
event in Marion.

O'Malley was cheered when he cited climate change as the top issue young people
should be concerned about.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 31, 2016 Sunday

Cheney to run for Wyoming's U.S. House seat;
Campaign may center around 'war on coal'

BYLINE: MEAD GRUVER; The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo.


The elder daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney is running for Congress,
following up a failed U.S. Senate campaign two years ago with another attempt to
woo voters in a state where she has been a full-time resident only for the past
few years.

Liz Cheney filed federal election documents Friday showing she's running for
Wyoming's lone seat in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Campaign officials said she plans to formally announce Monday in Gillette, a
northeastern Wyoming town hit hard by the downturn in the coal industry. The
plans suggest she will base her campaign on fears that the Obama administration
is waging a war on coal with climate-change regulations and a recently announced
moratorium on federal coal leasing.

Cheney couldn't immediately be reached for comment.

Cheney ran a brief and ill-fated U.S. Senate campaign in 2013. She tried to
unseat Wyoming senior U.S. Sen. Mike Enzi, a fellow Republican, but failed to
gain traction among Wyoming's political establishment. The former Fox News
commentator drew considerable nationwide attention but virtually no mainstream
Republicans in the state endorsed her - despite the fact that the GOP dominates
Wyoming politics at every level.

Many expressed skepticism that somebody who had moved to Wyoming only recently
could know and serve the state well.

She quit her campaign seven months before the 2014 primary, citing family health
issues. Cheney has five children and lives in Jackson Hole, a wealthy resort
town at the gateway to Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks, where she
moved in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Pope: Wall shows Trump 'not Christian';
Presidential candidate fires back, calling statement 'disgraceful'

BYLINE: NICOLE WINFIELD and JULIE PACE The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words


ABOARD THE PAPAL PLANE - Thrusting himself into the heated American presidential
campaign, Pope Francis declared Thursday that Donald Trump is not Christian if
he wants to address illegal immigration only by building a wall along the
U.S.-Mexico border.

Trump fired back ferociously, saying it was disgraceful for a religious leader
to question a per

son's faith.

The rare back-and-forth between pontiff and presidential candidate was the
latest development in an American election already roiled by Trump's
free-wheeling rhetoric and controversial policy proposals, particularly on
immigration.

It also underscored the popular pope's willingness to needle U.S. politicians on
hot-button issues. Francis' comments came hours after he concluded a visit to
Mexico, where he prayed at the border for people who died trying to reach the
United States. While speaking to reporters on the papal plane, he was asked what
he thought of Trump's campaign pledge to build a wall along the entire length of
the border and expel millions of people in the U.S. illegally. A person who
thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building
bridges, is not Christian, he said.

While Francis said he would give the benefit of the doubt because he had not
heard Trump's border plans independently, he added, I say only that this man is
not a Christian if he has said things like that. Trump, a Presbyterian and the
front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, responded within
minutes.

For a religious leader to question a person's faith is disgraceful, he said at a
campaign stop in South Carolina, which holds a key primary on Saturday. I am
proud to be a Christian, and as president I will not allow Christianity to be
consistently attacked and weakened.

Trump also raised the prospect of the Islamic State extremist group attacking
the Vatican, saying that if that happened, the pope would have only wished and
prayed that Donald Trump would have been president because this would not have
happened.A senior Trump adviser took to Twitter to note that a wall already
exists around Vatican City: Amazing comments from the Pope - considering Vatican
City is 100% surrounded by massive walls.Francis, the first pope from Latin
America, urged Congress during his visit to Washington last year to respond to
immigrants in a way which is always humane, just and fraternal.

He irked Republicans on the same trip with his forceful call for international
action to address climate change. Immigration is among the most contentious
issues in American politics. Republicans have moved toward hardline positions
that emphasize law enforcement and border security, blocking comprehensive
legislation in 2013 that would have included a path to citizenship for many of
the 11 million people in the U.S. illegally. Hispanics, an increasingly large
voting bloc in U.S. presidential elections, have flocked to Democrats in recent
years.

President Barack Obama won more than 70 percent in the 2012 election, leading
some Republican leaders to conclude the party must increase its appeal to them.
However, the current GOP presidential primary has been dominated by increasingly
tough rhetoric. Trump has insisted that Mexico will pay for his proposed border
wall and has said some Mexicans entering the U.S. illegally are murderers and
rapists. While Trump's words have been among the most inflammatory, some of his
rivals have staked out similar enforcement positions.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson are among those who have
explicitly called for construction of a wall.

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, one of the few GOP candidates proposing a path to
legal status for people already in the U.S. illegally, said Thursday he supports
walls and fencing where it's appropriate. Bush said that while he gets his
guidance as a Catholic from the pope, he doesn't take his cues from Francis on
economic or environmental policy.

Marco Rubio, another Catholic seeking the GOP nomination, said Vatican City has
a right to control its borders and so does the United States. Rubio said he has
tremendous respect and admiration for the pope, but he added, There's no nation
on Earth that's more compassionate on immigration than we are. Cruz said he was
steering clear of the dispute. That's between Donald and the pope, he said. I'm
not going to get in the middle of them.

The long-distance exchange between the pope and Trump came two days before the
voting in South Carolina, a state where 78 percent of adults identify as
Christian, according to the Pew Research Center's 2014 U.S. Religious Landscape
Study.

Of that group, 35 percent identify as evangelical and 10 percent as Catholic,
the survey found.

Even before Thursday, Trump had been critical of Francis' visit to Mexico.

He said last week that the pope's plans to pray at the border showed he was a
political figure being exploited by the Mexican government.

Francis glossed over Trump's assertion that he was a pawn of Mexico, telling
reporters on his plane that he would leave that up to your judgment.

But he seemed pleased to hear the candidate had called him a political figure,
noting that Aristotle had described the human being as a political animal.

Information from The Washington Post was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Rays to play Cuban team in Havana [JUMP]Owner says several teams wanted to be
picked for historic trip;
Owner says several teams wanted to be picked for historic trip

BYLINE: ROGER MOONEY Tribune staff

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Sports; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rays will play exhibition game in Cuba.


PORT CHARLOTTE - History is expected to be made this month when President Barack
Obama becomes the first sitting U.S. president in almost 90 years to visit Cuba,
and the Tampa Bay Rays will be right there in the middle of the action.Major
League Baseball announced Tuesday the Rays' much-anticipated three-day trip to
the island nation 90 miles south of Florida was finally approved.The Rays will
visit Cuba March 20 to 22 and play the Cuban national baseball team on the final
day at Havana's historic Estadio Latinoamericano.We're extremely excited as a
group to be a part of this process, Rays pitcher and union representative Chris
Archer said. And in a sense we're part of something that is extremely historic
for both countries and looking to mingle and experience the culture of a place
that we haven't been able to travel

freely for a while.

Rays principal owner Stuart Sternberg, in a video posted on raysbaseball.com ,
said he is excited for the organization's role at a time when the relationship
between the U.S. and Cuba is improving.

Where it feels like this is headed, this is really to be at the start of
something that we're going to look back even a few years and certainly in a
decade with kind of more normalized relations to know that we were here at the
beginning when it opened up is quite exciting, Sternberg said.

The Rays will be the first Major League Baseball team to visit Cuba since the
Baltimore Orioles in 1999. They will charter two planes out of Tampa to carry
the traditional traveling party for a road trip, members of the front office, a
few special guests as well as a small number of media who cover the team on a
daily basis.

The Rays are expected to conduct a baseball clinic March 21. The game is
scheduled to be played at 3 p.m. March 22 and will be televised on ESPN. The
Rays traveling party will return to Tampa immediately after the game.

President Obama, who will be the first U.S. president to visit Cuba since Calvin
Coolidge in 1928, tweeted Tuesday he plans to attend the game and could throw
out the first pitch.

(Having the president attend the game) adds a great dimension to the trip and
it's going to shine an even greater spotlight on the event and on Major League
Baseball, Rays president of baseball operations Matt Silverman said.

Archer said the trip is voluntary for the players, though those who travel will
receive $10,000.

The Major League Baseball Players Association had some concerns with the playing
conditions and clubhouse facilities at Estadio Latinoamericano as well player
safety. They were all answered weeks ago, according to Archer, who said the hold
up to the announcement had more to do with visa and the size of the traveling
party.

The passion for the game of baseball that exists in Cuba is tremendous, Tony
Clark, head of the players union said. The love for the game is tremendous. ...
Understanding there are some sensitivities there, the game of baseball bridged a
lot of those things to where the game itself became the focal point, and our
collective love for it became the focal point.

Major League Baseball sent a delegation to Cuba in December on a goodwill tour
in hopes of having a team travel there this month for an exhibition game.

Sternberg said several teams were willing to go, and the Rays were picked
through a lottery.

Given our geographical location and given Cuba's rich history here in the Tampa
Bay area, it was a no-brainer, he said. It happened by lottery, but it was a
no-brainer for us to want to go. Quite frankly, I think we're the best suited
for it.

The political climate aside, the Rays and Major League Baseball are thrilled to
be able to share the love of baseball with the Cuban baseball fans.

During a time of historic change, we appreciate the constructive role afforded
by our shared passion for the game, and we look forward to experiencing Cuba's
storied baseball tradition and the passion of its many loyal fans, baseball
commissioner Robert Manfred said in a statement.

rmooney@tampatrib.com

Twitter: @rmooneyTBO

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 534 words


March 4, 1966: John Lennon was quoted in the London Evening Standard as saying,
We're more popular than Jesus now; I don't know which will go first - rock 'n'
roll or Christianity. (After his comments caused an angry backlash in the United
States, Lennon sought to clarify his remarks, telling reporters, If I had said
television was more popular than Jesus, I might have got away with it.)1789: The
Constitution of the United States went into effect as the first Federal Congress
met in New York. (The lawmakers then adjourned for lack of a quorum.)1791:
Vermont became the 14th state.1865: President Abraham Lincoln was inaugurated
for a second term of office; with the end of the Civil War in sight, Lincoln
declared: With malice toward none, with charity for all.

1913: The Buffalo nickel officially went into circulation.1925: President Calvin
Coolidge's inauguration was broadcast live on 21 radio stations
coast-to-coast.1930: Coolidge Dam in Arizona was dedicated by its namesake,
former President Calvin Coolidge.1952: Ronald Reagan and Nancy Davis were
married in San Fernando Valley, California.1960: An explosives-laden French
freighter, La Coubre, exploded in Havana's harbor, killing at least 75
people.1974: The first issue of People magazine, then called People Weekly, was
published by Time-Life Inc.; on the cover was actress Mia Farrow.

1981: A jury in Salt Lake City convicted Joseph Paul Franklin, an avowed racist
and serial killer, of violating the civil rights of two black men, Ted Fields
and David Martin, who'd been shot to death. (Franklin received two life
sentences for these crimes; he was executed in 2013 for the 1977 murder of a
Jewish man, Gerald Gordon.)1996: Comedian Minnie Pearl died in Nashville,
Tennessee, at age 83.Ten years ago: President George W. Bush, visiting
Islamabad, praised Pakistan's fight against terrorism as unfaltering but turned
down an appeal for the same civilian nuclear help the United States intended to
give India.Five years ago: Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's regime struck back at
its opponents with a powerful attack on Zawiya, the closest opposition-held city
to Tripoli, and a barrage of tear gas and live ammunition to smother new
protests in the capital. NASA launched its Glory satellite from Vandenberg Air
Force Base in California on what was supposed to have been a three-year mission
to analyze how airborne particles affect Earth's climate; however, the rocket
carrying Glory plummeted into the southern Pacific several minutes after
liftoff.

One year ago: The trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, charged in the Boston Marathon
bombing, began with an acknowledgement from his attorney that the 21-year-old
former college student committed the crime but did not deserve to die due to the
malevolent influence of his dead older brother, Tamerlan; prosecutors called to
the witness stand three women who suffered severe injuries in the blasts. The
Justice Department cleared Darren Wilson, a white former Ferguson, Missouri,
police officer, in the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed black
18-year-old, but also issued a scathing report calling for sweeping changes in
city law enforcement practices.              - The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 3, 2016 Sunday

The four foreign policies

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



HIGHLIGHT: Charles Krauthammer


- After dozens of contests featuring cliffhangers, buzzer-beaters and a ton of
flagrant fouls, we're down to the Final Four: Sanders, Clinton, Cruz and Trump.
(If Kasich pulls a miracle, he'll get his own column.) The world wants to know:
What are their foreign policies?

Herewith, four candidates and four schools: pacifist, internationalist,
unilateralist and mercantilist.

(1) Bernie Sanders, pacifist.

His pacifism is part swords-into-plowshares utopianism, part get-thee-gone
isolationism. Emblematic was the Nov. 14 Democratic debate that was supposed to
focus on the economy but occurred the day after the Paris massacre. Sanders
objected to starting the debate with a question about Paris. He did not prevail,
however, and answered the first question with some anti-terror pablum that
immediately gave way to an impassioned attack on his usual handful of
billionaires.

Sanders boasts of voting against the Iraq War. But he also voted against the
1991 Gulf War. His reaction to all such dilemmas is the same
anti-imperialist/pacifist reflex: Stay away, but if we must get involved, let
others lead.

That's for means. As for ends, Sanders' foreign policy objectives are invariably
global and universal, beginning above all with climate change. The rest is
foreign-policy-as-social-work do-goodism, most especially undoing the work of
U.S. imperialism.

Don't be surprised if President Sanders hands Guantanamo Bay over to the
Castros, although Alaska looks relatively safe for now. Closest historical
analog: George McGovern.

(2) Hillary Clinton, internationalist. The Clinton/Obama foreign policy from
Ukraine to Iran to the South China Sea has been a demonstrable failure. But in
trying to figure out what President Clinton would do in the future, we need to
note that she often gave contrary advice, generally more assertive and
aggressive than President Obama's, that was overruled, most notably, keeping
troops in Iraq beyond 2011 and early arming of the Syrian rebels.

The Libya adventure was her grand attempt at humanitarian interventionism. She's
been chastened by the disaster that followed. Her worldview is traditional,
post-Vietnam liberal internationalism - America as the indispensable nation, but
consciously restraining its exercise of power through multilateralism and
near-obsessive legalism. Closest historical analog: the Bill Clinton foreign
policy of the 1990s.

(3) Ted Cruz, unilateralist. The most aggressive of the three contenders thus
far. Wants post-Cold War U.S. leadership restored. Is prepared to take risks and
act alone when necessary. Pledges to tear up the Iran deal, cement the
U.S.-Israel alliance and carpet bomb the Islamic State.

Overdoes it with carpet - it implies Dresden - although it was likely just an
attempt at rhetorical emphasis. He's of the school that will not delay action
while waiting on feckless allies or farcical entities like the U.N.

Closest analog: Ronald Reagan.

(4) Donald Trump, mercantilist. He promises to make America strong, for which,
he explains, he must first make America rich. Treating countries like companies,
he therefore promises to play turnaround artist for a foreign policy that is
currently a hopeless money-losing operation in which our allies take us for
fools and suck us dry.

You could put the Sanders, Clinton and Cruz foreign policies on a recognizable
ideological spectrum, left to right. But not Trump's. It inhabits a different
space because it lacks any geopolitical coherence. It's all about money. He sees
no particular purpose for allies or foreign bases. They are simply a financial
drain.

Imperial Spain roamed and ravaged the world in search of gold. Trump advocates a
kinder, gentler form of wealth transfer from abroad, though equally
gold-oriented. Thus, if Japan and South Korea don't pony up more money for our
troops stationed there, we go home. The possible effects on the balance of power
in the Pacific Rim or on Chinese hegemonic designs don't enter into the
equation.

Same for NATO. If those free-riding European leeches don't give us more money
too, why stick around? Concerns about tempting Russian ambitions and/or
aggression are nowhere in sight.

The one exception to this singular focus on foreign policy as a form of national
enrichment is the Islamic State. Trump's goal is simple - bomb the s--- out of
them. Yet even here he can't quite stifle his mercantilist impulses, insisting
that after crushing the Islamic State, he'll keep their oil. Whatever that
means.

Closest historical analog: King Philip II of Spain (1556-1598).

On Jan. 20, one of these four contenders will be sworn in as president. And one
of these four approaches to the world will become the foreign policy of the
United States.

Don't say you weren't warned.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 5, 2016 Tuesday

Forget the April showers; Northeast is getting snow;
Winds knocked out power to thousands in Pennsylvania, New Jersey

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The calendar may say spring, but winter struck the Northeast hard Monday,
delivering a storm that could end up dropping as much as 10 inches of snow in
some places.

Winter weather advisories were issued from the Buffalo area to Albany in New
York state, where forecasters were calling for up to 10 inches of snow at higher
elevations.

Southern New England also was getting hit by the slow-moving storm, with up to 6
inches of snow forecast for most of Massachusetts, including the Boston area.

Southern New Hampshire, as well as northern Rhode Island and Connecticut, were
expecting up to 6 inches, with less in coastal areas.

Dozens of school districts, mostly in western Massachusetts, canceled classes
for the day.

The maximum speed along the entire length of the Massachusetts Turnpike was
reduced to 40 mph, and state and local police responded to dozens of fender
benders.In West Hartford, Connecticut, a woman was cited for an accident with a
school bus during the storm that sent the driver to the hospital. Police say one
student suffered a minor injury but wasn't hospitalized.The snow was expected to
come down in bands and last into the evening, with temperatures plummeting and
some streets freezing over.

Low-temperature records that have stood for more than a century could fall in
some spots, according to the National Weather Service.

Monday's storm came a day after several inches of snow fell in some areas and
high winds toppled hundreds of trees across New York City. High winds brought
down a rotted tree in Abington, about 20 miles south of Boston, on Sunday,
killing a married couple in their car.

Although northern New England was not expected to see much snow Monday, the
cleanup continued a day after winds that gusted up to 50 mph knocked out power
to tens of thousands in Maine.

Although Maine wasn't getting much snow, it did get cold enough for the
Sugarloaf ski resort to make snow, the first time in the resort's 65-year
history that it has fired up its snow guns in April.

Sunday's high winds also knocked out power to tens of thousands of customers in
New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
