
                               4 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 28, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Kyoto treaty could cause unintended consequences;

BYLINE: LEE HUTCHSON, RONALD NASH AND GARY PERRAS;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 843 words


Some people fear that low-lying Florida is going to be hard hit by rising sea
levels and super  hurricanes caused by human-induced global warming.

The more likely prospect is that low-income Floridians - including many
minorities - are going to  be flooded by rising costs of living and battered by
falling incomes because of attempts to stave  off global warming. And all
without good reason.

Most efforts to prevent climate change focus on the Kyoto Protocol. This treaty
would try to  reduce carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gas" emissions by
raising energy taxes high enough to  "encourage" people to use fewer fossil
fuels. But study after study forecasts this would gravely harm  most Americans.
Floridians would be no exception.

Virtually everything people need for safe, healthy, productive lives requires
energy. So  implementing Kyoto means heating and air conditioning, lights,
refrigerators, washers, dryers,  cars, medicines, food and clothing will all
cost more. And since poor families spend a higher share  of their income on
energy and other basic necessities, they would be hardest hit.

As Assistant Secretary of Energy Dan Reicher said recently, skyrocketing fuel
prices over the  past 18 months have already forced some low-income people "to
choose between heating and eating."  Under the Kyoto treaty, millions more would
face difficult choices over food, heat, driving and all  their other basic
necessities.

The U.S. Energy Information Administration says Kyoto could cost the American
economy $ 348  billion annually. It would increase gasoline prices by 50
percent, electricity bills by 85 percent  and heating oil costs by 75 percent or
more.

Rising energy prices, falling production and sharply reduced consumer spending
would drive some  companies out of business and force others to lay off workers.
A study by Management Information  Services Inc. for several minority business
groups forecasts that the treaty could cost more than  3.2 million U.S. jobs.
Fifteen million families would see their incomes fall 10 percent or more.

Florida's minorities would suffer greatly, according to MISI. Annual per-
capita income would fall by $ 1,365 for blacks and $ 1,345 for Hispanics. Nearly
46,000 blacks and  29,000 Hispanics would lose their jobs. Almost 12,000
minority businesses in the greater Miami area  alone could be lost.

But wouldn't all this human suffering at least stop global warming? Actually,
according to the  National Center for Atmospheric Research, even "full
compliance" with the Kyoto Protocol would keep  average global temperatures from
rising only one-half of a degree less than they would have over  the next 50
years in the absence of a climate treaty.

In fact, more than 17,000 scientists (including hundreds of climate experts)
have signed a  petition opposing Kyoto and saying they see "no convincing
scientific evidence" that humans are  disrupting the earth's climate. They point
out that slightly warmer temperatures and higher carbon  dioxide levels improve
plant growth. They caution that the climate treaty would actually "harm the
environment, hinder the advance of science and technology and damage the health
and welfare of  mankind."

And, according to Dr. George Maul, professor of oceanography at Florida
Institute of Technology  in Melbourne, there is "no statistically significant
evidence" that sea level rise is accelerating  because of global warming.

Thus, there is no valid reason to expect that global warming will submerge
Florida. Or that the  Kyoto Protocol will keep seas from rising, any more than
King Canute (according to the legend)  could stop the tide from coming in.

Justice requires that public policies do no harm, especially to the most
vulnerable in society -  the poor. Because they have been the target of past
injustices, our poor and minorities deserve  special protection.

A psalmist of ancient Israel wrote that a righteous king would "bring justice to
the poor of the  people" (Psalm 72). The New Testament admonishes, "Love does no
harm to its neighbor" (Romans 13:10).  As three of more than 1,500 Jewish,
Catholic and Protestant clergy, theologians and other people of  faith who
recently signed the Cornwall Declaration of Environmental Stewardship, we share
this  concern for the poor.

Thus, we would urge caution against any policies that, in the words of the
declaration, would  "combat exaggerated risks (and) dangerously delay or reverse
the economic development necessary to  improve not only human life, but also
human stewardship of the environment."

A treaty that would force many people back into poverty and worsen the poverty
of those already  suffering is inherently unjust. The Kyoto Protocol is that
kind of treaty.  The Rev. Lee Hutchson is rector of St. Paul's Episcopal Church
in Quincy; Dr. Ronald Nash is a professor of philosophy at Reformed Theological
Seminary in Oveido; and Rabbi Gary Perras serves at  Beth Shalom Congregation in
Jacksonville.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 29, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Quality, not quantity, ticket to growth;

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1964 words


TAMPA - Tampa Bay's economic development depends on new ways of thinking to keep
pace with the  new economy.

The Tampa Bay area is adding jobs as quickly as anywhere in the country. Tampa
alone has  recruited dozens of companies in recent years, adding more than
110,000 jobs since 1991.

By comparison, Austin, Texas, hasn't recruited since 1997.

"We have difficulty trying to respond to all the companies that call us," says
Cecilia Linton,  marketing director for the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce.
"We don't have time to recruit."

Austin's success - it added 250,000 jobs last decade - has nothing to do with
incentives or other  programs, Linton says.

Instead, Austin has embraced unconventional thinking. In the process, it has
spawned a homegrown  economy featuring Dell Computer, the world's biggest
personal computer seller, among dozens of  other high-tech ventures.

Meanwhile, the Tampa Bay area lost nearly a quarter of its public company
headquarters last  year. Local business leaders say the support system for
growing companies, a big part of Austin's  success, often falls short here.

Even the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, which boasts of how many jobs it
creates,  acknowledges it must catch up with the times.

"It's going to take a change in some of our thinking in typical economic
development," chamber  President Don Barber says. "We've been very successful in
the business-financial (back-office)  cluster and it continues to grow.

"But it's staring you right in the face - you have to diversify your economy."

Fifteen years ago, business and community leaders in Austin and Tampa were
trying to decide how  to build their economies.

Austin had some technology, including an IBM plant, but its economy revolved
around the state  capital and the University of Texas. It commissioned a study
on "how to be a world-class community."

The answer: more high tech.

Even when the Austin economy faltered in the late '80s, a ripple effect from the
Texas oil bust,  the community turned it to an advantage. It used cheap real
estate and a ready labor pool from the  university to support more technology
ventures.

Tampa's consultants, the Stanford Research Institute, concluded that Tampa's
best bet was to  lure back office jobs.

Today, the Austin economy feeds on itself. Entrepreneurs make millions on stock
options and  leave prosperous companies to start new ones. Austin's venture
capital community is second only to  Silicon Valley's.

Tampa Bay's call center strategy, hinged on low costs of doing business, did
bring jobs. But  full employment distorts the picture. Growing companies can't
find the top managerial talent they  need to go the next step, because those
people aren't here.

"I think Tampa Bay is still in a start-up mode," says Joel Kallett of Raymond
James & Associates,  the St. Petersburg-based investment firm. "Atlanta, for
one, is 10 to 15 years ahead."

What will it take for Tampa Bay to produce a homegrown economy and ease its
dependence on  out-of-town companies?

These recommendations emerge from interviews with dozens of executives and
consultants:

Emphasize quality of jobs, not quantity.

Begin by changing what you measure, says Austin consultant John Roberts, of
Angelou Economic  Advisors. Measure productivity and wage growth, he says. And
be selective in what you recruit.

"You can trot out all of the (conventional) measures on job creation and still
make no impact on  economic growth," Roberts says.

Create special incentives to help companies recruit and relocate highly skilled
employees.

Ten of the 63 employees at Charles Settgast's Constellation Technology Corp. in
Largo, which  does materials testing and instrument development, have doctorate
degrees. Settgast recently  recruited four employees with average salaries of $
75,000. He would like to have more, but finds it  difficult.

"We have economic development agencies willing to spend a lot of money
recruiting companies, but  small companies like Constellation could grow faster
if they received incentives for bringing in  high paying jobs," Settgast says.

Show as much interest in retaining businesses as recruiting new ones. Be more
proactive.

More economic development groups could emulate the St. Petersburg Chamber of
Commerce.

"We survey hundreds of companies each year, asking: Are businesses thinking of
expanding? Is  there a threat to their survival? Are they unhappy for some
reason?" President Russ Sloan says.

The Tampa chamber has a hot line for business owners seeking advice. It contends
that all of its  lobbying and other efforts help retention. Still, it wants to
spend $ 250,000 more on retention this  year - a total of more than $ 660,000 -
though it hasn't yet offered specifics.

Businesses should take the initiative in improving schools.

Most complaints about Florida's public schools can be traced to inadequate
funding, and that's a  long-term, political problem. But the business community
can create change, in both public and  charter schools, says Cathy Wooley-Brown,
director of Florida's charter school resource center at  the University of South
Florida.

Hillsborough County is among the state's leaders in developing charter schools -
schools which  operate under government supervision but are allowed to set many
of their own rules. Businesses  have not directly organized any of them,
however, like Ryder Corp. has in Miami-Dade County.

In Austin, business groups worked with educators from elementary school through
graduate  programs to craft course requirements that keep pace with
technological change.

In the Bay area, local businesses should insist that schools treat computer
education on a par  with other fundamentals, Sloan says. He and others also want
to see more foreign language training,  particularly in Spanish.

Invest government funds, like public employee pension money and university
endowments, in  local venture capital funds.

In 1998, the state Legislature authorized tax breaks as an incentive for
insurance companies to  form venture capital funds. But Tampa venture capitalist
John Hill argues that doesn't free up  nearly enough money.

Investing public money directly in local venture funds is customary in places
like California  and Massachusetts. Those sorts of investments, unlike
incentives, would provide the same sorts of  returns for government that private
investors get.

Make it easier for growing businesses to get help with minimal effort.

Hill's Hyde Park Capital Partners, which finances early-stage Internet
companies, is part of a  consortium that includes Raymond James, the Foley &
Lardner law firm, Ernst & Young, Browne of  Tampa printers and RFB
Communications Group.

A growing company can call any of the partners to get all of their services.

"It is important to provide intellectual capital, too," Hill says. "Growing
companies need advice  on their business approach."

Form groups that provide clear leadership for growing companies.

Orlando has the Central Florida Innovation Corp., which brokers deals for
start-up companies  that are looking for money or need advice on solving
problems. The Tampa Bay area has no central  resource like that.

Establish more networking groups, and be more clear about their purpose.

Some local CEOs enjoy regular networking sessions. Internet-related networking
groups have  popped up. But many business leaders refuse to join them,
contending that too many people in the  Bay area use networking groups to sell
things rather than exchange information.

"What I really missed in Tampa Bay was a real technology community," says former
Tradex CEO Daniel  Aegerter, who lived in Tampa for 11 years before moving to
Atlanta in December. "I met most of the  other Tampa CEOs at out-of-town
conferences."

Building owners must consider new approaches to leasing space.

Hydrogen Media Inc., an Internet services company in St. Petersburg, arranged
with the duPont  Registry, a leisure magazine for the wealthy, to trade Web site
services for office space.

That arrangement is commonplace in Silicon Valley and taking hold in Atlanta,
where some real  estate companies exchange space for stock or options. But it's
still rare in the Bay area.

Like Hydrogen Media, many growing companies cannot afford thousands of dollars a
month for  office space, and they're growing so quickly that long-term leases
don't make sense. Before making  his deal with the duPont Registry, CEO Scott
Gostyla had moved five times in four years. Hydrogen  Media still pays $ 6,000 a
month on former offices it can't sublet.

Take ideas from elsewhere.

Austin borrowed ideas from Silicon Valley, which borrowed ideas from Boston. Now
Orlando is  looking to learn from Austin.

Last year, Orlando realized it had more high-tech companies than Austin, but
Austin's revenue  per company was about four times higher, says Richard Fox,
president of the Central Florida  Innovation Corp. So it retained Angelou
Economic Advisors, an Austin consultant, to help catch up.  The first
recommendations are expected in about two months.

Most of all, recognize that the economy has changed.

Here's how Cognetics Inc., a research firm that ranks Tampa among the poorest
major Sun Belt  cities in nurturing growing companies, sums up the challenge:

"Not all places welcome change ... (But) don't expect to attract growth if you
choose, as a  community, to preserve and reinforce the existing social order and
rebuff those who strive to  change it."    (CHART) Rating the growth climate
To judge a community's ability to nurture growing companies, researchers at
Cognetics Inc. in  Cambridge, Mass., designed the following quiz.   Put
boosterism aside, they urge, and be honest with your answers.   Any fewer than
seven "yes" answers out of the 10 questions means there's work to do before
entrepreneurs view an area as an attractive place to do business.   1. When the
mayor of the city meets with business leaders, are there as many chief
executives of  midsize growth companies as bankers and corporate executives?
2. Are entrepreneurs invited to join the best athletic, social, and country
clubs? Have they  joined?   3. Does the local newspaper follow the fortunes of
start-ups and midsize growth companies with  the same intensity and
sophistication as it does larger corporations?   4. Are innovative companies
able to recruit nearly all of their professional work force from the  local
area?   5. Is there a sizable, visible venture capital community?   6. Does the
local university encourage its faculty and its students to participate in
entrepreneurial spinoffs, and do they?   7. Do growth-company CEOs and venture
capitalists hold at least a quarter of the seats on the  boards of the three
largest banks?   8. Does the city's economic-development department spend more
time helping local companies grow  than it does chasing after branch facilities
of out-of-state corporations?   9. Does the governor of your state meet
regularly with entrepreneurs to seek their views?   10. Can you quickly think of
10 recent spinoffs - growth companies started by entrepreneurs who  have left
large companies?   There are no correct answers to most of these questions, only
perceptions. But to get a glimpse  of how Tampa Bay fares in the eyes of some
business professionals, the Tribune asked a group of six  local executives to
take the quiz.   Not a single question received more than two "yes" answers.  -
Ted Jackovics  Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813) 259-7817 or
tjackovics@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO (C); CHART,
 (C) Before making a deal with duPont Registry to exchange Web services for
office space, Hydrogen Media of St. Petersburg had moved five times in four
years, CEO Scott Gostyla said.  FRED FOX, Tribune photo

NOTES: THE COMPANY YOU KEEP LOST COMPANIES, LOST LEADERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 15, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD;

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words


Debunking doomsday: Ten days have passed and we're still here. The global
catastrophe some  people expected from a lineup of the planets didn't happen, in
particular the so-called "5/5/2000"  disaster involving earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions and other calamities promoted by  author-entrepreneur Richard W.
Noone.

Anyone curious about Noone could read his doom-and-gloom scenarios on his Web
site, which  coincidentally promoted his latest book and survival guide.  "When
these kind of doomsday announcements are made, it causes real problems," E.C.
Krupp, director  of the Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles, said by telephone.
"We get calls from schoolteachers and  parents of kids who really are upset
because they don't have the tools to distinguish between truth  and hyperbole."

The cosmic incident behind the hoopla is an alignment of the Earth on one side
of the sun, and  Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn on the other. The
alignment, which can't be seen from  Earth, continues through Tuesday.
Collapsing reefs: Warmer ocean temperatures could be the culprit behind the
controversial "bleaching"  of the world's coral reefs, according to a Washington
Post report. Scientists in Belize have  documented the first complete collapse
of coral reefs from bleaching in the Caribbean, apparently  because of warm
water temperatures caused by the 1997-98 El Nin o.

"Cores extracted from the Belizean reefs showed that these events were
unprecedented over at  least the past 3,000 years," oceanographer Richard B.
Aronson of Dauphin Island Sea Lab in Alabama  wrote in the journal Nature.
"There is growing concern that global climate change is degrading coral  reef
ecosystems ... (and) our results from Belize appear to justify this concern."
Dog bone asteroid: A dog bone the size of New Jersey has been floating around in
space. Scientists  using the powerful Arecibo Radio Telescope in Puerto Rico
took a snapshot of an asteroid named 216  Kleopatra, which is 135 miles long and
resembles, well - a dog bone.

Although scientists knew about the odd object, which orbits in the Asteroid Belt
between Mars  and Jupiter, its oblong outline wasn't known until now. A NASA
spokesman says the asteroid has the  most unusual shape of anything in the solar
system and could offer clues about how asteroids form.

Nobody can say for sure, but maybe the giant bone belongs to Pluto.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Image from Jet Propulsion Lab (Asteroid)

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCI TECH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 19, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

LEGAL SQUEEZE;

BYLINE: JANET FORGRIEVE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1291 words


Big law firms are getting bigger. Small firms are thriving by specializing. That
leaves  mid-sized firms caught in the middle. One Tampa family typifies the
trend.

Dan Burton gave his two youngest sons the same piece of advice early in their
law careers.

To succeed, make sure the client's needs set the pace.

The sons will tell you they've learned much more than that from their dad, a
partner at Foley &  Lardner for 15 years.

But recent moves for both make the brothers poster children for a national trend
driven largely  by what the client wants.

Clients' businesses are growing. They're dealing with complicated new issues
like global  regulations and fast-paced technology. Their time is better spent
running their companies than  shopping for legal services. So they want those
services in one place.

That means corporate law firms have to grow both geographically and in practice
areas. It's also  a good time for solo and boutique firms with low overhead if
they specialize in niche areas the big  firms don't handle.

So the big firms are getting bigger. The smaller firms are getting more of
what's left. And  medium-sized firms are being squeezed, with many destined to
either grow or fold.

Data illustrating the trend is tough to come by. But legal experts in the Tampa
Bay area and  nationally agree that client needs and a changing business climate
are leading the bipolar push.

Anecdotal evidence abounds.

There is persistent talk of Miami-based giant Greenberg, Traurig making its move
into the  Tampa market through what has become its modus operandi: acquiring a
mid-sized firm with an  established presence. Most recently, talks with
76-lawyer Annis, Mitchell fell through. But the  firm has confirmed in the past
that it is looking here, and talk of an eventual entree for the  500-lawyer firm
persists.

Holland & Knight, a 950-lawyer international firm with deep Tampa roots,
continues to expand  in both geographic and practice areas. Most recently, it
added Washington, D.C.-based  telecommunications firm Koteen & Naftalin LLP -
whose clients include NBC and The New York Times.

Firms like Carlton, Fields, Ward, Emmanuel, Smith & Cutler, traditionally
considered large  with close to 200 lawyers, are looking to get even bigger.
That firm has been in merger talks with  Winston-Salem, N.C.-based Womble,
Carlyle, Sandridge & Rice since last year. Womble, Carlyle boasts  380 lawyers,
and would give the Florida firm a national presence.

When Shear, Newman & Rosenkranz of Tampa split up, most of its partners,
associates and staff  joined statewide firm Ruden, McCloskey, bringing that
firm's total to 170 lawyers in nine offices.

"We found it was the only way to reach critical mass," said partner David Shear.
"With the business  and legal climate today, we needed the size."  Big and
little brothers

The Burton brothers recently traded places on the spectrum.

For Glenn, 42 and three years older than Steve, change meant hanging out his
shingle after 17  years at medium and large firms.

When his former firm split this spring, most of its lawyers joined a bigger
shop. He decided the  best place to practice medical-malpractice defense and
other injury-defense litigation was a  boutique firm that did only that.

His thriving practice was in a niche that the new, larger firm chose not to
pursue, but he knew  his big stable of clients still needed his services.

So, after 14 years at Shear, Newman, he and eight others formed Burton, Schulte,
Weekley,  Hoeler, Poe & Robbins.

Meanwhile, in another tall Tampa building, brother Steve got an offer he
couldn't refuse. Unlike  Glenn, Steve had pretty much run his own show for most
of his 12-year career.

Most recently, his business litigation firm, Burton & Geitner, boasted four
lawyers and one  part-time associate. The scrappy firm had made a living
competing with the big guys.

In recent years, Steve's clients had an increasing need for an expert in
technology issues. He  responded by becoming that expert, some might say to the
extreme last year, when he immersed  himself in the state's Y2K preparation.

While the calendar change brought no major computer glitches, his work netted
him a higher  profile and a tech-savvy reputation that paid off in more and
bigger statewide clients.

It also made it tougher for him to both practice law and run the business. He
chose to practice,  closing his doors last month to head the technology practice
for Broad & Cassel, a statewide firm  with about 150 lawyers. He'll also act as
co-managing partner for the Tampa office, along with  Robert Johnson.  Growing
expectations

Nobody sets rigid size classifications for law firms. In fact, definitions may
be changing even  as you read this. "Big" becomes an increasingly relative term
as giants like Holland & Knight push  toward the 1,000-lawyer mark.

A five-year old trade journal article called firms of 11-50 lawyers medium,
while 51 and more  was considered large.

In contrast, an article in another publication last year classified Carlton,
Fields as medium,  surprising partners at the almost 200-strong Tampa-based
firm, said recruiting director Elizabeth  Zabak.

It's pretty generally accepted that to be considered large these days, a firm's
lawyers must  number in at least triple digits. More important than the actual
number of bodies is the ability to  offer expertise in a growing number of
practice areas and locations.

To some law firm leaders, one reason to grow now is to be able to grow later.

"We have traditionally hired from the best law schools," Carlton, Fields
managing partner Tom Snow  said. "We want to continue to provide the kind of
work that provides interest."

Firms also stress the need to grow selectively, in response to client needs.

"Well-run businesses decide who to use based on the expertise of the individual
rather than the  size of the supermarket," said David Shobe, a partner and
corporate lawyer at Fowler, White since  1971.

Recently, that 150-lawyer firm noticed it was sending more and more clients to
other firms for  patent work, a fast-growing need for technology-driven
businesses. In response, Fowler White added  a patent law department to keep the
clients in-house.

That said, Shobe and others agree that some specialties likely won't ever be a
good fit for most  big business-oriented firms. Criminal law, with the possible
exception of white-collar crime,  doesn't pay for itself at big firms.
Residential real estate and family and marital law also tend  to be bad fits.

And, Glenn Burton said, his area is becoming another. In injury defense
litigation, insurance  companies typically set the hourly rates, sometimes as
low as half the $ 200 to $ 300 per hour big  firms charge other clients. As
firms and their accompanying overhead grow, it becomes less  cost-effective for
them to discount fees.

And, as medium-sized firms regroup, much of the specialty work falls to the
little guys.

Thanks to technology, overhead for the little guys has dropped drastically. They
don't need law  libraries when they have Lexis/Nexis and a host of other online
resources to do research.

Lawyers agree that the trend is likely to continue as long as it's what clients
want. Likewise,  lawyers at firms of all sizes are likely to land on their feet
if they remember the client.

"If you want to be an attorney who specializes in representing clients who
manufacture buggy  whips, you can," said Dan Burton. "Just remember, if you do,
your income will represent the buggy  whip industry."  Janet Forgrieve can be
reached at (813) 259-7870 and jforgrieve@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3(1C),
 Tom Snow

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 8, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Fla. weather lets yellow jackets build year-round;

BYLINE: SARAH GERRY, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 583 words


LUTZ - Large nests of dangerous yellow jackets aren't uncommon in Central
Florida.

Yellow jackets spent more than a year building a home with at least 15 floors
and 20 doors, one  Jonathan B. Simkins destroyed Friday evening with three
ounces of neurotoxin. The nest was so  large, he brought his wife, Jessica, and
their three sons to see it. But Simkins, who owns Insect  IQ, a Tampa
pest-control service, said the yellow-jacket mansion isn't unusual.

About 40 percent of the 300 to 500 nests he eradicates each year are as big.

"We did some last year and the year before that were just gigantic," he said.

It's Florida's climate that makes large yellow-jacket nests possible. In colder
areas, most  queens hibernate in the winter, then start new nests in the spring.

But in Tampa, they can keep building all year long, said Lionel Stange,
biological scientist  with the Florida Department of Agriculture.

He said the wasps won't pose a threat unless residents disturb them. But if
they're being  threatened, they can each sting intruders several times.

In 1998, a toddler died after being stung 432 times. Last August, two young
children were stung,  one 271 times, and survived.

Sydney Park Brown, a horticulturist with the Hillsborough Cooperative Extension
Service, said  that, until recently, she never received complaints about yellow
jackets.

But now, either people are becoming more aware of the wasps or the wasp
population is  increasing.

"We never saw anything up until a year ago, when everything blew up," she said.

Stange said he wasn't aware of any increases in the yellow-jacket population.
But he said a  change in climate or a slight shift in their genetic makeup could
cause population growth.

Since nests blend in with their surroundings, Florida residents aren't always
aware when the  wasps have built one.

The nest destroyed Friday was in a decorative plant in the back yard of Kathy
and Tom Nesmith's  home off Gunn Highway.

"We notified all the neighbors and told them to keep the kids inside," Nesmith
said.

Staying away from a nest is the surest way to avoid being stung.

If you do accidentally stumble into a nest, Simkins recommends running for dense
foliage. The  wasps will have to slow down to fly through the leaves.

In an open space, they can't be outrun.

"I don't care if you're Ben Johnson on steroids," he said. "They're going to
catch you."    (CHART) Yellow means caution   Yellow jackets are about 1 inch
long.   In Florida, yellow jackets typically live below-ground in colonies of
between 75 and 5,000. They  can be aggressive if disturbed and can sting
repeatedly.   A single sting can be deadly for someone allergic to a yellow
jackets' venom.   Do not swat at yellow jackets; this could aggravate them.
Wear heavy clothing in wooded areas; a yellow jacket sting can penetrate light
fabrics.   Warn children against playing in overgrown areas.   Cover trash
containers so yellow jackets can't get in. They are attracted to sweet, sticky
foods  and drinks.   Call a professional when you need to eliminate a Yellow
Jacket nest.   If you are stung use an icepack, take a pain reliever and wash
the wound. Antihistamines may  reduce swelling. Calamine products can reduce
itching.  Source: University of Florida, Knight Ridder  JENNIFER F.A.
BORRESEN/Tribune graphic  Sarah Gerry reports on Tampa issues and can be reached
at (813) 259-7365 or sgerry@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); CHART; DRAWING (C),
 JENNIFER F.A. BORRESEN, Tribune graphic (C) (DRAWING) (yellow jacket)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 24, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Views on One Florida;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1275 words


We are deeply disappointed by the decision of the Board of Regents to approve
Gov. Jeb Bush's  "One Florida" plan.

This plan will jeopardize the education opportunities of thousands of young
people across  Florida.

We have already seen a radical decline in the number of minority freshman
enrollees in the  University of California and the University of Texas systems
since affirmative action for  admissions was ended. Similar results are expected
in Florida.

Numerous studies have shown that ending affirmative action in colleges and
universities,  thousands of young people will deny equal access to quality
education and the ensuing opportunities  it brings.

Given the historical segregation in the university system in Florida, we urge
Bush to end the  regression the "One Florida" plan represents.  GEORGINA VERDUGO

 Washington, D.C.  The writer is executive director of Americans for a Fair
Chance.


I would like to add my voice in publicly praising Gov. Jeb Bush's "One Florida"
measure. Despite  the loud and vehement complaints about the end of affirmative
action, I support it.

It is time now to make Florida colorblind rather than be obsessed with race.
Affirmative action  is no longer about equality; it's about maintaining quotas
and special privileges that only serve  to separate us as Floridians and promote
racial tension rather than alleviate it.

I applaud Bush's courage and principles. It is a rare thing nowadays for a
politician, of all  things, to do the right thing. We need to praise him, not
denounce him, and end affirmative action  now.  ALLEN PERRIN  Ruskin  For
single-payer health

When President Clinton and Al Gore took office, there were 38 million people in
the United  States without any health insurance. Now there are 44 million.
That's progress in reverse.

In 1998 alone, the number of uninsured children rose to 330,000 following
increases of 188,000  in 1997 and 755,000 in 1976. This is sick.

It's time to firmly grasp the levers of change and perform radical surgery on
our health care  system.

Health care must be universal, accessible to the poorest poor without any
pre-existing condition  of health, adequate and affordable. Health care should
be considered a right, not a privilege.  Anything less is totally unacceptable.

To achieve these goals, the system must be efficient and cost-effective. This
cannot be  accomplished without removing the profit motive. "Managed
competition" won't do the job.

We must remove the link between health care and employment. This restricts
freedom for  individual advancement.

A cabinet-level post should be created with a director responsible for the
overall operation of  the entire system, including building of new hospitals and
purchase of new equipment and drugs,  with cost controls and fixed fees. Put
Veterans hospitals under this same umbrella.

"Band-Aids" and tinkering with the system as it exists won't work and are a
waste of time. A  single payer is absolutely essential if the system is to be
cost-effective.

Doctors should be on salary. This really isn't anything new or radical. Doctors
are on salary in  many hospitals, including Henry Ford in Detroit and the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester. Other health care  providers and other providers of public
services - including nurses, teachers, ministers, law  enforcement personnel,
judges and those elected and appointed to political office - are also on
salary. This need not restrict a patient's choice of doctors.

It's time to remove the word "competition" from health care vernacular and
lexicon. Don't be  hornswoggled by the lobbyists representing the profiteers who
have a stake in the system as it  exists. We need only to look north to Canada
to see an excellent health care system that protects  all Canadians. The cost
per capita is about one-half what it costs here.

Adopt the Canadian plan with modifications where necessary. It's time to get
single payer back  on the table for discussion. Physicians for a National Health
Program, representing 8,500 doctors,  supports this concept, as do many other
people.  FRED JAMES  Ocala  Addressing global warming

As a citizen concerned about the impacts of global warming on Florida, I was
pleased that both  Bill Bradley and Al Gore emphasized the need to take action
on curbing global warming at their  campaign events in Tampa last week.

National leadership is needed now more than ever to bring about common-sense
solutions to this  threat. All of the presidential candidates, regardless of
party affiliation, should publicly lay  out concrete plans to reduce domestic
sources of greenhouse gas emissions.

Florida will be among the states hit hardest by the effects of global warming.
The  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicts a temperature increase
of three to four degrees  Fahrenheit in Florida over the next century, along
with a greater frequency of extreme hot days in  the summer.

These hotter temperatures and increased numbers of heatwaves will have a severe
impact on human  health. Among the likely health impacts are a doubling of
heat-related deaths, increased  transmissions of diseases such as malaria and
dengue fever from disease-carrying insects, increased  threats of marine-borne
illnesses and shellfish poisoning and increased incidence of dangerous  algae
blooms.

The potential impact of global warming on Florida is a serious concern. Any
future leader of  America must have a plan to deal with this threat to our
state. For sake of future generations,  let's hope that the presidential
candidates present their plans to solve global warming before it's  too late.
CAROLYN DANCKAERT  Lutz  Move desal plant offshore

We know that no matter what, a desalination plant on Tampa Bay will alter the
quality of the  water in the bay. Probably the alteration will fall between the
"no problem" espoused by Tampa Bay  Water and the "ecological disaster"
predicted by the opponents.

There will be changes in the ecology of the bay.

I am curious if consideration has been given to an offshore desalination plant.
From the  information I have been able to gather, a 25 mgd plant does not occupy
a lot of space. One would  easily fit on an offshore drilling platform. Drilling
platforms routinely sit through high seas and  storms in the Gulf of Mexico and
the North Sea in waters a lot deeper than found three miles off  the Florida
shore.

We know that Miami has pipes trenched into Biscayne Bay that carry treated
sewage into the  Atlantic. Due to the corrosive nature of the product, those
pipes require occasional replacement.  That would not be the case with fresh
water. The cables carrying electricity to operate the plant  could be inside the
pipe. They would not have to be saltwater-resistant. The flowing water would
keep them cool.

Three miles out at sea, the saltwater intakes would be short and direct,
reducing their cost and  maintenance. The brine outflow would dump directly into
the sea, again lowering the amount of  corrosion-resistant materials.

Because of the extra salinity of the sea water, it might be necessary to have a
higher flow of  sea water, taking a smaller percentage of fresh water as it
passes through. This would also tend to  make the difference in salinity between
the intake and discharge less.

Two sets of pipes and cables could be run and, when the facility is doubled, a
third set  installed, providing a spare for possible problems.

This idea would eliminate the potential changes to our bay.  HENRY F. COLLINS
Tampa

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 11, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

County revamps water rules, fines;

BYLINE: TED BYRD, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words


TAMPA - Hillsborough County retools the watering schedule, raises fines and
tells people not to  be wasteful.

Locked in the grip of a worsening drought, Hillsborough County instituted a new
array of  regulations Wednesday designed to curtail soaring water consumption.

At the risk of confusing consumers, county commissioners voted unanimously to
impose new  lawn-watering rules, the second set in two months.

The board ended its once-a-week watering system based on even and odd addresses
that allowed  watering on Sundays and Tuesdays. It retained the once-a-week
watering limit, but watering days  will now be determined by the last digit of a
street address.

Street addresses ending with 0 or 1 can use sprinklers on Mondays; those ending
in 2 or 3 water  on Tuesdays; 4 or 5 on Wednesdays; 6 or 7 on Thursdays; and 8
or 9 on Fridays.

No irrigation is permitted on Saturday or Sunday, and any watering must be done
before 8 a.m. or  after 6 p.m. There will be a two-week grace period, but the
changes went into effect immediately in  unincorporated Hillsborough County.
That excludes the cities of Tampa, Plant City and Temple  Terrace.

Without the changes, Hillsborough officials worried that service might fail as
residents  demanded too much water from an overburdened system. As demand rises,
water pressure can drop from  a steady stream to a mere trickle.

Water use on Sundays has been particularly high.

On May 7, the county used 81.2 million gallons. That was a 45 percent increase
from April 16,  when 56 million gallons were used.

"We would likely have some areas without water pressure by next Sunday," said
Norman Davis, the  county's water conservation coordinator. "This rapid increase
of demand was not anticipated."

About 75 residents in the Kennedy Hills area of Brandon were told to boil their
water after  pressure fell on the past two Sundays. In some areas, pressure
dropped below the 20 pounds per  square inch required by state law.

Hillsborough's biggest water problem is distribution - it can't pump water fast
enough to meet  demand.

"If we had all the water in the world, we couldn't put any more through the
lines," said Tony  Shoemaker, an assistant county administrator who oversees
utilities.

The pressure problems could cause contaminated water to be sucked back into the
pipe system or  hamper firefighting.

The new watering schedule will spread demand over five rather than two days a
week.

Commissioners also increased fines for first and second watering offenses from $
35 to $ 70. Fines  for third or additional offenses remain up to $ 500 plus
court costs. And the emergency law requires  that anyone using reclaimed water
from wastewater treatment plants not waste it.

The county already has begun trying to get details of the new rules to
consumers. A mailing will  go out to Tampa water customers in Hillsborough and
an advertising campaign is planned.

The new rules will remain in effect until at least June 30.

Water department officials assured county commissioners that the five-day-a-week
schedule should  not cause permanent damage to the Floridan Aquifer.

Hillsborough residents have clearly been flummoxed by the emergency water rules,
which began in  mid-March. This change may bring additional turmoil.

Carrollwood resident Rose D'Arpa is handicapped and will have to call in a
sprinkler company to  get her timer changed.

"If they get a notion in June to change it again, that'll be another $ 60,"
D'Arpa said. "They don't  realize the confusion and the inconvenience they cause
the public."

But Virginia Arnold, another Carrollwood resident, said she has noticed her
water pressure seems  low on watering days. She thinks spreading out when people
can water may be a good idea.

"I think it would keep the water pressure more normal," she said.

County commissioners said they understand the confusion and inconveniences, but
they saw little  choice but to adopt the new rules.

"It's one of those conditions where we all just have to pitch in together," said
Commissioner Ben  Wacksman.

The water picture in the Bay area is as dire as it has been in some time. And
the first four  months of the year reinforced the severity of a drought that
meteorologists say started in October  1998.

January through April marked the driest spring in records going back to 1915,
said Tim DeFoe,  head of hydrologic data for the Southwest Florida Water
Management District.

Over the district's 16-county territory, stretching between Charlotte and Levy
counties, only  4.08 inches of rain fell the first four months of 2000, compared
to 11.5 inches in a normal year.

The scant rainfall eclipsed the former record of 4.52 inches in 1923.

Although the spring was abnormally dry, the lack of rain stretches back for more
than a year,  DeFoe said. Tampa International Airport received just 39 inches of
rain in the last 19 months, or  about 88 percent of what falls in a typical
year, he said.

"The Florida Climate Center said Tampa International was the driest place in
Florida this spring,"  DeFoe said, "meaning we're at the center of the drought."

   (CHART) Rainfall hits 85-year low  The first four months of 2000 were the
driest on records dating to 1915 for West Central Florida,  emphasizing a
drought that started in October of 1998.  Flow in Central Florida's Peace River
is the lowest since records started 57 years ago and is 3  percent of normal for
this time of year.  Only 39 inches of rain fell in the past 19 months at Tampa
International Airport, about what falls  in the first 10 months of an average
year.  April, with .98 inches, was the 12th driest in 85 years of records
March, with 1.01 inches, was the 8th driest in 85 years of records  Actual rain
January-April - 4.08 inches  Normal rain January-April - 11.5 inches  Source:
Southwest Florida Water Management District    (CHART) New Water Rules  To ease
heavy use on Sundays, Hillsborough County residents must now water on weekdays
only. The  new rules took effect Wednesday.  If your address You would  ends in
a ...  water on ...  0 or 1 Monday  2 or 3 Tuesday  4 or 5 Wednesday  6 or 7
Thursday  8 or 9 Friday  No watering allowed between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily, or
on Saturdays or Sundays.    (CHART) Water rules  (Rules for Tampa, Hillsborough,
Pasco, Pinellas. See microfilm for details)  Staff writers Lisa Green and Neil
Johnson contributed to this report. Ted Byrd covers Hillsborough County
government and can be reached at tbyrd@tampatrib.comor (813) 259-7679.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART 3

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

In Brief;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 967 words

 HILLSBOROUGH  Students charged in school vandalism

GIBSONTON - Eight middle school students were arrested this week in a break-in
at East Bay High  School, where vandals caused $ 1,200 in damage, the
Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office reported  Thursday.

The students, ages 12 to 15, are suspected of climbing over a fence Tuesday and
entering the  school's football stadium. They then broke into a shed, took spray
paint and painted their names on  a wall, according to the sheriff's office.
They also crashed school golf carts into poles.

When four students returned to the school the same day to paint over their
names, they were  arrested, the sheriff's office said. The other four were
arrested Thursday.

All were charged with burglary, criminal mischief and trespassing on school
property.  Zoning change denied for self-storage

TAMPA - A zoning change to allow a four-story self-storage building in New Tampa
was unanimously  denied Thursday night by the Tampa City Council.

The council rejected the developer's position that the facility was needed to
meet community  demand and that it would be well buffered by trees and other
commercial buildings. The storage  building was to have 85,000 square feet and
be climate-controlled.

The site is off Bruce B. Downs Boulevard near West Meadows, across from Pebble
Creek.

"If this were two stories high, I would not have any problem supporting it,"
said Councilwoman  Linda Saul-Sena.

David Smith, a land-use developer representing developer Randy Ferreira, said
they "looked long  and hard," but a three-story building is not economically
feasible for the $ 4 million project.  City loosens water restrictions

TAMPA - For the first time since March, city residents can wash their cars
without fear of  getting a ticket.

The Tampa City Council gave final approval Thursday to easing water-use
restrictions that were  the toughest in the region. The changes took effect
immediately.

Residents now are permitted to:

Wash cars, as long as they use a hose fitted with an automatic shut-off nozzle.

Wash buildings for painting or maintenance.

Use outdoor fountains that have recirculating systems.

Run lawn irrigation systems one cycle after applying fertilizer or pesticides.

Use low-volume irrigation systems to water landscaping (trees, shrubs and
flowers).

Washing sidewalks, streets or driveways is still banned except for health or
safety reasons.

Rules on lawn watering - restricted to one day a week - were not changed.
Furniture store robberies investigated

PLANT CITY - Plant City police and Hillsborough County sheriff's deputies were
investigating the  armed robberies of two Buddy Home Furnishings stores, one
here and another in Seffner, police Sgt.  Greg Laughlin said.

At 6:55 p.m. Wednesday, two men in ski masks robbed the rent-to-own home
furnishing store at 408  E. Baker St. in Plant City of jewelry and an
undisclosed amount of money, Laughlin said.

The men, with guns, entered the store and ordered employees to get on the
ground. One robber  fired four shots, one of which was aimed at an employee, but
no one was injured, Laughlin said.

About an hour before that robbery, a Buddy Home Furnishings store was robbed in
Seffner, said  sheriff's Sgt. Rod Reder.

This time, three armed robbers with masks entered the store at 11766 Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr.  Blvd. No shots were fired. An undisclosed amount of money and
jewelry were taken, Reder said.  Police had similar descriptions of the robbers
in both cases.  Seabreeze Restaurant to remain open

TAMPA - Seabreeze Restaurant, famous for deviled crab and a romantic garden, is
still open and  likely will be until Feb. 8.

Because the pending sale of the Seabreeze was announced this summer, owner Helen
Richards said  she is receiving calls daily asking if the restaurant is
operating.

Helen and Robert Richards say the Seabreeze, 3409 Causeway Blvd., has a
potential buyer in  International Ship Repair and Marine Service. The deal has a
Feb. 8 deadline, Helen Richards said.  PINELLAS  Search widens for Zachary
Bernhardt

CLEARWATER - Authorities on Thursday expanded their search again for 8-year-old
Zachary  Bernhardt, reported missing by his mother from their Savannah Trace
apartment after she returned  from a pre-dawn walk Monday.

Some 80 people searched an area extending from McMullen-Booth Road to Tampa Bay,
and along the  shoreline to south of Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard, said Clearwater
police spokesman Wayne Shelor. An  airboat was among the vehicles used.

Investigators scoured wooded sections of east Clearwater where children were
known to play in  forts, though they had no evidence suggesting Zachary had gone
there, Shelor said.

Anyone with information is asked to call police at (727) 562-4422.  Boy, 12,
charged with pulling knife

SEMINOLE - A Largo boy, 12, was arrested Thursday, accused of threatening to cut
a girl at  Seminole Middle School if she did not give him her telephone number.

The boy pulled a Swiss army knife on the 12-year-old girl outside the gymnasium
at the school  Wednesday, said Pinellas County sheriff's spokesman Cal Dennie.
The girl walked away.

Both are seventh-graders.

The boy was arrested on a charge of aggravated assault.  Schools secretary wins
spelling bee

CLEARWATER - The secretary for Hillsborough Schools Superintendent Earl Lennard
on Thursday night  won the annual spelling bee sponsored by Read Pinellas.

JoAnn DelRosal, representing Tampa Bay Reads, spelled "domiciliated" for the
win. Second place  went to Darlene Tucker, a Tampa Tribune copy editor.

The Spell Down is Read Pinellas' major fundraiser. Read Pinellas is a countywide
coordinating  agency for literacy groups.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 8, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

A's for effort;

BYLINE: BILL HARMON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NORTHWEST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words


With special assistance, a Down syndrome student makes the grade in accelerated
adcademic  classes at Gaither High School.

ODESSA - On the outside, Geoffrey Powers says, he looks like a "mess."

The 16-year-old has Down syndrome, is legally blind, and suffers other problems
that make it  impossible for him to control his movements.

"It's clear they think he's retarded," says his vision teacher, Fay Osborn.

What many people don't know is that Geoffrey is taking 10th-grade honors courses
at Gaither High  School. His IQ in math was measured at 118; he scored 92 in
language, said his mother, Diane Tower.

Geoffrey is a miracle, she said.

He takes a full load with honors courses in world history, algebra, English, and
physical  science. He also takes a regular French course and a class for the
visually impaired. He's a  straight-A students, records show.

And he succeeds despite physical limitations. His only vision is peripheral.
Though he has a  beautiful, bass voice, he's unable to force out enough words to
form complete sentences. He lacks  feeling in his fingertips, so he can't use
Braille.

To make matters worse, there is a debate surrounding how Geoffrey communicates.
People trained  as facilitated communicators, hold his hand as he points to
letters on a pad or punches a computer  keyboard. Geoffrey signals his
facilitator with a head movement when he needs her to take his hand.

Critics of facilitated communication challenge whether the disabled person or
the facilitator is  doing the talking. They say the facilitator may
unconsciously communicate their own thoughts  because they are so attached to
the disabled child, and want him to succeed.

Through Osborn, one of his facilitators, Geoffrey who was born in Tampa and
lives in the Hammock  Woods subdivision, insisted the thoughts he expresses are
his own.

"I want people to see there are many different kinds of people who do things in
different ways,"  he said. "I do not question their ways and I don't want them
to question mine."

Geoffrey persuaded Hillsborough public school educators he is the one giving
answers on his  tests. But he had to persuade his mother first.

"I was skeptical at first," Tower said.

He began working with LorRaine Jones in 1991, when he was a student at
Woodbridge Elementary.  Tower didn't endorse the communication instruction, but
she wouldn't deny Geoffrey an opportunity.

THAT FALL, GEOFFREY'S SISTER went off to college. She put her stereo in
Geoffrey's room though  there wasn't any indication he listened to the music,
Tower said.

When his sister came home from school for the summer, she took back her stereo.
And when she  left again in the fall, she returned it to Geoffrey's room.

The next time Jones came over, the teacher noticed a marked change in Geoffrey's
mood.

"What's up with you?" she asked.

"I got my radio back," he answered.

"That convinced me," Tower said. "There was no way LorRaine could have known
about the radio."

Over the years, Tower had seen her son do things - like laughing at jokes - that
made her suspect  he was not mentally retarded. Facilitated communication
offered Tower her first chance to hear what  Geoffrey had to say.

Others aren't persuaded because it's hard for them to believe he's bright,
Geoffrey said.

"They don't understand because they think all Down syndrome people are the
same," he said. "They  question LorRaine. They question all my FC partners."

THE BEST EVIDENCE that facilitated communication isn't controlled by the
facilitator has come  from disabled people who achieve an ability to communicate
on their own, Jones said. She cited  physically disabled people who develop
speech through therapy.

However, facilitated communication is not accepted in courts, primarily because
it is based in  part on the facilitator's faith in its ability to work, says the
Autism Society of America, based  in Maryland.

And even for Geoffrey, it doesn't always work. He has failed to communicate
using a facilitator  who rubbed him the wrong way, Osborn and Tower said.

Hillsborough school officials also were dubious about Geoffrey's abilities. They
devised a test  in which he was read a story while a facilitator waited outside
the room. The facilitator, who had  not worked with him before, then came in.

Geoffrey correctly answered questions about the story, said Osborn and Tower.

One asked what caused dinosaurs to become extinct. Geoffrey answered, "Climate."

That shocked the educators in the room because Geoffrey had made the leap from
the Ice Age to  climate, Tower said.

Geoffrey's science teacher, Mary Nevsimal, says he has taught other students
that not everyone  learns the same way. Classmates rally to his side to make
sure he experiences what it takes to pass  tests.

"It's a challenge, but you have to understand that he doesn't learn the way
everyone else does,"  said Nevsimal. "If he can hear it he can learn it. He's an
over-achiever who makes some of the  highest grades in the class."  Bill Harmon
can be reached at (813) 885-5437 or wharmon@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 (C) People trained as facilitated communicators, such as Fay Osborn, assist
Geoffrey Powers allowing him to use a computer in his home. CLIFF MCBRIDE,
Tribune photos

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 15, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Poor school makes grade, not excuses;

BYLINE: MICHELE SAGER, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words


LAKELAND - Surrounded by textbooks and piles of paperwork, Principal Sue Buckner
flips through a  stack of flashcards.

In between district meetings and lunchroom duty, Buckner tutors struggling
students with math  equations, spelling lists and reading material.

At her school, everyone is responsible for academic excellence.

Buckner heads up Inwood Elementary in Winter Haven, one of three schools in Polk
County to get  an A grade from the state. Inwood received the grade, which is
based on test scores as well as  suspension and attendance rates, last June.

Of the state's 2,444 public schools, 203 received A grades. Hillsborough County
had seven A  schools; Pasco, two; and Pinellas, 18.

What makes Inwood different from most is 76 percent of its students are on the
free or  reduced-price lunch program. That means the majority of students come
from low-income families.

Inwood is one of only two elementary schools in the state that scored an A with
more than 60  percent on the lunch program. The other is Charley B. Hadley
Elementary in Miami.

Some school officials argue that students from poor or mobile families can bring
down test  scores and affect the school's grade.

Buckner doesn't buy that.

"I don't want excuses. I just want results," she said. "If you build a climate
for success, then  your students will follow."

Starting today, students in public schools across the state in fourth, fifth,
eighth and 10th  grade will take the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test. The
standardized test measures writing,  math and reading comprehension skills.

FCAT scores are the key factor when the state determines school grades.
Seventy-eight schools in  the state received an F last year. In the Tampa Bay
area, Hillsborough, Pasco and Pinellas had no F  schools. Polk had two.

If a school gets an F twice in a four-year period, students there can transfer
to other public  schools or be eligible for vouchers to attend a private school,
taking with them money the school  would have received.

FOR HIGH-ACHIEVING schools, grades translate into dollars. Last year's awards
amounted to $ 100  per student.

Awards were either for being named an A school and sustaining high student
performance or for  showing improvement in academics, absences, suspensions and
dropout rates. Fifty-eight schools in  Hillsborough, Pasco, Pinellas and Polk
received financial awards last year. Oscar J. Pope  Elementary in Polk was the
only D school in the area to receive an award. Neither F school got any  award
money.

Some complained the money should have gone to the D and F schools because they
need it.

With the $ 45,858 it received, Inwood Elementary bought classroom computers,
textbooks and online  software for the library.

Buckner said it takes a dedicated staff to stay on top under Florida's grading
system.  Initiatives her school have used include:

In-service training for teachers.

Tutorial programs for students.

FCAT practice tests.

Regular reading blocks.

Writing workshops.

Buckner said teachers are trained in how to work through barriers: "We have
developed a  supportive culture that lets our teachers know that we're all on
the same team."

The same goes for parents, she said: "Many of these children come from
single-parent homes who  have to work two or three jobs to make ends meet. We
try to develop strategies that will both help  the student and fit into the
parent's lifestyle."

Parent Mimi Hoecker has volunteered at Inwood since 1992 and said she likes how
teachers and  staff use positive techniques.

"The students are praised for even the small steps they take," she said.
"Negative remarks aren't  made in these classrooms."

WHILE STATE education leaders are quick to use Inwood as an example of how the
grading system  can work, Buckner isn't sure she wants to be the model.

"You can't just look at a school grade and say this school is a success or this
one is in  trouble," she said. "You have to look at the teachers that work there
and the programs in place."

Buckner said things haven't always been so rosy at the school. There was a time
Inwood was on  the list of critical schools.

Before the state developed its current grading system, the Department of
Education labeled  schools "critical" when students scored poorly on
standardized tests. The list was created to help  districts identify the schools
that most needed help.

"If this grading system was around 10 years ago, we could easily have been a D
or F school," said  Buckner, who has been at Inwood 10 years. "It takes time to
rebuild a program; it doesn't happen  overnight."

EDUCATION COMMISSIONER Tom Gallagher said D or F grades shouldn't be a surprise
for some of the  schools.

"If you go back and look at the list of low-performing schools five years ago,
many of these same  schools are on there," he said. "It's time these schools do
what it takes and get off those lists."

Polk's two F schools, Auburndale Central Elementary and Blake Elementary in
Lakeland, are  involved in that rebuilding process.

Both are focusing most on preparing for the FCAT. The percentage of students who
score the  minimum will be a major determination for the grade a school gets.

Critics say the state puts too much emphasis on one test.

Wayne Blanton, the executive director of the Florida School Board Association,
said the FCAT is  merely a snapshot of concepts students understand at the time
of the test.

"The FCAT does not reflect the progress a student makes," he said. "A child may
be below their  expected reading level but make significant progress in the
year."

Other concerns for school leaders are that absences and suspensions are figured
into the grade.  Blanton said it's unfair to penalize schools that discipline
students.

"In a time when we are most concerned with safety, we should want our
administration to take a  strong stand with students who break the rules," he
said.

Blanton said he believes some factors in the grading system, such as the number
of suspensions,  will be changed when the state Legislature meets in March. The
grading system already has undergone  minor modifications since last year.

Those changes can be frustrating for those monitoring schools. Brenda
Bartholomew, the director  of accountability for Polk schools, said changes can
put teachers and administrators in a panic.

"It seems like we're getting faxes from Tallahassee every week," she said.
"We're dealing with the  primitive stages of a system, and no one really knows
what to expect."

Bartholomew said it's important for schools to educate parents and keep them
from panicking.

"We already get calls from parents wanting to know when and where they can pick
up their  vouchers," she said. "I don't think parents really understand the
complications of this system."

For many principals, the goal is to keep their schools off the D and F lists.

Buckner said even her school feels the pressure.

"An A school doesn't have it much easier," she said. "There is this expectation
that we should  score an A grade again. If you don't, people want to know what
happened. I don't care who you are,  everyone feels the pressure to make the
grade."  Michele Sager can be reached at (863) 683-6538 or
msager@tampabay.rr.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); SIGNATURE (C),
 (C) Sue Buckner, Inwood Elementary Principal SCOTT ISKOWITZ, Tribune photo

NOTES: THE PRESSURE TEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Readers offer suggestions, criticisms and comparisons of our public school
system;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words


As a retired elementary teacher of 30 years, I am appalled at what the governor
of Florida is  doing to the education system.

Schools with poor attendance and performance should have help, not punishment.

Money should go toward supplies and an attendance officer who ensures the kids
are in school,  and then give them the extra help they need with qualified
aides. Many parents may not have enough  education to help their children.

The schools with high test scores have equipment and good attendance, and many
students who come  from highly educated families with good employment. They
don't need the money, and from what I have  read, some didn't want the money.

Heaven help us if our governor's big brother, George W. Bush, should become
president and has  the same ideas about our national education system.  DORIS
TURNER  Zephyrhills

Regarding your editorial "A lesson from Catholic schools" (Feb. 4):

It has been well-known that the Catholic schools do not fool around. Either you
shape up or ship  out. That is why they can have 50 students in a classroom.
Education is their business.

Unfortunately, public schools cannot do that, and you know it. They cannot
choose who can come  in and who will stay.

Because of the laws of the land, the public schools must commit millions of
dollars for  extracurricular programs and alternative schools in addition to the
regular curricula to better  handle the troubled students. Public schools must
spend millions more for security and legal issues  because some parents want
their children's right to do their own thing protected and because other
parents will sue the schools, blaming them for the damage the pursuit of these
rights causes.

For 50 years schools have been required to provide additional programs and
services because the  rest of society has neglected them. And now these same
factions charge the schools with failing  society. Teaching now includes tasks
that take up almost half the teacher's time!

The latest effort is to have the schools teach the Bible. We are to overlook the
separation of  church and state. Are we to exempt the schools from that law?

If we do, sure enough, someone will sue the schools for violating that law.
Praying is good, but  don't the students pray and read the Bible at home? Can't
students pray in silence rather than be  like the publican who beats his breast?

I say this: Provide the public schools with the same latitude the Catholic and
private schools  have, and you will see a significant change in the way students
conduct themselves. You will see  how their "rights" are curtailed.  GABRIEL
READ  Avon Park

What a refreshing article about Inwood Elementary's excellent FCAT results
(Nation/World, Feb.  15). This story really must fly in the face of the liberal
attitude that students who do not have  parents of means are relegated to a life
of failure and eternal reliance on the government and that  their only hope is
for the government to attempt to drown their problems in dollars.

"I don't want excuses. I just want results. If you build a climate for success,
then your  students will follow," stated Principal Sue Buckner. Inwood students
are very blessed to have such a  leader. I bet the principal of Charley B.
Hadley Elementary in Miami - the other "poor" "A" FCAT school -  shares the same
philosophy. Conversely, if you accept excuses and are not concerned about
results,  you build a climate of failure and your students will follow.

One argument heard often regarding the FCAT is that some schools are "teaching
to the test."

My response to that argument would be that at least some learning took place and
the students  are not more ignorant after the test.

Accolades to Buckner! Don't be surprised to see some of her "poor" students do
very well in life  on their own.  RONALD C. MARTIN  Plant City

Lottery proceeds were to go for education. That did not pan out. Many Florida
kids between the  ages of 6 and 13 cannot read or write.

The money from lottery ticket sales is a donation to the government. Why don't
people realize  that?  LOUISE BUCHER  New Port Richey

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 19, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Readers suggest actions beyond just paying higher gas prices;

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1206 words


I am amazed at the lack of concern by the news media about the effect of the
Organization of  Petroleum Exporting Countries' control of oil.

Convergence of events destabilizing the Middle East has increased the
possibility of war.

OPEC's contraction of the world oil production, increasing oil prices and the
expenditure of our  strategic oil reserves, the coming U.S. elections and the
weakness of President Clinton during this  lame-duck session, and current U.S.
policies restricting oil exploration are precursors to war.

Israel's unilateral policy of withdrawal from occupied territories without peace
guarantees and  Arafat's expected unilateral declaration of statehood for
Palestine are elements of further  destabilization.

Causing the United States to expend its strategic oil reserves in advance of a
Middle East war  would prevent us from having any mediating voice in such a
conflict because we would have been  weakened by strategic oil reserves
depletion and by the inability of President Clinton to be taken  seriously.

It is time for the media to absorb the implications of OPEC's actions beyond the
increase in gas  prices.  HENRY PURCELL  Tampa


Judging by the U.S. news postings on the Internet, there is quite a hubbub going
on in the  States about increasing gas prices. Nearly $ 2 a gallon on the West
Coast, close to $ 1.50 in Florida  and listen to the outcry.

Too high? Gas prices are too high? The U.S. energy secretary is talking tough
with Middle  Eastern oil-producing nations - why? There is talk of repealing the
1993 gas tax act - why? George W.  is making empty threats to the Clinton
administration about getting fuel prices back down - why?

It is both maddening and sad to see the typical knee-jerk reactions to
increasing fuel prices in  the United States. Americans, with just 5 percent of
the world's population, consume 20 percent of  its resources and produce 40
percent of the greenhouse gases that are wreaking such havoc on our  climate and
eroding our ozone layer. Much of this is a result of our irresponsible love
affair with  the automobile.

Americans pay just a fraction of what other developed nations pay for fuel. My
husband and I  have been backpacking around Europe for the last five months. For
the most part, we have used the  normally efficient (and affordable - roughly 75
cents per ride in the city, less for weekly or  monthly users) public
transportation systems. But in three countries - the United Kingdom, Ireland
and Spain - we have rented a traditionally European compact car. Gas prices in
these countries  average $ 4.25 a gallon.

We are currently in Ireland, where gas costs on average 65 pence a liter (about
$ 4 a gallon).  Though this is more than double what we could expect to pay back
home in Tampa, we're not  complaining. I would love to see U.S. gas prices go up
- and stay up.

Maybe then oil companies would have to look seriously at alternative (read
clean) fuel options.  Maybe then, car companies would abandon their insane
efforts to build bigger and bigger  gas-guzzling death machines (read sport
utility vehicles). Maybe then our government might just  consider following
other countries' examples of implementing efficient, safe, affordable public
transportation systems that, yes, cost millions of dollars to construct (though
no more than the  endless ribbons of highways that now crisscross nearly every
section of America) but save much in  terms of environmental and oil costs. (But
who cares about the environment, anyway?) And maybe then  Americans would begin
to realize that they're not alone in this world and start thinking of
themselves as having to share our planet's precious gifts with the other nearly
6 billion people  who inhabit it.

But no, most Americans would rather sacrifice their sons in costly Middle
Eastern wars or see  our delicate shoreline ecosystems spoiled by offshore
drilling and careless oil spills. Anything to  ensure they don't have to pay
more than $ 1.25 to fill up their 12-mile-to-the-gallon Explorer or  whatever
the flavor-of-the-month SUV is at the moment. America's self-centeredness,
ignorance and  complete disregard for the environmental and human costs of our
free-for-all consumption of the  earth's finite resources make us a
laughingstock to other developed nations, not to mention causing  an enduring
sense of shame for those Americans among us with any sense of global
consciousness.  NICOLE RUDAY DEUTSCH  Tampa  The writer is a former Letters
editor at the Tribune and is spending the year traveling around the  world.


Early in our nation's history, Patrick Henry said, "I care not what course
others may choose, but  as for me, give me liberty or give me death."

If only our Congress and president could realize it, the present high gasoline
prices could be  an even greater disguised blessing than the high prices and
shortage crises 10 to 20 years ago. Had  it not been for these crises, we would
still be driving cars averaging 10 to 20 miles per gallon of  gasoline rather
than cars averaging 20 to 40 miles per gallon of gasoline, as we do now.

We are now presented with two choices: We can become much less dependent on
OPEC, or we can face  an almost certain future crisis that could threaten not
only the economic destruction of our  nation, but even the total collapse of our
nation.

When the Alaskan pipeline was proposed, the extreme environmentalists predicted
that the  ecosystem of Alaska would be destroyed. These same extremists now
acknowledge that the pipeline has  not made a noticeable difference in Alaska's
environment.

Two things must be done: We must first greatly and soon expand our own oil
production. Second,  we must place an import duty on all imported oil.

We must stop putting obstacle after obstacle in the pathway of our gas and oil
exploration and  start giving significant incentives to gas and oil exploration
in all of our states, especially in  Alaska.  JIM RAHENKAMP  Avon Park


Regarding the Tribune's reprint of the Los Angeles Times editorial "Use oil
reserve to counter  OPEC's manipulation" (March 9): The thrust of that editorial
was that something must be done to "get  the attention of the major oil
exporters and encourage more responsible behavior."

The president has said every option for dealing with the problem remains open.
Every option?

Saudi Arabia is the biggest foreign supplier of oil to the United States. Kuwait
is also a major  supplier. I must be missing something. Didn't Desert Storm mean
anything to those nations? Didn't  we go over there to preserve and protect
their national interests and save them from Saddam  Hussein? Remember the oil
fields burning in Kuwait? If consumption of foreign oil can dictate  production,
i.e., less foreign oil consumption, more production, then every U.S. citizen
should  refuse to buy gas on April 7, 8 and 9 during "gas out" days. This
protest may not solve the problem,  but it is possible that this expression of
unity might get somebody's attention, particularly those  in Washington we
elected to represent us.  FRANK SUGARMAN  Tampa

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 22, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Desegregation polarizes teachers;

BYLINE: MARILYN BROWN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words


TAMPA - A Hillsborough County school district task force reacts to a
desegregation plan allowing  school choice within regions.

They are two fifth-grade teachers, but they're of different races at different
schools. And  Tuesday, they illustrated the polarity of their employer's plan to
try to end a desegregation court  order.

"It doesn't fly. They're living in a dream world," said Gladys Mitchell of
Cannella Elementary,  referring to the Hillsborough County school district
officials who drafted the plan.

"I hope it goes through. It would change the whole climate at our school,"
countered Amy Shell of  Sulphur Springs Elementary, referring to the plan that
still needs scrutiny from the school board  and a federal judge.

The teachers, two of the 90 members of a district desegregation advisory
committee, offered  their opinions at the committee's first chance to discuss
the plan.

The draft created by a smaller committee of district officials would split the
county into six  or seven regions. Each region would fan out toward the county
lines from a largely minority core in  the city of Tampa.

Families would choose schools to attend within their controlled regions. Schools
would fill on a  first-come, first-served basis or by lottery if applications
warranted.

No racial quotas are proposed, so some schools could continue to be nearly
all-black or  all-white. The plan offers the element of choice to outweigh the
racial imbalances that have  prevented the county from being released from its
1971 federal court order.

Magnet programs and other "attractors," however, would be expanded in 26 schools
in the core areas  that now have at least a 40 percent black student population.
The idea is to attract suburban  whites while encouraging some neighborhood
blacks to consider alternatives.

Mitchell, who is black, doesn't buy it.

"What white parent is going to take their child out of a school near home to go
to a black  school?" she asked. "And there are black parents who do not
understand their children need to see a  different way of life than where they
live."

But it's precisely the magnet idea that attracts Shell, who is white. Her
school's academic  performance over the years has reflected the socioeconomic
struggles of its overall population.

"How else can my school attract students who could change the whole atmosphere?"
she asked.

Although only half of the committee showed up at its meeting Tuesday, many
members disagreed  along similar lines. They expressed concerns about a plan
without quotas and guaranteed  transportation for all choices.

Sam Horton, president of the NAACP's Hillsborough chapter, said "no way" would
his civil rights  organization agree to such a plan and join the school board in
seeking a settlement of the lawsuit  that led to the 1971 court order.

"It doesn't even begin to address all the issues," said Horton, a former school
district official.  "It looks like punishment for even wanting a desegregated
school system."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 1, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Development series strikes a chord with readers near and far;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1310 words


Thanks for a great series of articles on business development. You point out
many of the  problems that I and my company are finding very true about the
Tampa area. Even though we are a  start-up company, we are making tremendous
strides and soon will enter a very explosive growth  phase. I'm afraid that the
Tampa area won't be able to support us in several of the areas you  mentioned:
venture capital, high-tech manpower and office space infrastructure. Another
area,  admittedly a vague one, is the basic understanding (and sometimes I don't
understand it either) of  what dot.com companies are all about, and our special
needs.  - CRAIG PULLIAM  Valrico


I'm glad that the Tribune's series on development in the Tampa Bay area has been
published. It  was long overdue! I'm a computer network administrator and
Microsoft engineer. I went to the  University of South Florida, and I'm moving
on into my "grown-up" life. I've come to realize - like  lots of other people my
age (23) - that Tampa (and Florida in general) has put a lot of emphasis on
sports, tourism and the "social scene" and not much focus on education,
culture/the arts,  transportation and attracting new/big business (technology
companies or otherwise). I hope Florida  will change its focus, or it will lose
lots of talented people, both "home-grown" and out-of-state.  However, I do
think that Tampa can do this - all the effort and attention that was placed on
the  Bucs returned positive results. Change that focus and Tampa is capable of
anything. Great job on  your stories and a great wake-up call for the Tampa Bay
area!  - CHRISTOPHER GAYLE  Tampa


I moved to California from Tampa in 1998 to "go where the action is." I hope
that when I return in  2004, Tampa will have taken the same course of action as
Austin, Boston, Atlanta and others, and  not adopt a passive or nonadaptive
attitude. Keep writing. Members of the public need to remove  their heads from
the sand and get real!  - CATHERINE BERGMAN  San Leandro, Calif.


Your articles on Tampa's business development have been excellent. However, do
you really think  that the "powers that be" are reading them and comprehending?
It seems they can handle only one thing  at a time. First it was the Bucs, and
now it is TGH. What a pity. Keep up the good work. Keep us  posted.  - JANICE S.
CAIL  Dunedin


I read with considerable interest the series of articles dealing with the health
of the business  community and the quality of life in the Tampa Bay area. There
seems to be a difference of opinion  between the information presented in the
articles and other highly respected sources. I quote from  the special issue,
"Economic Yearbook 2000" published by Florida Trend publication dated April,
2000,  page 128: "Hillsborough County is reaping the rewards of targeted
business development and image  enhancement efforts many years in the making.
Tampa, the county seat, showed up on many national  lists in 1999. Forbes rated
the city one of the best places to live in the country; Newsweek ranked  it No.
10 nationally for where the jobs and dollars are; and the U.S. Department of
Labor ranked  Tampa No. 1 in job growth among metro areas with an employment
level of 1 million or more." I would  recommend that your subscribers read the
Florida Trend article that deals with the Tampa Bay area.  It describes a very
different "business landscape" in the Tampa Bay area; one that shows strong
diversification across a number of industries.

Another impression I received in reading the articles was that high-technology
seemed to be  defined as companies grounded in the Internet/e-commerce/dot.com
businesses. The high technology  base that is experiencing rapid growth is
comprised of medical instrumentation, bio-tech and  micro-electronics, as well
as information systems/information technology. A series of high-tech  industry
sector studies completed by the University of South Florida Office of Economic
Development  are available. These studies illustrate the diversity of high-tech
companies in the Tampa Bay area.

My last comment concerning the Tribune articles is very specific. I quote from
the March 29  article, "Orlando has the Central Florida Innovation Corp., which
brokers deals for start-up  companies that are looking for money or need advice
on solving problems. The Tampa Bay area has no  central resource like that." The
Office for Corporate Development housed in the College of Business
Administration at USF is one of six innovation and commercialization centers in
the state. They are  funded primarily by Enterprise Florida. They are the
counterpart of the Central Florida Innovation  Corporation mentioned in the
article. Their mission is to assist start-up high-technology firms in
development, including the assessment and commercialization possibilities of the
firms'  technologies. They also are the lead sponsors in the Suncoast Venture
Capital Forum, which brings  together venture capital firms and companies
seeking funding. The Forum has raised millions of  dollars in venture capital
that is required to stay in the state of Florida. I would welcome the
opportunity to have any interested members of the newspaper staff thoroughly
briefed on the  activities of the Office for Corporate Development.  - ROBERT L.
ANDERSON  Tampa  Robert L. Anderson is dean of the College of Business
Administration at the University of South  Florida.


Re: "But it must decide whether it wants to be more proud of its football team
or its business  community," a quote that appeared in the Tribune's series on
Tampa's business climate: Excellent  series! Excellent reporting! Excellent
journalism! If you ever read the "classifieds," you would  laugh till tears come
into your eyes. Example: "Wanted - warehouse manager, degree required. Use of
forklift and computer literate. $ 7.50 an hour. Benefits after 6 months." I
doubt if they are going  to find this ideal candidate fresh out of college who
can do both tasks for $ 7.50 an hour. The  companies pay peanuts for salaries
and that is why the quality of "service" and "technical" personnel  positions
are so poorly manned.  - HAROLD DONALD HOUFEK SR.  Tampa


I grew up in Gainesville, but I have lived in Atlanta for the past 16 years. I
was seriously  considering relocating to the Tampa area in order to be close to
friends and relatives, but after  reading your articles I was stunned in
reference to the future growth of the metro Tampa area.

I am employed in the area of computer networking, and I am totally shocked about
how the Greater  Tampa Chamber of Commerce is basically turning away future
employment opportunities for the metro  Tampa area.

E-commerce-related employment is the future. In fact, luring e-commerce - as
well as other  technological-related companies - to the Tampa area will
definitely be good for the entire area  economically. Such workers could afford
to buy houses or rent nice apartments, buy medium-range  vehicles and spend
money at the area retail outlets.

Moreover, it would also attract other technological companies to relocate to the
area as well.  It's like a domino effect. If you lure one company in, many will
follow.

The Internet is the future, and if the city of Tampa does not get on the
bandwagon while the  economy is booming, it will probably be too late in the
future.

Once again, great articles by Tribune staff writer Ted Jackovics. Keep up the
good work. I read  The Tampa Tribune online daily, and I would like to say that
you guys are doing a great job down  there. Please relay this information to the
Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce and other business  leaders in the Tampa area.

 - CALVIN TERRY  Atlanta

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      April 7, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

New president for chamber an easy choice;

BYLINE: ERIC MILLER, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words


TAMPA - The Tampa chamber picks an economic development specialist as its next
leader.

It wasn't very deep into the candidate interview that members of the Greater
Tampa Chamber of  Commerce president's search committee realized they had the
right person for the job.

Even before they met him, Jay Garner, currently president and chief executive of
the Asheville  (N.C.) Area Chamber of Commerce, stood alone among a field of 42
applicants.

"When you summarized his professional life in terms of capabilities, experience
and background,  it became apparent very quickly that Jay was leading the pack,"
said Jack Wilson, co-chairman of the  seven-member search committee.

The clincher came during his face-to-face meeting with the committee. "He
conducted the  interview, we didn't," Wilson said Thursday.

"I'm not kidding. He said, "I've got nine questions for you.' We couldn't answer
them."

Apparently, Garner, 43, is willing to find the answers for himself. On Thursday,
the chamber's  board of directors named him president of the 2,500-member group,
effective May 22.

He replaces Don Barber, who is retiring after serving since 1994.

Garner comes to a community which has had tremendous success attracting jobs but
difficulty  holding onto headquarters of its public companies. Nearly one-fourth
of the Bay area's public  companies have either been acquired or left in the
past year.

Garner is convinced the Tampa business climate is healthy. His analysis
concluded that about 75  percent of the area's new jobs were created by existing
businesses.

"We do a very good job in economic development," he said. "I think the Tampa MSA
(Metropolitan  Statistical Area) is Number 1 in the country in net new job
growth. Does it get any better than  that?"

Garner has been the chief executive of the Asheville chamber since 1994. Before
that he was  second in command at the Mobile, Ala., chamber and headed economic
development programs in Dalton,  Ga., and Charles Town, W.Va.

While he was in Asheville, the chamber's revenue grew from $ 1.9 million to $
2.9 million, and  membership rose from 1,690 to 2,200, according to the chief
operating officer, Karen Turney.

"When he first came here, the wallpaper was peeling, and people who worked here
hoped you didn't  hear them when they told you they worked at the chamber," she
said.

"It was a sad state of affairs."

The Asheville chamber is the third-largest in North Carolina, even though it is
the state's  11th-largest metro area, she said.

Garner said he is not concerned that Tampa has no Fortune 500 headquarters.

"I believe in diversity. If you depend on one huge employer, what happens when
there is a  downturn, like Boeing in Seattle? When they go on strike, it
paralyzes the community. I'd rather  have 10 employers with 1,000 employees,
than one 10,000-employee employer."

Garner wouldn't discuss his plans, other than to increase membership.

"My first 90 days will be nothing but learning, doing an awful lot of
listening," he said. "Then  I'm going to come back with some suggestions and
recommendations."  Eric Miller can be reached at (813) 259-8264 or
emiller@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Jay Garner said he is not concerned that Tampa has no Fortune 500
headquarters.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 24, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

WE HEAR;

BYLINE: Compiled by the Tribune Business staff;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 759 words

 Jobs aren't jobs

It's bad enough when Jacksonville wins more football games than we do. It's
positively insulting  when the City of Smells outthinks us.

In kicking off its annual fundraising drive last week, the Jacksonville Chamber
of Commerce  stated annual goals the Bay area might pay heed to: Get
better-paying jobs and help the growth of  local companies that can raise the
city's standard of living.

"The goal is no longer total jobs. The goal is good jobs," Mayor John Delaney
told the city's top  corporate executives, saying the city had to stop marketing
itself as a low-wage employment center.

The Florida Times-Union backed the new attitude with these suggestions in an
editorial on how to  improve the business climate:

"Improve the public schools. We hear time and again that the reputation of our
public school  system rubs off on our economic development efforts. Fix them.
Make sure graduates can qualify for  entry-level jobs at the very least.
Employers say they see graduates with poor basic skills. It can  be tough to
recruit companies that need highly skilled employees when those employers fear
they  can't find workers.

"Don't give incentives to companies that pay low wages or won't agree to a
long-term commitment  to the city. It's our money. We should not spend tax
dollars to recruit companies that will  perpetuate low incomes. Neither should
we spend city funds on companies that may pay well but won't  stick around."

Does all this sound familiar? It should - it's exactly what progressive business
leaders in the  Bay area have been saying SHOULD be the thrust here (especially
given all the headquarters that  have left here in the past year), but isn't.

Are we listening?  Swimming among sharks

Will Tampa Electric go the way of its gobbled-up neighbor? Company officials
aren't talking.

Speculation about TECO has run rampant since Florida Progress Corp., the parent
company of  Florida Power Corp., agreed to be acquired by Carolina Power &
Light. That $ 5.3 billion deal is  expected to close this fall.

And the state's largest utility, Juno Beach-based Florida Power & Light Co., was
reportedly in  similar talks with a foreign utility, at least for a time.

At TECO Energy's annual shareholder meeting last week, CEO Robert Fagan
straddled one mighty  high fence.

"We don't see that bigger is necessarily better," Fagan told one shareholder.

But then another shareholder broached the subject. Fagan said the company has
protection to  thwart a hostile takeover, but there's nothing to stop a friendly
merger.

"An attempt like that is always possible," Fagan said.

After the meeting, Fagan was mum about whether TECO had already received offers.

"I don't think we'll comment on that," he said.  It's all Bay to him

Tourist development councils in Manatee and Sarasota counties moved last week
for an identity  change, pulling away from identification with the Tampa Bay
area in favor of a less-developed,  beachier image.

But when Brazil's Ambassador to the United States Rubens Antonio Barbosa shows
up next month,  he'll still tour the whole seven-county region traditionally
dubbed the Tampa Bay region.

The ambassador's trip is a precursor to a July, Gov. Jeb Bush-led trek to
Brazil, similar to  last summer's Mexico trade mission.

In addition to touring the Port of Tampa and the Dali Museum in St. Petersburg,
Barbosa will  view the whole region from a helicopter, and touch down in Manatee
at least long enough to sip some  juice at Tropicana's Bradenton factory.

One could argue that the area can claim a different identity in the tourism
arena and still stay  connected to the southern counties' economic development
and trade missions.

Except, perhaps, in the case of Brazil.

Because, at least in good economic times, the reason that country traditionally
holds the No. 1  spot of the list of exports to Florida is simple: Brazil sends
us more tourists every year than any  other country.  Bricks and mortar

The manic-depressive mood on Wall Street is luring some investors away from sexy
but volatile  high-tech stocks and back to good ol' commercial real estate.

Lee Arnold, the chairman of Colliers Arnold Commercial Real Estate Services in
Clearwater, said  he's been fielding calls since April 12 from large investors
who want to balance out their  portfolios with commercial real estate.

Pat Duffy, the president of Colliers Arnold, explains why:

"Real estate rarely drops 20 percent in a day."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WE HEAR

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 4, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Little-known Pinellas medical businesses make waves;

BYLINE: RAFAEL GERENA-MORALES, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1601 words


TAMPA - More than 100 medical products companies pour out their products in
obscurity, unknown to  the area and to each other.

From immune-system treatments to artificial skin, more than 100 medical
companies in Pinellas  County offer products that generate significant sales,
high-paying jobs and help anchor a fledgling  cluster of technology firms
stretching from Tampa Bay to Orlando.

Yet the companies, from struggling one-man start-ups to established performers
employing  hundreds of people, are relatively unknown to the broader business
community. Despite their  proximity, many of the companies aren't even aware of
each other.

Regional economic developers say it's time to change that.

They want to strengthen that group identity because as the cluster grows,
developing technology  that may yield an abundance of new medications as well as
jobs, Florida's economic success may be  increasingly tied to the local
industry's health.

"Medical manufacturing has a much greater impact for generating wealth than the
service industry,"  said Guy Hagen, an economic development executive at the
University of South Florida. He wrote a  study last year about the medical
technology industry in Central Florida.

"These companies bring in money from outside the state and country that helps
support the region,"  he said. "The medical technology industry offers
higher-paying jobs and better potential for future  growth."

Local officials hope the medical cluster can spur growth on the west end of the
Interstate 4  high-tech corridor. Ultimately they hope it will help Florida
achieve its New Economy dreams,  competing for talent and money with tech
bastions such as Silicon Valley, Boston and New York City.

Companies such as Smith & Nephew Inc. illustrate why people who follow the
Pinellas medical  cluster are raising their expectations.

The London-based health products conglomerate, which has a wound-care division
in Largo, offers  a glimpse of the industry's ability to pump hundreds of
lucrative jobs and growth opportunities  into the local economy.

The Largo division brings in $ 120 million of Smith & Nephew's $ 2 billion in
global annual sales,  which helps sustain 230 jobs in Pinellas, some of which
pay more than $ 100,000 a year. Entry-level  salaries in the marketing
department start at about $ 40,000 a year. In contrast, the average job in
Pinellas pays about $ 28,000.

"We're competing for talent against other companies throughout the country, so
we have to pay  well," said division President Rod Skaggs.

Smith & Nephew makes its wound-care creams, ointments and dressings in Largo. It
markets  TransCyte, a bioengineered skin product used on burn victims, from the
same office. But TransCyte  is manufactured in San Diego through a 50-50 joint
venture with Advanced Tissue Sciences, a biotech  company that invented the
product.

THE TWO COMPANIES are working on a bioengineered product in late clinical trials
that will help  burn victims regenerate skin. That's an upgrade from TransCyte,
which is incapable of organic  growth. Smith & Nephew expects federal approval
and plans to to sell the new skin product by  January.

Cryo-Cell International has its sights set even farther into the future.

The Clearwater firm sells kits that extract and store blood from the umbilical
cord of an infant  at the moment of birth. Doctors have long discarded cords,
but researchers have discovered they are  a repository for disease-fighting stem
cells, a form of white blood cell that can be used decades  later to revive a
person's immune system.

Cryo-Cell sells the kits for $ 275 and charges $ 50 a year to store the stem
cells in an automated  chamber cooled by liquid nitrogen. Inside, specimens are
frozen in test tubes at minus 196 degrees  Celsius, the temperature at which
cell life suspends activity. In theory, the stem cells could be  thawed decades
later to be given intravenously to the donor.

The product is marketed to pregnant women concerned about a child getting cancer
and having the  immune system harmed by chemotherapy or radiation treatments. As
science advances, the company  hopes the cells may be used against diseases in
ways beyond the original intent.

Cryo-Cell, a publicly traded company, has lost more than $ 6 million in its
11-year history, but  reports annual sales of $ 1.7 million. It employs 16
people and currently stores 8,000 cell samples  on site.

Its biggest challenge is getting pregnant women and the medical community to
view the collecting  of umbilical blood as a standard part of the childbirth
process, said Chairman Daniel Richard.

"Throwing umbilical cords in the waste bin is a tragedy," he said.

Biotechnology isn't the only type of technology growing in the medical cluster,
though.

TeleDynamics Group Inc. in Clearwater designs telecommunications software and
services that help  pharmaceutical giants such as Pfizer Inc. and Novartis AG
promote drugs to doctors over the phone.  The system records audio information
about new drugs into an automated voice system that doctors  access by touching
the phone's numeric pad.

TeleDynamics says drugmakers pay from $ 50,000 to $ 1.2 million for the service,
which can  complement existing advertising campaigns, help launch new products,
and serve territories where a  manufacturer doesn't have a sales representative.

The company, which employs 23 people, also offers continuing education in
45-minute phone  sessions that doctors can access 24 hours a day.

"Doctors are extremely busy, so they need the flexibility our systems provide,"
said Sean Edwards,  TeleDynamics' marketing director. He said there are 300,000
users nationwide, but the private  company won't reveal sales figures.

ALONG THE I-4 corridor, 190 medical companies generate $ 1.3 billion in annual
sales and employ  more than 10,000, according to USF. About 60 percent of the
companies have annual sales averaging  $ 11.3 million. Because virtually all are
privately held, profit figures are not available.

Pinellas is home to 101 medical companies, making it the industry's epicenter in
Florida, yet  the numbers have not translated into regional legislative or
economic power.

For decades, these manufacturers have banged out wheelchairs, bandages and
prescription drugs in  obscurity, overshadowed by the Sunshine State's tourism
and agriculture industries.

But with the sector evolving to biotech products that may lead to breakthroughs,
"this is a key  industry in Pinellas," said Brian Cartland of the Pinellas
County Economic Development office.

"We're proceeding to work closely with the industry's leaders to determine their
needs and lay  out a strategy to build on," Cartland said. "The industry needs a
stronger voice."

One idea is to form an association that could help members with legislative and
labor issues  such as recruiting, he said.

USF would like to increase partnerships such as its two-year agreement to
conduct  degenerative-disease research for Cryo-Cell. Hagen said the university
wants to link the Pinellas  cluster with its medical and engineering schools and
with the affiliated H. Lee Moffitt Cancer  Center & Research Institute.

"We're starting to get to know each other," he said. "USF is trying to create
connections between  these firms and our faculty and laboratories. We want to
make partnerships easier to make, so no  one has to hunt in the dark for
connections."

The efforts are in their infancy, he conceded. "We're trying to answer simple
questions like,  "Where can we meet with these companies? How can we share
information?' "

Pinellas medical manufacturing took hold in the 1950s as defense and aerospace
companies, which  once dominated the county, created innovations eventually spun
off as new medical products. The  area's skilled engineers laid the groundwork
for these businesses to follow.

And while that explains why medical companies first set up in Pinellas, current
executives say  they are attracted for an array of other reasons.

First, the infrastructure: Pinellas offers access to two airports, major
highways, and  universities and technical schools that train a skilled work
force. The area also offers easy  access to Latin America, a key market for many
medical manufacturers and distributors.

Second, a good business climate: Pinellas labor and realty costs are low
compared to other parts  of the country, particularly the Northeast. The lack of
a state income tax also helps companies  recruit talent.

Third, quality of life issues: Pinellas is blessed with tropical temperatures,
miles of  coastline and glorious sunsets.

"I love sitting at home, sipping a glass of wine and watching the sun set," said
John Grise,  president of Trans-Global Trading Group Inc., a one-man start-up in
St. Petersburg that sells  refurbished medical equipment. "You don't have to
deal with cold weather, sleet or snow here. The  environment is enticing."

However, obstacles await the industry. A low unemployment rate has tightened the
supply of  skilled workers needed for expansion. The Tampa Bay area is not a top
player when it comes to  attracting Wall Street financing or information
technology workers.

And still, "we have to tackle the problem of a lack of (industry) awareness,"
said USF's Hagen.  "There's so much potential, but there won't be any changes
overnight."  Rafael Gerena-Morales covers health care business and can be
reached at rgerena@tampatrib.comor (813) 259-7624.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BAY COMMERCE 2000

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 18, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Stronger, safer surface may curb splashes, crashes;

BYLINE: LISA GREENE, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words


When you drive onto the Suncoast Parkway, you probably won't notice the road
change under your  wheels.

But highway officials hope a new kind of pavement will keep you from seeing
other things, too:  rutted roads, cracked pavement, and even wrecks caused by
bad weather.

The 42-mile Suncoast, slated to open next year, will be paved with an asphalt
called Superpave.

Engineers expect it to last longer and be safer, especially in Florida rains.

The Suncoast is the largest new project in Tampa Bay to get Superpave.

But it won't be the last.

The state already has paved several roads in North Florida with Superpave, and
now plans to pave  most new asphalt roads with it, said Jim Musselman, state
asphalt engineer for the Florida  Department of Transportation.

"So far, we've been really very pleased with the projects we've seen up in North
Florida,"  Musselman said.

Florida has been a national leader to convert to Superpave.

But by next year, more than 80 percent of new roads across the country will use
it, said Joe  Button, senior research engineer at the South Central Superpave
Center at Texas A&M University.

Last year, 45 percent of new roads were built of Superpave, which was developed
during a $ 50  million national research project.

Superpave is stronger than Florida's old pavement, which had been used since the
1970s, because  the rocks, sand and asphalt cement mixed in it are more compact.

That makes it less likely to crack and rut under the weight of traffic. It's
those ruts that  hold water when it rains, making it more likely a car's tires
would hydroplane.

Superpave is made differently from beginning to end, Musselman said.

The rocks mixed into it are more jagged, so they lock together jigsaw-tight.
Pavement formulas  can be changed for different climates, with softer asphalt
binders in colder states and harder ones  in steamy Florida.

The pavement mix is tested differently to see how it compacts. Heavier equipment
is used to roll  it out to make it denser.

The 400,000 tons of Superpave won't be all that's new on the Suncoast.

On top of the pavement is a thin layer of asphalt and rocks called the friction
course. The  rocks are rougher, used to make the road less slippery.

The parkway will have a new kind of friction course with a more open texture.

"Water will go through, so when it's raining you'll have less splash and spray,"
said Musselman.

Unlike Superpave, the new friction course didn't get a glamour name. Engineers
just call it FC-5.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 BOB WESTENHOUSER, Tribune photo (C) Superpave, which contains special binders
for Florida's steamy climate and more jagged rocks than normal pavement, should
make a stronger, safer roadway.

NOTES: PARKWAY PROGRESS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 12, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Clearwater city managers tend not to stick around;

BYLINE: LESLEY COLLINS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words


CLEARWATER - City managers in Clearwater have a shorter tenure than both state
and national  averages.

When Clearwater city commissioners launch their latest national search for a
city manager, they  probably ought to focus on the really good stuff:

The third-floor office with a view of the harbor - and the occasional dolphin
sighting.

The beautiful white sand beach just across the causeway.

The subtropical climate (leave those snow tires behind).

And the city's desire to improve the look of its beach and downtown (emphasis on
all the fun,  exciting projects ahead).

But as city commissioners recently pulled the plug on the fifth city manager
here in less than  13 years, there is an underlying sense Clearwater is not
exactly a hot destination for city  administrators on the move.

Some city officials are concerned prospective city manager candidates will think
so, too.

"I think there's a lot of concern, definitely inside Florida, that this is
becoming known as a  tough city to find common ground," City Commissioner Ed
Hooper said.

"I definitely think it could have an impact on what kind of candidate you would
attract."

The city's past four city managers lasted an average of 37 months compared with
the 5-year  average tenure for city and county managers statewide and the
national average of 6.6 years.

It's not so much that a city gains a reputation, said Lynn Tipton, executive
director of the  Florida City and County Management Association.

"The important thing to look at is that you also have city commissions turning
over," she said, a  change that often spurs the desire for a new administrator
who fits their personality and goals.

Most city managers understand the nomadic state of their chosen career, she
said.

Some political observers say the city's historical turnover in managers presents
a more  immediate problem for the current city commission, which is trying to
decide whether to launch a  national search for a new city manager now or wait
until after the March election.

Three of five commissioners will be replaced due to announced resignations or
term limits.

The current commission's desire to get the ball rolling is understandable,
sources say.

But there is a practical problem: Many qualified city manager candidates won't
want to be  considered now if they're told three of five seats will be turning
over come spring.

"They realize this is a difficult place to sustain yourself in the manager's
office," one source  said. If the search is completed before March, "your pool
of candidates will be dismal."

City Commissioner Ed Hart isn't so sure. He thinks it might be beneficial for
the current  commission to conduct the search now instead of leaving it as the
first challenge for the new  commission.

"The way I would sell (the job) is to talk about the unique opportunity because
of all the things  going on," said Hart.

"There are political forces at play here," he said. "But I think you can sell
this as a very  dynamic, positive, affirming, creative situation."    (CHART)
Come and gone  The city of Clearwater has now had five city managers in the
course of nearly 13 years. Here's a  look at who they were - and why they're
gone.  Tony Shoemaker, June 1977 - October 1987  Shoemaker, who was highly
accessible and popular with employees, resigned after a majority of city
commissioners ordered him to reorganize his administration and criticized him
for refusing to take  direction from them.  Ron Rabun, April 1988 - January 1991

 The energetic, sometimes frenetic, Rabun reorganized city departments and hired
three new assistant  city managers. But conflicts arose between him and
then-Mayor Rita Garvey particularly over his  treatment of city employees.  Mike
Wright, March 1991 - December 1993  Wright boosted employee morale but quickly
lost support among influential beach activists, and  later other neighborhoods.
He left his post early after eight months of friction with a new city
commission majority led by Fred Thomas.  Betty Deptula, April 1994 - June 1997
The unassuming former nun and numbers cruncher announced her retirement after
commissioners denied  her an annual raise in response to questioned
mismanagement of the Harborview Center project among  others.  Mike Roberto,
June 1997 - July 2000  The driven Roberto brought about the change commissioners
said they wanted - too quickly and with  too many political gaffes. He agreed to
resign after a failed downtown referendum again raised  questions of public
trust.  CAITLIN HOPE WRIGHT/Tribune graphic  Lesley Collins covers Clearwater
and north Pinellas County. She can be reached at (727) 799-7413.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5; CHART,
 Mike Roberto

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 19, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

On the road to success;

BYLINE: LYNN PORTER, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words


Once sleepy Oldsmar is awakening as the bustling economy brings new business
opportunities

OLDSMAR - Just three years ago, the then-owner of Tampa Bay Park of Commerce was
battling city  officials to allow it to build homes on land zoned for industry.

The city wanted to keep the zoning, happy with the potential of higher tax
revenues that  industry brings compared to residences - and its lower demand for
services.

But the owner of the large park north of Douglas Road between Race Track Road
and Commerce  Boulevard argued that residences, not industry, were selling.

After a fierce tug-of-war the city relented somewhat, allowing some homes, but
fewer than the  owner wanted.

What a difference a few years makes.

Now, the park's new owner is asking Oldsmar to rescind the zoning change.

It's the economy - and the fact that Harrod Properties, which bought the
commerce park in April  1999, does not specialize in residential development -
that prompted the request.

"Basically, we think there's a pretty good market in that area for what we do,
and what we do is  industrial (and office) development," said Ben Nelson, north
Pinellas project manager for Harrod,  based in Tampa.

Oldsmar and the surrounding area are shaping up to be a solid draw for business
because of a  number of factors, said area business leaders.

THEY ARE a fair amount of developable land relative to the rest of Pinellas
County; the city's  central location adjacent to Hillsborough County and not far
from Pasco - which means an expansive  area to draw workers from - and major
road improvements that have made commuting and doing business  easier.

Kevin Gartland, executive director of the Oldsmar Chamber of Commerce, said the
city is on the  move.

He cites the recent opening of a 20-screen AMC theater at Woodlands Square
Shopping Center on  Tampa Road that he said should attract large numbers of
customers to the older mall, and is  bringing in new restaurants.

Some small businesses along Tampa Road between Commerce Boulevard and Curlew
Road that "basically  dried up and blew away" during road construction during
the late 1990s are being replaced, Gartland  said.

The "dueling drug stores," Walgreen and Eckerd, have built across from one
another along Tampa  Road at Forest Lakes Boulevard in the past two years. That
and the ongoing construction of a  Wal-Mart Supercenter are sure signs major
retail outlets believe Oldsmar is a "viable market,"  Gartland said.

Oldsmar also is benefiting from its proximity to Hillsborough County, whose
boundary touches the  city, Gartland said. Many people live in Oldsmar and work
in Hillsborough or vice versa, and  businesses on both sides are better off
because of it, he said. In fact, the Oldsmar chamber's  magazine bills itself as
"Top O' The Bay," in a bow to the importance of western Hillsborough, and  East
Lake, too, to Oldsmar.

"We sit on the county line, but really that's an arbitrary government boundary
that really  doesn't mean much to the people who live here and work here,"
Gartland said.

ADD TO THIS development happening in the city's industrial and business parks,
and the  Tri-County Business Park and LynMar Commerce Park, just across the line
in Hillsborough, and you've  got a thriving area, Gartland said.

More evidence of that may be found in Oldsmar's tax rolls, which have been
increasing steadily  over the past few years. Total taxable real estate in 1998
was up 12.1 percent, counting new  construction, over 1997, and 5.4 percent
without it, said Joan Nix Gutierrez, north county branch  director of the
Pinellas County Property Appraisers Office.

The increase was 8.6 percent, with new construction, in 1999 over 1998, and 3.8
percent without,  she said. It's up 12.3 percent this year over last with new
construction, and 5.9 percent without.

In comparison, nearby Dunedin's total, counting new construction, went up 4.6
percent in 1998,  5.8 percent in 1999 and 6.8 percent this year, Nix Gutierrez
said.

"I think Oldsmar has been growing nicely and very dynamically for the last five
years, and I  think it will continue to do that for the next several years,"
said Randy Mears, a Clearwater  resident and area developer.

Mears is developing the Oldsmar Town Center at the eastern gateway to the the
city's downtown at  Tampa Road, St. Petersburg Drive and State Street. The first
phase is scheduled to have an 81-room  hotel and a two-story
restaurant/office/retail building.

The project is part of the city's first attempts to market its downtown to
developers, an effort  that Gartland acknowledges needs more steam.

"We don't have an identity," he said. "We're trying to create a downtown
identity for Oldsmar."

A bustling downtown would give the city "a sense of place" and improve the
quality of life there,  said Nicholas Staszko, community development director.

The aim is to create an old-town feel with pedestrian-friendly streets, he said.
But the  downtown's biggest deficiency is its lack of inventory of two, three
and four-story buildings, he  said.

A lot more development will occur downtown when the market dictates it, Staszko
said.

MEARS IS PLEASED with the city's business climate, though.

Besides Oldsmar Town Center, he has developed the Mears Commerce Center, a
40-acre  industrial-business park where all the buildings have been sold. He
also is developing the 100-acre  LynMar Commerce Park outside Oldsmar.

But the robust economy has made it more difficult to find workers, especially
for those  companies that pay a lower wage, said Gartland.

Pinellas County recently began bus routes designed to bring people trying to get
off welfare to  the Oldsmar area. But, in the short time they have been in
operation, the routes have not drawn the  number of riders anticipated, said
David McDonald, a program planner with the Pinellas County  Metropolitan
Planning Organization. A plan is being devised to try to fix that, he said.

Staszko believes the effort will take a marketing and public relations job to
match up workers  with employers.

Nelson, with Harrod Properties, believes that a number of companies that have
been in the  Oldsmar industrial-business parks for awhile already have workers
they need. But, he said, the  improved road network brings with it the potential
for an even larger labor pool for Oldsmar.

Harrod has 11/2 lots left to develop in the 61-acre first phase of the Tampa Bay
Park of Commerce,  Nelson said. Additionally, it renamed roughly 230 acres of
the park Brooker Creek Corporate Center.  The first company to go in there is
expected to employ 400 to 600 people.

Harrod also owns the 580 Corporate Center in Oldsmar, which has 315,000 square
feet of space.  About two-thirds of it is leased. Companies there range from
high-tech businesses to warehouse  operations.

Oldsmar is one of the few places in Pinellas with large tracts of developable
land, Nelson said.  With the burgeoning economy, that's meant a tremendous tax
infusion for Oldsmar, he said.

About 24,000 people work in the city and 12,000 live there, Gartland said. While
it would be  nice to have even higher-paying jobs available to residents in the
future, Gartland said the  balance of business and residential development has
been good for Oldsmar.

"It's a very healthy mix for the city," he said.  Lynn Porter can be reached at
(727) 799-7413

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 FRED FOX, Tribune photo (C) Developer Randy Mears, at the construction site of
a new Holiday Inn, is pleased with Oldsmar's business climate. He has developed
Oldsmar Town Center and the Mears Commerce Center.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  September 16, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

A place in the sun;

BYLINE: BETH DOLAN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words


The Florida House Learning Center, built with the Sunshine State's climate in
mind, offers a  wealth of ideas for "green" home improvement.

SARASOTA - The one-story, gray Cracker-style house on Beneva Road looks a lot
like hundreds you  might pass in Florida.

But this is anything but the house next door. Designed to use Florida's climate
to maximum  advantage, the Florida House Learning Center also conserves water
and electricity and is built with  Earth-friendly materials. Though the house is
more than 6 years old, the concepts behind its design  remain new to many
consumers.

Those include passive cooling to cut down on air-conditioning use, recyclable
building materials  and sustainability - using today's resources in a manner
that doesn't jeopardize their availability  for future generations.

"It's an idea house," says Jean Meadows, an extension agent in family consumer
services with the  Sarasota County Cooperative Extension Service in Sarasota.

Meadows has been involved with the two-bedroom, two-bathroom Florida House since
it was just a  dream nearly a decade ago. It is the combined effort of the
extension service and Florida House  Foundation Inc.

"There are things we change. We add new exhibits and information on newer
materials," she says. "It  keeps evolving.

"We struggled in '93 and '94 to find green materials. I could do an Internet
search for "green  building materials' then and only find 10 listings. Now you
can find pages of them."

Many companies that offer Earth-friendly materials and building systems are
represented at the  learning center. With its wealth of ideas, business cards
and brochures, the Florida House should  be one of the first stops for anyone
planning to build or renovate.

Although "many of the materials have been improved, the concepts of the house
are still good,"  says Tom Gilmore of Lemon Bay Builders in Sarasota, who was
the general contractor on the project.

Products such as autoclaved aerated concrete, which is an improved insulation
material made in  Haines City, were not available when the learning center was
under construction, he says.

But, he adds, visitors still can learn about it at the Florida House.

They can see how to save rainwater in cisterns and try out plumbing systems that
provide hot  water on demand (so people don't send water down the drain while
waiting for it to heat up).

They can feel how ceiling fans, proper window placement, transom windows and
porches can combine  to make the house almost 20 degrees cooler.

Even the flooring provides lessons in environmentalism. The Florida House
carpeting is made from  plastic bottles, and its floor tiles were created from
automobile windshield glass. Both carpet and  tile look as good as the products
consumers have relied on for years.

The bamboo floors in the master bedroom offer a lesson in sustainability.

"Hardwoods take many years to grow," explains Betty Alpaugh of the learning
center. "Bamboo can  grow to full size in five years. It's a beautiful floor and
the price is comparable" to hardwood.

Outside the learning center, four gardens have been added to the original
water-wise landscape,  explains Mark Shelby, a Sarasota County horticulture
extension agent.

Under Shelby's direction, Sarasota County master gardeners created landscapes
that will thrive  in coastal zones, pine flatwoods areas, moist forest areas and
pond-filled properties.

A winding path threads beneath a newly constructed arbor, through each of the
new gardens, along  the wildlife and herb gardens, and among the beds of plants
that tempt butterflies to stop and  drink their sweet nectar.

The staff at the Florida House Learning Center doesn't expect anyone to embrace
every idea and  feature of the house.

But they do hope that a tour will open consumers' eyes to alternatives.

Everyone's lifestyle and needs are different, says Meadows.

"Visitors need to take a look around and find the parts that work for them, the
ones they feel  comfortable with."    (CHART) FLORIDA HOUSE LEARNING CENTER
WHAT: A model home and landscape that offers tips on sustainable principles,
energy efficiency,  "green" home-building products and water conservation
WHEN: Hours are 9 a.m to noon Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays and 1-4 p.m.
Saturdays.   WHERE: On the grounds of the Sarasota Technical Institute, 4600
Beneva Road S., Sarasota. Take  Interstate 75 south to Exit 38, Bee Ridge Road.
Head west on Bee Ridge to Beneva. Head south on  Beneva about one mile. The
Sarasota Technical Institute is on the corner of Beneva and Proctor  roads. The
entrance to the Florida House Learning Center is on Beneva, about 150 yards
before it  intersects with Proctor.   ADMISSION: Free. Call (941) 316-1200 for
more information or to arrange group tours.  Beth Dolan can be reached at (813)
259-7619 or bdolan@

tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5 (4C); CHART,
 MARK GUSS, Tribune photo With its glut of ideas and sources, the center should
be the first stop for anyone who has a building or renovation project in mind.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 26, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Freeze possible, shivers likely across Florida;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words


TAMPA - A coming freeze has farmers preparing to protect crops, while bad
weather elsewhere  strands travelers here.

A wintry blast of cold could send freezing temperatures as far south as Lake
Okeechobee and  Charlotte County on Thursday morning.

Only areas near Tampa Bay or the Gulf might escape the freeze.

Temperatures around Hillsborough County this morning were expected to range from
the middle 30s  inland to near 40 by the Bay. Areas to the north, including
eastern Pasco, could be near freezing.

But another cold front that was to move through early this morning will send
temperatures even  lower.

The frigid air blasting Florida comes from the same storm that dumped snow from
North Carolina  to New England.

"It's part of that system. It's just sucking cold air down here," said Dan
Sobien, meteorologist  with the National Weather Service in Ruskin.

Its effects hit travelers trying to leave Tampa on Tuesday.

Azlee Harris and Stan Mallen of New Port Richey were among six Tampa Bay
residents trying to  reach New York for a flight to Athens, Greece, on Tuesday
night. The plan from there: a dream  vacation cruising the Greek islands.

"I have wanted to go for years, and then this happens," Harris said. "We've
tried every airline,  and we can't get there."

Harris and Mallen arrived at Tampa International Airport at 6:30 a.m. to find
their flight to  New York canceled, but the flight to Greece still scheduled.

They tried four other airlines. They tried creative routes: Through Detroit. To
White Plains,  N.Y. To Islip on Long Island. They got close enough twice to have
their bags checked. But by  afternoon, they were still in Tampa.

Most flights in and out of the Northeast were canceled Tuesday, and several
others were delayed.  Amtrak canceled all passenger trains south of Washington,
D.C.

While flights to much of the country left and arrived at the airport on time,
the majority  coming in or out of the Carolinas and Northeast were canceled.

Hardest hit were passengers on USAirways, which has the most flights to the
Northeast from  Tampa. The airline canceled hundreds of flights.

Representatives for airlines and Amtrak advised travelers to check the status of
their rides by  phone or e-mail before leaving home today.

The possible freeze had strawberry farmers like John St. Martin, owner of St.
Martin Farms,  trying to harvest as much of their crops as possible.

"I just like to have a lot of it picked before a freeze," St. Martin said.

The only other defense for farmers is to be sure ponds are filled and sprinklers
ready to coat  the plants in a protective blanket of ice.

"We'll just keep checking the (sprinklers) and make sure they are working
normally," said Peggy  Parke, office manager for Parkesdale Farms. "Any damage
that occurs is because someone couldn't get  their pump started or there (were)
high winds that kept the water from hitting the berries."

Citrus growers were not as concerned.

Even with temperatures predicted to flirt with 30 degrees or less in Polk
County, not many grove  owners seemed ready to keep vigil and light heaters.
Citrus trees aren't threatened until the  temperature drops below 28 degrees for
at least four hours.

"The predictions don't sound too cold to fire it up, but if they change it to
any colder, we'll  certainly break out the smudge pots," said Carolyn Miller,
owner of Lang Sun Country Groves in Lake  Alfred.

She said the colder weather helps citrus growers because it sweetens the fruit
and makes the  trees go dormant, helping produce a better crop next year.

The freezing temperatures expected Thursday morning and thousands of blasting
heaters can strain  utilities.

Florida Power Corp., the state's second-largest electric utility, anticipates
using its "energy  management" program Thursday morning, which means customers'
power could be shut off for about 15  minutes at a time. The program is
voluntary, in exchange for rebates on bills, spokeswoman Mary  Estes said.

Tampa Electric does not anticipate using its energy management program, nor is
it asking  customers to conserve power.

With temperatures at or near freezing, homeowners should protect sensitive
plants and those  meant for a more tropical climate.

You should also turn off your sprinkler system and not try to imitate strawberry
farms, said  Sydney Park Brown, horticulturist with the cooperative extension
service.

Home irrigation systems can't put out the volume of water needed to protect the
plants.

The best thing to do is either move plants inside or cover them with a sheet or
blanket, even if  you just drape the cloth over the plant.

"If you have time to stake them up, more power to you, but don't be afraid to
cover them," Brown  said.

"The sooner you do it, the more heat you'll trap."    (CHART) Shelters
Hillsborough county provides refuge for the homeless at four shelters during
cold weather:  SALVATION ARMY: 1514 N. Florida Ave  METROPOLITAN MINISTRIES:
2302 N Tampa St  BETHUNE PARK: 5809 Edina St., Wimauma  GOOD SAMARITAN MISSION:
14920 Balm-Wimauma Road  Staff writers Lisa Greene, Steve Newborn, Sean C.
Ledig, Ivan J. Hathaway and Cherie Jacobs Lane contributed to this report. Neil
Johnson can be reached at (352) 544-5214 or  njohnson@tampatrib.com

Get weather updates and forecasts throughout the day at tbo.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C); CHART,
 (C) The phrase "Cancelled due to weather" was all too common on departure
listings at Tampa International Airport, trapping many travelers in the Bay area
for another night.  BRUCE HOSKING, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 31, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SURFACE SURVEY;

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 794 words


The space shuttle sets off on a mission to create the world's largest map.

CAPE CANAVERAL - Smile, Earth - you're on cosmic camera.

That's right, a big, global snapshot of our world is about to take place from
space, the largest  and most comprehensive image of its kind. Six astronauts
aboard the shuttle Endeavour will serve as  photographers, beginning with a
scheduled launch today at 12:47 p.m. from Kennedy Space Center.

If all goes well during the 10-day mission, the crew will map 80 percent of the
Earth's surface  in regions home to 95 percent of the global population. When
developed, the images will be used to  generate a digital, topographic mosaic.
It might help us better understand the way our terrain is  affected by nature
and humankind, as well as being a tool for urban and disaster planning, crops
studies, pollution control and military projects.

Scientists want more detailed information about the Earth's surface to enhance
studies of soil  erosion, earthquakes and volcanoes, acid rain and
deforestation. Much of the mosaic will be  available to the public in about two
years.

The Shuttle Radar Topography Mission uses radar instruments rather than
conventional cameras  because radar can operate day or night and can see through
cloud cover. Flying in swaths above the  Earth, the shuttle crew can operate
full time over any section of the globe, rain or shine. The  radar will peer
through storms, canopies of vegetation, ice sheets and even dry sand, giving
scientists unprecedented access from above.

ONE OF THE radar devices will extend from the shuttle on a 200-foot boom - the
largest fixed  structure ever flown in space. Astronauts will project the boom
out from the cargo bay, then fold  it back like a telescopic mast. If it proves
to be worthy, the boom could be a model for other  orbiting projects.

"It's a remarkable structure," says Paul Dye, the mission's flight director.
"And if it were to  break, nothing would happen very fast and we would have
procedures to jettison it."

Because of the inclination of the shuttle in its orbit, the mission can't
document the polar  regions, so it won't be a 100 percent makeover. Ironically,
NASA already has fully mapped the  surfaces of Venus and Mars, and has more
complete data on their surfaces than it does of our own  home.

Topographic radar imaging can be done on satellites, but at 30,000 pounds and
with its 200-foot  boom, the system can only fly aboard the shuttle.

"The enormous length of the boom prevents it from flying on a satellite," says
Rob Navias, a  spokesman at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston. "There's
just no satellite that can carry the  weight of this system with the boom.
That's why we're doing it on the shuttle."

Endeavour will stay in orbit at a relatively low altitude of 145 miles, making
radar swaths 140  miles wide with a resolution of 90 feet. It will fly tail
first and upside-down, with signals  bouncing off the ground and back to the
shuttle, picked up by receiving antennaae in the cargo bay  and at the end of
the boom.

USING A TECHNIQUE called interferometry, the antennae will record data to form
images, but each  picture will be slightly different because of the distance
between the two antennae. This allows  the system to create three-dimensional
images - height, width and length - when all the data comes  together. The
technology offers a full perspective view of an area from almost any angle. Over
10  days, the astronauts will collect enough information to fill 13,500 standard
CD-ROMs.

NASA is using the fifth generation of space-borne imaging radar. The first
generation was  carried on the Seasat 1 satellite in 1978. The radar studies are
part of NASA's multibillion-dollar  Mission to Planet Earth, a long-range focus
on how humans are altering the environment. Nine years  ago, NASA began a
global-scale examination of the Earth to study the interaction of all the
environmental components - air, water, land and life - that make the planet a
single, living system.

Part of Mission to Planet Earth uses the shuttle and free-flying satellites.
Another aspect of  the project includes more than a dozen satellites that will
develop a 15-year environmental  database focusing on climate change.

Aside from mapping the Earth, this week's mission serves as a test bed for
technologies that  should be useful in the future of space exploration. For
instance, long trusses are needed to build  the International Space Station and
support its solar arrays.

"It's one reason this is such a compelling mission," Navias says. "It's a
demonstration to prove  you can do this kind of mission. The bottom line is
we're proving new technology."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 (C) Astronaut Janet L. Kavandi trains for the mission at the Johnson Space
Center in Houston. Photo from NASA

NOTES: SCI TECH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 2, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Mutiny find their Manning;

BYLINE: BILL WARD, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 772 words


TAMPA - Bill Manning, who led the A-League's Minnesota Thunder to a championship
last year,  takes over as the Mutiny's new GM.

At 34, Bill Manning realizes he is relatively young to be in charge of a
professional sports  franchise. But considering he's been the general manager of
successful soccer teams since he was  29, he said taking the post with the Tampa
Bay Mutiny was the next logical step.

"I remember sitting down with (MLS commissioner) Don Garber and telling him that
when I got my  first GM job in soccer, my goal was to be a GM in MLS before I
turned 35," Manning said. "I guess I  made it by the skin of my teeth because I
turn 35 in just a few months."

Manning, a former Division II all-American forward at the University of
Bridgeport (Conn.) and  general manager of the A-League champion Minnesota
Thunder last year, was named the Mutiny's new  general manager Tuesday. He
replaces Nick Sakiewicz, who last month took the same job with the  N.Y./N.J.
MetroStars.

Manning has agreed to a three-year contract with the league-operated club but
his salary was not  revealed. His first day on the job is Feb. 21.

In Tampa, Manning doesn't foresee a need for major changes - either in the front
office or on the  field. He said he knows Mutiny coach Tim Hankinson "very well"
from his days in the A-League  (Hankinson coached the A-League's Charleston
Battery and was general manager of the Raleigh Flyers)  and likes the team
already assembled.

Manning will, however, have a say in the club's next major signing, expected to
be a forward  from either Africa or England. Two of the top candidates are
Mozambique international Tico Tico and  South African Pollen Ndalaya. Manning
said he also would like the Mutiny to bolster their defense  with an additional
signing of a veteran player.

"I have no doubt my imprint on this team will be felt no later than mid-season,"
Manning said. "By  then, I will have been able to digest the program and assess
what is and isn't needed.

"The staff seems to be great. I really don't have much work to do there because
of what Nick  (Sakiewicz) did. And the team is so much better off this year
going into their training camp than  it was last year because of some of the
moves Nick and Tim (Hankinson) made. I think it's just a  matter of fine tuning
some things."

Manning also interviewed for the general manager's job with the Columbus Crew
but said he chose  Tampa because of the "autonomy" the position afforded him as
a league-owned franchise. And coming  from Minnesota where the mercury often
fails to reach double-digits this time of year, Manning said  Tampa's climate
also a big attraction for him and his wife, Jennifer, and their 6-month-old son,

 John.

In other Mutiny news:

In their first exhibition match of the year, the Mutiny got goals from four
different players  to defeat the University of South Florida 4-0.

Eric Quill, Chris Houser, Steve Ralston and Joe Addo each scored for the Mutiny.

"We wanted to measure their 90-minute fitness and see how they held up on a full
field under  match conditions," said Mutiny coach Tim Hankinson.

The Mutiny depart Sunday for two weeks of training in Boca Raton and Fort
Lauderdale in  preparation for their season opener March 18.

The Mutiny's exhibition match against the University of Tampa, originally
scheduled for today,  has been moved to March 1. The game will be at 4 p.m. at
Pepin-Rood Stadium.

Defender Chad McCarty is expected to undergo arthroscopic surgery on his
shoulder to repair a  ligament tear suffered last season. He is expected to be
out 10 days and rejoin the team in  training next week in Miami.    (CHART)
Manning Bio   Name: Bill Manning   Position: General manager, Tampa Bay Mutiny
Age: 34   Hometown: Massapequa, N.Y.   Playing career: Division II All-American
forward at the University of Bridgeport (Conn.), where  his team reached the
semifinals of the NCAA tournament his senior year (1986). ... Last team was
third division New York Fever, where he also was the club's director of
marketing and operations.   Management career: Hired in 1993 as director of
marketing for the now defunct CISL. ... Returned  to native New York in '94 to
work and play for the New York Fever. Landed first GM job in '96 with  Long
Island Rough Riders of USL and led team to consecutive appearances in league's
final four. ...  Took over GM post of A-League's Minnesota Thunder in 1998,
leading the team to the championship in  '99. ... Replaced Peter Wilt, current
GM of MLS' Chicago Fire, at Minnesota.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: SOCCER

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 21, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

MEASURE FOR MEASURE;

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 870 words


An environment group's annual report finds the virtual and real worlds
diverging, with good  health for one and a declining state of affairs for the
other.

TAMPA - At a time when much of the world enjoys the fruits of a strong economy
and builds power  from the growing web of information, the Earth itself resists
celebrating.

The question is how long prosperity lasts, because when ecosystems start to
collapse, so goes  the economy.

This is the message from the "State of the World 2000," the annual report by the
World Watch  Institute, a nonprofit environmental group in Washington, D.C.
World Watch isn't pushing an agenda  to stop growth, but rather to encourage
political systems to better manage the relationship between  the global economy
and environment. It also underscores some basic tenets of the natural world: It

 is too complex to be completely understood; it will not do our bidding for
free; and we can't put  it back the way it once was.

"Nature has no reset button," notes Chris Bright, a research associate with the
institute.  "Environmental corrosion isn't just killing off individual species;
it's setting off system level  changes that are irreversible."

World Watch contends that because of the way we set up our economies, prosperity
is coming at  the expense of environmental degradation. The challenge, then, is
to structure economies in a way  that doesn't shortchange our air, land and
water.

"Economic trends in the 1990s were remarkably bullish, but environmental trends
were disastrous,"  notes Lester R. Brown, director of the institute. "The
contrast could scarcely be greater. ... We  face a future where continuing
environmental deterioration almost certainly will lead to economic  decline."

Although the world market is an efficient device fueled by supply and demand, it
doesn't respect  the thresholds of natural systems. And today, the researchers
argue, the demands of the market are  pressing against the limits of such
natural systems as fisheries, forests and aquifers -  accelerating their
collapse.

The public often is misinformed about the problem because economists and
ecologists view the  world in different ways. An economist might say grain
prices are the lowest in two decades, with  production outrunning demand.
Ecologists, however, see water tables falling in the regions of high  grain
production. Although grain prices are low, they say, this benefit comes at the
expense of  depleted aquifers, which will affect grain production in the long
run.

"When we launched this series of annual assessments in 1984, we hoped that we
could begin the  next century with an upbeat report, one that would show the
Earth's health improving," Brown says.  "But the list of trends we were
concerned with then has lengthened."

Here's a short list of environmental problems the institute says could have
profound effects in  the early 21st century:

Water scarcity - Unless many nations redesign their irrigated agriculture, water
tables will  hit dangerous levels. About 10 percent of the global grain
production is produced with depleting  water supplies.

AIDS - In Africa, more than 23 million people are under a death sentence imposed
by the HIV  epidemic. So for the first time in the modern era, life expectancy
is declining for a major region.

Climate and disease - Increased rain and rising temperatures are slowly allowing
infectious  diseases such as cholera and malaria to spread beyond their normal
tropical ranges.

Malnutrition - More than half of all children in India are undernourished, yet
the government  spends what the report calls a disconcertingly large share of
its resources on nuclear armament.

Forest depletion - Each year, about 14 million hectares (a hectare is 2.5 acres)
of forest are  cut or burned, which is leading to the extinction of countless
plant and animal species. Ninety  percent of forest loss is happening in the
tropics.

Coral reefs - Unusually high sea surface temperatures, a feature of global
warming, are  damaging the ocean's richest ecosystem. Coral reefs around the
world are "bleaching" by expelling the  algae that lives within their tissue,
and coral needs algae to feed it through photosynthesis.

Acid rain - World sulfur and nitrogen emissions from fossil fuels are increasing
concentrations  of acid rain. As this acid byproduct collects in soil, it
leaches out the natural stock of calcium  and magnesium, depriving plants of
nutrients.

Population - More than 80 million people enter the world each year, creating
potential problems  in "threshold crossing," which means the needs of one
country put pressure on the resources of  another.

The 276-page "State of the World" isn't the only reference the ecology-minded
should read, but its  10 chapters offer a wealth of practical information,
followed by 60 pages of notes and detailed  references for further reading. If
anything, the authors would encourage using the book as a  springboard to
additional research. The Earth is, after all, our only home.

"State of the World 2000" is available at local bookstores for $ 14.95 or by
calling (202)  452-1999.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); DRAWING (C),
 (C) (DRAWING) (measuring the world)

NOTES: SCI TECH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 16, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

GOP launches attack on judiciary;

BYLINE: TED BYRD, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 657 words


TALLAHASSEE - Legislation sponsored by Rep. Victor Crist, R-Temple Terrace,
sails through the  House Judiciary Committee. Much more is on the way.

When a Tallahassee circuit judge overturned Gov. Jeb Bush's plan Tuesday to use
vouchers to send  some students to private schools this week, Republicans in the
Legislature fumed.

They insisted the judge overstepped his powers and was meddling in public policy
- the  Legislature's job.

Wednesday, GOP lawmakers began pushing for passage of a raft of legislation that
could curtail  judicial power and change the structure of the Florida Supreme
Court.

They think they have a good shot at succeeding before the legislative session
ends May 5.

"Obviously, there is an undercurrent of frustration within the Legislature,"
said Katie Baur,  press secretary for House Speaker John Thrasher, R-Orange
Park. "I think there is a climate amenable  to discussing these things."

All of the legislation reflects a mounting frustration among Republicans that
some of their most  far-reaching goals, including providing public school
children with vouchers to attend private  schools, may be blocked by the state's
courts.

Legislation sponsored by Rep. Victor Crist, R-Temple Terrace, seeks to put a
constitutional  amendment before voters in November that would have the effect
of overturning certain court  rulings, as well as specifically giving lawmakers
the power to speed up executions.

It passed the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, 6-1, and now goes to the
full chamber.

Another house member plans to submit a bill to expand the Supreme Court from
seven to nine  justices.

And other Republican lawmakers have drafted bills that would alter the makeup of
judicial  nominating commissions, which interview and select potential judges
for the governor to consider.

Rep. Johnnie Byrd, R-Plant City, said courts have clearly overstepped their
powers, pointing to  the voucher and death penalty issues.

As another example, Byrd, an attorney, offered a divorce case he worked on
several years ago.  The two sides had reached an agreement before going into
court, and the judge agreed to the terms.  But the judge also ruled there would
be no corporal punishment of the divorcing couple's children.

"That is a real-life example of where a judge has just decided ... to make law
or policy," said  Byrd, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. "Making
public policy or making what the law should  be is a prerogative of the
legislative branch of government."

Underlying the debate is a concern that judges selected by Democratic governors
are stamping  their views on judicial decisions.

"You have a conservative legislature now; you have a conservative executive,"
Crist said. "But you  still have a liberal court appointed by the former
executive."

He said the courts should better reflect what voters want.

Crist's constitutional amendment ran into opposition Wednesday from Democratic
lawmakers, the  Florida Bar and the Academy of Florida Trial Lawyers during a
hearing before the Judiciary  Committee.

"Does this strike you, perhaps, as being arrogant?" asked Rep. Curt Levine,
D-Boca Raton. "This is  an attack, I believe, on the judiciary."

Richard McFarlain, representing the Bar, said the proposal is an instance of the
Legislature  overstepping its role.

"This bill really goes way too far," he said.

Other Democrats say all of the GOP bills go too far, and that many are trying to
silence judges.

"There are three branches of government ... and some of our Republican leaders
can't quite deal  with that," said Rep. Les Miller, D-Tampa, House Democratic
leader.

Miller said the Republican proposals throw too much politics into the judicial
realm:

"You can't put a liberal or conservative label on judges. They're bipartisan."
Ted Byrd is covering the Legislature and can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Rep. Nancy Argenziano, R-Dunnellon, flaunts the footwear that won in the
women's category of the annual "boot day" competition Wednesday at the Capitol
in Tallahassee. Victor Crist, R-Temple Terrace, was the men's winner. The two
received bullwhips from the Florida Cattlemen's Association. COLIN HACKLEY,
Tribune photo

NOTES: LEGISLATURE 2000

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 6, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Holding on to area corporations;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 610 words


A series of stories by the Tribune's business staff should give local leaders
much to think - and  worry - about.

"The Company You Keep" pointed out that in the past year the region has lost the
headquarters of  one-fourth of its top-performing, locally based public
companies, with most of the firms acquired  by corporations based outside the
Tampa Bay area. A number of private companies have left as well.

The impact on the community is large, and not just in terms of jobs and income.
As the Tribune's  Elizabeth Bettendorf wrote, also lost is "the money,
leadership and Herculean volunteer effort that  big companies can pour into a
community."

In many cases, there probably was little that could be done about the corporate
departures, many  precipitated by consolidations or mergers. But in many cases,
executives found other communities  more to their liking. Too, the region
clearly is not attracting corporate headquarters as it  should.

This despite the area's mild weather, its modest cost of living and its beaches
and numerous  other natural assets. Something is amiss.

Sore points, executives report, are the mediocre schools and a perceived
diminishing quality of  life. Education in particular is critical to companies
that rely on skilled workers. But the area's  traffic problems also have become
a major drawback.

The Tribune's Ted Jackovics reports, "Quality of life is the most important
factor today in where  people and companies choose to locate. It's especially
critical when companies consider where to  locate headquarters, which are in
short supply in the Bay area."

Yet consider the area's - particularly the Hillsborough County Commission's -
political  leadership. Commissioners often appear indifferent to quality-of-life
issues, to the responsibility  of building a healthy community for the future.

The majority of the commissioners cannot agree on anything to resolve the
county's traffic mess,  which includes a massive backlog of various
transportation needs.

These commissioners refuse to even consider the possibility that the region's
transportation  problems might someday require alternatives to more and broader
roads. They appear to want to make  certain that rapid transit will never be an
option.

Commissioners too often seem obsessed with the small. Their idea of helping
business is cutting  impact fees, which help fund the essential expansion of
infrastructure. Executives of first-rate  companies are rarely concerned about
such matters.

Corporate leaders are chiefly interested in communities that offer a skilled
work force, good  schools and a place their employees will deem attractive.

OF COURSE, THE COMMISSION is hardly alone in being small-minded about the
region's economic  prospects. West Central Florida has a history of being more
taken with the quantity, rather than  the quality, of its growth.

If more energy had been invested in luring, nurturing and keeping superior
enterprises that  offer high-paying jobs, the region might have more than a
handful of corporate headquarters. And it  might not be plagued with so many
costly growth problems, which range from water shortages to  overcrowded
schools.

To be sure, there is much that can and should be done to aid entrepreneurs and
improve the  area's business climate. A community in which it is hard to do
business will soon find itself in  big trouble.

But, in the long run, the surest way to attract and keep top-notch companies is
to make sure  that the community manages change, corrects social deficiencies
and models itself as a good place  to live for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 8, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FINE VINING;

BYLINE: BETH DOLAN, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words


A few of these social climbers can give your garden depth, beauty and shade.

TAMPA - They're the ballerinas of the plant kingdom, gracefully twisting and
turning as they seek  out the limelight.

Demanding and impetuous, they climb over others as they reach for the sky.

And no garden is complete without them.

They add depth and beauty to the landscape and spots of shade where there may
have been none.  They also provide shelter for wildlife, food for some larval
butterflies and nectar for  hummingbirds, says Pam Traas, author of "Gardening
for Florida's Butterflies" (Great Outdoors  Publishing Co., 1999, $ 16.95).

"I have them throughout my yard and in pots on my porch," she says from her
Safety Harbor home.  "They're beautiful to look at, and they're so easy to care
for once you get them established.

"And there's no better way to combat that blast-out summer sun."

But don't think you can just plant a vine, help it get adjusted to its new
location and then  forget about it, says extension agent Sydney Park Brown of
the Hillsborough County Cooperative  Extension Service in Seffner.

"If you're going to plant vines, you have to be a good tender," she says. "By
nature, they grow  over anything and everything. They need regular cutting to
keep them in bounds."

Their sprawling growth habit has a positive side, though.

They're great plants to use to cover unsightly walls, fences or poles.

And they're great growing over arbors, porches or screened rooms to block out
the summer sun.

"Some are such fast growers they can provide shade in one season," Brown says.

BUT BEFORE GARDENERS add vines to their landscapes, they have to make a few
decisions, say the  experts.

First, they have to determine what function the vine will perform.

"Will it hide a fence? Is it purely for aesthetics? Do they want evergreen or
deciduous? Will it  provide shade?" Brown asks. "If they're looking for shade, a
deciduous vine would be great on the  south side of a house.

"It'll be shady during the warm months, but once it drops its leaves, it will
allow sunshine  through in the cooler months."

Gardeners also need to keep in mind how the vine climbs.

Some vines, such as passion vine, are winding ones. They have tendrils that wind
themselves  around the support in response to friction, writes Robert J. Black
in his brochure "Vines for  Florida." Black is with the environmental
horticulture department of the Institute of Food and  Agricultural Sciences at
the University of Florida in Gainesville.

OTHER VINES are classified as twining vines, he writes. These vines, such as
mandevilla,  bougainvillea, allamanda and Confederate jasmine, are great to use
to hide poles or other vertical  supports as well as lattices.

Twining vines encircle their supports. "Most ... will spiral in only one
direction characteristic  of the species," Black writes. Gardeners who try to
change the direction of the spiral probably will  not succeed and may injure the
plant, as well.

Clinging vines, such as creeping fig, heartleaf philodendron or English ivy,
will attach  themselves to walls or other supports by adhering to the rough
surface with small adhesive disks or  rootlets.

"Clinging vines can loosen mortar between bricks or blocks," says Brown.
"Removing the vine can  remove the paint along with it. You'd probably not want
to plant a clinging vine alongside a wall,  unless you never want to paint it."

Gardeners should also learn everything they can about the vines they want to
plant. Adding a  plant to the landscape that isn't what a gardener thinks it is
can bring problems instead of  pleasure.

A FEW VINES, such as kudzu, potato vine, skunk vine and Japanese climbing fern,
are classified  as "invasive" by Florida horticulturists and botanists. Found
along roadsides and in other wild  areas, they cover everything in sight in a
short time and squeeze out other Florida flora.

"The Japanese climbing fern, which is somewhat attractive, has taken over South
Florida," says  Brown. "It can blanket a pine in no time till you can't see the
pine anymore.

"Even if you fall in love with something, don't plant it until you know all you
can about it.  Make sure it's something you have the time and willingness to
control."

Vines love Florida's climate, and their variety makes it possible for gardeners
to plant enough  of a variety that they can have colorful flowers every month of
the year, Brown says.

"Do your research, find vines that are compatible and you can have different
looks at different  seasons," the agent explains.

"Plant coral vine for color in summer and fall and yellow jasmine in the same
area so that you'll  have color in winter and spring.

"But be aware that you'll need to do some maintenance so that one doesn't
overtake the other."    (CHART) GROWING TIPS  In his brochure "Vines for
Florida," Robert Black of the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences  at
the University of Florida offers the following tips for gardeners who want to
grace their yards  with vines:   Choose a vine that is suited to Central
Florida's temperatures, including the occasional freeze.  Vines such as woolly
congea or wood rose that prefer the warmer temperatures of South Florida
probably won't last through a winter dip in degrees. You may have success with
other vines by  planting them in protected locations.   Take into consideration
the site characteristics of the vine's new home: salt spray, amount of  sun or
shade, water drainage and soil type.   Ideally, vines should be planted during
cooler months so their root systems can fully develop  before the plants start
blooming.   Plant the vine in a hole two to three times the diameter of the root
ball and the same depth as  the ball is tall. Make sure the top of the root ball
is even with the ground.  Fill the hole with soil, but do not pack it. Finally,
create a ridge of soil around the filled-in  hole to hold water until it drains
into the soil.   Mulch the plant with a 2- to 3-inch layer of material to
moderate soil temperature and prevent  evaporation. Do not touch the stem of the
plant with mulch.   Water often until established, and fertilize two to three
times a year.   Prune the plant to keep it in bounds. Vines grown specifically
for flowers should be pruned after  they finish blooming.  Beth Dolan    (CHART)
DIVINE CHOICES  In the brochure "Vines for Florida," Robert J. Black recommends
the following vines as among those to  grow in Central Florida:   Yellow
allamanda (Allamanda violacea)   Coral vine (Antigonon leptopus)   Trumpet
creeper (Campsis radicans)   Bougainvillea (Bougainvillea sp.)   Yellow
jessamine (Gelsimium sempervirens)   Trumpet or coral honeysuckle (Lonicera
sempervirens)   Mandevilla (Mandevilla splendens)   Passion vine (Passiflora
sp.)   Mexican flame vine (Senecio confusus)  Beth Dolan  Beth Dolan covers
gardening and can be reached at (813) 259-7619 or bdolan@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART (2C),
 (C) Plants such as blue sky vine, mandevilla, creeping fig and Mexican flame
vine, from left, require vigilance to keep them in check. "If you're going to
plant vines, you have to be a good tender," says Sydney Park Brown, a
Hillsborough County Cooperative Extension Service agent. VICTOR JUNCO, Tribune
photo

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 14, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

The river runs dry at its WMA source;

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words


Anyone who doubts the status of the drought in West Central Florida ought to
take a walk into  Upper Hillsborough Wildlife Management Area for a look at the
source of the Hillsborough River.

I was in the WMA this week with expert turkey hunter Wade Osborne, in search of
a gobbler that  proved a bit too elusive. But we did find sobering evidence of
the water problems all of Florida  faces.

What should be a cool, wet river swamp is powder-dry, with palmettos cracking
like fireworks  when you step on the stems.

There's no peeping of frogs, which now should be deafening with the spring
mating.

And the mosquitoes, which should be there in squadrons almost adequate to lift a
hunter off his  feet and carry him off into the bushes for consumption later,
are totally absent.

Not that I'd ever complain about a dearth of mosquitoes, but when one of the
most numerous of  creatures seems to all but disappear from an area, there's
evidence of a serious ecological change  in the works.

Most striking of all is the river itself. Or rather, the dry trough where the
river used to be.

There's not even enough water left to make a wallow for the wild hogs. The hogs
have been there,  rooting for anything they can find to eat, but they're rooting
in dry sand rather than mud.

The bottom of what was the river is littered with the bleached shells of
millions of freshwater  mussels, victims to an environmental disaster to their
tiny world that they could not imagine. The  minnows, fish, frogs and turtles
are long gone, and with them the wading birds.

The cypress trees still survive, some of them monsters several hundred years
old. Odds are  they've seen droughts like this one before, and survived. But
these trees haven't had their feet  wet in a long time.

The river is hidden up there, east of 301 and far out in the woods beyond
Zephyrhills, but what  happens there has consequences for those of us who live
downstream.

The river is a major water source for Tampa, and right now, water is being taken
out of the  reservoir at Lettuce Lake at the rate of millions of gallons daily,
but no new water is coming in.

Thus far, it's mostly a matter of brown lawns and fewer car washes. But not too
far down the  road, if new houses continue to be built and the climate continues
to dry out, we may be talking  about water rationing.

Considering that 50 years ago Florida was generally thought to have too much
water, and that  swamp-busting was seen as the way of making the state livable,
it's an unimaginable situation.

Of course, I'm sure those mussels on the bottom of the river never dreamed that
their water  could go away, either.

Mackerel plentiful: One of the most dependable bites for bay anglers this spring
has been the  run of Spanish mackerel around the Sunshine Skyway. The action
should continue strong this weekend.

Best tactic, the pros report, is to anchor near the bridge, hang a block of chum
off the  transom, and fish live sardines freelined with the tide.

Live shrimp also will draw hits, as will bits of shrimp fished on fast-moving
jigs.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: FRANK SARGEANT OUTDOORS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 4, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERS;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1344 words

 Call it a hate crime

The tragic story of the execution-style murder of the 18- and 21-year-old men
(front page, April  27) sickened me beyond words. I can't even begin to imagine
the pain and fear these two youths  endured at the evil hands of these hateful
monsters.

The sorrow and suffering of the families and friends of these two innocent and
decent people  will forever change the lives of these people. They will
certainly never heal from this senseless  and disgusting act of hatred.

I have yet to read or hear from any of our news sources that this might be
considered a hate  crime. I know one thing: Had the roles been reversed in this
savage and animalistic act of hatred,  this story would still be active. The
Rev. Jesse Jackson would probably be in Plant City  perpetuating whatever it is
he does.

These certainly are delicate times, aren't they?  THOMAS I. BINGHAM SR.  Tampa
Contractual partners

For once I'm in agreement with at least part of what David Caton has to say
(Letters, April 27).  However, our goals are clearly different. Caton hopes to
use or provoke fear of official  recognition of gay relationships in order to
continue the religious discrimination that shaped our  country's history and
continues today.

Why shouldn't heterosexual domestic partners, children living with parents or
sibling roommates  be given equal rights?

Marriage is a religious institution and never should have been the subject of
favorable  treatment by our government, as it violates the principle of
church-state separation. Any adult  legally capable of a contractual
relationship, who chooses to form a partnership with another,  should receive
the same recognition as someone who chooses to have their partnership recognized
by  a religious institution.  BRENT YACIW  Wesley Chapel  "Janet Reno for
president'

I have never clipped out an article or a cartoon from your paper until April 26.

"Janet Reno for president" by Thomas L. Friedman (Commentary) was the best I
have ever read in  regard to Elian Gonzalez.

Then you published "Treating Elian as a hostage risked his life" by Michael
Kelly on April 27.  Kelly's article went in the trash. I still have Friedman's
article and will keep it.  RAYMOND H. WESTERMAN  Tampa  Communism needs subsidy

How soon after the embargo is lifted do you suppose Reps. Charlie Rangel, Jose
Serrano, Maxine  Waters and others will sponsor legislation to send humanitarian
aid (our tax dollars) to Communist  Cuba? Cuba is currently free to trade with
all other countries on the planet.

Lifting the embargo is not about free trade or making medicine and durable goods
available to  the Cuban populace. These are readily available now in the
dollars-only stores in Cuba. Lifting the  embargo is about providing a climate
conducive to having our hard-earned tax dollars subsidize a  despotic dictator
and his regime.

Keep the embargo (and our tax dollars). Those labeling this a "failed policy"
have not  contemplated what extra dollars for Cuba would have done to foment
more exportation of the  "revolution" to gullible factions in our hemisphere.
Communism needs a subsidy to survive. Communists  produce nothing and can
survive only by conquering capital.  ARMANDO GUTIERREZ  Tampa  Government's best
intentions

I do not know exactly when it started - this distrust of our government, the
secrecy, the idea  that the American people are better off not knowing. I know
only that it continues.

Maybe it began after the election of John F. Kennedy. Maybe it began with the
communist takeover  of Cuba or our government's attempt to overthrow Fidel
Castro with the Bay of Pigs invasion and the  attempts made on Castro's life.
Are there any Americans who still believe that our government did  not play a
hand in the assassination of JFK?

Then the Vietnam War came. I am probably one of the few who feel we needed to be
there to end  communist aggression; however, the real reason the war was fought
- to profit defense contracts - was  absolutely wrong. Then came Watergate,
Iran-Contra and the Persian Gulf War over oil. I'm glad we  went to the aid of
the Kuwaiti people, but I question whether that was the main goal or just a
byproduct of protecting our oil interests.

We've had Whitewater, the deaths of Vince Foster and Ron Brown, Waco, Ruby
Ridge, the buying of  the presidency (and vice presidency) by the Chinese, and
Monica. In the present situation with  Elian, the government is asking us to
trust it because it has the best intentions. Sure.  SEAN WILLIAMS  Frostproof
Treat soldiers better

Why is the Defense Department not meeting its enlistment goal? The answer is
simple: failure to  keep promises. Ask any father, grandfather, brother, sister,
aunt or uncle who served in World War  II or the Korean and Vietnam conflicts.
They describe unkept promises and do not encourage any of  their kin to enlist.
Medical care promised to veterans is now available only on a very limited
basis. Veterans hospitals are overloaded, understaffed and being closed. On-base
housing conditions  for active personnel are deplorable. Many military families
draw local assistance or welfare in  order to get by. Congress can find money
for many pork-barrel projects in foreign countries but  keeps cutting the
military budget and has forgotten all those brave men and women who risked their

 lives in the three aforementioned wars and conflicts.

Members of Congress will have to take their heads out of the sand and evaluate
the problems that  the services are having. Why not assign the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to work with the  undermanned border patrols to protect
our borders. We are being invaded daily, but requests for  additional funds fall
on deaf ears. Finding the money and personnel should be the first priority to
protect our country.  JOHN H. MELOTTE  Lakeland  Funding the fun stuff

Regarding the front-page story about International Plaza on April 23: City and
county leaders  have had no problem committing tax dollars to the Florida
Aquarium, Legends Field, the Ice Palace  and Raymond James Stadium.

Now International Plaza is being made possible because of a favorable lease deal
with the  Hillsborough County Aviation Authority as detailed in the article.

Commissioners should stop playing with the welfare of our community. They should
give the moneys  ordered by the state of Florida to Tampa General. I believe the
amount is $ 6 million.  BERNARD G. RIGBY  Tampa  The writer is president of The
Tampa General Hospital Auxiliary Inc.  About background checks

Apparently Arthur Hayhoe (Letters, May 1) has never bothered to read the Florida
Constitution's  Article 1, Section 8(a): "The right of the people to keep and
bear arms in the defense of themselves  and the lawful authority of the state
shall not be infringed, except that the manner of bearing  arms may be regulated
by law."

The state's FDLE background check was supposed to sunset when the FBI's National
Instant Check  System came online. As a pawnbroker, I access both systems,
depending upon the type of firearm  transfer (pawn redemption or sale). Because
the NICS system was not ready to handle call-ins from  all of the states, the
FDLE became a point of contact for the NICS. Thus, our state's check system,
along with the $ 8 fee, continues. Marion Hammer's point is that if the federal
NICS check is free,  why should Florida's citizens have to pay $ 8 for their
right to purchase firearms?  BRUCE OSBORN  Tampa


Regarding "Taxes and gun fees" by Arthur Hayhoe (Letters, May 1):

Why should a gun buyer pay for a background check if it is free to criminals
when arrested and  to traffic violators when stopped by police?

Don't taxpayers bear the costs for these checks? And gun purchasers pay taxes -
sales and others -  when buying a gun, so the cost of the background check is an
added expense that should be  eliminated.  TOMMY GOOD  Port Richey

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 7, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Torchbearers;

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3920 words


An intense family bond and respect for their Tampa heritage help the Fuentes
create what many  call the world's best cigars

SANTIAGO, Dominican Republic - In a climate-controlled warehouse stacked floor
to ceiling with  burlap bundles of tobacco, Carlos Fuente Jr. ignores dials and
meters and proceeds to a tied-off  bunch of a dozen leaves hanging from a peg.

He rubs them between his thumb and forefinger, holds them to his dark mustache
and inhales,  shakes them at his ear and listens to their rustle. This is how he
judges whether the bundles are  ready for processing.

In a cedar aging vault on the other side of the building, Carlos Fuente Sr.
plucks a finished  cigar from a bundle and runs his fingers along its length,
raises it to his nose, pinches it next  to his ear. This is how he judges
whether the cigar is ready to be shipped.

At Tabacalera A. Fuente y Compania, father and son see, feel, smell, hear, and
taste much more  than simply tobacco that is being processed to their zealous
levels of perfection.

Every leaf, every cigar, carries the reminder of catastrophic fire. Third World
revolution. An  exodus from Tampa to Central America to the Caribbean. A
devastating hurricane.

But above all, an intense family bond. One forged in the back of a
turn-of-the-century West  Tampa home, where sons, fathers, uncles, grandparents
and friends gathered to make cigars. One  strengthened by adversity, enough to
bring tears to the eyes of a 45-year-old man.

A bond valued more than wealth and fame.

"It's difficult to speak about without getting emotional," says Carlos Fuente
Jr. "If I think of  the happiest moments of my life, I go back in time to my
earliest memories. Being around my  grandfather. Right now I can even smell the
Old Spice that my grandfather used to wear ...

"I grew up in a cigar family. In Tampa, it seemed like the world was perfect.
Maybe I was looking  at it though innocent eyes, but the world was perfect.

"I cannot separate cigars and tobacco from myself," the younger Fuente says.
"From the love of my  family. From the love of my father, the love of my
grandfather. When I enjoy a cigar, it's almost  like that bridge."

The mountains of the central Dominican Republic ring Chateau de la Fuente, the
family's 300-acre  plantation on the Rio Yuna near the village of Caribe. The
low valley offers perfect soil for  tobacco. The river irrigates the fields. The
mountains soften the late afternoon sunlight and  create a bowl that amplifies
the shouts of farmhands, the crowing of a rooster, a dog's bark.

Strolling from their tobacco fields toward rows of curing barns, Carlos Fuente
Sr., his son,  nicknamed "Carlito," and daughter Cynthia Fuente-Suarez explain
how they came to be pacing this farm.  The journey transcends agronomy and soil
conditions.

Family patriarch Arturo Fuente left Cuba and set up a cigar factory bearing his
name in Tampa in  1912. Thousands had come to Cigar City before him and
thousands would follow; by 1920, there were  an estimated 12,000 cigar rollers
in 200 factories in West Tampa and Ybor City.

Most cigars were sold locally, and even in the crowded market, Fuente brands
such as the Tampa  Sweetheart were popular. Five hundred workers toiled in the
wooden, three-story A. Fuente & Co.  factory on Albany Street. Times were good.

Arturo Fuente traveled to Cuba in 1924 on a tobacco-buying mission. Disaster
struck while he was  gone: The factory burned to the ground. "He lost
everything," Carlos Jr. says.

Too proud to pursue bankruptcy, Arturo Fuente sold off land he had acquired
around Tampa, worked  for other cigar factories - anything to repay bankers. He
vowed he would re-establish his own  business. It would take 15 years.

The new A. Fuente & Co. was a back room of the family home, where friends and
relatives would  roll cigars, sometimes after their day jobs, sometimes until 1
a.m. Again, the brand was a success.

In the 1950s, Arturo Fuente gradually handed the reins of the family business to
his son, Carlos  Sr. The son started distributing the brand outside Tampa and
introduced such concepts as keeping  books and offering credit.

(Arturo, smarting from the factory fire, wouldn't hand over a box of cigars
until he had the  cash in hand. He "basically had the accounts receivable in his
pocket" - a wad of bills in a rubber  band, says Carlos Jr.)

In the mid-1960s, the Fuentes moved into a four-story red brick factory in Ybor
City, which is  still in the family. Two shifts of rollers put out the Fuente
brands. But the industry was  changing.

In Tampa, a generation of trained rollers aged, and their children strayed from
the trade.  Machines could produce thousands of cigars a day, while hand rollers
could do 150 to 200. The Cuban  revolution and U.S. embargo had rattled the
industry and driven up tobacco prices. Cigar makers  fled the United States.

During their regular lunches at the Spanish Park restaurant in Ybor City, Carlos
Sr. reluctantly  discussed with his son what he considered their only option:
Moving from Tampa.

"He knew. He felt it in his heart," says daughter Cynthia.

Carlos Sr. visited the Dominican Republic, but found the bureaucracy stifling.
Jamaica didn't  feel right. There was a successful cigar operation available in
Nicaragua, so in the mid-1970s, he  left behind a skeleton operation in Tampa
for a new home.

Arturo Fuente died in 1973. He did not live to see the business leave his home
of 60 years.

What would the family patriarch have thought?

"I really think my grandfather guided us there," says Carlos Jr. "I believe my
grandfather is  watching over us."

The move to Nicaragua was a good one. Business was strong, and the country was
stable - "for two  years," says the younger Fuente. "After that, all hell broke
loose."

In 1978, Sandinista rebels approached the Fuente factory and gave the foremen 15
minutes to  clear the building. Carlos Sr.'s business partner, who two decades
earlier had been burned out of a  factory by Cuban revolutionaries, told his
accosters he would have to be physically removed from  this one.

The soldiers obliged, and burned the factory to the ground.

The younger Fuente repeats his refrain: "We lost everything."

Regrouping in Tampa, the family learned of an opportunity in Honduras. There was
another move.

This time it was not arson, but an electrical fire that destroyed their
fledgling operation.

Again, the Fuentes regrouped in Tampa. Carlos Jr. quickly rejects the notion
that giving up was  ever considered. But he softens.

"That feeling is there. But you walk away from it. I can't (quit). I have to
keep going."

The family stayed in Tampa for a while. From a staff of 40 rollers in 1970, just
10 remained.  They tried to revive the local industry, even enlisting in a
program to train Vietnamese refugees  to make cigars. It didn't work.

"I came to the conclusion that we had to go back to another foreign country,"
Carlos Sr. says. "I  was very scared at the time, because our experience wasn't
that great. My son told me, definitely,  he wanted to stay in the business. He
thought that's what he wanted to do forever. I said, "OK,  we'll go.' "

In 1980, Carlos Sr. mortgaged his Tampa house and moved to the Dominican
Republic. He had seven  employees and his father's name.

In his office off the factory floor in Santiago, Carlos Jr. tends to his
rituals. First thing,  he orders in strong Dominican coffee. He lights one of
the cigars that bear the family name. And he  gazes at the black-and-white
portrait of his grandfather that holds the position of honor behind  his desk.
It is not a gesture he takes lightly.

"My grandfather's picture ...."

His voice breaks as he tries to explain, and tears come to his eyes, but he
blinks them back.

"Obviously, I witnessed and I lived incredibly difficult times with my father
when I was very  young. Very difficult financial times after he lost the factory
and so forth. Difficult times  through the economy in the States, changes in the
market, the Cuban embargo.

"But all during that time, I always saw my father looking at my grandfather.
Turning around and  looking at his portrait before he left the office. And I saw
that he built strength from it. And I  guess it does the same for me."

At the end of 1980, Carlos Jr. joined his father in Santiago. The Montesino
brand they began  making in the Dominican Republic was a quick success, and
production of the flagship Arturo Fuente  brand was soon shifted south.

The Arturo Fuente became one of the most sought-after premium brands in the
United States; in  1984, the Hemingway line was named the world's best cigar by
Connoisseur magazine.

In addition to its own products, the company, now named Tabacalera A. Fuente y
Compania, began  making higher-end brands for Tampa's J.C. Newman Cigar Co.

The Fuentes added a second factory in Moca to handle the Newman volume. A third
and fourth  followed in Santiago.

But something was missing.

At a meeting with European retailers, a client pointed out that the Fuentes,
like most cigar  manufacturers, obtained their raw materials from such far-flung
sites as Central Africa. "You  assemble cigars, you don't create them," the
client said.

"It broke my heart," Carlos Jr. says. "I wanted to be known as the best in the
world. I knew what  we had accomplished here, but ...."

The son approached his father with an idea.

Making cigars and growing tobacco are completely different processes. The
Fuentes were growing  some filler tobacco near Santiago. But the conventional
wisdom was that wrapper - the leaf that  forms the outside of the cigar, said to
be responsible for at least 60 percent of a cigar's  character - could only be
grown in Cuba, in Cameroon, in Connecticut.

The Fuentes were close to another Tampa cigar family in their new home. The
Olivas, suppliers of  tobacco to cigarmakers worldwide, had a farm south of
Santiago. The two families agreed that  conditions there were identical to those
in the Vuelta Abajo, the prime growing region of Cuba.  They saw no reason
quality wrapper couldn't be grown there.

But it would take time, capital investment and an almost spiritual devotion to
nurture such a  temperamental crop. Others before had failed, growing Dominican
wrapper that burned unevenly, was  too brittle to wrap cleanly, or was too
bitter to the taste.

The effort was considered so far-fetched that it was given the whimsical code
name "Project X  from Planet Nine." The name would stick.

They started growing wrapper in 1991. Processed the first harvest, aged it.
Reconditioned the  soil. Grew some more. Improved the skills of their pickers.
Learned the Dominican weather patterns.

Farmhands turned the soil using hand plows dragged behind horses. They
fertilized the fields  with everything from coconut meal to bat guano from
nearby caves delivered by villagers on donkeys.

By 1993, Cigar Aficionado magazine, the bible of the high-end cigar market, got
wind of the  project and sent a reporter to Caribe. The ensuing story lauded the
Fuentes' effort, but also gave  ink to industry naysayers.

As word spread, a buzz built among serious smokers. The Fuentes began
advertising - not their  phantom cigar, but their farm, which they christened
Chateau de la Fuente. "Birthplace of a Dream,"  read the text above a dramatic
photo of their land, flush with tobacco. "The Dream is Real," later  ads hinted
as the Fuentes gained confidence.

The Fuentes were creating a cigar from their own Dominican tobacco, with their
own Dominican  wrapper. They called it the Fuente Fuente OpusX, to represent the
efforts of father and son, the  word they defined as a lifetime achievement, and
the code name that grew on them.

In 1995, it was ready. The first shipment went out on Nov. 18 - Arturo Fuente's
birthday.

Smokers in New York lined up for the first cigars.

Publications raved.

Tobacco International magazine renamed its Tobacco Person of the Year award to
"people" of the  year and gave the honor to the Fuentes.

"As soon as the cigars are stocked on the shelf, they're gone," says "Cigar
Dave" Zeplowitz, who  broadcasts the national "Smoke This" radio show from WFLA,
950 AM in Tampa. "That would be the biggest  testament to the family and how
their products are regarded."

Indeed, the 700,000 or so Fuente Fuente OpusX cigars produced annually are
rationed to the  family's longtime network of retailers, who are urged to offer
customers no more than two at a  time. The suggested retail price is $ 7.50 to $
14.50 apiece. They routinely go for $ 20 to $ 40.

How did the Fuentes succeed where others had failed?

"You could say we almost lived here," Carlos Sr. says. "We were here day and
night. We don't hurry  things, we just do things the way they are supposed to be
done. I guess maybe other people didn't  do it because they were thinking how
much it would cost ... And we don't work that way."

It's tough to get a straight answer out of the Fuentes when it comes to growing
tobacco and  making cigars. Not because they're evasive, or unknowing. The
answers are often in their hearts, in  their heads, in their hands, not easily
verbalized.

As they wander through the rows of tobacco plants, they are asked when the
leaves before them  will be picked. "It could be five to seven days," says
Carlos Jr. "Or five to eight days."

He and his father feel the green leaves, examine their tips and flick the points
with their  thumbs. They pinch and feel for gumminess. How many leaves will be
plucked from the mature 7-foot  stalks in the next pass through the field?
"Sometimes it's three leaves, sometimes we pick four  leaves, sometimes we pick
two," says the son. "It just depends."

That's not to say the Fuente operation is a loose ship.

At Factory No. 1, Cuban folk music from Trio Matamoros and boleros from Trio Los
Panchos blares  from loudspeakers as tobacco is bunched, rolled, pressed and
wrapped by 800 of their 2,800  employees.

Cigar presses are opened after 45 minutes and their contents rotated a
quarter-turn to equalize  pressure. Wrappers use old-style, crescent-shaped
cutting blades to surgically trim just a sliver  from the jagged edge of their
leaves, and a larger strip from the more bitter side. They puff at  lit cigars,
which leave telltale scorch marks at their work stations. They dab at tins of
organic  gum from the Middle East that is four to five times more expensive than
synthetic paste. Inspectors  check the work of rollers on the factory floor, and
another level of inspector checks the work of  the first inspectors. Bunches of
50 cigars must meet a target weight within one ounce.

The steps may be "seemingly insignificant," Carlos Jr. says, "but when you
accumulate all these  insignificant steps, you create something extremely
significant."

From seed to cigar in the Fuente production process, some 200 pairs of hands
will touch a  tobacco leaf, and at any step in the process, it can be rejected.

Employees can earn up to 4,000 pesos a week, or about $ 250 - a lot of money in
a country with a  minimum wage of about $ 40 a week. The company provides
medical coverage, has on-site doctors,  provides transportation and sponsors
intramural sports in this baseball-crazed nation.

"It's been important to us, our family's contribution, bringing the Cuban-Tampa
heritage and  culture and technique to the Dominican Republic," Carlos Jr. says.
"Today, I think that has been  instilled in them. And I believe that whether the
Fuente family is here forever, or for whatever  reason is not around, I think
that the Dominican Republic will be forever a great cigar  manufacturing
country."

That commitment to their adopted home was tested in 1998.

The Fuentes had settled in the relatively stable nation expressly to avoid the
political discord  that cost them their Nicaraguan operation. They learned to
minimize fire danger by spreading out  tobacco in several warehouses, and
storing valuable wrapper in sealed vaults.

But there was little they could do against a hurricane.

The site of Chateau de la Fuente - surrounded by mountains - made a perfect rest
stop for  Hurricane Georges as it marched through the Caribbean on Sept. 23,
1998. Georges paused over the  area of the farm, pulverizing barns, scattering
seed beds and tossing around trees.

Teodoro Cardena, one of the farmhands, recalls the aftermath.

"Everything was destroyed. The only thing left was two barns," says Cardena. A
dozen structures  were lost.

The senior and junior Fuentes drove to the farm from Santiago. They were forced
to abandon their  sport utility vehicle on the main highway and hike the last
several miles to their farm. They  scaled tree trunks across their path. Saw the
tin from the curing barn roofs scattered like  shrapnel. They gazed on what was
left of their showpiece from the scoured gravel road.

"If there was ever a time to justifiably walk away from this, this is the time,"
Carlos Sr. said  to his son. "This is God saying it is beyond our control."

The Fuentes did not walk away when fire destroyed their livelihood more than
seven decades  before. Their resolve strengthened when guerrillas and electrical
accidents wiped them out.

They would not walk away from Georges.

OpusX production dipped with the loss of a growing cycle, but since the
Dominican wrapper is  held for years, the storm did not cripple the operation.
And the factories and warehouses in and  near Santiago, farther north, were
spared.

Today, it is business as usual in the Dominican Republic and at the Fuentes'
affiliated  operations in Tampa. The hurricane damage is nearly invisible; the
last of 18 curing barns is  having its thatched roof applied.

In an era of worldwide consolidation in the cigar industry, a well-known,
well-run independent  family operation draws a lot of interest.

General Cigar Holdings Inc. bought Villazon & Co., one of the last of the old
Tampa cigar  makers, for $ 91 million in 1997. Tabacalera S.A., the Spanish
giant, is believed to have paid $ 275  million for Havatampa Inc. later that
year. Neither is near the size of Tabacalera A. Fuente y  Compania, which
produced 38 million premium cigars in 1999.

"I can't tell my kids what to do," says Carlos Sr. "They are all part of the
business, and whatever  their decision will be, I'll respect it.

"But as far as I'm concerned, this is my life. I'll have to do this as long as I
live. There's no  talk of us selling."

Cynthia Fuente-Suarez, who is married to Wayne Suarez of the Newman cigar
operation and has  three children, calls the business "unapproachable."

Carlos Jr. is more emotional.

"We get phone calls I refuse to even pick up," the younger Fuente says. "All the
time. I don't give  someone the opportunity to start getting close; that's the
message that we've intentionally sent  out to everybody. I don't want to be
tempted."

The 45-year-old heir to the company has three daughters and a son on the way. He
has considered  their future.

"People say, "They (tobacco conglomerates) are so powerful. What happens if they
come up with  three or four semitrucks full of money? You're still risking
everything in the Third World. How  about your children, your grandchildren,
your great-grandchildren? You could set them up for life.  How could you say no
to that?'

"I think to myself, it's a great responsibility to say no, but I have to live
with myself. If I  ever did that (sold out), I would have to go to Spain or
somewhere. And anyone I've ever met  before, I would never be able to face them
again."

Carlos Jr. is building a hilltop home that will include a smoking room and vast
entertainment  areas for his constant parade of visitors. The Fuente men drive
Lincoln Navigators with leather  interiors.

But they stroll around the factory and farm in traditional guayabera shirts,
cigars poking out  of their pockets. They greet employees by name. Five of
Carlos Sr.'s original seven employees are  still there.

They are not interested in yachts, private jets or the trappings of wealth.

"I'd rather waste that expense on the farm," says Carlos Jr. "There's thousands
of yachts,  thousands of Lear jets around the world, but there's only one
Chateau de la Fuente. That belongs to  our family. That's something that's a
treasure to us."

And when his home is finished, there will be another treasure.

"That's what I remember when I was growing up - my grandfather's house being
full of a lot of  people," he says. "That's what I look forward to: to have my
home full of happy people."    (CHART) A picture worth a thousand words  To the
uninitiated, it's just a label on the inside cover of their cigar box. But to
the Fuente  family, art, history and emotion merge every time one of their boxes
is opened.  "It's not something I gave an artist and said, "I want a label,' "
says Carlos Fuente Jr. "It came  from emotional history, part of our family, the
commemoration of everything that we lived and the  pains we suffered."  Pictured
is the label for the Arturo Fuente Flor Fina 8-5-8. Even the cigar's name is
significant.  "That was my grandfather's personal blend," says the junior
Fuente. "That cigar was never commercially  sold; my grandfather used to enjoy
it himself, share it with his friends. It was like a private  stock. It was
something very special to him. After my grandfather passed away, my father
thought  about bringing the cigar out in my grandfather's honor, with his
formula, his blend.  "My grandfather was 85 years old when he passed away and
8-5-8 represents, any way you read it, the  beginning of his life, the end of
his life. It represents 85 years of the tradition, the heritage,  the knowledge,
the culture, the love that my grandfather passed on to the family."  Here is the
significance of the elements of the label:  1 Company founder Arturo Fuente  2
Angels, "because my grandfather passed away," says Carlos Fuente Jr. "Hopefully
he's in the heavens,  being protected, watching over us."  3 Flags of Cuba,
Honduras, Spain, Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic and the United States, where

 Fuentes lived or toiled.  4 Cuban crest with elements such as the Fuente Fuente
OpusX logo.  5 An orchid photographed on the family farm, Chateau de la Fuente.

 6 A gold rose representing Rosado wrapper.  7 Carlos Fuente Sr. and his son in
their tobacco fields.  8 A book representing the Fuente family history.  9 The
Goddess of Tobacco. One breast is exposed, as in ancient island culture, and one
is covered,  representing modern culture. The goddess' eyes are blue,
representing the mix of European and  American cultures. "You're not going to
see the eyes," says Carlos Fuente Jr. "It doesn't matter. I  know it's there; it
means a lot to me."  10 "Made with the best leaves of the Villa Gonzales," site
of a Fuente tobacco farm.  11 Carlos Fuente Jr. says he and the artist joked
that they could detect the flavor of black cherry  in one of the Fuente cigars,
"so we even dropped in some black cherries."  Source: Carols Fuente Jr.  CAITLIN
HOPE WRIGHT/Tribune graphic  Jerome R. Stockfisch covers manufacturing and
workplace issues. He can be reached at (813) 259-7850 or
jstockfisch@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 10 (8C); MAP (C); CHART (C),
 (C) Photography by VICTOR JUNCO Carlos Fuente Jr.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 10, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Honey of a hobby;

BYLINE: EDWARD WOODWARD, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words


After a decade of backyard beekeeping, a retired lawyer remaines intrigued by
his insects.

BALLAST POINT - Beekeeper J. Michael Shea is allergic to bees.

He found out the hard way about three years ago when he was stung twice on the
neck, went into  shock and passed out for five hours.

But that hasn't stopped him from harvesting honey in his back yard with some
30,000 Italian  bees. He makes about 30 gallons worth of the sweet stuff each
year, which he usually gives to  friends.

"I had a lot of friends who told me I should" quit, said Shea, who picked up the
hobby 10 years  ago from a previous neighbor. "I was already well hooked."

Shea, who retired in October after 30 years as a maritime trial lawyer, "pulls"
honey from his  hive three times a year. The hive is a series of small boxes
stacked together, each a chamber that  serves a purpose in the hierarchy of the
bee world.

The queen lives in the bottom box. There she mates with drone bees, producing up
to 250,000 bees  - including personal grooming bees - in her two-  year life
span. The offspring include drones, which can live up to six months, and worker
bees,  which live an average of 23 days and dedicate their short lives to making
the honey. The cycle  repeats itself with the hive being "re-queened" when a new
queen is bred every two years.

The worker bees fly up to two miles away from the hive to collect pollen from a
variety of  plants including azaleas, mangroves, and red pepper trees, Shea
said. The flavor and hue of the  honey changes with each batch, which led Shea
to name his product "wildflower honey."

Watching the bees and their repeated creations for 10 years has intrigued Shea.
He's impressed  by "their efficiency, their independence, their tenacity, their
survival ... they simply adapt."

Shea had the same hive for 10 years until March when the dreaded wax moth
destroyed it. He  replaced it with a hive he retrieved from a friend's oak tree
in the Town 'N Country area, but it  suffered the same fate.

"The biggest problem we have in the South is the wax moth," Shea said,
explaining the moths eat  honey and wax faster than the bees can create it.

The moths put larva in the hive, taking up space where the bees would reproduce.
The bees  eventually die out. Shea suspects his hive's queen could not produce
enough bees to counteract the  moths because the queen was near the end of her
life.

Last month, he started another hive, paying a south Georgia bee dealer $ 52 for
about 50,000  Italian bees and one Italian queen, which adapt well to Florida's
climate.

"They're sort of like raising roses: There are certain varieties that are
proven," said Shea, who  carries a $ 5 beekeeping license issued by the Florida
Agriculture Department. The license has to be  renewed annually after an
inspection.

SHEA'S BEE ORDER was shipped in a small wooden box with wire meshing - the queen
having her own  miniature box within - that came via the U.S. Mail. The package
caused a buzz at the Interbay  Station post office, where some workers are
allergic to bees.

Shea got a call at 6 a.m. to pick up the package. Curious postal workers
gathered to watch Shea  collect his bees, clad in gloves and a beekeeping hat
with a protective see-through curtain that  covered his head.

Postal worker Cora Chubb, whose route includes Shea's home, said it didn't
bother her handling  the bees when they came in; she has delivered other live
creatures from crickets to ducks.

"I figured they weren't the killer bees, certainly coming from Georgia," Chubb
said.

When Shea let the bees out of their box they took to the hive without a hitch.
He checks on the  hive once a month. A sure sign to pull the honey is when the
bees are swarming around the hive,  which means they've run out of room to make
honey.

"Otherwise they split," Shea said.

He only dons his beekeeping get-up to take the hive apart. But he doesn't worry
about getting  stung.

"The only time they're interested in you is if you poke them."

Shea hasn't been stung in several years, but he's always prepared with Benadryl,
steroids and a  shot of epinephrine, which is also used to counteract the stings
of other insects such as  yellow-jackets and ants. Whenever he opens the hive he
makes sure someone is with him. Usually it's  his girlfriend, who saw him
through his shock episode three years ago.

SHEA INVITES several children to tag along when he opens the hive. Usually
they're members of  Cub Scouts or Boy Scouts, an organization he's actively
involved with, or children of his friends.

He teaches them a little bit about the life of a bee, drawing parallels to a
bee's hard work and  the importance of people contributing to the betterment of
society.

"Too many people die in our society not doing as much as a honey bee," Shea
said.

Once Shea has pulled the small wax combs built by the bees to store the honey,
it's run through  a centrifuge machine which spins the honey free. Shea saves
the wax to make candles or gives it to  friends who do the same.

And yes, he eats the honey. Mainly he puts it in his coffee or gives some to his
dog, Lucky, a  boxer.

Shea also packages the honey for Christmas in up to 300 plastic bottles shaped
as angels. Those  lucky enough to be on his gift list get refills throughout the
year.

There's one group he never leaves out.

"Make sure you give your neighbors honey," Shea said.  Edward Woodward can be
reached at (813) 286-0838.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C),
 BRUCE HOSKING, Tribune photo (C) J. Michael Shea bottles the honey in angel
containers. He gives the bottles to friends and says recipients are guaranteed
unlimited refills.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 27, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Tropical depression;

BYLINE: ANDREW MEADOWS, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words


Fish farmers face a dip in net gain. They're blaming kids, whose dollars are
going elsewhere.

GIBSONTON - The pasture looks like some sort of vast drainage system,
symmetrically lined with  more than 1,000 6-foot-deep ponds, each measuring 110
feet by 30 feet.

Underneath, the murky water explodes into a cornucopia of colorful tropical
fish, from zebra  danios to swordtails to gold nugget plecos, that Ekk Will
Waterlife Resources Inc. eventually hopes  to sell to pet shops.

That is, if anyone will buy them.

Tropical fish farming is in the midst of a two-year slump. Farm revenue has
dropped almost 25  percent since 1997.

This is bad news for agriculture in eastern Hillsborough County, basically
ground zero for  tropical fish farming. The county's 100 farms raise more than
80 percent of the freshwater tropical  fish produced in the United States.

The problem? Children and teenagers are turning toward electronics, video games
and DVDs and  away from freshwater aquariums.

"Kids are surfing the Internet and playing video games," said David Boozer,
executive director of  the Florida Tropical Fish Farms Association in Gibsonton.
"It's like coin and stamp collecting; kids  just aren't into it as much
anymore."

A handful of farms have gone out of business in the past year, said Craig
Watson, director of  the University of Florida's Tropical Aquaculture Laboratory
in Ruskin. Boozer said his membership  has dropped 15 percent.

"This has been a really bad period," Watson said. "I think we're coming back,
though."

To counter the decline, the tropical fish farms association and the Florida
Department of  Agriculture will start a $ 430,000 marketing campaign this fall
designed to promote the benefits of  keeping tropical fish.

The campaign will show up in print advertising and partnerships with schools.
Plus, the  department wants to push tropical fish segments on syndicated
television shows.

"It's a relaxing hobby, and we want people to know that," said Joanne McNeely, a
marketing chief  for the Department of Agriculture. "And the equipment isn't
that hard to maintain."

Boozer said he also wants to get large retailers such as Wal-Mart and Petsmart
to aggressively  market tropical fish. As the pet industry moves toward large
superstores, tropical fish have been  lost in the shuffle, he said.

"They need to set up the aquariums for customers and then offer some type of
maintenance plan,"  Boozer said.

Tropical fish farming gained a foothold in Hillsborough County in the 1930s when
the Wolff  family set up the first farm near Big Bend Road south of Gibsonton.

The business took off after World War II when the Wolffs purchased a surplus
Lockheed airplane  from the government. The craft allowed them to ship fish to
the far reaches of the country.

Neighboring agriculturalists followed the Wolffs' lead, and tropical fish
farming snowballed  into a multimillion-dollar industry. The warm climate and
high water table in Hillsborough County  lent themselves perfectly to the
process.

Ekk Will, founded by the Hennessy family in the 1980s, is now the nation's
largest tropical fish  farm. However, the 100-employee company hasn't escaped
the two-year slump.

Mike Hennessy, Ekk Will's treasurer, said a common belief in the business is
that sales are  better in a bad economy. When money is tight, people spend more
time at home, which gives rise to  aquariums, he said.

Unfortunately for the industry, money isn't real tight right now.

"I can't verify that the theory is true, but it is what a lot of people think,"
Hennessy said.

Ekk Will ships about 3.9 million pounds of fish per year. They're packaged in
foam boxes that  are filled with an oxygen/water mix. Fish can live in the boxes
for up to 30 hours.

Tropical fish remain the most voluminous cargo item moving through Tampa
International Airport,  just ahead of cadavers. But getting fish to the airport
isn't always easy. Large steel skeletons  covered with nets protect the ponds
from hungry herons and egrets, known to devour pounds of fish  at a time. And
Ekk Will has to keep watch for late-night poachers who use large seine nets to
scoop  up its valuable product and resell it to competitors.

Although farmers are hurting, at least one Tampa retailer has been able to grow
in a declining  market.

Brian Derrah, a co-owner of Marine Aquarium Warehouse on Hillsborough Avenue,
said the tropical  fish shop is doing business like gangbusters. Two years ago,
the company moved into a spacious new  facility with 10,000 gallons of aquarium
space.

Those are the kind of retail results Watson likes. The director of UF's
aquaculture center in  Ruskin said his facility just received a $ 159,000 grant
for tropical fish research.

He said the money will help researchers discover how to genetically improve
fish, which could  help the industry's bottom line. Researchers want to be able
to breed more colorful fish with  larger fins.

"There are things we can do to enhance the fish's marketability," Watson said.

Buster Hukle, a Hillsborough County fish farmer, hopes so. He said his business
has dropped  about 30 percent in the past two years. Hukle's company, Sunshine
Aquatic Farms, has shipped  products as far away as North Pole, Alaska. But that
customer left last year once winter hit.

The 62-year-old said he plans to give fish farming one more year. If things
don't rebound, he  will retire.

"The age we're living in is creeping up on this hobby," Hukle said. "Hopefully,
it can change."    (CHART) (C) Scaling back  Farm level receipts for tropical
fish farming in Florida (in millions)  '91 $ 32.8  '93 $ 46.7  '95 $ 52.5  '97 $
57.2  '99 $ 43.2  Source: Florida Dept. of Agriculture and Consumer Services
Tribune graphic  Andrew Meadows covers agribusiness and the food industry. He
can be reached at (813) 259-8144 or ameadows@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C); CHART (C),
 VICTOR JUNCO, Tribune photo (C) Assistant manager Cerilio Perez checks on egg
production inside the hatchery department at Ekk Will Waterlife Resources in
Gibsonton. The hatchery tanks are checked daily.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 30, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Muggy Tampa reaches new Fahrenheits;

BYLINE: NEIL JOHNSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 730 words


Hot days, sweaty nights and long heat waves are getting more common across the
country.

If you think it's been getting hotter in Tampa, it might not be from a fuzzy
memory.

A recent study, building on earlier government research, reinforces what your
sweating body is  telling you.

Nationally, abnormally hot days are twice as common now as in 1948, and there
are three times as  many heat waves that last four days.

And what about our velvet tropic nights? It's more like wet, woolen tropic
nights.

Nationally, there are twice as many unusually hot nights as in the 1950s. And in
Tampa, the  increase is even greater.

The study was financed by two organizations, Ozone Action, a nonprofit group
working on  atmospheric issues, and Physicians for Social Responsibility, a
organization that looks at global  health issues.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration conducted the original
study, examining  temperature records from 1948 through 1995, and the new
research followed the NOAA data and added  records from 1995 through 1999.

Both studies pointed to an increasing number of extremely hot days - days where
the combination  of temperature and humidity climbs to potentially deadly
levels.

"Heat is already the major weather-related killer in the country," said Larry
Kalkstein, a  professor at the University of Delaware Center for Climatic
Research. "This shows it will only get  worse."

Kalkstein also said the number of people heat kills each year is probably higher
than reported.

"I think thousands of people have been dying for years, and only in the last
five or 10 years  have we realized it," he said.

Tampa has not escaped the growing heat.

From the 1950s through the 1970s, Tampa had an average of 10 days a year when
the heat index, or  "feels like" measurement of temperature and humidity,
reached levels the study considered extremely  hot. It's an average of 30 a year
now.

And in the past decade, Tampa ranked fifth in the country and first in Florida
in the number of  heat waves that lasted four days with 39. Honolulu was first
with 74.

Miami, the next Florida city, tied with two other cities for 14th with 30.

The number of extremely hot nights, which prolongs the danger and misery of the
heat, is about  30 a year now in Tampa, three times the average in 1960.

The hot nights can be important, said Dian Gaffen, an NOAA research scientist
and author of the  government study published in 1998.

"If we get hot days but it cools off at night, people can adjust to that,"
Gaffen said.

Fortunately for Tampa, the heat waves are more discomfort than danger.

"Florida is probably the least vulnerable state for heat-related deaths,"
Kalkstein said.

Much of that is because of air conditioning. It's also because of the
consistency of summer  weather.

It's generally in the low 90s, and it's no surprise it will be hot and sticky
here in the  summer. People behave accordingly, Kalkstein said.

Other cities can see sudden spikes where temperatures shoot from the 80s to over
100 in a day.

"People aren't ready for that," Kalkstein said.

As for a cause, scientists are split on the global-warming question and whether
mankind is  having an effect. Plus, the two studies only looked at records in
this country.    (CHART) (C) More heat waves  (See microfilm for details)
Source: Ozone Action and Physicians for Social Responsibility  JENNIFER F.A.
BORRESEN/Tribune graphic    (CHART) Defining 'hot'  Scientists used the average
heat index in July and August from 1948 through 1999 in each city to  determine
what would be considered abnormally hot.  Abnormally hot days or nights are when
the heat index is among the top 15 percent of those average  temperatures. It
varies for each city.  For Tampa, that would be a day when the average heat
index was 88 degrees. The average day's index  includes the afternoon high and
morning low. An example of that would be an afternoon heat index of  98 degrees
and night index of 78 degrees.  Four-day heat waves are four consecutive days
when the heat index tops the abnormally hot level.  The heat index combines
temperature and humidity level to show how hot it appears to be. It's often
called the "feels like" temperature.  Neil Johnson can be reached at (352)
544-5214 and njohnson@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART 2 (1C),
 CHRISTINE DeLESSIO, Tribune photo (C) Daniel Fiorillo, 8, cools off Saturday
during a football camp in Wesley Chapel. If the trend in recent decades
continues, young Fiorillo can expect to sweat out plenty more heat waves.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 4, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

In the middle of the convention, a touch of the unconventional;

BYLINE: STEVE OTTO;

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 807 words


PHILADELPHIA - It's a few hours before George W. Bush received his party's
nomination for  President, and you can imagine the emotions that must have been
churning inside of him.

Of course he may not have been as excited as Julie Kelsey, but then who was?

I ran into Kelsey near the end of the week, right about the time I'd decided
these national  conventions are vast exercises in waste, and so scripted as to
be not even worth trying to  decipher.

Kelsey was standing down near the floor of the convention hall, impatiently
waiting for the  evening session that would officially make Bush the nominee.

Kelsey has been in Philadelphia for the last two weeks - going to meetings,
talking to Republican  National Committee people, absorbing every nuance of this
lumbering event.

She just graduated from the University of South Florida. This year she was the
president of Pi  Sigma Alpha, the National Political Science Honor Society. In
other words, she loves this stuff.

For the past year she has been working with state Rep. Frank Farkas, R-St.
Petersburg. In a  climate where young people no longer seem interested in
politics, Kelsey seems like a dinosaur.

"Unfortunately that's true," she said. "Most of my friends at USF are completely
apathetic. I think  part of it is age. When you are young you don't always have
the responsibility to your community  you should have. I believe that when these
kids grow up, have families and careers and pay taxes,  their priorities will
change."

So why is Julie Kelsey so motivated?

"My dad retired from the Army and he was a Vietnam veteran. Around our house
(Julie lives in St.  Petersburg) we talk a lot of politics. Daddy is a Democrat
and I'm a Republican."

Kelsey's mother is a native of Germany, who only recently became an American
citizen at the  urging of her activist daughter. Kelsey also has one sister, who
is in the Air Force in Okinawa.

You start to get the picture that Kelsey is something of a throwback.

"I guess I am, but I love this. My idea of a fun thing is when we went on a
voter registration  campaign with the Pinellas County supervisor of elections
office.

"These last two weeks have been the best in my life. This morning I got to go to
the Florida  delegation breakfast. It was incredible." In fact she was probably
the only young person at the  breakfast who listened to the speeches instead of
staring at Jeb Bush's heart-throb son, George P.  Bush, who has become an
instant celebrity around here.

Kelsey is here at the Washington Center, a nonprofit organization, on a joint
scholarship from  the Center and USF. Susan McManus, who you see all over the
place in Tampa as a political expert on  everything, is here with Kelsey. USF
will send another student to the Democratic Convention in Los  Angeles.

Julie Kelsey, unfortunately, is not perfect.

When I asked her where all of this was likely to lead, without blushing she
said, "I want to be a  lobbyist."

AS THE REPUBLICANS wind up today, eat a final cheese steak sandwich, and jam
their suitcases  with stuffed elephants and campaign buttons, it's fun to learn
that at least that part of the  process hasn't really changed.

I stopped by the Atwater Kent Museum, housed in what was once the Franklin
Institute. Today the  museum serves as Philadelphia's history museum, which
covers a considerable amount of territory.

This month they are offering a new exhibit of political campaign memorabilia.
The exhibit was  assembled over a year's research by David Egner. Egner is a
former Dunedin resident and University  of Florida grad. What's he doing in
Philly?

"Long story," he said, but once he decided medical school wasn't for him there
was a summer at  Cambridge where his love of history came into focus and he went
back to school, getting two  masters' degrees.

He showed me around.

"I love this," he said, showing me a cream pitcher and a china set made for
George Washington's  campaign. "I just thought it was funny that it was made in
England," he said.

You work your way through the hall, watching an old Disney-produced animated
pitch for  Eisenhower down to today's merchandise. There is a "Reaganomics"
mechanical bank and doll (it was  George Bush who called Reagan's plan "voodoo
economics").

There are also some of the more memorable moments of past campaigns, like an
original Chicago  Tribune with the headline "Dewey defeats Truman," and an
"AuH2O" sticker from the Barry Goldwater  campaign in 1964. There was more but I
had to leave; I wanted to go downtown and get a few campaign  buttons and maybe
a stuffed elephant before hitting the road.  Read Steve Otto's Notes from the
Road and tell him where to visit during his trip across America by going to
TBO.com and selecting the Election 2000 link.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: OFF THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL WITH STEVE OTTO

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 12, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Pinellas Plays!;

BYLINE: LEE DIEKEMPER, Tribune correspondent;

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words

 These local skiers need no water

CLEARWATER - For more than 1,200 area residents, there's nothing like escaping
the Florida summer  for some weekend skiing.

Snow skiing, that is.

But in Florida?

Well, not exactly. The Tampa Bay Snow Skiers are a group of local snow-skiing
enthusiasts who  fly to exotic locales to participate in the sport they love.

One reason is, it's hard to find good powder in the Sunshine State. That begs
the question: If  you are such a snow-skiing enthusiast, why live in Florida?

"We get asked that all the time," said Millie Markels of Clearwater, one of the
club's officers.  "And once in a while, I ask my husband why we don't move up
north. He told me that once I've  shoveled snow for a winter, I will change my
mind."

"But I think (living in Florida and traveling to snow ski) is the perfect
match," Markels added.  "It's a nice contrast to see snow. I think that works
out nicely for people who enjoy wintertime  activities. And for transplants,
it's nostalgic to go back to what they did years ago."

Stranded in a snowless climate, club members make the most of it, traveling to
Chile and New  Zealand in the summer months to hit the slopes. During the
winter, club members can be found flying  to skiing hot spots such as Colorado
and Europe.

"Certain trips bring out certain types of people," Markels said. "It can be
spring breakers, a  family during Christmas, whatever."

Markels noted that the club is for novices as well as seasoned pros.

"We absolutely welcome first-timers," Markels said. "Every resort provides
lessons."

Which is one of the reasons Cheryl Gleaton decided to join the organization.

"I went on a trip the first time with the club in 1990 because it was half the
price of a trip if  I booked it myself," Gleaton said. "For me, I never saw snow
until I was 30 years old. I fell in love  with (skiing).

"I live the life of luxury," Gleaton, of Pinellas Park, said. "I get to enjoy
the snow and I don't  have to shovel snow or scrape windshields."

The club is not just a gathering of snow skiers. Because of its size, group
rates for trips can  be obtained at competitive prices. The group also has
monthly social gatherings throughout the  Tampa Bay area.

For more information on the Tampa Bay Snow Skiers, you can visit the group's Web
site at  www.tampabaysnowskiers.com

Markels can be contacted at (727) 531-0129. Gleaton can be reached at (727)
541-2095.

PET CARE AND BASEBALL combine when the Dunedin Blue Jays host Animal Services
Night tonight.

With a $ 1 coupon available at local convenience stores and supermarkets,
baseball fans can watch  the stars of tomorrow, and learn about pet care at the
Pinellas County Animal Services booth, "Ask  the Vet." Among the topics fans can
learn about is how to care for your pet in the event of a  hurricane.

For more information, contact the Dunedin Blue Jays at (727) 733-9302 or
Pinellas County Animal  Services at (727) 582-2600.

YOUTH SOCCER LEAGUE registration for the YMCA of Clearwater's soccer league
continues through  Aug. 30. Fees are $ 40 for YMCA members, $ 60 for nonmembers.
The fee includes eight games, team  T-shirts, trophies and a season-ending pizza
party.

Weekly practices will be held at the YMCA of Clearwater with games played at
Dunedin Middle  School. Parent orientation is scheduled for Sept. 2.

For more information, contact the YMCA of Clearwater at (727) 461-9622.

COUNTRYSIDE YOUTH SOCCER registration continues today and Tuesday for all age
groups.  Registration times today are from 9 a.m. through 1 p.m. and on Tuesday
from 7 to 9 p.m. at the  Countryside Recreation Center, 2640 Sabal Springs
Drive, Clearwater.

Registration fees are $ 60 for soccer players 4 to 6 years old, $ 85 for all
others.

For more information, contact the Countryside Youth Soccer office at (727)
796-5207.

ADULT SOFTBALL LEAGUE meetings for the Tarpon Springs Recreational Department
will be held this  week at the Tarpon Springs Community Center, 400 S. Walton
Ave. All interested players and managers  for women's, men's and coed teams are
urged to attend. The coed meeting is Tuesday, women's meeting  Wednesday and
men's Thursday. Each meeting is scheduled to start at 6:30 p.m.

For more information, contact the Tarpon Springs Recreational Department at
(727) 942-5628.

PALM HARBOR PARKS and Recreation Department will have several camps throughout
August for  youngsters.

All camps are for youngsters 6 to 14 with the exception of baseball (ages 7 to
14), and tennis  (age 5 to adult).

Additional information on the camps may be obtained by calling the Palm Harbor
Parks and  Recreation office at (727) 523-9862.  If you have information about
upcoming sporting events open to the public, please fax them to Lee Diekemper at
(727) 791-6826.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PINELLAS PLAYS!

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 9, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Why college? An open letter to college students;

BYLINE: FRED PUNZO;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2010 words


I would like to welcome the men and women who have entered any one of the
colleges and  universities in the Tampa Bay area this fall. Your decision to
pursue a college education  represents a defining moment in your lives.
Hopefully, for some of you, it will become the defining  moment of your life.

Ahead of you lies a journey fraught with excitement and uncertainty. Many of you
begin the  voyage with many questions. Why am I here? What is this all about?
What should I choose as a major?  What do my parents expect of me? Should I be
in college? Do I have what it takes? Will I fit in?  Make friends? Should I get
a part-time job? How can I have a good time? Is this my ticket to a
high-salaried profession?

These questions are typical and you should not feel as if you are the only
person confronting  them. Indeed, if you have questions, that is a positive
sign. If you have none, you should probably  find something else to do. Please
remember that there is an important difference between receiving  instruction
and acquiring an education.

Many of the things that I will suggest to you are not very fashionable in our
current climate of  consumerism, but I believe in them and will continue to
argue against the ever more popular  corporate model of higher education.

Like many other things in life, what you receive from an experience usually
depends on the  effort that you invest. What a college education represents
first and foremost is a commitment to a  life of the mind. Contrary to popular
opinion, college is not for everyone, nor is it essential for  survival or
comfort. The possibility that we offer you represents a universe of ideas.
Merely  providing you with vocational instruction and training so that you can
find a particular kind of  job is not the primary goal of an undergraduate
education. There are many trade institutions,  technical schools and vocational
programs where you can find that kind of experience. If your  principal aim is
to make money, there are many ways to accomplish that without investing the
considerable amount of time, effort and money that undergraduate and
postgraduate education will  entail.

THAT IS NOT to say that a college education will have no impact on your
professional goals. Of  course it will. If you are an accounting major, many of
your courses will prepare you for the CPA  exam and a career in accounting. If
medical school is your goal, the courses taken in the natural  sciences, social
sciences, mathematics and humanities will help you to prepare for the MCAT exam

 and your future studies in medicine. Of course, professional schools do not
require that you major  in any one subject. Students who go on to pursue careers
in medicine, law, business, public  administration, etc., come from many
different academic majors.

But a truly worthwhile undergraduate experience should provide you with much
more than entry  requirements for a job or advanced professional training. The
desire to be an accountant, teacher,  physician, lawyer, architect, historian,
social worker, etc., is a noble pursuit, but such careers  do not represent the
parameters that most uniquely define our human condition. Literature, poetry,
art, music, film, the theater - these are the things that speak to the affective
sphere of our  lives. They make us feel, and in so doing they enrich us by
filling in the empty spaces that  permeate through all of the mundane aspects of
everyday life. These are the experiences that remind  us that we are alive and
why life is worth living.

Statistics tell us that most individuals will change jobs (and careers) several
times before  they retire, but good books, music and the performing and visual
arts are not ephemeral. They have  the capacity to be uplifting, to make us
better human beings regardless of how we earn our  paycheck. Learning about
these experiences, and how to appreciate them and integrate them into your
life, is one of the most important contributions that a college education can
provide for you.

Why is it that across the country more and more people are attending theatrical
performances and  signing up for workshops in dance, art, writing, nature trips
and music lessons? Why have so many  people discovered the joy of keeping a
personal journal? Why are they attending poetry readings in  bookstores and
cafes across the land? Because these activities not only entertain us, they also

 expand the variety of our personal experiences and provide a type of
fulfillment that other  activities cannot.

Your college experience should encourage you to confront important questions -
important  regardless of your occupation or major. Questions that any truly
"educated" person must always  grapple with; questions that help us to
understand the nature of humans and their roles in society.

What is the ultimate nature of reality? What is the meaning of life? What is
knowledge? Is man  free? If so, what is freedom? What is reality? What is art?
What is the function of art in society?  What is love? What are the best forms
of government? What is social justice? What is the meaning of  man's religious
experiences? What are man's origins? What is our relationship to the rest of the

 natural world? What is culture? What is science? Welcome to the academy.

Philosophy, history, literature, art and the natural and social sciences will
help you to begin  to address these questions in a serious way, an inquiry that
should continue throughout your life.  They will also help you to become an
engaged and informed citizen, one who can make important  decisions judiciously,
while being critical and analytical.

As you pour yourself into these subjects and activities, your mind will become
better organized,  more capable of inquiry and in distinguishing fact from
opinion. You will develop a sense of  confidence, a disciplined curiosity and a
global perspective about the world and your place in it.

To address these questions, you must transcend the notion of "requirements" and
formal curriculum.  That list of courses found in any college catalog under
"general distribution requirements" simply  won't do. It's only a start. The
notion that by merely exposing yourself to what the historian  Jacques Barzun
refers to as a "pharmacopoeia" of courses, you will mysteriously transform
yourself  into a truly knowledgeable, perceptive and affective person is a myth.

To become a learned person you must read voraciously. You must learn to devour
books. You cannot  achieve this goal by simply surfing the Internet, although
computers can be a useful tool. If you  are a slow reader and it takes more
time, then so be it. There are ways to increase your reading  speed and
comprehension. Find out what they are.

You should keep yourself informed about national and world events and other
issues that have  profound effects on our lives. We are part of a global
village. The world extends beyond our  national boundaries. Read quality
newspapers regularly, and monthly magazines such as The New  Yorker, Harper's,
Atlantic Monthly and The Economist. Can you imagine a serious business student
who does not read The Wall Street Journal or Harvard Business Review? A writing
major who has never  heard of the Georgia Review? There are comparable
periodicals in other fields. Talk with your  professors and find out what they
are.

You should seek out art museums and libraries, attend musical concerts and
recitals and literary  readings, many of which are free. The Tampa, St.
Petersburg, Clearwater and Sarasota areas will  afford you ample opportunity in
this respect. There are numerous art museums, galleries and museums  of science
and history. We have active theater groups in the area. There are local jazz and
blues  festivals, as well as free concerts by the Florida Orchestra throughout
the year. There are many  music recitals on area campuses. You can attend poetry
and fiction readings at many of the area  bookstores. For a more complete
listing, check the Friday editions of The Tampa Tribune, The St.  Petersburg
Times and Weekly Planet.

All of this in addition to your formal course requirements! That is why college
requires a  full-time commitment. You will soon learn to sleep less and enjoy
life more. Take a smaller course  load if necessary. If it takes an additional
year to graduate, it will not be the end of the world.  You cannot place a price
tag on the kind of enlightening experience that will enrich and empower  you and
make you the kind of person that will stand out and that future, prospective
employers will  want to hire.

You will begin to see how serious reading can improve your vocabulary and expand
your ability to  communicate with others. How frustrating and limiting it must
be for those who can only express  themselves with monosyllabic or four-letter
words. Language should be rich and expressive! A  college education should help
you to become more sophisticated in your use of language and in how  you express
yourself. Learn to read with a dictionary. Authors use specific words for a
reason in  order to make a particular point, or to establish a certain mood. If
you do not understand a word,  you will miss the point.

The serious pursuit of an education will have another dramatic effect on your
life. You should  find yourself undergoing a progressive and wondrous
transformation into a person who is very  different than the one who entered
college as a freshman. If you are not, if you have the same  attitudes and
expectations, then you have missed something along the way. You will look at
life  differently and react to those around you in novel ways. In some respects,
your parents and former  friends may no longer recognize you. You should become
more tolerant and understanding of the  differences among individuals. You will
have a newly fashioned awareness of the social injustices  that pervade our
society, and hopefully will have started to formulate ideas that might help us
to  improve upon them. You will be a well-read, articulate individual who can
analyze and read  critically. Knowledge and sophistication are power; the pen
has often been mightier than the sword.

For many of you, this may be the only time in your lives during which you can
concentrate your  efforts on refining your formal education, and seek knowledge
for its own sake, without the  responsibilities of work and family. Make the
most of it. Many never have this opportunity. For  those who do and squander it,
there is no redress. Be thankful for this journey that you are on.  Embrace it.
The faculty is there to help you but can do so only if you accept your
responsibility.

FOR THE NONTRADITIONAL students who must juggle the demands of college with jobs
and familial  responsibilities, do not surrender, regardless of how daunting
your task may seem. Others have done  it, and you can as well. It may take more
time, but do not give in to temptation and try to  complete your journey as
quickly as possible. If you do, you will miss much along the way and may
actually increase your chance of failure.

I remember visiting Washington University a few years ago during graduation
ceremonies. A woman  who was 58 years old, a single parent, a former high school
dropout who "never met a book she liked,"  walked across the stage to receive
her M.D. degree. In her address to her classmates, she  emphasized her
undergraduate experience and the profound impact that individuals such as
Frederick  Douglass, Michael Harrington, Toni Morrison and Octavio Paz had made
on her life. She was a  "nontraditional student" with many things working
against her who found a way to expand her  intellectual horizons and enrich her
life. I hope that some of you will be able to share in this  experience. Carpe
diem!  Fred Punzo is Dana professor of biology at the University of Tampa and
has been an educator for more than 30 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SATURDAY FORUM

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 5, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Letters;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1417 words


Intolerant of the lies

I'll tell you why I'm not going to vote in the election this year. We have two
viable  presidential candidates and two viable senatorial candidates. All are
promising to spend hundreds  of billions of dollars on prescription drug
coverage, rebuilding the military and improving  education. In addition to all
this spending, they also promise to cut taxes. This is impossible!

President Clinton got into big trouble for lying to the people. What makes these
candidates  think they are immune from getting in trouble for lying to the
people?  - ROGER W. WATTS  Winter Haven  Focusing on religion

I read with interest Michelle Bearden's contribution to the continuing shower of
press praise  for Joe Lieberman's unabashed religious references in the
presidential campaign, "Running on faith"  (Commentary, Sept. 17).

I cannot help but be struck by the contrast in press commentary about religion
in the George W.  Bush campaign. He was roundly denounced for the invocation of
Jesus Christ as his favorite  philosopher and was condemned as an anti-Catholic
because he made a political campaign stop at a  Christian fundamentalist
university during the primaries.

The most positive press I have seen in regard to Bush's religion is how his turn
to God helped  him to stop drinking alcohol.

As the impression is left to linger that Bush's religious words and actions are
somehow  objectionable and anti-Catholic, I, as a Roman Catholic, would like to
point out that the  Democratic candidate for president, Al Gore Jr. (who has
benefited from his running mate's  outspoken religiosity), has done and said
things in regard to religion that are clearly out of line  and unmistakably
anti-Catholic.

Catholics and others who genuinely see harm in anti-religious bias against any
denomination  should note that Gore is on record in his unambiguous opposition
to the Roman Catholic Church. He  has condemned the church for its opposition to
United Nations Population Fund proposals that call  for greater access to
abortions for women in poor countries. In fact, Gore has supported, and is
supported by, groups that argue that the Vatican ought not belong to the U.N.
conference. Here in  the United States, Gore wholeheartedly endorses a radically
anti-Catholic position in his support  of partial-birth abortion rights.

Some, however, suggest that Gore is no different in respect for life issues
because Bush is a  proponent of capital punishment (a practice condemned by
Catholic leaders, including the pope, but  a practice that is not so
definitively a part of Catholic teaching as is the condemnation of  abortion).
But it should be pointed out at this juncture that Gore himself endorses capital

 punishment as a legitimate part of American federal penal law and justice.
Thus, Gore not only  violates the sensibilities of Catholics who oppose the
death penalty, but he completes the quinella  of the culture of death in his
support of abortion for any reason, at every stage of fetal  development,
including that of partially born infants.

Finally, Gore opposed the wishes of the pope this summer when he sent a warm
letter of  endorsement to the sponsors of the GayPride 2000 march in Rome, who
conducted a virulently  anti-Catholic demonstration in the heart of the Eternal
City in opposition to the pope, who asked  that the parade be held elsewhere.

In light of the Gore Catholic record, and in this political season when religion
is so  significant an element of the climate, Catholics who vote - and believe -
should make an effort to  inform themselves as to which candidate for president
is truly in their best interests, religiously  and politically. It is incumbent
on Catholics to do so because a forthcoming media examination of  Al Gore's
religious attitudes in regard to all things Catholic does not seem to be on the
horizon.  - KEVIN D. MURRAY  Tampa  Vote for a positive idea

Mom plans to vote for Al Gore because she is afraid of what may happen with
George W. in the  White House.

Dad desperately wants once again to vote against Bill Clinton, so he will pull
the lever for  Bush.

Neither is devoted to a candidate. Neither likes or trusts either candidate.
They both wish they  had other options but don't want to see the "bad guy" win
the election.

While they have grown used to canceling out each other's vote over the years,
this year is the  first that they both are going primarily to vote against
someone. Together, they will accomplish  nothing at the clubhouse of their
mobile home community on Nov. 7.

Mom and Dad, instead of wasting your collective vote to cancel each other out
voting for someone  you really don't want to see move into 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue anyway, why not choose one of the  third-party candidates like Harry
Browne (www.libertarian.org)or John Hagelin (www.hagelin.org) and  vote for him?
At least that way you will be helping to make the point that your kids deserve
to  have someone they can vote for - not be stuck voting against the one who
scares us the most.  - DAVID NELSON-VANDETTE  Largo  Health care leadership

I read with interest the two lead articles in the Oct. 1 Commentary section. Too
many people  take our health care system for granted. The medicines that we take
today that help us live a  longer and healthier life are far more effective than
the pills available in the '50s and '60s.

In the United States, we have witnessed the growth and development of the best
medical care  system in the world.

Unfortunately, with the current trend toward managed care, we are in jeopardy of
losing our  position of world leadership in the health care system.

It is imperative that we communicate to our elected officials the messages
contained in the  articles by Bill McArthur and David R. Henderson in last
Sunday's Commentary section of The Tampa  Tribune.  - BONNY A. SANCHEZ
Clearwater  Free, full and unbiased

Charles Krauthammer's column on the Commentary page, "If you doubt there's media
bias, just read  The New York Times" (Oct. 2), highlights a horrendous abuse of
the Constitution's First Amendment  guarantee of freedom of speech, for with
every grant of privilege there exists an equal and  opposite imposition of
responsibility - e.g., the right to practice medicine imposes the obligation  to
do no harm. Similarly, the privilege to operate a free press imposes the
obligation - although it  is not written in the Constitution - to render free,
full and unbiased reporting of all facts. When  the media fail to perform the
latter, they become no longer worthy of the former!

This bias of the media endangers our freedoms - in fact, the American way of
life - for how can we  know how to vote on the issues of the current campaign or
any campaign when fed tripe and not facts  by the media? And what chance does
the political party not in the favor of the media really have of  winning an
election, faced with such bias, distortions and half-truths?

As a people, more than any other, we are conditioned by the First Amendment's
grant of free  speech to trust the printed word. How are we to relearn that our
media can no longer be trusted and  that everything reported to us by it must be
taken with a huge grain of salt?

And, more importantly, can we learn that lesson of mistrust quickly enough to
save us from those  whose bias and lies will destroy the American democracy and
its dream of equality for all?  - PAUL E. CHAMBERLAIN  Valrico  Crying all the
way

When Malcolm Glazer saw your front-page headline "Losing their grip?" on Oct. 2,
he no doubt cried  all the way to the bank. According to Forbes' Top 400 Web
site, Glazer purchased the Bucs for $ 192  million, and the Bucs are now worth $
532 million - a $ 340 million profit because of the generosity  of Hillsborough
County's taxpayers.  -ROBERT F. SAWALLESH  Valrico  Change the punishment

I watched Warren Sapp sitting on the sideline Sunday, and I thought an injustice
was being done.  The injustice was to the community and fans of the Bucs.

People pay good money to support the Bucs and to see the best that the Bucs have
to offer. If  they want to punish Sapp, then take his money and make him mow the
football field. Don't take away  a valuable player and reduce the team's chances
of winning. The fans have waited a long time for a  respectable team  - ANTHONY
A. ZIEMAK  Tampa

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 9, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Scouting Report;

BYLINE: ROY CUMMINGS;

SECTION: SPECIAL SPORTS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

 Bucs: Maybe things aren't so bad after all

You know what this is beginning to look like, don't you? It's beginning to look
a lot like last  year, when the Bucs started 3-4 and couldn't score and had to
depend on the defense to win games.  This time, however, the defense isn't doing
its part.

Before everyone panics, remember that it was a two-minute span of
uncharacteristic mistakes that  cost the Bucs their first loss and a big play on
special teams that cost them their second, which,  by the way, came on the road
and in overtime against one of the top three teams in the NFC. So it's  not like
the Bucs are reeling.

That said, you have to wonder about the offense. It has looked very 1999-  like
the past two weeks and dare we say it, QB Shaun King has looked very Trent
Dilfer-like.  Where's that pinpoint accuracy, that poise? He hasn't had it, and
he needs to get it back because  defenses are starting to put eight, nine and 10
players at the line of scrimmage in an effort to  stop the run and force him to
win games with his passing.

It hasn't been all bad, of course. The Bucs offense is perfect inside the red
zone, it's taking  advantage of turnovers (the Bucs have 45 points off
turnovers) and King is finding ways now and  then to make big plays out of
nothing. But consistency isn't there and it has to be if the Bucs are  going to
break out of this slump.

Something else the Bucs need is improved special teams play. This unit has been
a problem for  one reason or another all season. This is the game, though, where
it should get better. The Vikings  don't offer much in the way of kick- or
punt-return threats and the climate-controlled Metrodome  should favor K Martin
Gramatica.  Vikings: NFL's No. 1 rushers have diversity

Just like the St. Louis Rams, the Vikings are doing a pretty good job of
destroying the theory  that you have to have a great defense to be a dominant
team. If these guys keep winning this way,  we're going to see a revolutionary
change in the way NFL teams try to win football games. Of  course, with the XFL
ready to blast off, that may not be such a bad thing.

But don't get the idea the Vikings are totally unconventional. One of the
primary reasons  they're winning and scoring so many points is they're running
the ball well. This may surprise you:  The Vikings are the top-rated rushing
team in the NFL.

Their top rusher is Robert Smith, an unheralded running back with quickness,
vision and the  toughs to get an extra yard. He can break a big one for you now
and then, too, so the Bucs have to  watch out for him. They also have to watch
out for QB Duante Culpepper, who is as feared in the  running game as the
passing game.

Culpepper doesn't usually run out of designed plays. He runs when coverage on
his receivers is  good or when pass protection breaks down. Either way, it's
been effective because defenses have to  look for the run, and that's opening
more room in the passing game, which is devastating with Randy  Moss.

At 6-foot-5, 198 pounds, Moss creates a mismatch against most defensive backs
just by lining up  against them. He towers over people and that allows the
Vikings to run an alley-oop play most teams  can't even contemplate running.

Defensively the Vikings overall are ordinary, but they've got some very
extraordinary players. T  John Randle still is good enough to warrant a double
team and that makes the rest of the D-linemen  better, especially underrated
run-stuffer Tony Williams. MLB Ed McDaniel is as good a player as  there is at
his position.  Injury report

Bucs: OUT: WR Karl Williams (knee). QUESTIONABLE: LB Jamie Duncan (concussion).
PROBABLE: CB  Ronde Barber (arm); DT Anthony McFarland (arm); G Frank Middleton
(knee); LB Shelton Quarles  (ankle); RB Stecker (knee); T Jerry Wunsch (hip).

Vikings: QUESTIONABLE: DE Gabe Northern (hamstring). PROBABLE: S Antonio Banks
(knee); LB  McDaniel (shoulder); LB Craig Sauer (flu); DT Tony Williams (groin).

   (CHART) BUCS KEYS   Stop Robert Smith and force Culpepper to pass.   Key on
Moss and stop the big play.   Run the ball and stay out of a shootout.  VIKINGS
KEYS   Maintain a good run-pass balance.   Get at least one big play out of
Moss.   Go for the jugular. The Central is theirs if they win tonight.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: SCOUTING REPORT BUCS VS. VIKINGS PREVIEW GAMEDAY PREVIEW

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 13, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Community News;

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

 ZEPHYRHILLS

Seniors driving class set: The AARP 55 Alive driver safety program will be from
9 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Tuesday and Wednesday at Pasco Community Hospital Senior
Health Center, 6748 Gall Blvd.

Those completing the eight-hour refresher course for drivers 50 and older may
qualify for  discounts on auto insurance. To register, call (813) 782-5799.

Retiree group to meet: Chapter 390 of the National Association of Retired
Federal Employees will  meet Tuesday at First Christian Church, 6040 Eighth St.

A representative from Blue Cross/Blue Shield will be there to to answer
insurance questions. For  information, call chapter President Donald Whitlock,
(813) 782-8521, or Rita Grix, secretary, (813)  782-2570.

Art event planned: "Art on the Porch" will be featured from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Tuesday at the  Zephyrhills Depot Museum, 39110 South Ave.

The public is invited to bring brown-bag lunches and art supplies to the event
which is  scheduled for the second Tuesday of each month.

Zephyrhills Art Club members will be on hand to answer questions, give painting
and drawing  information and pointers, and display their artwork. For
information, call the depot at (813)  783-1685.

Depot exhibit under way: Also at the Zephyrhills Depot Museum, a traveling
exhibit titled "300 x  35 Miles: Corridor to the Past" is on display as part of
a statewide touring program.

Prior to construction of Interstate 75 in Hillsborough County, a cooperative
effort between the  Department of State and the Department of Transportation led
to important archaeological  discoveries on the interstate right of way.

The exhibit presents the discoveries made at the site, illuminating prehistoric
Indian life from  some 4,000 to 12,000 years ago.

During this time, profound changes in Florida's climate aided the extinction of
such animals as  mammoths, mastodons and saber-toothed tigers.

"300 x 35 Miles: Corridor to the Past" is one in a series of traveling exhibits
produced and  placed on statewide tour by the Museum of Florida History in
Tallahassee.

The program is designed to offer Florida residents greater access to their
cultural and historic  heritage. It will remain at the Zephyrhills Depot Museum
through April. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to  2 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday.
Admission is free.

For information, call (813) 783-1685.  DADE CITY

Health program set: "Journey To a Healthier Life," a program at Crescent Fitness
Center, begins  Tuesday and continues with meetings twice a week through Dec.
28.

The program is for people of all ages that have at least 50 pounds to lose. It
is designed to  teach proper eating habits and light exercise. For information,
call the center at (352) 518-0550.  LAND O' LAKES

Flapjack winners named: The Flapjack Festival Parade winners are as follows:

Best decorated: First place, Russell Adams ERA; second, Lutz/Land O' Lakes
Women's Club;  third, H & R Block.

Best Junior Civic Unit: Pop Warner Football.

Best Marching Unit: Contempo Dance.

Most Original Unit: French Club from Land O' Lakes High School.

Best of Parade: Backyard Bears Day School.  NEW PORT RICHEY

Maine Club picnic set: The West Pasco Maine Club will meet for its annual fall
picnic at Jay B.  Starkey Park at 11 a.m. Tuesday.

Hot dogs, hamburgers, soft drinks, plates and utensils will be provided.

Those attending are asked to bring a salad, chips and or dessert for the table.

For information, call Phyllis Shupe at (727) 842-7418.  SPRING HILL

Grumman retirees to meet: The Grumman Retiree Club Midwest Chapter will meet at
11:30 a.m.  Thursday at the Wellington Clubhouse, 400 Wexford Blvd. There will
be nominations and election of  officers for the new year.

Entertainment will be provided by the Shade Tree Pickers with guitars and
banjos.

Members are requested to bring nonperishable foods for distribution to the
needy.

All former employees of Northrop Grumman and their guests are welcome.

Reservations must be made by Tuesday. For information, call (352) 686-1775.
HUDSON

Astrology fans to meet: The Suncoast Astrological Association will meet at 7
p.m. Tuesday at the  Hudson Library, 8012 Library Road.

The organization is new and is seeking members. If you are interested in
astrology, you are  welcome to attend the meeting.

The subject for the evening is "Neptune How I Wonder What You Are." A discussion
of charts will  follow.

Church offers seminar: A one-day seminar, "Finding Happiness in the Holidays,"
will be presented  by Hernando-Pasco Hospice at 7 p.m. Tuesday.

The seminar will focus on help for those who have lost a loved one this past
year.

Hicks Road Community Initiative will host the seminar at Hicks Road Baptist
Church, 12219 Hicks  Road. To register, call (727) 863-1992.  HOLIDAY

Centennial Library sets activities: Celebrate Children's Book Week at the
kick-off event from 3  to 6 p.m. Monday at the Centennial Park Library, 5740
Moog Road. Children ages 6 to 12 will enjoy  fun, food and prizes.

Shop the Friends' three-day book sale for bargains from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Thursday and Friday.

Teens in grades 7 through 12 are invited to join the Teen Advisory Board, which
meets on  Tuesdays at 7 p.m. Call the library for meeting dates at (727)
834-3204.  Send east Pasco news to Carol Jeffares Hedman, 38112 15th Ave.,
Zephyrhills FL 33540.  Send central Pasco news to Dorothy Henry, 1825 Collier
Parkway, Lutz FL 33549-8718. Or fax to (813) 949-4862.  Send west Pasco news to
Diane Loebel, 6214 U.S. 19, New Port Richey FL 34652. Or fax to (727) 846-0711.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMUNITY NEWS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 7, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Fox makes latest bid on "Auction';

BYLINE: A Tribune staff, wire report,

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 633 words


A Tribune staff, wire report

A visit to the online auction site eBay is all you need to see that Americans
are hooked on  bidding.

Tonight at 8, Fox will try to cash in on the craze with "The Ultimate Auction,"
a prototype for a  possible series.

Sarah Ferguson, a k a the Duchess of York, and TV perennial Robert Urich (oh,
how far he has  sunk) are the hosts.

The two-hour special, taped Dec. 1 in Los Angeles, finds bidders in person and
on Amazon.com  competing to win gems such as a private concert by 'N Sync; John
F. Kennedy's rocking chair; a  letter postmarked on the Titanic; a game of
one-on-one with basketball star Kobe Bryant; the  Cowardly Lion costume worn by
Bert Lahr in "The Wizard of Oz"; a 65 million-year-old dinosaur  skeleton; and
Princess Diana's "Swan Lake" diamonds, worn during her final public appearance.



Coming attractions: There's a plethora of new programming on cable this Sunday
including a new  version of "Hamlet" at 7 p.m. on the Odyssey network.

The production, set in modern America, features an ethnically mixed cast.
Ophelia; her father,  Polonius; and her brother, Laertes, are played by blacks.

The hysterical Ophelia is portrayed by Lisa Gay Hamilton, who plays Rebecca
Washington on ABC's  "The Practice."

Blair Brown, who has been scarce on TV since her "Days and Nights of Molly
Dodd," plays Hamlet's  mother, Gertrude.

Jamey Sheridan, who starred in NBC's "Shannon's Deal," plays Hamlet's hated new
stepfather.

Campbell Scott, son of two great actors, Colleen Dewhurst and George C. Scott,
has the title  role and co-directed the production.

Odyssey is available on Time Warner cable.

More Sunday stuff: Dean Cain, best known for his four seasons on ABC's "Lois and
Clark: The New  Adventures of Superman" (1993-97), stars as a fair-minded
sheriff in "The Runaway," a murder-mystery  set amid racial conflict in a small
Georgia town in 1949. The 207th "Hallmark Hall of Fame"  presentation airs at 9
p.m. on CBS.

Cain's busy. He's also host and a co-producer of "Ripley's Believe It or Not!"
The oddball  show-and-tell series airs Wednesdays on TNT.

And he still finds time to appear in feature films such as "The Broken Hearts
Club," about love  and longing in Hollywood's gay community. He also has a role
in the upcoming comedy "Rat Race."

In "The Runaway," he plays a sheriff who returns to his hometown after serving
in World War II and  working as a cop in New York. He tries to practice
impartial law enforcement in a racist climate  that resists change.

Black romance: Author Terry McMillan ("Waiting to Exhale") says HBO was the only
network that  would do justice to her "Disappearing Acts."

The film, starring Wesley Snipes and Sanaa Lathan, is a love story about an
urban couple. Lathan  is fresh off her triumph in this summer's "Love &
Basketball," while Snipes, who plays an out-of-work  and love-deficient man,
makes his first appearance in a sizzling black love story since 1988's "Mo'
Better Blues."

HBO, with deep pockets and a hands-off approach to production, has lured
numerous black  performers and producers in recent years.

McMillan joins an impressive list of those who have written, directed or starred
in HBO-produced  original films and documentaries. Among them: authors Walter
Mosley ("Always Outnumbered, Always  Outgunned") and Ernest Gaines ("A Lesson
Before Dying") and actors Halle Berry ("Introducing: Dorothy  Dandridge"),
Charles Dutton ("The Corner") and Forest Whitaker ("Strapped").

HBO not only has given them the freedom to chronicle African-American life in a
way Hollywood  and network television have been slow to duplicate, but also has
given them a chance to hire  minority talent behind the cameras.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Sarah Ferguson

NOTES: TELEVISION

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 12, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

(Aloah, Roy);

BYLINE: MARY D. SCOURTES, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 955 words


Euro-Asian cuisine is not always spicy, but it's always imaginative.

"Our cooking is really pretty global," Roy Yamaguchi says of his cross-cultural
creations.

Blackened Ahi was one of the first dishes he created for his restaurant, Roy's.
Its heat comes  from a chili powder-cayenne pepper mixture made famous by Paul
Prudhomme.

Yamaguchi puts a Pacific spin on it by substituting Hawaiian fish (ahi) for the
Louisiana  redfish. Then he adds soy sauce to a Chinese mustard sauce and whips
up a beurre blanc (a French  butter sauce) to serve as a soothing balance to the
bold blackening spices.

The dish has become so popular, he says, that guests look for it at Roy's.

Here are three recipes from his book, "Roy's Feasts From Hawaii."  BLACKENED AHI
WITH SOY-MUSTARD SAUCE

Soy-mustard sauce:

1/4 cup Coleman's mustard powder

2 tablespoons hot water

2 tablespoons unseasoned rice vinegar

1/4 cup soy sauce

Beurre blanc:

1/2 cup white wine

2 teaspoons white wine vinegar

1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice

1 tablespoon minced shallots

2 tablespoons heavy cream

1/2 cup unsalted butter, cut up

1/2 teaspoon salt

Freshly ground white pepper

Blackening spice (see note):

11/2 tablespoons paprika

1/2 tablespoon cayenne powder

1/2 tablespoon chili powder

1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper

Fish:

1 ahi tuna fillet, about 2 inches thick (about 8 ounces)

Garnish:

2 or 3 tablespoons pickled ginger

1/2 teaspoon black sesame seeds

1 ounce Japanese sprouts or other sprouts (top 2 inches only)

1 tablespoon seeded and diced yellow bell pepper, optional

1 small piece of cucumber, cut into matchsticks, optional

Soy-mustard sauce: Mix mustard powder and hot water into a paste. Let sit for a
few minutes. Add  vinegar and soy sauce, mix and strain through a fine sieve.
Chill in refrigerator.

Beurre blanc sauce: Combine wine, wine vinegar, lemon juice and shallots in a
saucepan and bring  to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce liquid until syrupy.
Add cream and reduce by half. Turn  heat to low and gradually add butter,
stirring slowly (do not whisk) until incorporated.

Be careful not to let mixture boil, or it will break and separate. Season with
salt and pepper,  and strain through a fine sieve. Transfer to a double boiler
and keep warm.

Blackening spice: Mix spices together on a plate, and dredge fish on all sides.
Heat a lightly  oiled cast-iron skillet and sear fish over high heat to desired
doneness (about 15 seconds per side  for rare, 1 minute per side for
medium-rare). Cut into 16 thin slices.

For each serving, arrange 4 slices ahi in a pinwheel or cross shape on the
plate. Ladle a little  mustard sauce in 2 opposing quadrants between the tuna,
and ladle beurre blanc in other quadrants.

To garnish, put a small mound of pickled ginger on beurre blanc on either side;
sprinkle sesame  seeds over soy-mustard sauce. Arrange sprouts, bell pepper and
cucumber at the center of this  pinwheel.

Serves 4 (as an appetizer).

Note: The chef grinds his own spices, but home cooks can substitute 1/4 cup
prepared Cajun spices  instead.  BANANA MOUSSE WITH MAC' NUT CREAM

6 ripe bananas, unpeeled

Mac' Nut Cream:

1/4 cup unsalted butter

2 cups sugar

11/4 cups coarsely chopped macadamia nuts

1 cup heavy cream

Whipped Sweet Cream:

1 cup heavy cream

1/2 teaspoon sugar

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Place bananas on a baking sheet; bake in the
oven until they  turn black and the skins split, about 10 minutes. Let cool a
little and then peel the bananas and  puree in a food processor. Pour puree into
2-inch ramekins and refrigerate for 2 hours.

Mac' Nut Cream: Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sugar and macadamia nuts,
and bring to a  boil. Continue boiling until the mixture turns a dark golden
brown. Stir in the cream, and when  incorporated, remove the pan from the heat
and cool to room temperature.

When ready to serve, warm the Mac' Nut Cream gently. For the garnish, whip the
cream with the  sugar until soft peaks form.

To serve, place a chilled banana mousse on each serving plate. Top with the
Whipped Sweet Cream  and pour the warm Mac' Nut Cream around. Serves 6.  MAUI
ONIONS AND TOMATOES WITH PANCETTA AND BASIL BALSAMIC VINAIGRETTE

1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil

1 ounce pancetta (Italian bacon), diced

1/4 teaspoon finely minced garlic

1/4 teaspoon finely minced shallots

1/4 cup balsamic vinegar

6 large fresh basil leaves, julienned

3 Maui or other mild, sweet onions, julienned

6 large ripe, beefsteak tomatoes

6 cups washed and torn baby mixed greens, such as arugula, spinach and red leaf
lettuce (about 5  ounces)

6 sprigs fresh basil, for garnish

To prepare vinaigrette, heat olive oil in a large saute pan and saute the
pancetta, garlic and  shallots over medium heat for 1 minute.

Remove from heat and stir in vinegar and half of basil. Add onions and return to
the heat for  about 30 seconds.

Remove from heat and stir in remaining basil.

Core tomatoes; cut a slice off the tops and bottom; discard.

Cut each tomato into three thick slices.

Putting the salad together involves reassembling the tomatoes, so try to keep
the slices in  order. To assemble, place a bottom tomato slice on each serving
plate. Place a layer of the greens  on top of the tomato, using up about half
the greens.

Place a layer of onions and a little vinaigrette over the greens, and then the
center tomato  slice. Add another layer of greens (use all), most of the onions
(save some for garnish) and top  with the last slice of tomato.

Garnish with a little more onion and basil. Pour remaining vinaigrette around
the salad. Serves  6.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Winter may turn to summer, fast;

BYLINE: FRANK SARGEANT;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 781 words


Water temperatures jumped from winter to summer in the last week, with no pause
in between for  spring.

According to the PORTS real-time temperature system on Tampa Bay, temperature at
the bottom at  the Skyway had gone up to 65 by noon yesterday after dropping as
low as 59 last week. And at Port  Manatee, the temperature had jumped all the
way to 68. Meanwhile, anglers on the flats in late  afternoons are seeing water
temperatures exceeding 75 degrees. (If you'd like to check the PORTS  system
yourself, you can reach it by calling (727) 822-5836, 24 hours a day.)

What all this means, unless we get a couple of late "Arctic Express" fronts, is
that the spring  bite for many species may be early this year after all.

Guides' reports from Boca Grande to Anclote indicate that sardines of fishable
size already are  starting to appear on the flats, and the snook probably won't
be far behind them. Currently, most  fish are still up the rivers and in the
harbors, but they'll come out and begin to feed heavily as  soon as the water
remains over 70 on a steady basis.

Trout fishing has held up pretty well all winter, slowing only in the coldest
weeks, and the new  warmth is likely to turn on the fish once again in depths of
4 to 6 feet over the grass. Some  anglers have reported seeing huge trout in
water only knee deep in the last few days, but the fish  were not in a feeding
mood; it's likely that the clear water will require wade-fishing to get at
these trophy-sized fish.

Reds also were dependable in many areas before the big chill, and they're likely
to be back in  the shallows sunbathing again with the warm afternoons.

And, with the water along the beaches reaching comfortable temperatures again,
it's likely that  Spanish mackerel won't be long in arriving in full force; 68
degrees is the magic number. And St.  Patrick's Day may come early this year for
kingfish anglers; that's the date that the first push  usually migrates into our
waters, but if the baitfish schools move early, the kings will come with  them.

Even grouper slowed down during the coldest weather, but there's always a great
bite in March,  and that is likely to be particularly strong this year.

Look for fish from 15 feet on out from Anclote northward, and from 30 feet out
to 125 feet from  Anclote south. The Tampa shipping channels are also due for a
big bite.

The same area will get hot within a week or two for spawning sheepshead, the
jumbos of 6 to 8  pounds, which will be found on rocky ledges there. Live shrimp
or fiddler crabs are the ticket for  these crustacean eaters. Captain Thom Smith
also reports the 'heads have been active along the edge  of the ICW in Sarasota
Bay.

In short, if you've been putting off oiling and relining your reels, fixing the
castnet and  mending those broken line guides on your rods, it's time to get the
chores done and get back out on  the water; Spring is here.

Gobblers already heard: Hints are that the burst of warm weather will set off
the first round of  gobbling among wild turkeys just in time for the March 4
opener in the southern zone. Many hunters  are reporting that the big birds are
responding to calls this week, as they usually do when the  first trees start to
leaf out in spring. Turkey numbers in many areas are near a peak this year
thanks to several seasons of gobblers-only hunting, and the spring season should
be good on both  public and private lands.

Frank discussion: I'll be sitting in as guest host on AM radio 1010 this morning
on the Bob  Pucinelli/Todd Wood fishing show from 8 to 10 a.m. Pucinelli is
under the weather, Wood out of  town, though Wood has promised to call in and
guide me through the intricacies of talk radio. Topic  for the morning, among
others, will be the proposed trout rules, which would close the three winter
months in our area; anglers who'd like to be heard can call the show at (813)
639-1010.

Free GPS clinic offered: If you need some help in getting started with global
positioning  systems (GPS), West Marine at 3905 W. Cypress Ave. in Tampa is
offering a free clinic Wednesday at  6 p.m. with several local experts. Systems
are now available for less than $ 200, and they can be  used on any boat in
fresh or saltwater, as well as carried along in a pocket to prevent hunters and

 hikers from getting lost. For details, call West Marine at (813) 348-0521.
(CHART) Outdoors Expo   What: Frank Sargeant's Outdoors Expo   Where: Florida
State Fairgrounds   When: Friday - 1-9 p.m.; Saturday - 10 a.m.-8 p.m.; next
Sunday - 11 a.m.-6 p.m.   Tickets: Friday - free; Saturday-Sunday - $ 6

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE; CHART

NOTES: OUTDOORS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 12, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Have a need for speed? Many choices this week;

BYLINE: H.A. BRANHAM, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1011 words


This is a motorsports fan's dream week in Florida, with the 12 Hours of Sebring
and the NHRA  Gatornationals in Gainesville running concurrently.

If you're a fan in Florida who never misses an in-state motorsports event,
there's no getting  around it. This week you're faced with a choice.

Road racing.

Drag racing.

The third week in March has been a two-headed Central Florida showcase of speed.
But rather than  becoming competition, the 12 Hours of Sebring and the
Gatornationals have become complementary,  conflicting only on paper.

"I think the reality of it is that we're dealing with two completely different
groups of race  fans," said auto racing historian Ken Breslauer of St.
Petersburg, explaining the continued growth  of both events. "Also, there's
probably not as much crossover between fan bases, as there is, say,  between
sports cars and Indy cars."

Sebring International Raceway has the sports cars, racing on a winding,
capricious 3.71-mile  road course. Gainesville Raceway has the Gatornationals
and the National Hot Rod Association's  never-ending testimonial to technology,
with Top Fuel dragsters now making quarter-mile runs at  speeds exceeding 330
mph.

The races didn't always share the same week. In the late 1980s, the
Gatornationals went through  a bad streak, with several successive years
hampered by rain. One year the race actually had to be  postponed a full week,
moving it into Sebring's week. The weather was beautiful. When the following
year's NHRA slate was made, the new week stuck. There was a story going around
that it stuck by  mistake, but NHRA officials jokingly denied that, saying the
new week purposely was made permanent  in hopes of continuing the good weather.

This year the Gatornationals are expected to attract a total of 175,000 fans
this week over four  days, while Sebring's rock festival in disguise should have
around 100,000.

"Another thing to remember is that both of these events have their own separate,
firmly  entrenched traditions," said Breslauer, author of "Sebring - The
Official History of America's  Greatest Sports Car Race."

Both races have champions lists dotted with legends. Sebring has Juan Manuel
Fangio, Mario  Andretti and A.J. Foyt. The Gatornationals counter with Don
Garlits, Shirley Muldowney and Don  Prudhomme.

Both have major developments as backdrops this year.

Sebring owner Don Panoz has begun a massive refurbishing of the track,
highlighted by  construction of a hotel overlooking the famed hairpin turn.
Panoz also is trying to use the 12  Hours as a foundation for his American Le
Mans Series, which is competing with the Grand American  Road Racing Circuit
headquartered in Daytona Beach.

The Gatornationals could help nine-time series Funny Car champion John Force get
closer to two  records once though untouchable. Force has 82 career NHRA event
titles, only three behind Bob  Glidden's all-time mark. Force's nine division
titles put him one behind Glidden's 10, which were  achieved in Pro Stock.

The Gators also have a reputation for being one of fastest stops on the NHRA
circuit. The first  260-, 270- and 300-mph runs occurred there.    (CHART) Race
Facts  12 Hours of Sebring   What: Sports car endurance race   Where: Sebring
International Raceway   When: Saturday, 10:10 a.m.-10:10 p.m.   Sanctioning:
American Le Mans Series   Purse: $ 275,000 (approximate)   TV: Speedvision
Circuit: 3.7-mile road course   1999 overall winners: J.J. Lehto/Tom
Kristensen/Jorg Muller, BMW V12 LMR (also won Prototype  class)   1999 class
winners: GTS - Martin Snow/Patrick Huisman/Melanie Snow, Porsche 911 Turbo; GT -
Darryl  Havens/  Cort Wagner/Kelly Collins, Porsche 911 RSR.   Support races:
Trans-Am, Women's Global GT Series, Barber Dodge Pro Series, Motorola Cup Street

 Stock.   Race week schedule: Wednesday - 8:30 a.m.-4 p.m., practice sessions;
4-5 p.m., 12 Hours  qualifying. Thursday - 8 a.m.-1:50 p.m., practice and
support race qualifying; 2-3 p.m., 12 Hours of  Sebring final qualifying;
3:15-6:30 p.m., practice and support race qualifying; 7:30-8:30 p.m., 12  Hours
night practice. Friday - 8-11:30 a.m., practice and support race qualifying;
12:30-2 p.m.,  Vintage races; 2:30 p.m., Trans-Am race (75 minutes); 4:15 p.m.,
Women's Global GT race (45  minutes). Saturday - 8-8:15 a.m., 12 Hours warm-up;
8:30 a.m., Barber Dodge Pro Series race (40  minutes); 10:10 a.m., start of 12
Hours of Sebring. Sunday - 8:30-11:50 a.m., Vintage races; 1-4  p.m., Motorola
Cup Street Stock race.   Tickets: 5-day Superticket $ 75, Saturday-Sunday
Superticket $ 65, unreserved car/van/truck parking  $ 10, unreserved
RV/motorhome parking $ 50; call 1-800-626-RACE in Florida, (863) 655-1442
outside  Florida.  Gatornationals   What: Professional drag racing   Where:
Gainesville raceway   When: Thursday-Sunday   Sanctioning: National Hot Rod
Association   Purse: $ 1.9 million (approximate)   TV: ESPN2 - Saturday 8-10
p.m. (qualifying); Sunday 5-7 p.m. (eliminations)   Circuit: Quarter-mile strip

  1999 winners: Top Fuel - Michael Dunn; Funny Car - John Force; Pro Stock -
Warren Johnson; Pro Stock  Motorcycle - Angelle Seeling; Pro Stock Truck - Mark
Osborne.   Race week schedule: Thursday - 8 a.m.-7:30 p.m., qualifying and time
trials. Friday - 8 a.m.-7:30  p.m., qualifying and time trials. Saturday - 10:45
a.m. and 2:45 p.m., pro qualifying. Sunday - 11  a.m., final eliminations begin.

  Tickets: Thursday - All tickets general admission and include pit pass, $ 10
adults, free for  juniors (ages 6-12). Friday - $ 28 adult general admission, $
10 junior; $ 38 adult reserved, $ 20  junior reserved, $ 10 child (5 and under).
Saturday - $ 45 and $ 55 adult reserved, $ 10 and $ 22 junior,  $ 5 and $ 12
child reserved. Sunday - $ 55 and $ 62 adult reserved, $ 20 and $ 24 junior
reserved, $ 10 and  $ 14 child reserved. All tickets include pit pass. For
information call 1-800-884-6472 or  Ticketmaster outlets.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 15, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Spiffed-up raceway set for 12 Hours;

BYLINE: H.A. BRANHAM, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 710 words


SEBRING - Sebring International Raceway has had a facelift, just in time for
Saturday's 12 Hours  of Sebring.

What's new at Sebring?

Try a hotel at the hairpin.

Chateau Elan Lodge, it's called, a name that lets everyone know Sebring
International Raceway  isn't the same party animal that once prompted an X-rated
Hustler magazine photo-spread of infield  activities, accompanied by the
headline "Sebring Swings."

The hotel personifies raceway operator Don Panoz's commitment to modernizing the
storied, old  road circuit and in the process upscaling its image. But there's
more: new pit stalls, with new  scoring, press and VIP facilities stacked atop a
four-story structure. Also, new pavement graces a  portion of the 3.7-mile,
17-turn course.

Despite all that, this still is Sebring, which means the cars and drivers
involved in Saturday's  48th annual 12 Hours of Sebring again should be prepared
for one of motorsports' most severe tests,  while fans renew one of motorsports'
fiercest infield parties.

As far as the racing goes, "the track isn't as rough as it used to be, but it's
still rough," said  Melbourne's Randy Pobst, who will co-drive a Porsche 911
this year.

Panoz said he didn't want to go too far in updating the course, which originally
stretched 5.2  miles - it was shortened repeatedly between 1982-98 - on the
grounds of the Sebring Air Terminal.

"At Sebring, you can't do a lot to the track; that's the history of Sebring, and
it's a bit of  immortal history," said Panoz, a millionaire via his development
of the nicotine patch, a race track  operator via his love of the sport. He also
owns prototype sports cars. One nearly won the 12 Hours  two years ago; another
will be co-driven by Mario Andretti at this year's 24 Hours of Le Mans.

"After Indianapolis and Le Mans, Sebring is the third-oldest race in the world,"
Panoz said. "We  want to respect that."

But Panoz also wants to make money. He owns Road Atlanta and Mosport (in
Ontario, Canada),  tracks that also have been renovated. "I'm committed to
sports car racing - done properly," said  Panoz, who heads the two-year-old
American Le Mans Series, which opens its season at Sebring.

Sebring's facelift has been a rush job. The hotel, constructed just outside the
famed hairpin  portion of the track, opened Monday. It isn't completely
finished, but it's close enough. When it  is complete, it will have a
glass-enclosed track viewing area for guests.

Once things settle down about the track cosmetics, focus will return to racing -
quickly. Cars in  three classes (Prototype, GTS and GT) practice today from 8:30
a.m.-4 p.m. From 4-5 p.m., the first  round of qualifying for the 12 Hours will
be held.

The pole record of 133.134 mph, set in '86 by Whitney Ganz in a Buick March, is
safe. That came  during the heyday of the old International Motor Sports
Association GTP prototypes, a class that  was phased out in the '90s, replaced
by the current open-cockpit style of prototypes. Last year's  pole-sitting car,
a BMW V12, qualified at 121.25.    (CHART) Sebring Facts   What: 48th annual 12
Hours of Sebring   Where: Sebring International Raceway   When: Saturday, 10:10
a.m.-10:10 p.m.   TV: Speedvision   Support races: Trans-Am, Women's Global GT
Series, Barber Dodge Pro Series, Motorola Cup Street  Stock.   Race week
schedule: Today-8:30 a.m.-4 p.m., practice sessions; 4-5 p.m., 12 Hours
qualifying.  Thursday-8 a.m.-1:50 p.m., practice and support race qualifying;
2-3, 12 Hours of Sebring final  qualifying; 3:15-6:30, practice and support race
qualifying; 7:30-8:30, 12 Hours night practice;  Friday-8-11:30 a.m., practice
and support race qualifying; 12:30-2, Vintage races; 2:30, Trans-Am  race (75
minutes); 4:15, Women's Global GT race (45 minutes); Saturday-8-8:15 a.m., 12
Hours  warm-up; 8:30, Barber Dodge Pro Series race (40 minutes); 10:10, start of
12 Hours of Sebring.  Sunday-8:30-11:50 a.m., Vintage races; 1-4 p.m.-Motorola
Cup Street Stock race.   Tickets: 5-day Superticket $ 75, Saturday-Sunday
Superticket $ 65, unreserved car/van/truck parking  $ 10, unreserved RV/motor
home parking $ 50; call (800) 626-RACE in Florida, (863) 655-1442 outside
Florida.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: AUTO RACING

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 16, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Smaller Sebring field may have more class;

BYLINE: H.A. BRANHAM, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 681 words


SEBRING - Provisional poles are decided for Saturday's 12 Hours of Sebring,
which will have its  smallest field since 1952.

Quality over quantity.

That's the spin being used to explain this year's 12 Hours of Sebring field, the
smallest since  the endurance sports car race's 1952 inaugural.

A total of 40 cars took part in Wednesday's first round of qualifying, a
considerable reduction  from Sebring's past. In '52, there were 32 entries. The
largest 12 Hours field? In 1983, 84 cars  started.

"I think we have a pretty classy field," said Sebring International Raceway
owner Don Panoz, who  also runs the American Le Mans Series, which uses a rules
package conducive to factory-backed  operations but restrictive to small,
"privateer" teams. Privateers typically have descended upon  Sebring, boosting
starting grids but sometimes adding nothing more than numbers.

One of those ALMS rules mandates a car be crash-tested. That's fine, unless you
only have one  car, which pretty much eliminates you from testing - and from
racing Saturday in the 48th annual 12  Hours.

"Motorsports is a professional business," Panoz said. "The cars need to be
safe."

Also affecting the entry list is the existence of a competitive circuit, the
Grand American Road  Racing Series, which has rules driver Jame Weaver calls
"much more inclusive." The Le Mans Series,  Weaver said, "is trying to bring the
best of Europe to America."

Elimination of low-end entries falls in line with Panoz's overall upgrading of
the 12 Hours, and  the raceway. A full-service hotel now looms over the 3.7-mile
road circuit's hairpin. The pit  stalls have been rebuilt. The historic track
almost looks modern.

And so, across the grid, do the cars.

Melbourne's Randy Pobst earned the provisional pole Wednesday for the
production-based GT  division, averaging 104.71 mph in a Porsche 911, then said
he welcomed a reduced field.

"It's good," he said. "When you have drivers and cars very much slower than
everybody else ... we  don't want to see anybody hurt out there.

"Most of the drivers now are pretty professional, and you know how to work with
that. We know how  to run with traffic and not get tangled up."

David Brabham, brother of two-time 12 Hours champion Geoff Brabham, put a
Panoz-owned LMP-1  Roadster on the overall/Prototype provisional, at 121.40.
Brabham avoided two single-car crashes  during qualifying. One involved an Audi
that was the field's fastest car during qualifying, the No.  78 driven by Tom
Kristensen. Kristensen was OK, but the Audi needed repair.

The GTS pole, for now, belongs to the Chevrolet Corvette driven by Ron Fellows,
Chris Kniefel  and Justin Bell. The car finished second last month in the 24
Hours of Daytona. Fellows qualified  at 111.32 mph, 14th-fastest overall.

Final qualifying for the 12 Hours is today from 2-3 p.m.

"There still are a lot of cars on this track," Brabham said. "We've got a good,
healthy field."    (CHART) Sebring Facts   What: 48th annual 12 Hours of Sebring

  Where: Sebring International Raceway   When: Saturday, 10:10 a.m.-10:10 p.m.
TV: Speedvision   Support races: Trans-Am, Women's Global GT Series, Barber
Dodge Pro Series, Motorola Cup Street  Stock.   Race week schedule:  Today-8
a.m.-1:50 p.m., practice and support race qualifying; 2-3, 12 Hours of Sebring
final  qualifying; 3:15-6:30, practice and support race qualifying; 7:30-8:30,
12 Hours night practice.  Friday-8-11:30 a.m., practice and support race
qualifying; 12:30-2, Vintage races; 2:30, Trans-Am  race (75 minutes); 4:15,
Women's Global GT race (45 minutes).  Saturday-8-8:15 a.m., 12 Hours warm-up;
8:30, Barber Dodge Pro Series race (40 minutes); 10:10,  start of 12 Hours of
Sebring.  Sunday-8:30-11:50 a.m., Vintage races; 1-4 p.m.-Motorola Cup Street
Stock race.   Tickets: 5-day Superticket $ 75, Saturday-Sunday Superticket $ 65,
unreserved car/  van/truck parking $ 10, unreserved RV/motor home parking $ 50;
call (800) 626-RACE in Florida, (863)  655-1442 outside Florida.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

NOTES: AUTO RACING

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 22, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Book gives PowerBar exec food for thought;

BYLINE: STEPHANIE BRADY;

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 438 words


Executive: Brian Maxwell, Founder, PowerBar Inc.

Book Choice: "Play To Win," by Larry Wilson

Brian Maxwell doesn't stop for lunch. He needs time and energy. At midday, he
devours a PowerBar  and chases it with a tall glass of water.

He has had this routine for more than a decade - first as a triathlete, then as
a CEO.

After losing a race in 1986, he and triathlete/nutritionist Jennifer Biddulph
(now his wife)  cooked up a high-energy snack in their kitchen. The result:
PowerBar and the challenge of running  his own business.

Now, at the $ 140 million marker, Maxwell turned to "Play to Win" for tips.

"This book has made a big impact on me personally and on our company," he said.
"It is the kind of  tool that makes you stop and think of ways of managing your
life and work so you can grow and adapt  to change."

Maxwell has only one note of caution. "Your first tendency is to think about all
the other people  you know who should read the book," he said. "But one of the
themes in the book is that you have to  stay focused on yourself first."

Author Larry Wilson starts readers off with warm-up exercises to determine what
success means to  them. Next, Wilson stretches readers to choose between growth
and fear.

"Wilson makes a point to show how playing to win is different than playing not
to loose," Maxwell  said. "You think you are ahead so you start playing
defensively but end up loosing in the end."

Since Maxwell hates to lose, he examined how his company defines success and how
it was playing  the game. "After we read the book, we re-examined our goals and
realized that we should have  considered other options to help us cross the
finish line."

Originally, Maxwell thought an IPO was the only way to fuel global expansion.
But one particular  topic in the book, about changing the game, spurred Maxwell
to think again. "We want PowerBar to  become a global brand and that takes
money. That fact won't change," he said, "but we did change how  we looked for
that money."

In February, PowerBar approved an acquisition offer by Nestle USA. The purchase
price was three  times more than Maxwell hoped to raise in an IPO.

Although he stayed on as a consultant, Maxwell took the extra free time to
reread "Play to Win."

The words were the same. The perspective was different.

"The book has been a great catalyst. I have a new role in the company, so I can
take a few months  to really look at other business opportunities."  Reach
Stephanie Brady at brady@booksatwork.com or submit your own book review on the
Books@Work Web site: www.booksatwork.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: BOOKS AT WORK

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  November 15, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Crimson tide;

BYLINE: MARY D. SCOURTES, of The Tampa Tribune;

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words


Go global by jazzing up an all-American Thanksgiving menu with cranberry
chutney.

TAMPA - Expand your holiday horizons. Put a global spin on a traditional turkey
topping with a  chutney, an ethnic blend of fruits, vinegar, sugar and spice.

This side dish comes from the East Indian word "chatni." It makes a welcome,
not-so-sweet  substitute for that same dreaded, barely bearable berry sauce that
some just slide out of a can.

Classic chutney is cooked, but a few are served raw. Temperature intensity
ranges from mild to  hot. Chutneys are most often chunky, but a few have a
smooth texture.

Emil Topel, chef-owner of Fancy's, a gourmet market in St. Petersburg, grew up
in London, where  chutney and cheese are as common as fish and chips.

He says chutney's spiciness makes it an ideal accompaniment to turkey, pork and
other meats. He  also teams chutney with curry or spreads it over crackers.

Cranberries work well in chutney because the fruit provides the right acidity
and sweetness,  says Dawn Algieri, executive chef for Home Gourmet Kitchen
Emporium in Dunedin.

An advantage to making a cranberry chutney today is that it mellows well until
your holiday  dinner is ready next week. In the refrigerator, the preserve lasts
two to three weeks, says  Algieri.

As with other preserves, you can vary the fruit, nuts or sweet-and-sour flavors
(sugar and  vinegar) to match your taste.

Algieri cooks chutney 20 to 45 minutes, depending on the type of fruits
combined. To add flavor,  she toasts nuts, which keeps them from taking in
excess moisture while the mixture cooks.

Cranberry Shallot Chutney is one of the recipes she teaches at Home Gourmet.

She loves the recipe but cautions cooks not to be daunted by the acrid smell
produced by the  vinegar.

Chutneys can be made with fresh, frozen or dried cranberries, says Diana
Mordini, a home  economist for Ocean Spray in Lakeville, Mass. Ocean Spray is an
agricultural cooperative formed in  1930. Its office is in the heart of
cranberry country, with two working cranberry bogs.

Mordini says 1/4 cup of cranberries has only 30 calories. Chutneys have no fat
or cholesterol.

Cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice or ginger often spices the preserves, says Mordini.
Plain, cider or  raspberry vinegar adds piquancy.

Cranberries keep their color and do not bleed when cooked with other
ingredients. The exception,  however, says Mordini, is when the fruit has been
frozen and defrosted (thawing isn't recommended  before cooking).

The reason fresh cranberries are available only during the fall is because the
harvest season  runs September through December.

Mordini suggests buying two packages, so one is used now and the other is frozen
for later. One  bag of cranberries (12 ounces) yields 3 cups of fruit.

Try these chutneys and you may never return to that canned stuff again.

FRESH CRAN-APPLE CHUTNEY

2 cups fresh cranberries

1 unpeeled apple, preferably Granny Smith, diced

1 cup sugar

2 tablespoons vinegar

2 celery ribs, chopped

1 tablespoon water

1/4 cup chopped nuts, lightly toasted

2 oranges, cut in pieces, then coarsely chopped in food processor (reserve
juice)

1/4 teaspoon each: cinnamon and nutmeg

Dash of orange rind

In a sauce pan, combine cranberries, apples, sugar, vinegar, celery and water.
Cook 10 minutes  at medium. Add nuts, oranges, spices and rind. Cook 2-3 minutes
longer.

Cover tightly and chill. Makes about 2 cups.  FRESH CRANBERRY CHUTNEY

1 cup water

1 cup sugar

1 package (12 ounces) fresh (or frozen) cranberries

1/2 cup vinegar

1/2 cup raisins

1/2 cup peeled, diced apple

1/4 teaspoon Each: allspice, ginger, cinnamon

1/8 teaspoon cloves

Combine water and sugar in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat.
Add remaining  ingredients; return to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer 15 minutes or
until apples are tender. Pour into  a medium glass mixing bowl. Place a piece of
plastic wrap directly on sauce. Cool to room  temperature and refrigerate
overnight to allow flavors to blend. Best if served at room  temperature.

Makes about 21/2 cups. Source: Ocean Spray  CRANBERRY SHALLOT CHUTNEY

3/4 cup chopped walnuts or pecans, toasted

3 cups (12 ounces) fresh cranberries

2 large tart apples, peeled, cored and diced into 1/2 inch cubes

11/4 cups packed light brown sugar

1/3 cup raspberry vinegar

1/2 cup golden raisins

1/4 cup finely chopped candied ginger

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon curry powder

Zest of 1 orange, finely shredded

2 shallots, minced

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place nuts on a sheet pan and bake for
approximately 7 minutes or  until lightly golden. Cool completely.

Place all of the ingredients except the nuts into a large saucepan. Bring to a
gentle boil and  cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until thickened, about
20 minutes. Stir in nuts.

Note: Store chutney in covered, sterilized jars and refrigerate. Chutney will
keep for 6  weeks.

Source: Dawn Algieri  DRIED CRANBERRY CHUTNEY

2/3 cup vinegar

1/2 cup sugar

11/2 cups peeled, diced apple

1/3 cup diced onion

1/4 teaspoon each: cinnamon, ginger and allspice

Dash ground cloves

1 6-ounce package sweetened dried cranberries

Combine vinegar and sugar in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium
heat. Add apple and  onion; return to a boil. Add remaining ingredients. Reduce
heat to low. Cook 25 minutes or until  apples are tender, stirring occasionally.
Serve warm or at room temperature.

Makes 13/4 cups.

Source: Ocean Spray  CURRIED PEACH CHUTNEY

1 cup cranberry-Georgia peach blend cranberry juice

1/2 cup chopped onion

1/2 cup chopped red pepper

2 teaspoons minced fresh garlic

1 package (6 ounces) sweetened dried cranberries (Craisins)

2 cans (15.25 ounces) sliced peaches, drained and chopped

1/3 cup brown sugar, firmly packed

1 tablespoon curry powder

1 tablespoon fresh ginger, minced

1/4 teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon allspice

Combine cranberry juice, onion, red pepper, garlic and sweetened dried
cranberries in medium  saucepan.

Bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat to medium. Add remaining
ingredients. Cook 12 to 15  minutes, stirring occasionally.

Serve with turkey,chicken, pork or lamb.

Makes 4 cups.

Source: Ocean Spray  WHOLE BERRY CHUTNEY

1 can (16 ounces) whole berry cranberry sauce

1/2 cup raisins

1/2 cup peeled, diced apple

1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons sugar

1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons vinegar

1/8 teaspoon allspice

1/8 teaspoon ginger

1/8 teaspoon cinnamon

Dash ground cloves

Combine all ingredients in a medium saucepan. Cook on medium heat, stirring
occasionally, until  apples are tender and sauce has thickened slightly, about
30 minutes.

Makes about 21/2 cups.

Source: Ocean Spray

The current issue of InStyle Entertaining shares recipes from the stars. Blair
Underwood, the  "City of Angels" star, says he has always loved this recipe
created by his mother, Marilyn.  BLAIR UNDERWOOD'S CRANBERRY CHUTNEY

1 cup raisins

3/4 cup apple cider vinegar

3/4 cup light brown sugar

1/4 cup orange juice

13/4 teaspoons ground nutmeg

11/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

3/4 teaspoon ground ginger

1/4 teaspoon ground cloves

2 bags (12 ounces each) cranberries

In a 2-quart saucepan, combine raisins, vinegar, brown sugar, orange juice,
nutmeg, cinnamon,  ginger and cloves; bring to a boil, stirring occasionally,
and cook until sugar has dissolved.

Add cranberries and 1/4 cup water; continue cooking until berries begin to pop
and mixture has  thickened, about 7 to 10 minutes.

Let cool and serve or refrigerate.

Note: To pack for gift giving the way the Underwoods do, ladle the boiling
mixture into  sterilized 4-ounce Mason jars; fill to within 1/8-inch of top.
Wipe rims and seal; cool. Check seal  and label.    (CHART) Cranberry facts
Depending on the sun, cranberry's hues vary from blackish purple to bright red
to white.   It takes 440 cranberries to make one pound of cranberry sauce and
4,400 cranberries to make one  gallon of juice.   If you strung together all the
cranberries produced in North America last year, they would  stretch from Boston
to Los Angeles more than 565 times.   Cranberries are primarily grown in five
states - Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Washington, New Jersey  and Oregon.   Seven
of 10 cranberries sold in the world today come from Ocean Spray, a grower
cooperative  started in 1930.   A new 111-page booklet, "A Taste of Life"is
available with information about the health aspects of  the berry, top tips for
boosting your health, time and energy-saving tips and recipes from the  Ocean
Spray Test Kitchen.  Send name and address sto "Ocean Spray Holiday Book Offer,"
P.O. Box 4622, Dept. C, St. Cloud MN  56398-4622. The booklet is $ r7.50 plus $
3 for mailing; mail a check for $ 10.50 (payable to Ocean  Spray Holiday Book
Offer) with two UPC codes from Ocean Spray products.   You can obtain additional
cranberry rec ipes by calling Ocean Spray from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.  weekdays at
1-800-662-3263.  Source: Ocean Spray    (CHART) Did you know   It is believed
that cranberries were served at the first Thanksgiving dinner in Plymouth, Mass.

  From Cape Cod to Washington State, the cranberry has played a role in holiday
culture.   American Indians, long before the Pilgrims arrived in 1620, came up
with an early convenience  food made from deer meat and mashed cranberries,
called pemmican. The Indians believed cranberries  had medicinal value and were
used by medicine men as a way to extract poison from a wound.   Cranberries have
enjoyed many names. Eastern Indians called them "sassamanesh," Cape Cod Pequots

 named them "ibimi" or bitter berry, and the Algonquins used the word "atoqua."
Then German and Dutch  settlers came along and called the fruit a "crane berry,"
because its vine blossoms resembled the  neck, head and bill of a crane.  Mary
D. Scourtes  INSIDE

Don't feel like cooking this holiday? Use our annual guide to compare prices for
turkey dinner  takeout. Page 6

COMING SUNDAY

In a special BayLife feature, we tackle Thanksgiving's toughest chore: carving
the bird.

NEXT WEEK IN FLAVOR

Our Thanksgiving coverage continues with help for last-minute preparations.
Dread making gravy?  Fear no lumps- we compared store-bought gravies and found a
smooth one that might fool your dinner  guests.  RECIPES INSIDE: Chutneys pair
cranberries with apples, pecans, peaches or shallots. Pages 4-5  Mary D.
Scourtes can be reached mscourtes@tampatrib.com or (813) 259-7635.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); CHART 2,
 VICTOR JUNCO, Tribune photo (C) (Cranberry Chutney dish)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 15, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Democrats weigh in with party platform;

BYLINE: GIL KLEIN, of Media General News Service;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 654 words


LOS ANGELES - While both parties vie for the political center, shades of
difference can be seen  in their platforms.

Delegates to the Democratic National Convention tonight will approve a party
platform that  embraces President Bill Clinton's centrist agenda and commits the
party to balancing the budget.

The platform doesn't call for any new radical programs, but instead advocates a
"step-by-step"  approach to providing universal health insurance, denounces
Republican candidate George W. Bush's  plan to privatize part of Social
Security, and promotes targeted tax cuts.

In many respects, it is similar to the Republican platform, as both parties vie
for the middle  ground of the American electorate. But on some social issues,
such as abortion rights, gay rights  and prosecution of tobacco companies, the
platforms split markedly.

The Democratic platform paints a dire picture of life in the Bush-Quayle
administration, says  America was "suffering through economic stagnation" and
gives the Clinton-Gore administration credit  for economic prosperity.

"This much is clear: Americans are better off than they were eight years ago,"
the platform  states.

Banishing the "tax-and-spend" image of the party, the platform says, "Today's
Democrats believe we  should pay down the debt every year" until eliminated in
12 years.

It sharply criticizes Bush's across-the-board tax cut proposal "that would let
the richest 1  percent of Americans afford a new sports car and middle-class
Americans afford a warm soda."

The Republicans "eschew fiscal discipline and offer up nothing less than
financial disaster," the  platform says.

The Democrats would offer tax credits for saving for college, retraining for
jobs, paying for  health insurance and child and elderly care, buying
fuel-efficient cars and building retirement  accounts.

Despite organized labor's objections to free trade, the platform promotes
international trade  agreements, just as the Republican platform does. Both
parties have rejected trade protection in  favor of open markets and of giving
the president more flexibility in negotiating trade agreements.

"It's clear we live in a globalized world and there's no turning back," the
Democratic platform  states. "Democrats believe we must be leaders in the new
global economy, not followers."

But to mollify labor, the platform promises to "support rules that protect
workers' rights, human  rights and environmental protections."

The Democrats promise to fight teen smoking and to pursue the Justice
Department's suit against  the tobacco companies to recover Medicare costs. Bush
has said he sees no legal merit to that suit.

"Republicans are trying to stop the United States Justice Department from
pursuing ... litigation  to hold the tobacco companies accountable for damages
they have caused to American taxpayers," the  platform reads. "We believe it is
wrong to insulate the tobacco companies from liability for their  wrongdoing."

On abortion rights, the two platforms couldn't be further apart.

While Republicans call for a constitutional amendment banning abortions and
oppose any public  funds to pay for them, the Democrats "stand behind the right
of every woman to choose."

The Democrats call for every gun buyer to have "a full photo license ID, a full
background check  and a gun safety test." Republicans said they "oppose federal
licensing of law-abiding gun owners and  national gun registration."

And the Democrats advocate an end to "workplace discrimination against gay men
and lesbians." Gays  and lesbians should have "an equitable alignment of
benefits," the platform states, and "full  inclusion in the life of the nation."

Republicans, conversely, support "the traditional definition of marriage" and
said "federal judges  and bureaucrats should not recognize other living
arrangements as marriage."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 75 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 28, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Letters;

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1273 words

 At least one positive

If one positive thing comes out of the current presidential election fiasco, I
hope it is this:  The media should be prevented from posting any election
returns until after the entire country has  voted.

The TV stations' jack-rabbit speed reporting that posted the 25 electoral votes
for Al Gore  surely must have affected voting in the Panhandle counties of
Florida and maybe the entire country  as well.

I say this because it is human nature to say one voted for the winning
candidate, and George W.  Bush supporters could have thought their votes were
pointless, not bothering to vote at all. The  democratic process was tainted by
the media.

I say the media should report only the facts.  PATTIE WHITING  Tampa  Furthering
an agenda

We live in a state that is a member of a republic or federation, a coalition
whose members  include other states, although that is not obvious in media
coverage.

It is very popular for politicians to refer with reverence to the Founding
Fathers and attach  all sorts of supposed intentions to them. The fact is, each
of those "Fathers" was a citizen of a  sovereign state that had its own laws and
government.

The Founding Fathers saw some value in forming a coalition of the states,
largely to pool  resources to help defend themselves against military enemies.
What we had - and still have - is not a  democracy; it is a federation
(coalition) of independent, sovereign states, each with its own laws  and
government.

The coalition was conceived not as a superior authority, but rather as
submissive to the  authority of its member states.

The Electoral College is about the last visible vestige of the federation.

I heard Al Gore talk about how the Founding Fathers intended for every citizen
to be able to  vote in our democracy. He knows better.

The state of Florida is allowed some votes at the Electoral College meeting. How
those votes are  determined is a matter of state law, which, unlike many laws in
Florida, is actually quite clear.

What we have today is a hodgepodge of the constitutional philosophy and the
philosophy of the  Democrats.

It now appears that the Democrats are trying their best to circumvent Florida
law in order to  further their national unconstitutional agenda. It is a
disgusting series of events.  FRED BROWN  Brandon  Open-minded decision

My wife and I are registered "no party" voters. We studied the issues, talked
about them, watched  all three debates and even argued about some of the issues.
Finally, we decided on which  presidential candidate we would vote for. We
traipsed down to the polls on Election Day, waited in  a long line and voted.

Then we watched Al Gore bring Chicago-style vote counting to Florida. He wasn't
just trying to  "steal" an election. In essence, he took our ballots, ripped
them in half and threw them on the  ground.

We now know we made the right decision in who we voted for.  PATRICK SEERY  Sun
City Center  Please, no more fighting

I am 75 years old and have voted in every election since I was old enough to do
so. After seeing  the shenanigans at the various counting places here and in
other counties and states, I have come  to the conclusion that my vote does not
count.

Personal gain, regardless of the law, is the theme. One television reporter
called this a mess;  another called it a nightmare. I call it a joke.

Inasmuch as my vote isn't worth more than a bucket of warm spit, I will refrain
from voting  again. That will be one more ballot that will not need to be fought
over.  I.J. KARPAY  Lutz  Report on other aspects

There are other election matters that need to be looked at closely - matters
that the mainstream  media have ignored.

There is a lot being said about late delivery of absentee ballots to our
overseas military  personnel. Is this true? Is it widespread; too much so to be
coincidental? I think we should know.

There is also much talk of immigrants, ineligible to vote, being sent voter
identification cards  in California and possibly Florida. What are the facts
surrounding this information?

I am pleased to say that I have always felt the Tribune is much more objective
in its reporting  and editorials. I would like to hear the results of an
investigation into these matters.  DENNIS E. DOLL  Tampa  Bias undulates
undecided

Recently CNN reported with its typical liberal bias that was so subtle even my
wife didn't catch  it. CNN reported, "The election is now in the hands of the
courts to decide whether or not the last  recount of the ballots will be
included in the total vote count."

This sounded like an accurate statement, but it was far from the truth.

The truth is the election was in the hands of the courts to decide whether to
uphold a 5 p.m.  deadline, like the law says.

It is beginning to sound as if law and spin should be taught in school instead
of read'n, rite'n  and 'rithmetic. The main subjects should be "legal loopholes"
and "English with spin."

Maybe we could finally learn what the definition of "is" is.  BYRON F. DEMING
Sun City Center  Everyone is biased

The definition of an unbiased person is someone who is biased the same way you
are.  LESTER OLSON  Tampa  Uncomfortable with Bush

I just want to let George W. Bush supporters know that a possible Bush
presidency would result  in four years of mediocrity, incompetence,
flip-flopping and embarrassment. I pray we never have a  global crisis during
his possible tenure. This is a man whose only exposure to foreign affairs was
visiting Mexico.

I cannot wait for his first major news conference when he has to give
intelligent answers to  complicated questions. He will not be able to defer to
his old buddy, James D. Baker III, as he did  previously in his two short
scripted appearances during the last two weeks. God help us all.  ALBERT ROMANO

 Tampa  If Bush wins, Baldwin goes

Vice President Al Gore promised all the right people millions in handouts and
programs if he is  elected president. Alec Baldwin, high-living Hollywood
activist, said on TV that he would leave the  country if Gore was not elected
president.

I got the chance to rid the country with one vote. Is this a great country or
what?  DONALD MORBACH  Plant City  Orlando deserves A&M

I believe Tampa has been blessed by the decision not to locate the Florida A&M
University law  school here. Orlando deserves it. The economic benefits were
vastly overrated, and frankly, it was  not wanted here anyway.  LUTHER LEWIS
Brandon  Property owners' rights

Your editorial "A bad deal for New Tampa's wildlife" on Nov. 25 demonstrated the
Tribune's undying  support of even the most radical of environmental programs.
Both the Tribune and Sierra Club should  be ashamed or at least sent to the U.S.
Constitution to read the Fifth Amendment.

It states in part, "nor shall private property be taken for public use without
compensation." Or  maybe your writers should be required to read the The
Communist Manifesto which says, "The theory of  the Communist may be summed up
in the single sentence: Abolition of private property." How can
environmentalists demand that a property owner pay anything for his own property
and get headlines  for doing good? Much less how can they contend that $ 4,000
per acre is not enough for an owner to  pay for his own property?

By the way, what is the purpose of ELAPP funds if not to reimburse the property
owners for land  being saved for public purposes? Please go back and read some
basics.  S.L. SHAW  Riverview

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
