
                               4 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate change survival guide funded

BYLINE: The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 469 words


The goal is to save Gulf Coast habitats.

The Tampa Tribune

TIERRA VERDE - The Tampa Bay Estuary Program plans to use a $75,000 grant from
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to produce a handbook for Gulf Coast
communities considering climate change in habitat protection plans.

The Tampa Bay program is one of eight nationwide to receive the climate change
grants.

The book will incorporate information from the program's upcoming research
projects and other projects that showcase effective ways to accommodate climate
change in habitat restoration efforts.

The Coastal Bend and Bays Estuary program in Corpus Christi, Texas, will be a
partner.

Specifically, the book will offer a tool kit of options for ensuring the success
of publicly financed habitat restoration projects - even with rising sea levels,
said Nanette O'Hara, public outreach coordinator for the local program.

The water's rising

In Tampa Bay, water levels have been rising about an inch a decade since the
1940s, when record-keeping began, and that rate is expected to increase. How
this increase will affect habitats is not well understood, but changes could
include loss of oyster bars, marshes and mangroves, with related declines in
fish and wildlife species dependent on those habitats.

Research planned by the Tampa Bay Estuary Program in the coming year is expected
to provide a greater understanding of how climate change might affect the Bay's
habitats as well as the economic benefits the natural systems provide.

One strategy to accommodate rising water levels might be to include buffer zones
in future restoration efforts so habitats such as salt marshes and mangroves
have room to naturally migrate landward. Other strategies might include
rebuilding habitats over time as water levels rise or even constructing barriers
that prevent rising water from inundating valuable coastal habitats.

They serve a purpose

Insulating coastal wetlands from the effects of climate change is a concern
because these habitats serve as natural defenses against storms and provide
critical nursery areas for fish and wildlife, O'Hara said.

The estuary program's "restoring the balance" management approach places a
priority on restoring Tampa Bay habitats that have been hardest hit by
development, such as low-salinity tidal marshes.

More than 4,700 acres have been restored in Tampa Bay during the past 25 years;
an additional 5,000 acres of damaged habitats are slated for restoration in the
coming decade.

To learn more about the possible effects of climate change on Florida's coastal
areas, see the special report just released by the Florida Oceans and Coastal
Council. Go to www .floridaoceanscouncil.org/reports/Climate_ Change_
Report_v2.pdf.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                               5 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The illusions of cap and trade

BYLINE: FRANCIS M. HUGHES, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 601 words


By FRANCIS M. HUGHES

Special To The Tampa Tribune

Regarding "Cap-and-trade savings" by Chad Kister, Letters, Dec. 11:

Global warming fantasies aside, the true big picture of cap and trade
legislation is economic collapse, not savings. The production, distribution and
marketing of raw materials and finished goods, the transportation of people and
their ability to provide services, and the real national security issue - the
mobility of our armed forces - are all totally dependent on hydrocarbon energy.
There are not any energy substitutes available now for transportation.

Blaming ancient health issues on fossil fuels is the latest and greatest stretch
ever. Heart attacks are caused by ingesting animal fat, and asthma was a disease
long before the use of coal. We are not talking about one gaseous emission that
is captured by a catalytic converter; we are talking about encumbering the
hydrocarbon energy that built and sustains our $13 trillion economy.

Every life is precious, but there are more than 307 million Americans in or
around more than 25,000 cities. Less than one alleged annual death per city
hardly seems to necessitate draconian carbon reduction measures and unjust
transfers of American wealth.

If the Pentagon did misspeak in 2004 and call global warming a greater risk to
national security than terrorism, I suggest their military personnel around the
globe, the 9/11 victims' families, terror victims everywhere and most Americans
would condemn that statement as a politically correct obscenity.

Wind and solar energy fail as viable substitutes for hydrocarbon-generated
power. Both are inconsistent and unreliable, and until a method is discovered to
store commercial quantities of electricity, they will always be just
supplemental and redundant.

The European experience is instructive here. With more than 6,000 behemoth wind
towers producing up to 20 percent of its power needs for more than a decade,
Denmark has been unable to shut down any conventional power plants - they run at
full capacity as backup to wind's inconsistency and variability. The sun,
likewise, doesn't shine all the time.

Finally, the exaggerated political issue of global warming is the latest deed to
make Americans more fearful and is the most documented fraud in history. The
mathematical models used by the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change to
create hysteria have failed to forecast even a close approximation of climate
over the last 15 years. If you believe their predictions for 100 years hence, I
have a bridge I would like to sell you.

Mathematical models, generally, are simply concoctions of the model builder's
imagination. The builder selects a model's variables to resolve or analyze a
problem, decides the degree of impact of each variable on the question (like
climate), and chooses the assumptions under which the model executes. For
example, that CO2 (like we exhale every time we take a breath) concentrations
cause the planet to warm has not been proven, but it is assumed to do so in the
models. So, what do you think the models conclude from such an assumption?

Any desired result can be obtained by manipulating data, variables or
assumptions. Our alarmist climate scientists are no strangers to manipulation
and omission. No matter how you spin it, "trick" still means deception, and
"hide" speaks for itself.

Francis Hughes is a retired controller, finance director and adjunct community
college instructor who once worked in the oil industry. He lives in Palm Harbor.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Citizen-Scientists Sought For Climate Study

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, yhammett@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 581 words


USF is teaming with the U.S. Geological Survey to record local changes.

BY YVETTE C. HAMMETT

yhammett@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - In the South, scientists are at a disadvantage. There are no calving
glaciers tumbling down mountainsides to warn of the dire consequences of climate
change.

Here, proof more likely will come from subtle changes in trees, migrating birds
and flowering plants.

Gathering that proof will require the assistance of dozens of citizen
volunteers.

The University of South Florida and the U.S. Geological Survey together are
creating Florida's first scientific research project specifically dedicated to
monitoring the effects of climate change through phenology: the science of
studying plants and animals in various phases, such as seeding, budding,
migration, nesting and fruit production.

The research will help land managers, biologists and hydrologists determine how
such changes might affect habitat and vulnerable species, like sandhill cranes
that nest in shallow wetlands or sand pine trees that cling to high, dry
desert-like terrain.

"We're bringing this into the national realm," said USGS hydrologist George
Kish. He and Gordon Fox, a USF associate professor of plant ecology, will lead
the charge to collect at least 15 years worth of data on subtle changes in
native plant communities. Animals likely will be factored in within a year or
so.

They will use a portion of USF's square-mile Ecological Research Area off
Fletcher Avenue to conduct the research.

"Much of it is wetlands, especially cypress swamps, but it also contains uplands
and a wide variety of plant life," Fox said before touring the area, just west
of the USF boat ramp on the Hillsborough River.

Records on plant phenology in Great Britain date back a century, Fox said. In
this country, such research has been sporadic. But collecting information
showing how flowering times for specific plants vary over a century, for
example, will help land managers plan ahead, he said.

"Most data comes from people interested in natural history and science," Fox
said. "Any scientist knows not to pay attention to individual blips in data."
But with the help of citizen-scientists, researchers can gather enormous amounts
of data over a long period.

"We have a fair amount of bird data and huge amounts of data on sea turtles, but
not on plants," Kish said.

The Florida scientists will collaborate with the USA Phenology Network, based in
Tucson, Ariz. Research conducted in Florida will be entered into a national
database, said Jake Weltzin, executive director of the national center. He is
working to set up similar programs throughout the country.

Additionally, the Phenology Network is seeking out "legacy data," or research
conducted on specific plants and animals that might be tucked away in a
professor's desk or squeezed into a birder's filing cabinet.

Reporter Yvette C. Hammett can be reached at (813) 865-1566

Photo credit: Tribune photos by JULIE BUSCH

Photo: USF associate professor of plant ecology Gordon Fox is one of the leaders
of a project to map out climactic changes on native plant communities. Some of
the research will be done by volunteers.

Photo: Blue stem grass is among the native plants that will be monitored to
craft a picture of climate change.

Photo: Fox, right, and USGS hydrologist George Kish explore USF's Ecological
Research Area, where research will be conducted.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                               8 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fighting climate change without a public revolt

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 758 words


Its agenda is to save the world, yet you don't overhear people talking about the
climate summit in Copenhagen.

Ordinary folks don't seem to care because they don't expect much to be
accomplished there that will affect their lives. They can see that the most
interesting questions about how to reduce greenhouse emissions are being
avoided.

At the top of the list is how any deal signed by U.N. representatives can be
enforced in Bombay, Bucharest, Brussels and Brandon.

One of Australia's leading politicians, and new head of the Liberal Party,
called a plan to cap emissions and trade emissions licenses, as is being debated
in the U.S. Senate, "a great big tax to create a great big slush fund to provide
politicized handouts, run by giant bureaucracy."

There's not much the U.N. can or should do about politicians who rally support
against climate action. Here in Florida, Gov. Charlie Crist has less interest in
green energy now that he's in a tough campaign for the Republican nomination for
the U.S. Senate.

Environmentalists argue that the creation of new jobs in renewable energy will
more than offset higher costs for fossil fuels. Again, the general public will
not pay much attention until they see the help-wanted signs go up.

The push for addressing climate change hit a bump when e-mails stolen from
scientists indicated they had been less than forthright about some of their
findings. But a comprehensive review of the messages by The Associated Press
determined nothing in them undercut the scientific view that man-made greenhouse
gas emissions are warming the world.

Another major hurdle in regulating carbon emissions is how much tax revenue will
be taken from advanced countries to help backward countries. There is general
agreement at the conference about the need for "climate justice" but no
agreement about what that means.

China thinks it means that the United States is going to help China pay for the
switch from dirty coal plants to cleaner technologies. When a U.S.
representative quite rightly said no U.S. dollars would be spent there, China's
vice foreign minister said the U.S. negotiator either "lacks common sense" or
was "extremely irresponsible."

Does the Chinese minister really think that U.S. taxpayers will agree to send
more money to an economy that is sitting on $2 trillion in reserves and whose
citizens now are buying more automobiles than Americans? Such expectations are
not serious.

One draft proposal says that controls on carbon should not have priority over
efforts to feed the hungry, wipe out poverty and help poor countries build
factories and farms that can offer jobs. But as China has rudely pointed out,
the subsistence countries aren't the problem. Emissions are increasing fastest
in the fast-growing economies, such as China, where energy aid could do the most
immediate good for the climate.

The issue is so difficult that advocates of a climate treaty don't even know how
to talk about it.

Last week 56 newspapers in 45 countries ran the same editorial urging
international action to reduce emissions. It was full of phrases such as
"decisive action" with a "firm timetable" for turning the agreement into a
treaty.

It didn't say how to build majority political support in the world's democracies
or how to make a deal financially appealing to leaders of the nondemocratic
countries.

It also said an effective deal would help poor countries grow without adding
carbon to the atmosphere and also concluded "we will have to pay more for our
energy." Behaviors would have to change, it warned, and any deal would have to
be fair.

Forced changes in behavior probably won't feel fair. Also unresolved is who will
monitor and enforce the agreement. Does the U.N. expect to open an office in
city hall?

As we have said before, the best way to encourage energy efficiency and
development of alternative fuels is to put a direct tax on carbon. The tax could
be revenue neutral and include aid for the poor in this country.

Work would be taxed less, so Americans have more incentive to work, and
emissions would be taxed more, so there would be a big incentive to pollute
less.

Not much progress is possible in Copenhagen because the delegates have no real
power and aren't about to get any.

A carbon tax would make the United States a leader on clean energy. The
transition would power itself with minimal oversight and no unpleasant
byproducts, such as an angry public.

Photo Credit: The Associated Press

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              11 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Energy bill good for Florida

BYLINE: ERIC DRAPER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 497 words


By ERIC DRAPER

The facts are indisputable: Emissions of greenhouse gases from human use of
fossil fuels are polluting the Earth's atmosphere, and the consequences for
Florida are serious. We have much to lose and much to do when it comes to
dealing with climate change, and it is in our best interest to face the problem
head on.

That is why Audubon and many others are working to build support for passage of
the strongest possible clean energy and climate legislation this year.

Congress took the first step when the House Energy and Commerce Committee passed
the American Clean Energy and Security Act (HR 2454). The bill is expected to
come to the full House for debate on Friday.

This bill expands renewable electricity and energy efficiency, reduces our
greenhouse gas emissions and provides resources to transition to a clean energy
economy and protect our wildlife and environment. These forward-thinking
policies will stimulate new green jobs, jump start the U.S. economy, and set us
on the road to independence from imported oil and dirty coal.

Why is it urgent that the nation deal with energy and climate change? The bill's
title says much: Clean energy means security for Florida's economy and
environment.

Our low-lying coastal areas are vulnerable to saltwater intruding into our
estuaries and drinking water aquifers. Sea level rise threatens our beaches. And
more extreme weather events, such as droughts and intense storms, can result in
lost agricultural production and higher insurance rates.

Let the birds tell the story. A recent Audubon report, "Birds and Climate
Change: Ecological Disruption in Motion," analyzed four decades of scientific
data on bird wintering patterns in January and found that our flying friends are
moving northward. Data on increasing temperatures over the past 40 years points
to global warming as the likely culprit.

If the warning from songbirds is not enough, think about your pocketbook. Every
kilowatt of energy saved is money in your pocket. Drivers of fuel efficient cars
are less vulnerable to gas price hikes. People using energy-efficient appliances
pay less than those doing things the old way. And renewable energy, such as
solar power, harnesses free fuel from the sun, far from the control of unstable
foreign governments.

This bill makes good economic sense. Wouldn't you rather invest in a
Florida-based solar company than buy stock in a Detroit automaker? If you
answered yes, this bill is for you. It would jump start a clean energy economy
in which we produce our own power, employ our own people and make money on our
investments.

So whether your next step is checking your insurance bill, stock portfolio, bank
account or the sand on the beach, it is in your immediate and long-term interest
to support HR 2454.

Eric Draper is deputy director of Audubon of Florida, headquartered in
Tallahassee.

Photo: Eric Draper

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              14 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Contest concerns climate change

BYLINE: COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR, cpastor@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NORTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 322 words


Children can earn prizes.

By COURTNEY CAIRNS PASTOR

cpastor@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Children concerned about climate change can express themselves through a
poster contest this month for the Tampa Audubon Society.

The local chapter is sponsoring a "fight climate change" contest for children
ages 6 through 11. Rising sea levels, increasing ocean temperatures and intense
storms are among factors threatening birds and other wildlife, according to the
society.

Artwork should depict a negative example of a result of climate change. Winners
in three age groups will receive bird feeders, bird CDs and other prizes. Bird
books and CDs will go to a school or other organization the child wants
recognized.

Entries are due on Monday and can be dropped off or mailed to the Audubon
Visitor Center at Lettuce Lake Park, 6920 E. Fletcher Ave.

Audubon leaders will announce winners at 11 a.m. April 25 at Lettuce Lake Park,
part of an Earth Day celebration. Posters will be displayed at the park.

Participants should use heavy white paper up to the size of poster board and
include name, age, address and phone number on the back. Students should also
write the name, address and phone number of their school or another facility
they choose.

Entries should be original work and will not be returned. Winners will be posted
after April 25 on the group's Web site, www.tampaaudubon.org.

Students in middle and high school can participate in a performance contest on
the same topic. They should record a CD or DVD of an original dramatic reading
or musical performance. Discs should be labeled with the same information as the
posters and are due on Monday.

First-place winners in each of three grade categories of the performance
competition could receive a trophy and Borders gift certificate.

For information, call Carolyn McKinney (813) 884-0578.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              15 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cap-and-trade savings

BYLINE: CHAD KISTER, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 421 words


By CHAD KISTER

Special To The Tampa Tribune

While many Republicans are predicting an increase in energy costs if we pass the
cap and trade legislation, they are missing the big picture. The legislation
will save exponentially more money than it will cost, as was seen with the 1990
Clean Air Act amendments.

Predicted to cost $5.7 billion, the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments, which used a
cap and trade market system, turned out to cost just $1.6 billion to cut more
than 4 million tons of sulfur dioxide. But savings in health care costs were
found to be as much as $70 billion, according to a 2003 EPA study. That is a
savings of 43 dollars for every dollar spent.

With many scientists warning that climate change threatens the lives of billions
of people this century, and could accelerate out of control unless we cap and
reduce emissions very fast, the savings will likely be vastly greater with
investments in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

Many larger cities in the United States have unsafe air pollution that is
increasing with the temperatures that are a precursor to smog. By switching from
dirty coal to clean solar and wind energy, air pollution will be reduced
significantly.

Burning coal kills an estimated 24,000 people each year in the United States
from particulate air pollution, according to the American Lung Association.
These people are dying in hospital wards along with an estimated 38,200 fatal
heart attack victims and 554,000 asthma sufferers whose illness was caused by
burning coal, according to the American Lung Association.

People do not see the deaths in one dramatic event and are not mobilized to
action as happened with 9-11. But they are real, as is the threat of climate
change to our national security, which prompted the Pentagon to call global
warming a greater risk to national security than terrorism in a 2004 report.

And that is just burning coal. The cap and trade legislation also will reduce
the burning of oil and cut down on the $700 billion we spend every year to buy
petroleum from other countries. Electric cars and trains charged with solar and
wind generated energy will be pollution-free.

The science proving climate change is the most documented of any issue in
history. We must take action, before it is too late.

Chad Kister is the author of "Arctic Quest: Odyssey Through a Threatened
Wilderness," among other books, and produced the 2006 film "Caribou People."

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              19 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Saving energy one truck at a time

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words


President Barack Obama is traveling to a climate summit in Copenhagen next month
to boldly promise that the United States will cut its emissions of carbon
dioxide 17 percent from 2005 levels in just 10 years.

Controversy over the cost of achieving that and future reductions, and who will
pay, has stalled a carbon-capping law in Congress. But even if no law is passed,
Obama's promise should still be kept because it's economically smart.

Locally, an energy committee headed by Hillsborough County Commissioner Rose
Ferlita has been quietly investigating, and implementing, practical ideas to
save energy.

Soon, you might notice that if you stop beside a big county truck at a traffic
light, the truck will be oddly silent, with no fumes chugging out of its exhaust
pipe. That's because the county has won a stimulus grant to put anti-idling
devices on 1,800 county vehicles.

The engines will turn off automatically to save fuel, a technique pioneered in
hybrid cars. Her group is also monitoring a pilot project to use natural gas to
power cars and looking into how to build charging stations to support future
electric vehicles.

Ferlita, known as a fiscal conservative, is seeking creative ways to save money,
which also often means saving energy.

Much is happening at the local level across the country, without federal
mandates. Hillsborough is hosting a regional forum next month to give local
government and business leaders a forum in which to share their best ideas.

Land preserved through environmental programs, for example, might also attract
financial support from companies looking for ways to offset their carbon
emissions. That income could help a local government maintain the property or
even help a county get a better bond rating.

Economic self-interest will drive efficiency, not fear of apocalyptic warming
decades from now.

China has agreed to cut emissions by 40 percent or more before 2020, as measured
as a percentage of its economy. Its leaders are no doubt trying to make
businesses more efficient and more competitive. They are not likely to be very
worried about warmer winters in Mongolia.

The United States needs to be careful that its rivals don't use climate-change
restrictions to steal U.S. jobs. Nor can the United States afford to finance
nuclear power plants, hydroelectric projects and other low-carbon energy sources
for every poor country that needs them.

But much about the U.S. attitude toward the undeveloped world, where hunger is
rampant, must change.

Under the present cap-and-trade proposal in Congress, U.S. coal companies could
avoid cuts in carbon emissions "by paying faraway Zambian farmers to stop
tilling their fields," according to Mike Tidwell of the Chesapeake Climate
Action Network.

Already a law forbids the United States from helping other countries improve
farming practices to produce better crops that might compete with U.S.
agricultural exports. Our policy is that they are supposed to eat our corn, not
grow their own, and it's one reason hunger has not decreased.

Any new carbon laws are sure to be filled with giveaways to powerful interest
groups at the expense of consumers. And even if a bill passes, if it does force
the public to use less energy by driving up costs, consumers will be angry and
try to get it changed.

Ferlita's approach is smarter: Look aggressively at energy as a cost that should
be cut intelligently, regardless of what China does or what scientists predict.

Photo credit: Staff file photo (2003)

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              20 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Buoys, Valuable Data Victims Of Funding Cuts

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words


Budget is forcing USF to pull some of its markers in the Gulf.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

ST. PETERSBURG - Funding cuts are jeopardizing a buoy system in the Gulf of
Mexico that measures wind, waves and currents, crucial information in the kind
of search and rescue efforts necessary this week with the disappearance of four
football players in the Gulf.

The data are also used by boaters trying to assess weather conditions and
researchers studying red tide.

"It provides information for people going out fishing ? It provides long-term
climate information," said Jyotika Virmani, executive director of the nonprofit
Florida Coastal Ocean Observation System Consortium, based in St. Petersburg.

But the data system will fray over the next year as the University of South
Florida removes more than half of the 12 buoys, she said. USF has maintained the
buoys but can't do it anymore with the loss of about $1 million in federal money
for the observation system.

Money for the program comes from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.

The 12 buoys in Florida now stretch from the coastal waters off Pasco County to
the waters west of Key West, but three will come out next week and four will
come out over the next 12 months.

USF oceanography professor Robert Weisberg started the Florida coastal observing
system in 1993.

The buoys collect information from above and below the water surface. The public
uses the real-time wind, air temperature and pressure data, Virmani said. It's
posted at http://comps1.marine.usf .edu/C10/index.shtml.

Researchers use the data on the water to model changes over time, Virmani said.

Coast Guard search-and-rescue teams use a computer system that draws information
from these and other weather buoys in the Gulf, said spokesman Barry Bena. He
couldn't confirm whether the USF buoys were used in the search for the lost
football players this week.

The USF buoys are crucial for the USF researchers studying red tide and climate
change. Satellites still will be able to provide information about wind and air
conditions at the water's surface, Virmani said, but to build long-term models,
you need to know what's going on underneath as well.

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834. Keyword: Buoys, to
see the information from the buoys.

Photo credit: Tribune file photo (2003)

Photo: The buoys in the Gulf collect data on conditions above and below the
water. Many will be removed in the next year.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              28 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Oil drilling no way to fuel recovery

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 592 words


The effort to open up Florida's waters to oil drilling illustrates how
ill-equipped the legislative leadership is to rebuild the state's economy.

The same lawmakers who believe an overbuilt state with a backlog of unsold homes
needs to eliminate development controls also think that allowing oil rigs to
crowd close to Florida's beaches will ease its financial woes.

It is a dangerous pipedream, one that could ruin Florida's economy and coastal
waters.

The drilling - which requires the use of heavy metal, toxic metals and polluting
muds - would not occur far offshore in federal waters, where perhaps a case can
be made for additional drilling.

This legislation applies to state-controlled waters from three to 10 miles
offshore. It would be possible for rigs to operate within sight of shore.

Supporters say new technologies minimize the visual disruption and pollution
threat. Perhaps. But drilling immediately offshore provides the state no margin
of error when the inevitable accident occurs.

Yet Rep. Dean Cannon, an Orlando Republican scheduled to become House speaker
next year, thinks this would benefit a state whose clean waters and sandy
beaches underpin its appeal and sustain a $65-billion-a-year tourism industry
that employs 1 million people.

Under the proposal the governor and members of the Cabinet would vote on oil
companies' exploration requests. The companies would have to post a $500 million
bond. It is being pushed hard by the oil industry and affiliated special
interests. A House panel approved it Tuesday.

This misguided effort was abruptly launched in the final weeks of the session,
revealing a stunning disregard for the need to carefully scrutinize a change
with such dramatic impacts.

Even more alarming is how this scheme shows legislative leaders are looking to
the past rather than trying to seize new economic opportunities.

President Barack Obama's administration clearly is going to emphasize clean,
renewable energy and seek to reduce the nation's dependence on oil. Just last
week the U.S Environmental Protection Agency signaled it would eventually use
the Clean Air Act to limit the use of greenhouse gases.

One does not have to accept the doomsayers' warnings about climate change to
recognize the nation's energy dynamics will change.

And the transition to clean domestically produced energy sources is expected to
create millions of American jobs and make the nation more energy independent.
Florida has the potential to generate energy and jobs from biomass, solar, wind
and waves.

Yet the same House leadership that would put Florida's beaches at risk has
refused to consider reasonable legislation that would help boost investment in
renewables.

The measure, as fashioned by the Senate, would require electric utilities to
obtain 20 percent of their power from clean energy by 2020. It is not overly
burdensome. It even allows clean coal technology and nuclear to be counted
toward that renewable energy target.

The legislation, besides assuring Florida a cleaner energy supply, would ignite
investment in homegrown industries.

Instead of looking for ways to build an economy - and energy industry - for the
future, the House simply seeks to turn the Florida coast over to Big Oil. That
won't produce many jobs. It won't revive the economy. And it could forever taint
Florida's coastal waters.

But it will please powerful special interests - and that appears to be what
counts the most in the state House.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              29 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1533 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Save for a rainy day

Ah, the joys of living in Florida, our chosen Southern paradise.

Feast or famine, flood or drought! One can't have everything, right?

It is past time to re-think our water management system here to safeguard
Florida's future.

After a few days of welcome rain, people already want the water restrictions
lifted!

It will take a lot more than a few days of rain to return to normal levels.

Let's re-think our priorities - drinking water or lush lawns? I think strict
water restrictions should become the norm here since another drought is
undoubtedly around the corner.

Yes, I am a homeowner with a lawn.

In the Bahamas and other parts of the world, they have a cistern system since
rainfall is scarce. Perhaps homebuilders should consider making this a
requirement on all new construction.

My husband and I always put out anything that can catch water when it does rain
to save for watering plants, etc.

My mother always used to say, "Save for a rainy day." Or did she mean a
non-rainy day?

MARGIE LOWE

Riverview

Wants more motivation

Last week, the school district announced that because of the swine flu, excused
absences would not count against exam exemptions through the end of the year. As
a result, absences have been on the rise and many desks are empty. My thoughts
drift, and I'm more than disappointed when I realize how poor attendance would
be if absences throughout the year would not affect exam exemptions.

Not having to take an exam should be perceived as what it was established to be:
an incentive to come to school. But when this incentive became the sole
determining factor in whether or not a student came to school, it became clear
there was a disturbing lack of personal motivation and responsibility from the
student.

It's unfortunate that such a large part of the students at my high school suffer
from these hindering qualities. It is more unfortunate that these same
uninspired teens are the future adults of tomorrow.

DANNY CLASSEN

Tampa

No tent city

As a resident of Hillsborough County since 1975, I have seen much progress in
this community.

This is the first time in 34 years that I have felt compelled to write to one of
the nation's predominant news publications. The proposition for "Hillsborough
Tent City," 6410 E. Hillsborough Ave., by Catholic Charities is, in my opinion,
an absurdity of the most blatant kind. To play off the emotions of the general
public on the pretense of man's humanity to man is not only an insult to anyone
who can walk and chew gum at the same time, but also hypocrisy in its purest
form.

A high school student could see that this proposal lacks the basic credentials
for what is truly in the best interests of the "needy," and it has no foundation
based in fact to justify the proposition on several fronts:

1. Inadequate facilities for personal hygiene basics.

2. Inadequate background checks for tent city residents to ensure the safety of
other area residents.

3. A "casita" is neither sufficient nor stable housing on a permanent basis.

4. Lacks ongoing substantial funding.

5. Lacks authority for proper land use.

6. Acknowledged by Catholic Charities that "residents" will have known drug
abuse and criminal records that will serve to endanger the surrounding general
public.

7. This proposed facility is in close proximity to several schools.

8. This is a highly congested and high-commercial traffic area, posing a threat
to both proposed tent city residents and those who use these access and egress
routes for daily commerce.

These are just a few of the high points that compel me to voice my opinion in
strong opposition to the proposed Hillsborough tent city at the intersection of
Harney Road and Hillsborough Avenue.

PETE GARSTON

Tampa

Decries top salaries

Wish I had never noticed your "Who's on your payroll?" update stating that you
had added USF, a public university. A quick search of the data shows that 852 of
9,018 employees make over $100,000, while the top 50 make over $335,000 and the
top 13 over $500,000. That is simply outrageous, and it doesn't even take into
account other compensation or bonuses.

Defenders have been quick to point out the average salary, but these top
salaries should be controlled with a salary ceiling that should be in place in
any public university. These top salaries are an obscene and excessive abuse of
public funds.

JOE YARBOROUGH

Tampa

Meat and dairy fears

Swine flu, which has killed five Americans, has captured the headlines, canceled
public events and closed dozens of schools. Yet, our consumption of meat and
dairy, linked conclusively with chronic diseases that kill 1.3 million Americans
annually, has continued unabated.

Animal agriculture is also responsible for 18 percent of greenhouse gases,
leading to catastrophic floods, droughts and sea level rises that threaten human
survival. It uses more fresh water and dumps more deadly wastes into our water
supplies than all other human activities combined.

The best time to exercise our shared responsibility for global survival is on
our next trip to the supermarket, which offers a rich variety of meat-free and
dairy-free alternatives.

TONY BLACK

Tampa

Beer coaster

I like the new TV guide.

OK, it doesn't sop up as much sweat from a Miller Lite as the old one, but other
than that, it works just fine.

PATRICK SEERY

Ruskin

Park for everyone

If the Trust for Public Land is successful in purchasing the site of the former
Georgetown Apartments from Bank of America ("Nonprofit group to submit bid for
Georgetown property," May 15), half of the property (roughly 80 acres) is to be
funded by Hillsborough County and preserved as open space. The Trust for Public
Land's partner in this endeavor is DeBartolo Development, which will redevelop
the other half as housing. My concern is that the open spaces will be primarily
accessible to the residents of this housing.

Because the county is paying for the open space, I think it should be developed
as a county park with vehicular access from West Shore Boulevard. If it is left
as an undeveloped preserve it will benefit no one but the adjacent homeowners
who will then have country living in a South Tampa neighborhood.

BOB KENISON

Tampa

Fix what's broken

Everyone talks about the budget cuts, but they react to the shortfall and not
the long run.

The Tampa Police Department needs to think about how important it is to drive a
city car to go out of state for a class or training they don't need, when they
won't pay for the right parts to fix the equipment they already have in front of
them.

Let's pretend it's not broken until it costs more down the road, versus doing it
right the first time. Yet the police department is supposed to jump whenever the
community needs them? How can they, when captains and majors are driving city
cars out of state on our dime as taxpayers? That makes great sense, doesn't it
Mayor Iorio?

ELIZABETH STONE

Tampa

Energy independence

After years of inaction, President Obama has taken the first important steps on
the road to energy independence. Consider the following: New national standards
for emissions and fuel efficiency will reduce our dependence on foreign oil,
lower energy costs for American consumers and reduce climate change-causing
greenhouse gas emissions.

His announcement will give new life to the American auto industry by creating
strong, reliable markets for clean and efficient cars, and ensure that the next
generation of cars can be built here in the United States. The new standards are
an important step, but it's only a piece of Obama's broader effort to address
climate change and our energy challenges.

We need Congress to enact comprehensive energy and climate policy that will
decrease our dependence on foreign oil, build vibrant markets for renewable
energy and achieve meaningful greenhouse gas reductions. These standards
represent the type of bold action the president promised the American people and
demonstrate how Obama is following through on his commitment to bring people
together to solve the nation's most intractable problems.

DENNIS MARZELLA

Longwood

Military appreciation

I was not surprised that the Tribune failed to have any articles or even
acknowledge that May 16 was Armed Forces Day, but apparently no one cared,
except maybe active duty military and the many veterans who live in Florida. I
have found that when it comes to showing support for the military or retirees,
the only mention or coverage we find is when MacDill Air Force Base has an open
house and we get a chance to see the oldest and even the newest hardware our
fighting forces have at their disposal.

There are times when some of MacDill's neighbors complain about the noise or, as
I like to say, "The Sound of Freedom" disturbs their beauty rest in South Tampa.
But then again, those letters are few and far between lately, so I guess the
editorial staff is doing their job keeping the public in the dark about what is
going on.

My last question: Why isn't the job being done by the military satisfactory
enough to at least acknowledge that their day has come and gone again with no
fanfare of any kind?

RICHARD S. ZEINER

Plant City

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              32 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hurting towns and democracy

BYLINE: WARD FRISZOLOWSKI Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 509 words


By WARD FRISZOLOWSKI

Special To The Tampa Tribune

In 2006, my hometown of St. Pete Beach became the first community in Florida to
adopt a local version of Amendment 4 requiring a vote on every proposed change
to the town's comprehensive plan, no matter how small or technical.

Since the measure was passed, the residents of St. Pete Beach have endured
endless lawsuits and seen little progress. Even die-hard disciples of Amendment
4 have since converted back to common sense.

In St. Pete Beach, any proposed change to our town's comprehensive plan is
thrust onto the ballot. Public planning has been replaced with political
infighting and a parade of unintended consequences has ensued. I can only begin
to imagine the kind of chaos Amendment 4 would cause if it were ever forced onto
every community in Florida. After adopting a local version of Amendment 4, it
wasn't long before we realized that 600-page comprehensive plans couldn't easily
be condensed into 75-word ballot questions. The elections are confusing, chaotic
and expensive.

Unable to update its comprehensive plan, the town soon fell out of compliance
with state mandates. Many local businesses became victims of the impossible
process. Not surprisingly, our tourism-based economy began to wither and too
many families felt the effects. Once a beacon of prosperity, St. Pete Beach now
has a reputation for an unpredictable and chaotic business climate. The economic
situation worsened and, hamstrung by our local version of Amendment 4, the City
Commission was powerless to do anything about it.

Many voters were understandably frustrated by the lack of progress. However,
playing by the new rules, a citizens group campaigned to reinvigorate our town's
ailing economy. Fed up with Amendment 4's rather nasty side-effects, residents
seemed eager for a change. On June 3, 2008, the voters of St. Pete Beach
approved a new economic plan, despite the Amendment 4 roadblocks. On the heels
of this major victory, residents soon learned that the same interest group that
originally proposed our local version of Amendment 4 was now filing a lawsuit to
overturn the entire election. To date, a total of six lawsuits have been filed
by supporters of Amendment 4 as well as numerous administrative challenges to
the Department of Community Affairs.

Ironically, this pro-Amendment 4 group had campaigned on "empowering voters"
just two years before. Now the taxpayers of St. Pete Beach have to defend their
vote and have spent more than $500,000 to do so. None of the cases has been
settled to date.

We do not need to look to California or anywhere else for an Amendment 4
example. We have our very own disaster right here in Florida: It's called the
cautionary tale of St. Pete Beach.

Ward Friszolowski retired as mayor of St. Pete Beach in March. He is past
president of the American Institute of Architects and is executive vice
president at Harvard Jolly, an architectural and planning firm.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              33 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Administration Stalks Wildlife

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 359 words


The Bush administration's effort to free federal agencies from the Endangered
Species Act is bad environmental policy and a waste of tax dollars.

The eleventh hour rule change announced by the Interior Department would allow
the Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Highway Administration and other
agencies to decide whether their projects would have an impact on an endangered
creature. They would not have to consult with independent wildlife biologists.

So you can imagine how often the federal agencies are going to determine that
the dam, highway or other project they want to build is going to be a threat.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service would not be allowed to review the projects,
much less raise objections.

The rule robs the process of objectivity and integrity.

Moreover, it is likely to lead to costly litigation. Already environmental
groups have filed suit.

The courts a few years ago found a similar attempt by the Bush administration to
exclude the expertise of wildlife experts in federal decisions was improper. The
2004 rule change would have allowed the Environmental Protection Agency to
determine whether pesticides posed a threat to endangered species without
consulting with wildlife experts. The courts tossed it.

Supporters of the recent rule change worry the Endangered Species Act might be
used to regulate greenhouse emissions in roundabout way. Since the polar bear is
listed as endangered, for instance, its status could be used to stop a
coal-fired plant or even a highway.

But those fears are wildly inflated. The law rarely stops a project. It simply
requires federal agencies to consider if development projects may harm listed
species. But it also requires a balancing of species protection with economic
impacts and includes provisions designed to minimize conflicts with landowners.

In all likelihood, the courts will reject the Bush administration's last-minute
effort to gut the Endangered Species Act. But if that doesn't occur, the Obama
administration should move quickly to reverse this irresponsible poly.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              35 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 17, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Insurance shouldn't subsidize development

BYLINE: JAY LILES, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 310 words


By JAY LILES

Special To The Tampa Tribune

Changing climatic conditions pose an unprecedented threat to U.S. coastlines,
where the majority of Florida's residents live and much of our economic activity
occurs. Sea-level rise, temperature increases, changes in the severity and
strength of storms and other climate-related changes are expected to occur over
the coming decades.

The need to adapt to these climate-driven changes and to better manage existing
coastal risks is obvious and immediate.

According to the United States Commission on Ocean Policy, insured property
values along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts have roughly doubled every decade. By
the end of 2007, the Gulf and Atlantic coasts had more than $9 trillion of
insured coastal property.

Florida's share of that is certain to exceed many billions of dollars. We need
to have Florida property insurance prices reflect the real risk of hurricanes.
If we don't do this, insurance will be subsidizing coastal development.

As coastal development is intensifying, so are coastal property losses. The
higher wind speeds, storm surge, flooding and erosion hazards intrinsic to
coastal regions increase the likelihood of property damage, degradation of
coastal ecosystems and subsequent social costs.

One way to combat these problems is by continuing programs such as My Safe
Florida Home. By strengthening homes through mitigation, we can protect against
the devastating effects of hurricanes and help reduce the state's exposure to
catastrophic damage.

Additionally, we believe we must reign in coastal development that threatens our
coastline and places the insurance burden on all Florida citizens, whether they
live on the coast or not.

Jay Liles is the Florida Wildlife Federation policy advocate.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              36 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 16, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hale keeping things simple for Lightning

BYLINE: ERIK ERLENDSSON, eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 586 words


He's played his way into the lineup.

By ERIK ERLENDSSON

eerlendsson@tampatrib.com

PHOENIX - When David Hale learned during the summer he had been traded for the
second time in his career, his family didn't mind the change of locations.

Considering the first deal sent Hale, 28, from New Jersey to Calgary before he
signed as a free agent with Phoenix, moving from the desert to the Gulf Coast of
Florida meant limit climate change.

"I know my family was happy because we kept it sunny moving from Phoenix to
here," Hale said.

Hale's career, however, didn't seem as bright. The former Devils first-round
pick (2000) was about to join his fourth organization in four seasons and had
never appeared in more than 65 games, that coming during his rookie season in
2003-04.

Last season in Phoenix, the 6-foot-2, 213-pound defenseman played in 43 games.
When he was included in a deal that also sent Todd Fedoruk to the Lightning for
Radim Vrbata, Hale was considered more of a throw-in to help offset some of the
difference in salaries.

When training camp began, Hale might have been listed 11th or 12th on the depth
chart, meaning his chances of making the team out of camp were remote, even with
Tampa Bay carrying nine defensemen, something that was laid out to Hale when the
trade happened.

"They told me, 'There are nine D going to be on the roster, come to camp and
we'll see what happens,'" he said. "So they didn't beat around the bush. It was
earn your spot."

Out of camp, Hale earned a spot on the roster - although not necessarily in the
lineup as he was a healthy scratch to open the season. But once he got in, he's
settled in nicely.

In 14 games, Hale has four assists, is a plus-three and has averaged 16 minutes
of ice time while combining with Matt Walker to form a reliable pairing.

"He's just a real solid guy," Lightning coach Rick Tocchet said. "We didn't
really know much about him coming in and he might have been a long shot to even
make the top six. He didn't play early (but) he got his chance and he's been
solid ever since."

For Hale, now it's all about maintaining that approach.

"I come into a camp every year no matter where I am and I try to just work hard
to earn a spot, make sure you keep that spot and get better," he said. "That's
it, keep it simple."


TONIGHT'S GAME

WHO: Tampa Bay at Phoenix Coyotes

WHEN/WHERE: 9 p.m., Jobing.com Arena

RADIO: 620 AM

INJURIES: Lightning - D Paul Ranger (personal leave), out; D Matt Walker
(general soreness) day-to-day. Coyotes - D Kurt Sauer (headaches), D Ed
Jovanovski (lower body), D Zbynek Michalek (lower body), out.

NEED TO KNOW: Tampa Bay is 3-0-2 in its past five games and 5-1-4 in the past
10. ? Phoenix is 2-4 in its past six. ? Lightning are 2-4-2 on the road and have
been outscored 30-15. ? RW Marty St. Louis has not scored a goal in 12 games. ?
Tampa Bay is 12-12 all-time against Coyotes. ? C Vinny Lecavalier has six goals
and 12 points in 12 games against Phoenix. ? C Steven Stamkos has 11 goals and
16 points in the past 13 games. ? LW Ryan Malone has goals in three consecutive
games. ? G Antero Niittymaki has started five consecutive games, posting a 3-0-2
record with a 1.71 goals-against average and .947 save percentage.

Erik Erlendsson

Reporter Erik Erlendsson can be reached at (813) 259-7835.

Photo credit: Getty Images

Photo: Defenseman David Hale will go up against his former team when the
Lightning take on the Coyotes tonight.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 13, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Take the strawberry challenge and reap sweet rewards

BYLINE: CRAIG CHANDLER, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: GETAWAY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1052 words


By CRAIG CHANDLER

Tribune correspondent

West Central Florida - particularly the area around Plant City - is one of the
most important winter strawberry growing areas in the world. But although
farmers produce berries by the bushel, they also have a lot of sophisticated
tools for dealing with problems.

Growing strawberries in the home garden can be a challenge, but it's not
impossible. If you're up for giving it a try, here are some tips to help ensure
your efforts bear fruit.

Varieties

"Sweet Charlie" and "Festival" were developed at the University of Florida's
Gulf Coast Research and Education Center in Hillsborough County and are
well-adapted to the climate of the Tampa Bay area. These varieties produce
attractive, flavorful berries and are capable of producing 1 to 2 pints of fruit
per plant over the season.

Sweet Charlie is available from Lewis Nursery in North Carolina, (910) 675-2394.
Their minimum order is 100 plants, which cost $40 plus shipping and handling.
Festival should be available at Parkesdale Farm Market in Plant City, (813)
754-2704, starting in October. Parkesdale sells plants in bundles of 25 for
$5.98. Some local nurseries and the big box garden centers may have strawberry
plants for sale this fall, but be aware that they could be selling a variety
that is not well adapted to our climate.

For a list of nurseries specializing in strawberry plants visit www.ncstraw
berry.org/docs/2009Plant SourceList.pdf.

Planting

For the best combination of fruit quality and yield, plant in mid-October.

Strawberry plants need at least eight hours of direct sunlight a day. If a full
sun location isn't available, try to choose a spot that's sunny during the
morning and early afternoon. The soil should be well drained and slightly acidic
(pH 5.5-6.5).

Most strawberry plants grown in Florida are planted in double rows, with plants
spaced 12 to 15 inches apart. Strawberry plants also can be grown in planter
boxes, strawberry pots, hanging baskets, and other types of containers. Mulch
around the plants helps to control weeds and keeps the fruit cleaner than if it
were lying directly on the soil.

Bare-root plants are the most common type of transplant available. Those with
leaves on them generally produce greater December yield than those without
leaves. The former, however, require frequent sprinkler irrigation from about 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. for the first one to two weeks.

Another type of transplant is the plug, available in plastic trays or in small
pots. It requires very little sprinkler irrigation to establish.

Regardless of the type of transplant used, it's important not to set the plant
too deep - covering the crown - or too shallow, leaving roots exposed.

Once the plants are established, apply 2 pounds of 10-10-10 (or equivalent)
garden fertilizer with micronutrients (including boron) per 10 feet of row.
About half of the nitrogen in the fertilizer should be a slow release form, such
as a sulfur- or resin-coated material. Place it in a narrow trench about an inch
deep between the two rows of plants. An alternative is to periodically apply
liquid fertilizer.

Problems

Strawberry flowers and fruit can be damaged when the temperature drops below
freezing. Protect the flowers by covering the plants with old sheets or a
commercial polypropylene row cover during the afternoon before the expected
freeze. Anchor the covering so it doesn't blow off.

Pests are another threat, and a key to managing them is to start with healthy
transplants - plants free of leaf diseases, spider mites and nematodes. The odds
are better for plants purchased from a reputable nursery or garden center.

To control most fungal diseases on leaves, flowers, and fruit, apply captan or
thiram weekly, starting as soon as plants are established. Removing old,
diseased leaves may help reduce future leaf and fruit infections. Powdery
mildew, a fungal disease that results in leaf distortion and powdery white
patches on the underside of leaves, is usually controlled with several
applications of sulfur. Apply only when it's cooler than 80 degrees so the
leaves and fruit won't burn.

The type of pests feeding on strawberry plants changes as the season progresses.
In October and November, various caterpillars ("worms") are often found feeding
on crown, leaf, or young flower tissue. Applications of Bacillus thuringiensis
insecticide such as Dipel are usually effective.

Later in the season, aphids and flower thrips may cause damage to developing
fruit. Malathion can be used to control these, although, given enough time,
natural predators and parasites will usually take care of the problem.

Spider mites - tiny arthropods that suck juices from plant leaves - are a more
persistent pest on strawberries in Florida than are insects. Start examining
plants for spider mites in early December, looking for plants with pale
yellowish-green leaves. A magnifying glass can be used to see the mites moving
about on the underside of leaves. Several miticides are labeled for use on
strawberries in Florida, including fenbutatin-oxide (Vendex) and dicofol
(Kelthane). They're most effective when applied twice, about five days apart.
When using miticides or any other pesticides, be sure to read and follow all
label directions.

Parasitic nematodes (microscopic round worms) and certain soil diseases can
cause problems if strawberry plants are set in the same area year after year.
Avoid planting strawberries in areas where you have just grown tomatoes,
peppers, potatoes or eggplant. Sweet corn is a good crop to plant between
strawberry crops. Solarizing the soil during the summer before planting can also
help cut down on soil-borne pests.

Your fruit is ready for harvest when three-quarters of it is red. The fruit
starts to deteriorate soon after it has become totally red, so it's best to
harvest every two to four days.

Craig Chandler is a professor of horticultural sciences at the University of
Florida's Gulf Coast Research and Education Center in southern Hillsborough
County.

Photo credit: Photo by CRAIG CHANDLER

Photo: "Festival" strawberry plants were developed in the Bay area and are
well-adapted to our climate. Plants should be available at Parkesdale Farm
Market in Plant City next

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              39 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

It's A Special Weekend For Citizen Scientists

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, yhammett@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SOUTH SHORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 593 words


A March symposium aims to elevate the natural world.

By YVETTE C. HAMMETT

yhammett@tampatrib.com

RUSKIN - Take time out to smell the wildflowers, admire the new greenery on the
cypress trees and delve into a discussion about pressing scientific questions
involving the natural landscape.

Camp Bayou Outdoor Learning Center is encouraging people to get out into nature
as part of a run-up to its Citizen Science Symposium, scheduled for March 20 and
21.

In 2009, designated the Year of Science, the center is hosting the symposium to
get people to learn more about the natural world around them.

"I've been very passionate for years about citizen science," said Dolly
Cummings, director of Camp Bayou. Participating in activities like this, she
said, increases the average person's awareness, making questions being asked in
the scientific community more relevant to a person's life.

Visitors to the symposium can participate in hands-on activities, trail walks,
displays and seminars, and study aquatic invertebrates, frogs, plants, birds and
more.

The March 20 schedule, entitled The Science behind Citizen Science, includes
hikes, a seminar on Understanding Science and a demonstration of botanical
sketching.

On March 21, the event is titled Community Connection and includes a seminar
called Bacon and Eggs: Roger and Sir Frances Bacon and the Beginnings of
Science. The day's activities also will include a discussion with a panel of
scientists.

The symposium is free for those who pre-register at www.campbayou.org. There
will be a $5 admission fee at the door for guests who do not pre-register.
Visitors also will have the option of joining in a Science of Food lunch at a
cost of $5 each day.

To get people out sooner, the center is hosting a photo contest focusing on
photographing Camp Bayou plants in various stages of growth, including
flowering, new leaf growth and fruit.

Photographers can hit the trails at Camp Bayou between now and March 20 to
photograph the plants, then submit photos to camp bayou@yahoo.com Photos should
be full-size and in digital .jpg format.

The center is open from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Thursday through Saturday.

Those who want to take their participation in the photo contest a step further
can submit their photos to the national science venture called Project BudBurst,
headed by the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo.,
and the University of Montana College of Forestry and Conservation.

The idea behind project BudBurst is to gather valuable environmental and climate
change information from across the United States.

The project engages the public in making careful observations of phenological
events such as first leaves, first flowers and first fruit ripening on a variety
of trees, shrubs, flowers and grasses.

People all over the country have already signed up to participate in the study.

"The great thing is that if professional scientists tried to do this on their
own, they'd never have the time or money to get it done," Cummings said.

For information on Project BudBurst, visit www .windows.ucar.edu/citizen
_science/budburst/

For the Camp Bayou contest, photo winners will be announced at the end of the
symposium. The pictures will be available for public display at Camp Bayou and
can also be posted at www.flickr.com/groups/projectbudburst.

Camp Bayou is at the south end of 24th Street S.E., three miles south of SR 674.

Reporter Yvette C. Hammett can be reached at (813) 865-1566.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              40 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Tribune Humor

I'm glad the Trib has not lost its sense of humor. Featuring A-Rod on the front
page had to be a "tongue-in-cheek" decision, what with all the horrible economic
news out there.

And, lest any reader missed it, tucked away on page 4 is a mention of the USF
chap, resigning his $400,000 job, because of the bicycle incident. No wonder
tuition costs are high!

Thus, I'm guessing tomorrow's front page is going to be a toss-up between
Michael Phelps and Michael Vick. I can hardly wait.

WAYNE DOZARK

Tampa

Postal Service

Two days before Valentine's Day, I sent my grandson a Valentine card. It should
have gotten there Friday or Saturday, which was Valentine's Day. Instead, it got
there on Tuesday, four days after it was mailed. I am aware that Monday was a
holiday, but even so, four days to send a card less than 10 miles really is
unacceptable service.

Everything on the envelope was correct. There was no reason for the delay. Maybe
the post office will use that rate increase to improve service. The term snail
mail applies in this instance. I could have walked the 10 miles quicker than
they delivered his card. Shame on them!

LINDA BROWN

Tampa

Voter Apathy

Re: "League of Women Voters May Disband" (Metro, Feb. 16): One has only to look
at the abysmally low numbers of registered voters who bother to vote in each
election to understand the dilemma faced by the League of Women Voters. The 2008
presidential race garnered the highest turnout in 40 years. Even then, only 60
percent of registered voters cast ballots.

Not only are registered voters not voting, but the population in general seems
lost in apathy. The league is not alone in facing this quandary; it is every
single volunteer organization in existence.

Everyone seems to have an excuse for why they cannot be involved.

It always seems to fall on that dedicated core at the center of each assemblage
to accomplish 99 percent of the work/effort.

Tragic, isn't it?

PATRICIA LUCARDIE

Tampa

Migration Hoax

Re: "Climate Change Affects Migration" (Local News, Feb. 11): The Audubon study
regarding bird migration appears to be flawed. The article gives only enough
information for one comparison, that of the purple finch.

After reading this article, I referenced my "Petersen Field Guide to Eastern
Birds" published in 1980. It seems that in 1980 the purple finch's northern
wintering boundary was north of Milwaukee. This is obviously quite a difference
from a supposedly northern wintering boundary of Springfield, Mo.

As far as the common pintail, identified in the article as "Northern" Pintail,
without information for comparison, all that can be said is that in 1980 its
northern winter range was Maine. If you winter in Maine, how much warmer is it
91 miles to your south?

When will the great hoax of global warming end?

RON MOBLEY

Tampa

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              41 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Taking It All Off For Art In Ybor

BYLINE: WALT BELCHER, wbelcher@tampatrib.com

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 685 words


By WALT BELCHER

wbelcher@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - The first Nude Nite art show here, featuring live models and provocative
works by local artists, runs through Saturday in Ybor City.

Launched in 1999 in Orlando, where it has grown into an annual happening, this
event celebrates the human body as an art form, according to Nude Nite founder
Kelly Stevens, an Orlando Realtor and art lover.

"You can't get people out to an art event unless you make it interesting and
fun," Stevens says. "We just had more than 3,500 come to our Orlando Nude Nite."

The Tampa show opened Thursday and is housed in a 20,000-square-foot Ybor
warehouse at 1925 E. Second Ave. It has been turned into a temporary gallery to
host more than 100 "cutting-edge, sexy works from local and national artists,"
Stevens says.

In addition to nude paintings, sculptures, photography, fine art, metal and
abstracts, there is a "naked sushi" bar where sushi is prepared on a live
model's body.

Among each night's activities are tongue-in-cheek burlesque shows, nude models
posing for do-it-yourself sketches, actors that create "living nude sculptures,"
body painters, and nude art that makes political and social statements on a wide
range of issues from climate change to nuclear weapons.

Mary Ellen Scherl's traveling Mamorial exhibit (www.mamorial.org) features 13
life-sized silhouette sculptures sharing stories of breast cancer.

"The goal is to celebrate the human body, educate people about art and to raise
awareness about breast cancer," Stevens says. All proceeds from beverage and art
sales benefit The Artery Inc., a nonprofit organization that supports breast
cancer education.

Sherl invited breast cancer survivors - women and men - from across the country
to cast their chests to "celebrate survival."

"Women's bodies are fetishized throughout pop culture. 'Mamorial' invites women
and men whose boies have been ravaged by this disease to reclaim their bodies,"
the artist says.

Tampa photographer Richard Strawn, who has a studio in Ybor, says he was
skeptical when he first heard about Nude Nite.

"I don't want to be involved with anything pornographic so I went to the Orlando
Nude Nite held on Valentine's Day, and I was impressed," he says. "It's a classy
event."

Strawn specializes in recreating pinup portraits from the 1940s and 1950s.

"There are not nudes," he says, "These are for women of all sizes and ages who
want to dress up like Marilyn Monroe, Betty Grable or Bettie Page and have a
sexy photograph."

Strawn says he will be demonstrating his pinup style during Nude Nite.

Stevens says artists from the Hyde Park Art Center also will be giving
demonstrations of sketching nude models.

In addition to nude paintings, nude sculptures, nude photography, fine art,
metal and abstracts, there will be tongue-in-cheek burlesque shows, live models
posing for do-it-yourself sketches, actors that create "living sculptures," body
painters, and nude art that makes political and social statements on a wide
range of issues from climate change to nuclear weapons.

Guests also can become graffiti artists without causing permanent defacement to
buildings - or fear of arrest - at the Urban Light Works exhibit, which offers a
laser light tool for "painting" words and drawings on a wall.

Hours are 6 p.m. to midnight today and Saturday. Admission is $20 (cash only).
Patrons must be 21 and older. Tickets are available at the door. All proceeds
from beverage and art sales benefit The Artery Inc., a nonprofit organization
that supports breast cancer education. For information, go to
www.nudenitetampa.com.

(CHART) NUDE NITE

WHAT: An event celebrating the human body as an art form

WHEN: 6 p.m. to midnight, tonight and Saturday

WHERE: In an Ybor City warehouse at 1925 E. Second Ave.

COST: $20, cash only, must be 21 or older

FOR INFORMATION: www.nudenitetampa.com

Reporter Walt Belcher can be reached at (813) 259-7654.

Photo credit: Nude Nite

Photo: Among the Nude Nite artworks on display is "Goldfingers" by noted
photographer Brad Miller.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              43 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 15, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Sunshine State Is Going Solar

BYLINE: ARMANDO J. OLIVERA and DEBBIE HARRISON, Special to the Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 627 words


A DeSoto facility will be the largest photovoltaic solar array in America.

By ARMANDO J. OLIVERA and DEBBIE HARRISON

Special to the Tribune

A power company CEO and the head of a leading environmental organization will
never agree on everything, but on one essential element of Florida's future we
are absolutely united: the need to bring more solar energy to the state.

The two of us attended the groundbreaking of Florida Power & Light's newest
solar power site in Florida, a 25-megawatt facility in DeSoto County. When it is
complete this year, the DeSoto Solar Energy Center will be the largest
photovoltaic solar array in the United States. To appreciate the benefits of
solar power for Florida, consider what this one site will accomplish:

*It will power 3,000 homes, or 20 percent of the population of DeSoto County.

*It will decrease FPL's use of fossil fuels by more than 275,000 barrels of oil
over the life of the project.

*It will avoid greenhouse gas emissions equal to taking 4,500 cars off the road
every year.

*It will support 200 construction jobs and will provide DeSoto with more than $2
million in additional property tax revenue through 2010.

Capturing Power

Solar power is an amazing technology that is finally coming of age. For more
than a century, there was no practical way to capture the power of the sun on a
large scale. Humans could only use solar energy indirectly by digging up fossil
fuels and burning them to release the sun's stored energy. Today, for the first
time in history, we are able to capture significant amounts of the sun's power
directly, through photovoltaic panels that convert sunlight into electricity.

The benefits of solar to Florida, and the world, are tremendous. Solar
photovoltaic power is one of the cleanest forms of energy known to mankind. It
emits zero greenhouse gases and other pollutants, uses no water and produces no
waste. Because it displaces other, higher-polluting forms of energy generation,
solar power means the air we breathe is cleaner. In the face of the daunting
challenge of climate change, solar power must become a much larger part of our
energy future.

Nor should we overlook the benefits of solar power for Florida's energy
security. By harnessing this power, we can reduce the state's dependence on oil
and gas as major sources of electricity generation.

Plants A Good Start

Finally, solar power is exactly the kind of technology we need to bring to
Florida to ensure that the state is a key player in the energy economy of the
future. We must do much more to make Florida a magnet for renewable
manufacturers, research dollars and well-paying jobs in a dynamic growth
industry.

This will not be an overnight trip - Florida's electricity needs are huge, and
solar is just getting started - but we can make Florida a world leader in solar
power.

Two years ago, Gov. Charlie Crist laid out a vision for Florida that included a
dramatic expansion of renewable energy. Last year, the state Legislature
provided support for renewables by granting them cost recovery, which all other
forms of electricity generation enjoy. This year, the Legislature is slated to
consider a "renewable portfolio standard" that would drive a significant
increase in emissions-free energy production. These steps are essential to make
Florida a leader in the clean-energy economy of the future.

Armando J. Olivera is CEO of Florida Power & Light Co. Debbie Harrison is
director of the South Florida Program for the World Wildlife Fund.

Photo credit: The Associated Press (2008)

Photo: Florida's electricity needs are huge, and solar is just getting started,
but the state can become a world leader in solar power.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              44 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1396 words


LETTER OF THE DAY

Adopting A Greener Course

Florida is flat as a pancake with minimal elevation and is all but surrounded by
water. The farthest point inland from the Gulf or Atlantic is just 70 miles,
while most of the population lives within 25 miles of the coast on land no more
than 20 feet above sea level. We are 18 million people living on a sand bar with
more at risk and more to lose from sea level rise than anywhere in the world.

So why isn't Florida a world leader when it comes to emissions-reducing policies
and environmentally conscientious living? Every county commission, city council
and planning board throughout the state, as well as the Legislature and
governor, should be setting the pace for green, progressive action.

But that is far from the case. Developers have long run this state, often at the
expense of the environment and quality of life. Only the market has been able to
do what no politicians in this state have ever had the courage to do: Put a
clamp on growth.

When it comes to policies such as bottle deposits, higher CAFE standards,
anti-idling laws, restrictions on lawn mower/leaf blower pollution and ped/bike
advocacy, Florida is off the radar.

Hopefully, the increasing threat of climate change, combined with the state's
vulnerability, will spur our politicians and leaders to adopt a greener course.

CHIP THOMAS

Tampa

Air Force Tanker Deal

Your editorial "Long Delay In Tanker Deal Will Hurt Nation's Security" (March
17) correctly noted the profligate costs - a full tripling of the ultimate cost
to taxpayers - of delaying the U.S. Air Force's acquisition of new aerial
refueling tankers. And no one disagrees about the urgent need to buy new
tankers. The current fleet is 50 years old.

Industry experts and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) have all
reported that Boeing's KC-767 is superior technologically and costs less than
the European-subsidized Airbus version, the KC-30. It can refuel more aircraft,
land at more U.S. airfields, is more survivable in combat and would save
taxpayers more than $40 billion in fuel costs over its lifetime.

Last year, French-based EADS undermined the Air Force's competition for the
tanker contract by launching an army of lobbyists at the Pentagon in hopes of
grabbing the contract.

Now that the dust has cleared, the results are in: Boeing's tankers are cheaper,
more effective and support 44,000 American manufacturing jobs.

Even Wall Street executives can do that kind of math. Can members of Congress?

CINDY HALL

Tallahassee

The writer is president, Florida AFL-CIO.

Coverage Of Israel

In regard to the Associated Press photo of a supposed Israeli Defense Force
soldier wearing an objectionable T-shirt (Nation/World, March 24):

I am wondering; where are the articles about Hamas shooting another 100 or so
rockets and mortar shells at Israeli cities since the cessation of Operation
Cast Lead in late January?

I even missed reading much about the 10,000 rockets and mortars shot at Israeli
cities in the past 8 years that precipitated the Israeli action against this
group of terrorists now running 100 percent Palestinian Gaza, the bulk of which
were fired after the Israeli's disengagement in the summer of 2005.

Hmmm, seems that Israeli "occupation" is really not the problem with Hamas after
all. Who would have guessed?

Then, after the disengagement, did the Palestinians take advantage of the
factories and greenhouses left behind by Israel?

No. They destroyed them.

Did they form their own little heaven on Earth to govern and prosper?

No. They didn't do that either.

Instead, they upped the barrage of rockets and mortars shot into Israeli cities
- the continued barrage that the media so callously have disregarded.

Just when is the media going to begin reporting the truth and stop this insane
double standard?

If the intent is to destroy the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel, I
fear you may get your wish.

I wonder just how much freedom of speech will come out of the Middle East then.

C. LEFEVRE-LOWRY

Tampa

Withdraw Prayer Bill

Regarding SB 1360/ School Prayer:

This is a land of religious equality. The Constitution and government do not
endorse one man's God over another.

The majority of participating students' beliefs and requests are irrelevant.
There are persons of other beliefs as well as nonbelievers at public school
functions. The only prudent tack at government-funded property and activities is
to lean toward neutrality.

To insist on an audience for public displays of piety is to treat faith as
superstition. It is also unneighborly and downright rude.

Enactment of this bill will incur unnecessary budget strain to fund inevitable
legal challenges.

Please withdraw this bill immediately.

ALEXANDER LYNCH

Riverview

Saving Bugs

Please tell me you printed Don Yokum's letter "Save The Bugs" as a bit of comic
relief (Letters, March 22 ). I must have read it five times trying to figure out
what he was talking about.

I couldn't stop my head from spinning every time I got to the part about how he
wants to "ensure we do not suffer the loss of a single aphid." He says we're
extremely judgmental of bugs?

I notice he's from California. Maybe that explains it. Thanks, Tampa Tribune,
for some good humor.

CAROL C. STEVENS

Wesley Chapel

Everything Will Be OK

"Spiritualists Stock Rises" (Front page, March 24) referenced people who are
"scattered and all uptight, which is normal with the economy like it is" and
quoted that "people are in fear" and how last year, when people visited
psychics, the biggest concern was "Christmas bills; now they're facing losing
everything."

I sat and pondered why people feel like this? Are they so unsettled in their
faith that the only means for "help" or comfort seems to come from a psychic? I
believe that people need to be reminded what is written in the Bible: "The earth
is the Lord's and everything in it."

Everything you have belongs to the Lord and by His grace he allows you to use it
for the short while you are here. Don't get me wrong, I have lost more than a
lot over the last two years, and I am floating around in the chaotic sea just
like a lot of others. However, my life vest is the outstretched arms of my Lord
and Savior.

The only sentence I agree with in this article is the last sentence which
states, "People need to hear they're going to be OK." And they do; however, I
don't need to hear it from a psychic. I have a big, black book called the Bible
that tells me that everything is going to be OK.

JUDY PRINE

New Port Richey

His Advice Is Free

How thoughtful of Sherry Ackerman to give us tips on how to "stay safe" when
spending our hard-earned dollars on advice from psychics and fortune tellers.

Too bad she doesn't know about this exceptional advice from Leviticus 19:31:

"Do not turn to mediums or spiritists; do not seek them out to be defiled by
them. I am the Lord your God."

God loves us and does not want us to be deceived. He has enough power to create
the Universe and to write the Bible.

And to top it off, His advice is free!

PAULA COGGINS

Wesley Chapel

Tarot Card Gibberish

Must have been a slow news day when you decide to waste your front page with
tarot card gibberish. Here's some free advice to those low self-esteem, frequent
visitors to those charlatans: Get some self-respect and stop throwing your good
money away.

JANNETTE SHEPPARD

Tampa

Coming Border Wars

The Department of Homeland Security is doubling the number of law enforcement
working along the Southwest border and could request border state governors to
send national guardsmen to help curtail spillover violence from Mexico.

Brilliant. Just brilliant! So now the government is going to get our brave young
men and women murdered by the gang violence of a foreign country, when
completing the border fence could have greatly reduced our potential loss of
life.

Where is our esteemed government going to lay the blame for these deaths?

JOHN KENT

Tampa

JOIN DISCUSSION

The Tribune welcomes letters and e-mails from readers. Text should be original
and no longer than 150 words. By making a submission you agree the Tribune may
edit the letter for length and clarity and publish it in any medium. Please
include your name, address and daytime telephone number. Mail to P.O. Box 191,
Tampa, 33601-0191 or e-mail without attachments to tribletters@tampatrib.com

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              47 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 13, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 520 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Income tax won't work

Edward Knecht advocates a personal graduated income tax for Florida (Letters,
July 7), but there are two things wrong with this thinking:

* The Constitution of Florida forbids it. It would take an amendment for which
you would never get enough signatures to place it on the ballot.

* The Legislature could place it on the ballot; however, the surest way I know
for a legislative candidate to lose their election is to advocate such a tax,
and the same holds true for those already in office campaigning for re-election.

DEE WILLIAMS

Sun City Center

Beware payday loans

I read with interest your June 25 guest column by former South Carolina Sen.
Tommy Moore regarding payday loans. It is my opinion that his opposition to a
bill in Congress introduced by Rep. Luis Gutierrez, HR 1214, is not based upon
what is good for consumers but what is most profitable for his organization, the
payday lenders.

Payday lenders charge interest rates of at least 391 percent per annum, a rate
they try to downplay by a slight of hand in claiming the rate is lower because
the loans are short term (usually two weeks).

The reality is charging interest rates this high dooms the borrower, who may
already be in dire financial straits, into a worse financial situation.

The need for resources among low-income people is very real, but the need for
390 percent payday loans is not. Is that the best we can do? There are safe,
helpful, affordable options to help struggling people get by. We do not need a
high-cost, abusive practice that makes them worse off.

Another bill (HR 1608) would allow payday lenders to charge 36 percent per
annum.

Most credit card rates are cheaper than this, but it is a good start toward
bringing an out-of-control industry in line.

LYNN DRYSDALE

Jacksonville

Smaller sheep

I read with interest and amusement the article in the July 3 Tribune about how
the shrinking size of feral sheep on a remote island near Scotland is evidence
of "climate change."

Could a more likely explanation be that the increased herd size gobbled up the
limited resources, thereby yielding smaller sheep?

PAUL SARSFIELD

Seffner

Cold bananas

Why do people believe that bananas should never be put in the refrigerator?
Because Chiquita Bananas has been telling people for 63 years not to put bananas
in the refrigerator.

Why do people believe there is a global warming crisis? Because Al Gore has been
telling people for three years that there is a crisis.

I don't believe there is a global warming crisis. But I can't prove there is no
crisis.

I don't believe that bananas should not be put in the refrigerator. I can prove
that. Put half a new bunch of bananas at room temperature. In a week, the
bananas will be brown, soft and spoiled inside.

Put half a new bunch of bananas in the refrigerator. In a week, the bananas will
be brown, firm and unspoiled inside.

People are extremely gullible.

JAMES T. CONKLIN

Longwood

The write is managing attorney of the consumer law unit of Jacksonville Area
Legal Aid, Inc.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              50 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 23, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Local forecast for 2100: soggy

BYLINE: NATALIE SHEPHERD, nshepherd@wfla.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 384 words


Global warming expert sees area waters rising.

By NATALIE SHEPHERD

nshepherd@wfla.com

TAMPA - What will the Tampa Bay area look like in 2100?

One leading climate change scientist says many famous locations, including
places such as Tampa General Hospital and the Salvador Dalí Museum, could be
covered with seawater.

Gordon Hamilton, a research professor at the University of Maine, has done
extensive research on how melting ice in Greenland and Antarctica are affecting
global sea levels. The reduction in Greenland's glaciers, he said, was brought
home to him this year when a glacier he had been studying suddenly and
dramatically shrank.

"Sure enough, the glacier had just disappeared from where it was a few months
before, and it was now it was five miles further back up the fjord," he said.

Hamilton was in Tampa on Thursday as part of the Hip Boot Tour organized by
Clean Air-Cool Plant, a nonprofit global warming activist group.

The Hip Boot Tour is making stops in cities along the East Coast to discuss the
possible effect of melting ice. Events were scheduled for Thursday and today in
Tampa and St. Petersburg.

At The Florida Aquarium, Hamilton and members of Clean Air Cool Planet used maps
to show how much of the Bay area could be underwater by 2100. Some estimates
show water levels rising about 3 feet. That would put parts of Harbour Island,
Davis Islands and Tampa General Hospital underwater.

If water levels rise 6 feet, MacDill Air Force Base and much of St. Petersburg
and Pinellas County beaches would be underwater, too.

"In a place like Florida, ? you're probably going to be constantly digging out
or shoveling out or bucketing water out of constantly flooded downtowns and
neighborhoods," Hamilton said.

Clean Air-Cool Planet officials say there are ways to slow the problem.
Executive Director Brooks Yeager said reducing pollutants such as black carbon
and methane will help. "We can get serious about a national emissions reduction
strategy in the United States."

Reporter Natalie Shepherd can be reached at (813) 225-2703.

PHOTO CREDIT: Staff photo by NATALIE SHEPHERD

Photo: Professor Gordon Hamilton, in Tampa on Thursday for the Hip Boot Tour,
illustrates rising sea levels.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              52 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't shut area college doors

BYLINE: EILEEN HOLDEN, KATHERINE M. JOHNSON and GWENDOLYN W. STEPHENSON, Special
To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 769 words


By EILEEN HOLDEN, KATHERINE M. JOHNSON and GWENDOLYN W. STEPHENSON

Special To The Tampa Tribune

As commencement season approaches, a sense of accomplishment and celebration
prevails on college campuses across the country. We, as community college
educators, experience enormous pride and satisfaction as our students graduate.
The degree or certificate awarded represents great achievement for our students,
particularly in this current economic climate. Many have overcome numerous
obstacles while on the path to higher education.

With unemployment hovering at nearly nine percent nationally and almost 10
percent locally, the challenges for our students - many of whom work at least
part time and balance family responsibilities - are getting even tougher.

The Florida Community College System, now called the Florida College System, was
founded and continues to embrace the "Open Door" policy - providing quality
higher education to everyone motivated to working toward that goal. Our system
has been hailed, both nationally and internationally, as the model for a
successful higher education system that delivers high quality education at an
affordable price - with maximum return on investment for both students and
taxpayers.

Think of the nurses, paramedics and law enforcement officers in Florida who got
their start at a community college. All of this has been accomplished at a
fraction of the cost to educate students at a university.

Now, adding to the mix are the thousands of recently unemployed seeking to
upgrade job skills and credentials. New students are flooding our open doors
leading to unprecedented growth in our districts and unprecedented strain on our
resources. The logic of the unemployed investing in education is admirably
forward-thinking. These people are not waiting for the phone to ring with job
offers that simply might not exist. When the economy rebounds and opportunity
knocks, our graduates will be the ones called upon to answer the door.

Or will they? With the budget cuts currently proposed for our system, we are now
being forced to ask this question of our legislators.

In the past, our passion for the community college mission compensated, in part,
for what we lacked in funding. Today, however, we struggle to meet enormous
public demand with increasingly strained resources. If education and training
are so vital to sustain our economy, if our legislators understand that an
educated and skilled workforce is vital for communities to flourish, why then is
the state funding for community colleges the most threatened in higher
education?

Today, our much-admired open doors may soon slam shut on the people who need us
most, at the worst possible time.

After two years of successive funding reductions, we have been advised by the
governor's budget office to anticipate an additional four to 10 percent cut from
our base funding for the 2009-10 budget year - this at a time where we have
watched our enrollments swell by over 14 percent in the last year, bringing our
combined enrollment to more than 76,000 students this year.

We are now faced with offering fewer sections of classes, reducing the number of
workforce training programs, reducing support services to our students, limiting
supply and equipment purchases, and, regrettably, increasing tuition paid by our
students at a time when their need for financial aid has never been greater.

The consistency with which the state Legislature continues to cut our funding
perpetuates the paradox - without training and education, individuals will be
unable to find new jobs or afford to pay the taxes that fuel the economy -
directly affecting the economic climate of Hillsborough, Pasco, Hernando and
Polk counties.

The idea that our colleges and the Florida College System as a whole is a
discretionary part of higher education funding must change. We ask that our
legislators fund enrollment growth, assess the lowest percentage of budget cuts
possible, minimize tuition increases and allow our local boards of trustees the
maximum flexibility to administer those cuts.

Unfortunately, our sense of accomplishment is tempered by concern for future
students. How many will we be forced to turn away? With the help of our
legislators and the support from the communities we serve, we hope that the
answer will be "none."

Eileen Holden is president of Polk Community College. Katherine M. Johnson is
president of Pasco-Hernando Community College. Gwendolyn W. Stephenson is
president of Hillsborough Community College.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              55 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clean Energy Requirement Would Generate Local Jobs

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words


Some environmental purists are upset that a clean energy bill progressing in the
state Senate would allow nuclear and clean coal technology to be counted toward
Florida's clean energy production targets.

Critics have a point but should look at the big picture. This compromise measure
would significantly advance the state's use of renewable energy, resulting in
less pollution, more jobs and greater energy independence.

The measure, passed by the Senate Communications, Energy and Public Utilities
Committee on Tuesday would require the state electric utilities to obtain 20
percent of their power from clean energy by 2020.

There is a bit of a fudge factor, the reason some clean-air advocates are upset.
It would allow up to 5 percent of that 20 percent goal to be met by nuclear or
clean-burning coal.

Opponents stress that nuclear, which produces radioactive waste, is not a clean
or renewable energy source and that coal pollutes when it is mined and when
burned. Moreover, though advances have been made in sanitizing coal power, even
the cleanest operations produce greenhouse gases. Efforts to "sequester" the
gases underground are still experimental.

Opponents are correct, but a bit overwrought. Nuclear is an exceptionally clean
energy source. Protocols exist to safely store the waste, though eventually the
nation should recycle it as is in done in Europe, where nuclear is a safe and
reliable energy source.

Including coal in the target is more troublesome. The nation has an abundance of
coal and it does make sense to pursue clean-coal technology, but it should not
be part of the clean-energy targets.

But the reality is that legislation shepherded through the panel by its
chairman, Sen. Jim King, would require the bulk of new energy sources to come
from solar, wind and other renewable sources.

The nuclear and clean coal could account for no more than 5 percent and it is
unlikely it would account for that much. The bill would provide no money for
nuclear or coal, while it would help fund the development of renewables.

The legislation requires the target to be new sources, so utilities could not
count existing nuclear operations toward that target. If adopted, few, if any,
plans for new nuclear or coal operations are likely to be developed in time to
be counted toward the 20 percent standard,

And the measure, whatever its shortcomings, takes significant steps. It caps the
amount a utility could spend to meet the clean energy goals to 2 percent of
their annual revenues, about $370 million, which would lessen the impact on
customers.

To help fund the transition to clean energy, the legislation would also raise
the state's gasoline tax by a penny, though some of that roughly $90 million in
new revenue would go to the general fund, where it is badly needed.

The tax provision is controversial, and there is a possibility it eventually
will be dropped. If so, the state would instead rely on federal stimulus funds
for the conversion.

That would be acceptable. But Florida needs to aggressively pursue clean energy.

This is not a matter of simply cleansing the atmosphere, a worthy goal. But even
more important, renewable energy would energize the state's economy.

Solar, biomass, wave and other renewables are all homegrown industries that will
generate jobs and support businesses - while diminishing the state's
vulnerability to fluctuating world oil prices.

One recent study showed that 85 percent of the money spent on generating biomass
power remains within a 75-mile radius of the plant. Another study found 25 jobs
are created by every megawatt of solar power capacity developed.

And yet electric costs in states that already have renewable energy standards
have increased by less than 1 percent, according to a report by the Lawrence
Berkeley laboratory.

There are challenges, to be sure. The state shouldn't be starry-eyed about the
change. This legislation may be imperfect, but it also looks to provide a solid
and affordable framework for generating jobs and clean energy in Florida.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              57 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Marveling at South MacDill Avenue

BYLINE: JAMIE PILARCZYK, jpilarczyk@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1024 words


Eateries, a toy shop and a real estate office have moved in.

By JAMIE PILARCZYK

jpilarczyk@tampatrib.com

GANDY/BALLAST POINT - MacDill Avenue, south of Gandy Boulevard, recently has had
a growth spurt of small businesses.

The stretch is bookended by Gandy and Interbay boulevards, and has been home for
years to Elmer's Sports Café, Uncle Rodney's Rib House, salons, a coin laundry
and, since 1975, Mr. B's Hardware.

New to the stretch are restaurants, a real estate office and a toy shop.

"There are all sorts of things going up," said Tiffany Beasley, daughter of
hardware store owner Mike Beasely. "There used to be absolutely nothing."

She said business at Mr. B's picked up while new businesses such as Exit
Bayshore Realty, Mr. B's new neighbor on MacDill at Cherokee Avenue, were
setting up shop.

When Lewis Stewart bought the property at 5223 S. MacDill Ave., he said it
looked like a row of crack houses. About $250,000 in renovations later, the
2,200-square-foot building houses a new home sales center and office space for
16 real estate agents. He opened in February and said he plans to expand another
1,600 square feet by next year.

"It's blown up. It's hard to handle all of the work we've got," said Stewart, a
retired Air Force chief master sergeant who wanted to be near MacDill Air Force
Base to work with military families. "This south of Gandy location has been good
to us."

Martha Robinson and her daughter, Liz Carlos, thought South Tampa was the only
place to open their thrift store.

"Most people think to come to South Tampa when doing consignment or thrift,"
Carlos said. "Our idea is to have yard sale prices in a boutique-y feel."

Through a church friend, the two negotiated a deal on the rent at the 5216 S.
MacDill Ave. spot. The twist was that the business that was once in the small
building used to process petroleum products.

"It took us three months to get it cleaned up and painted," said Carlos of
Lionhearted Toys. Their grand opening was May 16.

Specializing in children's clothing and toys, the mother-daughter pair is
targeting green-minded parents who see value in recycling old toys, and those
looking for a good deal in a tough economic climate. Everything is sanitized and
in working condition, Robinson said.

"All of our toys have been discarded, recovered, given a little pep talk to get
back out there and do their thing," Robinson said. "That is why we call them the
Lionhearted Toys."

One stop into the colorful store - think "Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium" - and
these women are quick to promote their business neighbors: the $1 menu at Aunti
Donna's Kitchen and the Spam sandwich at Love's Street Kitchen.

Love's does indeed have a Spam sandwich. But Lynn Love also serves barbecue,
catfish, sautéed spinach, an Alpine mushroom Swiss burger and chicken with
artichokes. He grows his own basil to make fresh pesto.

"The food is great and these ribs are out of this world," said longtime friend
Bob McJennett who was dining at the outdoor patio last week. "There's one thing
about Lynn, he's a doer. He's making it happen plate by plate."

For 22 years, Love sold cars at Love's Auto Sales until the economy tanked. He
needed money and decided to reinvent himself, this time as a cook.

"It's fun to be creative," said Love, who hopes eventually to close out the car
sales business. For now he serves his customers from a certified mobile food
unit, next to a covered outdoor dining patio. His old showroom is almost
renovated and eventually will be decked out with an "archaeological, travel,
explorer" theme and house the restaurant.

In the decades that Love has been on MacDill Avenue, he said, he has seen some
change, especially in the high-end condos now peppering the street.

"There's always been a bit of a reputation for things south of Gandy," he said.
"I think this neighborhood is fine. We get everyone from bums to millionaires.
We have a pretty good cross-section of customers."

Darrell Kelley opened Aunti Donna's Kitchen on Labor Day weekend. His menu
features Southern favorites: barbecue and a selection of $1 items such as
hamburgers, chicken fingers, mozzarella sticks and a breakfast menu including
scrambled egg wraps.

Named for his aunt, Donna DeRosa, who died in February, the restaurant is a
tribute to her and their family's ritual of gathering together for a good meal.

"I wanted this to be a very comfortable place to eat," Kelley said. "It's
reassuring for me because every time I come into the restaurant, I think of my
aunt."

McJennett's comment about Love's new venture might be true of all of the new
businesses along South MacDill.

"This is the American story," he said. "It's reinventing yourself."

(CHART) NEW BUSINESSES ON THE AVENUE

AUNTI DONNA'S KITCHEN

WHERE: 5232 S. MacDill Ave.

HOURS: 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily

CONTACT: (813) 839-4231

LOVE'S STREET KITCHEN

WHERE: 4918 S. MacDill Ave.

HOURS: 11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m., closed Tuesday

CONTACT: (813) 909-6711

LIONHEARTED TOYS

WHERE: 5216 S. MacDill Ave.

HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday, Wednesday through Saturday

CONTACT: (813) 443-5104 or www.lionheartedtoys .com

EXIT BAYSHORE REALTY

WHERE: 5223 S. MacDill Ave.

HOURS: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and
Sunday.

CONTACT: (813) 839-6869 or www.exitbayshorerealty .com

Reporter Jamie Pilarczyk can be reached at (813) 259-7661.

Photo: Lewis Stewart

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JAMIE PILARCZYK

Photo: Darrell Kelley started serving up Southern favorites at Aunti Donna's
Kitchen on Labor Day weekend. "I wanted this to be a very comfortable place to
eat," he said of the eatery at 5232 S. MacDill Ave., which offers a selection of
$1 items.

Photo: Martha Robinson displays children's water safety gear outside her shop,
Lionhearted Toys, at 5216 S. MacDill Ave. Robinson said she is targeting parents
who see value in recycling old toys and clothing, and those looking for a good
deal in a tough economic climate.

Photo: Lewis Stewart heavily renovated the property at 5223 S. MacDill Ave.,
creating a home sales center and office space for 16 real estate agents.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              59 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hometown recession- maker

BYLINE: MARK WILSON, Special To The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words


By MARK WILSON

Special To The Tampa Tribune

The Florida Supreme Court recently approved a financial impact statement for
Amendment 4 - a "vote-on-everything" proposal that would require Floridians to
decide thousands of technical land use issues at the ballot box.

The statement, which will appear alongside Amendment 4, also known as Hometown
Democracy, on the 2010 ballot, describes some of the "additional costs" that the
amendment would impose on Florida's taxpayers. While these costs would be
significant, they represent only a tiny fraction of the total cost of Amendment
4.

The court approved a "financial" impact statement, not a "jobs" impact
statement. It is not intended to address the extraordinary toll that Amendment 4
would take on Florida's businesses, taxpayers and families.

Over the last year, our state has lost nearly a half-million jobs. With
unemployment now approaching 11 percent, Florida's greatest challenge lies in
the uncertainty of our economic future.

Indeed, the Florida Chamber of Commerce has appealed to our state's elected
leaders to "do no harm" when setting economic policy. However, no legislation or
policy change has the potential to do more economic harm than Amendment 4.

If passed, this proposal would dismantle the local planning process and
discourage our communities from building new schools, parks, hospitals and
highways. Amendment 4 would not only make it extraordinarily difficult for local
businesses to grow, it would also deter new businesses from bringing jobs to
Florida.

Any economy needs predictability. Without it, businesses cannot plan; they
cannot hire; they cannot survive. Amendment 4 would require that small business
owners not only navigate our state's tricky land-use process but also wage
costly and unpredictable political campaigns simply to survive.

In the long run, Amendment 4 will not only cost taxpayers millions in countless
elections and endless lawsuits; it will cost Florida's economy billions in lost
business, higher consumer costs and fewer jobs.

If Florida is to remain competitive, we must actively compete for new,
high-paying jobs. To do so, we must promote a stable business climate. We should
strive to make entrepreneurship easier, not harder. We should support small
businesses and encourage them to provide jobs, rather than punishing them with
red tape and costly litigation.

However, dramatic job loss, endless litigation and red tape are the hallmarks of
Amendment 4. In 2006 the small Pinellas County town of St. Pete Beach passed a
local version of Amendment 4. Since then, many businesses have been forced to
close or leave town. And in the midst of a recession, taxpayers have been forced
to pay over $500,000 in legal fees related to the amendment, and more litigation
is on the way.

Worse still, St. Pete Beach now suffers from a wildly unpredictable economy that
makes its economic future questionable at best.

Although it is a bad idea in any economy, Amendment 4 is a uniquely destructive
proposal in the midst of a recession. As Floridians struggle to recover from the
current crisis, the special interests behind Amendment 4 are preparing to lead
us into a new one.

Florida needs its business and community leaders to get involved today.

Mark Wilson is president of the Florida Chamber of Commerce and treasurer of
Floridians for Smarter Growth.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER VIEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              61 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A fresh start

BYLINE: MICHELLE BEARDEN, mbearden@tampatrib.com

SECTION: GETAWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1642 words


A former corporate executive finds a rewarding new career, and lots of kindness
from strangers, after opening a tiny produce market in a former gas station.

By MICHELLE BEARDEN

mbearden@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Before the morning paper comes, before the sun makes its first
appearance, there is Elizabeth Hamilton, all cheery and bright.

She jumps out of her Ford F-150 pickup and climbs the cement steps leading to
the cavernous building that houses the Tampa Wholesale Produce Market on East
Hillsborough Avenue. Striding down the main aisle under fluorescent lighting,
she carries a handwritten list of special requests from customers, a worn
billfold stuffed with bills and a steely determination.

"How are the grapes today? Last week, not so good," she calls out to one of the
wholesalers, a beefy guy in a close-fitting T-shirt. "Oh, but that garlic! It
looks fabulous!"

She stops for a close inspection of a crate of peppers. In Florida's humid
climate, a box of the crisp green vegetables can literally dissolve into a
liquidy mess by the time she transports them from Central to South Tampa. That's
a lesson she learned the previous week. Life is pretty much trial and error
these days.

In January, in the midst of a suffocating recession, Hamilton opened Fresh
Produce Market, selling mainly locally grown fruits and vegetables from a
250-square-foot converted gas station in South Tampa. She invested much of her
life savings and took a gamble that people would make the extra effort to get
out of the supermarket habit and come to her place for fresh, healthy produce
she selects every morning.

Not everything has gone right.

One month, after expenses, she cleared $28.

The hours are exhausting, beginning around 3:30 a.m. when she heads to the
Hillsborough and Plant City markets to shop, then opening Fresh Produce from 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. Some mornings, she even picks the
produce herself at self-service farms, carefully selecting the best-tasting
lettuce and tomatoes.

The brutal Florida summers put the local growing season on hold, limiting what
she could offer her customers. So she posted inspirational sayings on the front
window and walls of her tiny shop - "Believe in your courage and your strength"
and "Be the change you want to see in the world" - to keep her optimism alive.

There are two things that she says keep her head above water and her spirits
buoyed. "My faith," she says, "and this community. I just report to God and
trust in him. And he has sent me some pretty amazing people. People who were
just strangers a year ago and are now my friends."

'Working in light speed'

A million years ago, or so it seems, Hamilton soared in a different universe.

As president of Century City Partners in Los Angeles, she led executive searches
for high-profile companies such as Disney, Guess, Coors, Reebok International
and Sony.

Jetting across the country for interviews and building corporate accounts,
tethered to her cell phone and thoroughly immersed in corporate culture,
Hamilton thrived on brokering deals and earning a six-figure salary.

"L.A. hyperspace, working in light speed" is how she describes the life as a
divorced professional woman in Southern California. Then a call from her brother
in Florida changed everything.

Their mother had accidentally set her kitchen on fire and then quit eating.
Doctors diagnosed her with Alzheimer's disease and gave her about six months to
live. Hamilton knew she had to take more breaks to check in on her mom and her
stepfather, suffering from bone cancer.

On one of her trips back to Los Angeles from a caretaking visit, she thought to
herself: What am I doing here? I need to be in Florida full-time. Within two
weeks, in June 2006, Hamilton put her house on the market, temporarily closed
her company and moved to her brother's home in Tierra Verde.

Her first order of business was to wean her mother off all the prescription
drugs she was taking. Then she coaxed her into eating more by making shakes out
of "super foods" - fruits, vegetables and grains packed with disease-fighting
nutrients. To make sure she was getting the freshest fare possible, Hamilton did
her shopping at produce stands and farms near her mother's assisted living
facility in Ruskin.

Her mom died 18 months later. Hamilton is convinced that the healthy foods
bought her more time.

Starting over

After her mother's death, there was no going back to Los Angeles. With the
economic downturn, corporate America was no longer seeking high-paid executives.
Hamilton, with her honors degree from Wellesley College and her business
experience, needed to reinvent herself.

A woman of deep faith, she is quite certain God led her to South Tampa, where
she found the little store for lease at 5025 Bayshore Blvd. (near Gandy
Boulevard) and a town home for sale two blocks away. After she contacted
landlord Mary McKnight, the two discussed what kind of business would best suit
the place, which had previously housed a gas station, an antiques shop and, most
recently, a garden center.

"I always thought it would make a great home for a produce stand," McKnight
suggested.

That's when Hamilton saw her future.

She jump-starts each day with this prayer:

"Almighty God, whose command is over all and whose love never fails, make me
aware of your presence and obedient to your will, so nothing can go wrong."

Her vision for Fresh Produce is steeped in her desire to support local growers.
In the shop's front window, she posted a reminder: "No farmers, no food." She
loves the idea that what she picks off the vine in the mornings will be enjoyed
by a family at a dinner table that night.

"I see our country, our whole world for that matter, fragmented right now. We're
so caught up in high-tech interaction - heck, I was right there - that we've
lost touch with our neighbors, our community," she says.

Although she didn't know anyone in the area, Hamilton's cheery demeanor and
warmly appointed shop led to fast friendships. Business transactions opened the
door to personal relationships, with customers popping in to say hello on the
way home from work. She gets to know their kids' names and their dogs' names,
and she listens to their stories of job struggles and family issues.

Several local residents got directly involved with Fresh Produce, wanting
Hamilton to succeed in her solo and sometimes struggling operation. A group of
parents set up an organic garden on the property, so their children could get
hands-on growing experience. A retired husband and wife bring lunch by, since
Hamilton can't get away for meals.

Awning, cards and flowers

Another couple put up an awning to protect the produce on the outside table from
the blistering sun, and a local artist designed and printed fancy business
cards.

Matthew Orr, a landscape architect out on a motorcycle ride, stopped in and
heard the Fresh Produce story. He came back and planted flowers out front,
giving the store more curb appeal.

When Hamilton fell ill on a busy Saturday, Hank Pomerantz, a fellow church
member from St. John's Episcopal Church, told her to go home and rest. He manned
the store the rest of the day.

"She is genuine and sincere. I don't want this venture to exhaust her to death,"
he says.

Chris Murnaghan was on a daily run one day and saw the new business. She ended
up jogging home with a bag of produce. She recalls one visit when a customer in
front of her bought up all the spinach, so she asked Hamilton about keeping her
in mind for the next batch that came in.

"The next day, she calls and tells me she picked some herself that morning for
me," Murnaghan says. "And I will tell you, that was the best spinach I've had in
my life. Everybody is so busy these days that they just don't pay attention to
the normal stuff. It makes such a difference when somebody puts their heart and
soul into a business, like Elizabeth does."

Having Hamilton in the neighborhood has renewed Inez Tomlinson's passion for
cooking. When she lived in New York and visited Italy, she shopped daily in the
markets, planning her meals around the freshest foods she could find. Now she
bypasses the local grocery store and lets Hamilton's Fresh Produce Market
selections determine her dinner for that evening.

"She is a connector," Tomlinson says. "She is just what a community needs."

In a year of change and challenge, Hamilton says she craves routine and
normalcy. The support of her customers - now her friends - has sustained her in
the lowest moments.

"When all is said and done, I'm such a blessed person," she says. "If I had
stayed in L.A., none of this would have happened. So this journey has really
been an amazing experience."

Reporter Michelle Bearden can be reached at (813) 259-7613. Go to the market
with Elizabeth Hamilton on Michelle Bearden's "Keeping the Faith" at 9 a.m.
today on News Channel 8. Keyword: Fresh Produce, for links on supporting local
farmers and eating healthy.

Photo credit: Staff photo by SCOTT ISKOWITZ

Photo: Elizabeth Hamilton sells locally grown fruits and vegetables at Fresh
Produce Market in Tampa.

Photo credit: Staff photos by JAY CONNER

Photo: A woman of deep faith, Hamilton posted inspirational sayings on the front
window of her shop.

Photo: Hamilton is certain God led her to South Tampa and the little store for
lease at 5025 Bayshore Blvd. (near Gandy Boulevard). Her main goal is to support
local growers.

Photo: Hamilton gets up before dawn each day to buy fresh fruits and vegetables
at Tampa Wholesale Produce Market.

Photo credit: Staff photos by JAY CONNER

Photo: Customer Chris Murnaghan of South Tampa, right, says Elizabeth Hamilton
picked some spinach just for her. "It makes such a difference when somebody puts
their heart and soul into a business, like Elizabeth does," Murnaghan says.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              62 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

City carbon level expected to rise

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN M. WADE cwade@tampatrib.com, cwade@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words


Officials want to increase methanol in water treatment.

By CHRISTIAN M. WADE

cwade@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - The city's carbon footprint could soon be getting bigger.

Tampa officials want to increase the amount of methanol they're allowed to use
at the Howard F. Curren Wastewater Treatment Plant, a move environmental
regulators say will double the level of hazardous air emissions coming from the
facility.

Methanol is a hazardous liquid and a source of carbon dioxide, the primary gas
linked to global warming.

The city wastewater department uses about 2 million gallons of methanol a year
to remove nitrates, storing the chemical in a 100,000-gallon tank. When it is
opened, carbon is released into the atmosphere.

City officials want to increase that to 4 million gallons a year.

Local environmental groups are concerned, saying it raises questions about
Tampa's commitment to become a "green city" by reducing greenhouse gases. "We're
very upset about it," said Stephen Breslow, energy conservation chairman of the
Tampa Bay area chapter of the Sierra Club. "We've been trying to get the city to
reduce its carbon emissions for years and something like this is a major step
backwards."

Ralph Metcalf, city wastewater department director, said the move will allow the
city to buy larger quantities when the price is low, which will save taxpayers
money. "Methanol can be very, very expensive," he said.

About five years ago, the city paid about 60 cents a gallon for methanol, he
said. Today, the city pays between $2 and $3 a gallon, but the price
occasionally does go down. "We want to be able to fill up the tank when the
price goes down," Metcalf said.

Hillsborough County Environmental Protection Commission is reviewing the city's
request.

Commission members said the move will mean more carbon emissions from the plant.
"They'll be getting more methanol at the plant so they'll be releasing more
carbon emissions," said Diana Lee, commission air permitting section chief.

Lee said the city exceeds the limit of 10 tons a year of hazardous air emissions
set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that would trigger an additional
review.

"We still need assurances from the city that they won't be exceeding that
limit," Lee said. "The treatment plant is already considered a major source of
air pollution in the region."

City officials said emissions from the sewage treatment plant will be less than
4 tons a year, and claim they will release less carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere because they will be reducing the number of times a year they have to
fill up the storage tank.

"We're actually trying to decrease the amount of methanol we use," Metcalf said.

Despite efforts to increase renewable or clean energy sources, Florida remains
one of the nation's biggest producers of carbon dioxide, according to
environmental groups.

Mayor Pam Iorio wants Tampa to become a leader in Florida's green movement. She
signed the U.S. Mayors Climate Protection Agreement more than two years ago,
pledging to meet tangible environmental benchmarks, including efforts to reduce
the city's carbon dioxide emissions by adopting energy-efficient standards.

Conversely, Tampa is required by the federal Clean Water Act to reduce the
amount of nitrates and bacteria in treated sewage before it is released into the
state's waterways.

Methanol is highly effective in removing nitrates, which lower the oxygen in
waterways, killing marine life and seagrass. The city's plant treats more than
96 million gallons of wastewater per day. Some water is used for residential and
agricultural irrigation and for industrial purposes. Most of it is dumped into
Tampa Bay.

Reporter Christian M. Wade can be reached at (813) 259-7679

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              65 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PASCO PEOPLE

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1103 words


6 Residents Have An Amazing Trip

ZEPHYRHILLS - Six Zephyrhills residents returned recently from what they said
was the trip of their lifetimes. The 35-day adventure began by sailing under the
Golden Gate Bridge heading to Hawaii. The six: Larry and Bonnie Diess, Charles
and Betty Smeltzer, Faye Gore and Jackie Clarke, spent two fun days in the 50th
state before sailing to the South Pacific, visiting six tropical islands,
including Bora Bora, Moorea, Tahiti, Rarotonga, Samoa and Fiji.

The group then headed south to New Zealand where they were greeted by warm and
welcoming people even though the temperature wasn't so warm. As they headed for
Sydney, many decided New Zealand would be on their list for a return visit.
Sydney was the end of the cruising days and the start of three days enjoying the
hustle and bustle of a sophisticated city.

Their hotel overlooked an energetic harbor, the opera house, and looked back
upon a modern city with skyscrapers mixed among Victorian buildings. Included in
their activities were a bus tour to the Blue Mountain National Park and a visit
to a wildlife rescue park before the flight back home.

Chamber Talks About Hospice

DADE CITY - More than 60 Greater Dade City Chamber of Commerce members attended
the monthly breakfast held Jan. 20 at Saint Leo University.

Joey Wubbena, president of the Greater Dade City Chamber of Commerce, welcomed
chamber members and introduced Gulfside's Vice President of Development Lisa
Bricker. Bricker spoke about construction of the Gulfside Center for Hospice
Care that will open in 2009, which will serve residents in eastern Pasco County.
The Gulfside Center for Hospice Care will provide the highest level of hospice
care to patients and be the first hospice facility in Zephyrhills, she said.

Bricker also spoke about how chamber members can help the hospice by donating
items to Gulfside's Thrift Shoppes and shopping and volunteering at the stores.
Two Gulfside Regional Hospice Thrift Shoppes serve residents in east Pasco
County. The Dade City Thrift Shoppe is at 37925 Sky Ridge Circle off U.S. 301
and the Zephyrhills Thrift Shoppe is at 36504 State Road 54.

Stores also are in New Port Richey and Hudson. All stores are open from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday.

For information about Gulfside Regional Hospice, call (727) 845-5707 or visit
www.GRHospice.org. For information about the Greater Dade City Chamber of
Commerce, call (352) 567-3769 or visit www.dadecitychamber .org.

Hudson High Honors Cadet

HUDSON - The Hudson High School Cobra Battalion would like to congratulate Cadet
Benjamin Margherone, for being named January's Cadet of The Month.

During the Cadet of The Month Board exam, Margherone was questioned on the chain
of command, drill and ceremonies, rank identification, curriculum knowledge, and
current events. Benjamin, who was born in Lake Tahoe, Calif., is the son of
Frank and Nancy Margherone.

Benjamin holds a 3.1 GPA. His interests and hobbies include watching trains,
playing baseball and exercising. He also enjoys playing basketball and lifting
weights. After high school, Benjamin plans to move to California and work for
the Union Pacific Railroad.

Goin' Postal Recognized Again

ZEPHYRHILLS - Goin' Postal of Zephyrhills has climbed to new heights in
Entrepreneur Magazine's prestigious annual "Franchise 500" rankings.

The company has advanced through the magazine's rankings each year since the
company was first acknowledged by Entrepreneur in 2007. Goin' Postal is now the
51st fastest-growing franchise nationwide, forging ahead of all of its
competitors within the shipping industry.

In the 2009 Entrepreneur "Franchise 500," Goin' Postal received four rankings:
No. 6 Top New Franchise; No. 51 Fastest Growing Franchise; No. 93 Top Global
Franchise; and No. 118 Overall.

"These numbers are remarkable when compared to the billion dollar companies in
the list, such as Subway, 7-Eleven, McDonalds, and The UPS Store," a news
release stated.

Goin' Postal is, according to the news release, the first and only franchise
chain to be started and based in Zephyrhills. Founded by Marcus and M.J. Price
in a small storefront in 2002, Goin' Postal became a franchised brand in 2004,
and now has more than 400 stores nationwide.

To learn more about Goin' Postal, visit www.goinpostal .com or call
1-800-504-6040.

Students Of Month Honored

NEW PORT RICHEY - Richey Elementary School recently named its January Students
of the Month.

The school's primary students of the month are Quinton Stedman, Joshua Fraser,
Bobby Greger, Matthew Angilella, Dylan (Wade) Treadwell, Kaitlyn Zajecka, Imelda
Flores-Pena, Mykaely Otero-Santos, Logan Martin, Breanna Belcher, Joseph Brewer
and Kayla Block.

The school's secondary students of the month are Vincent Raciborski, Renee
Borden, Joshua Young, Michael Cruz, Jazzmine Antrobus, Hunter Frencl, Christian
Gamble, Madison Rodriguez, Amber Allen, Ariana Ruisi and Lizeth
Flores-Hernandez.

Program Is Still Accredited

HUDSON - The Continuing Medical Education program at Regional Medical Center
Bayonet Point remains accredited through the Accreditation Council for
Continuing Medical Education and the Florida Medical Association.

Under the leadership of chairman Rao Musunuru, the Education Department offers
continuing medical education to physicians and nurses, leadership training for
supervisors and clinical coordinators, clinical training for students from
community colleges and schools and also health education for patients and the
public. Last year, 688 courses were offered through Educational Services with
10,976 employees, community members and physicians in attendance.

For additional information on Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point, visit
www.rmchealth.com or www.heartoftampa.com.

To submit news and photos for consideration for Pasco People, include the names
of people pictured, a phone number with the area code, and the photographer's
name. Photographs will not be returned. E-mail megan.huffey@verizon.net or mail
to The Tampa Tribune, attention Megan Hussey, 1825 Collier Parkway, Lutz FL
33549.

Photo credit: Photo from Marcus and M.J. Price

Photo: Marcus and M.J. Price founded Goin' Postal, which Entrepreneur Magazine
ranks as the 51st fastest-growing franchise in the nation. It is the only
franchise chain to be started and based in Zephyrhills.

Photo credit: Photo provided

Photo: From left, Larry and Bonnie Diess, Faye Gore, Jackie Clarke, and Charles
and Betty Smeltzer recently returned from a 35-day trip.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              68 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 926 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Act To Save Bay

Tampa Bay's seagrass destruction by boaters is inexcusable and irresponsible.
There are two thoughts about stopping this destruction. The majority side says
do nothing and leave the responsibility for changing boater behavior to law
enforcement. The other side says take action with a management plan that's
positive and meaningful. Cost associated with enforcement in today's financial
climate is a "pie in the sky attitude," not reality. To those guides and sport
fishermen who support enforcement over management, policies stopping outboard
destruction of seagrasses amounts to saying, "We care little about the bay's
underwater habitat, the nurseries for juvenile fish."

Forecasted growth and the resulting boat traffic will increase seagrass
destruction in Tampa Bay. It comes down to drawing a line in the sand. There's
no middle ground. Do we care about the most important habitat in Tampa Bay, or
bury our heads in the bay's sand?

GUS MUENCH

Ruskin

Super job

Congratulations to Dick Beard and the Tampa Bay Super Bowl Host Committee. Super
Bowl XLIII and all of the festivities surrounding the big game was an enormous
success. Everything was top notch. From the hotels to the restaurants to all of
the volunteers, everyone went above and beyond to pull off a fantastic
celebration. We here at the South Florida Super Bowl Host Committee tip our hat
to you.

No detail was overlooked. No request too big or too small. It's obvious your
planning was meticulous, which was reflected in the tremendous media coverage. I
especially want to recognize all of those in the law enforcement community who
handled this enormous event with incredible professionalism. They are important
partners in this effort.

Finally, to the residents of the Tampa Bay area: You made all of us feel welcome
and left us with great memories, and for that, you should be very proud. You set
the bar high and we can't wait to see you in South Florida next year for Super
Bowl XLIV.

RODNEY BARRETO

Miami Gardens

Rodney Barreto is chairman of the South Florida Super Bowl Host Committee.

Too Much Noise

In response to The Tampa Tribune front page story Tuesday on the B+ grade given
to Tampa for hosting the Super Bowl: Family members who stayed in downtown Tampa
for the weekend had their stay marred by blaring noise from car stereos. It
happened every night. It was so annoying they attempted to change hotels both
Thursday and Friday nights but couldn't find another hotel. Finally, on
Saturday, they stayed with me to get away from the noise. Laws are on the books
against such behavior, but are not sufficiently enforced.

My family agreed that despite the great entertainment, dining, and hospitality,
this single factor will prevent their return as tourists. It's a shame law
enforcement allows this problem to continue. Other cities enforce such laws.
Until we do, expect tourists such as my family members to not return.

DAVID JOHNSTON

Clearwater

Mistakes Do Happen

Perhaps folks should not be so quick to condemn Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner
for not paying Social Security taxes. I could have been among those pointing
fingers, but it happened that years ago when I worked as an engineer for a
start-up on a consulting basis, I had a complicated life, so even though I paid
income taxes on $44,000 earnings, it didn't occur to me that I was now
self-employed and should pay Social Security tax.

As soon as I was aware of this, I wrote the Social Security office twice for
advice, but received no answer - probably because I was so close to retirement.
The additional tax would have netted me a larger retirement income.
Consequently, the main concern I would have about Geithner is not that he's a
crook, but that he may not be good at multitasking.

YOLANDE KERSEY

Tampa

A Tax Break

This is in sharp-stick-in-the-eye category: Someone should submit and sponsor
the "Tim Geithner Tax Treatment for All" bill, a moratorium on tax penalties or
even audits while Tim Geithner is in office.

ERNEST LANE

Trinity

Disappointing Picks

President Obama stated in his speeches that he would not have any lobbyists in
his administration and he would have transparency in his appointments.

His Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner failed to pay past taxes. He admitted
his mistake and paid his back taxes. Obama and the Democratic Senate approved
his nomination. Tom Daschle, another appointee, had problems with his past taxes
and, despite Obama's support, withdrew. Gov. Bill Richardson, another Obama
nominee, withdrew after he was a subject of an investigation.

If Treasury Secretary Geithner was a Republican nominee he would be immediately
removed from consideration by the Democratic Congress.

STAN LOBODINSKI

Tampa

Forget Bipartisanship

The media tell us that President Obama should continue to seek bipartisan
support for the badly needed economic stimulus package. Nonsense. The president
will get nowhere trying to appease the Republicans in Congress.

Look at the GOP senators and representatives who remain in Congress. There are
no moderate Dwight Eisenhower types left. What remains is a collection of
hard-core right wingers from safe GOP districts, mainly in the deep South. And
what they offer is nothing more than warmed-over Reaganism and other failed
ideas like additional millionaire tax cuts.

We just had an election - remember? And what the American people voted for is
strong progressive leadership and bold action without apologies.

SCOTT COCHRAN

Tampa

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              69 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crist Makes Pitch For Commuter Rail

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON and CATHERINE DOLINSKI, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words


He and Central Florida legislators gather to tout the plan. Price: $1.2 billion
or so.

By LINDSAY PETERSON and CATHERINE DOLINSKI

lpeterson@tampatrib.com and cdolinski@tampatrib.com

TALLAHASSEE - Gov. Charlie Crist threw his support behind the Central Florida
commuter rail project on Wednesday, even as it appeared the price could be
rising.

"This is an incredibly cooperative effort to do what's right, not only for
Central Florida, but really for all of Florida," Crist said, surrounded by
Central Florida's legislative representatives and other project supporters.
"It's well thought out. It helps the economy. It helps transportation."

But it could end up costing more than the $1.2 billion, unless the state limits
the scope of the 61-mile system. Three contractors submitted bids last week for
the commuter route's first leg, including track additions, signals and stations.
All three came in over the $158 million maximum price.

Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Stephanie Kopelousos said she
thought the problem could be solved without a cost increase. DOT officials plan
to review the bid documents "to see what we need to do to address the issues."

Beyond the cost, the issue that stymied the project in 2008 remains unresolved.

The system will run on CSX Transportation tracks, which the state plans to buy
for $432 million. After selling the tracks, CSX plans to lease them to run
freight during off-peak commuter hours. But if it causes an accident, it won't
be held responsible for harming any commuters or commuter trains.

A second legal provision upset the state's association of trail lawyers in 2008.
It would have extended the state's protection from high-cost lawsuits to the
private company that will maintain and control dispatching for the new commuter
rail system. That company has yet to be chosen. To appease the lawyers,
lawmakers omitted the provision from a bill filed this week.

Crist noted the change on Wednesday. "There's been good progress with the trial
bar, and I think that was sort of the real sticking point," he said.

It's not the key point, said state Sen. Paula Dockery, R-Lakeland, saying it's
the no-fault provision that protects CSX if one of its freight trains collides
with a commuter train or does something else to cause an accident on the line.

She also worries about the project's effect on Lakeland as it shifts CSX freight
traffic out of Orlando. Downtown Lakeland could see 54 trains a day, she wrote
to Crist in a letter sent Tuesday.

The letter also asks Crist, "Did you know that at $10.5 million per mile,
Florida would pay the highest rail-sale price in U.S. history? And that
taxpayers would pay for CSX's mistakes on our tracks, even if the freight
railroad is grossly negligent? And that the CSX route would take only 3,600 cars
off of Interstate 4?"

On Wednesday, Crist stuck with the idea that the commuter system is needed to
get cars off the highways.

"It's a matter of what can we do to make transportation needs met for the people
of Florida in the most efficient way," he said.

Dockery said she wonders whether Crist is aware of all the details of the plan.
"I know the governor has been supportive of commuter rail, as are most of us,"
she said. "But in this climate, in terms of the costs and in terms of liability,
it's difficult.

"I don't know how he can support something that transfers liability off the back
of a private company and on to taxpayers."

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

Photo: Charlie Crist

"It's well thought out. It helps the economy. It helps transportation," he says
of the commuter rail project.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              70 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hard Rock May Bet Its Money On House

BYLINE: TED JACKOVICS, tjackovics@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words


Expansion could bring more jobs, tourists and revenue.

By TED JACKOVICS

tjackovics@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Tampa could gain stature as a national destination for casino
aficionados under a proposed $1 billion expansion project at the Seminole Hard
Rock Hotel & Casino.

But that's only if the Florida Legislature approves a Seminole Tribe compact
forged with Gov. Charlie Crist in late 2007, a Seminole Tribe spokesman said
Wednesday. In addition, the Tribe must finance the expansion, a challenge in the
current credit environment.

"Compact approval is necessary to ensure the continuation of blackjack and Las
Vegas-style slot machines, which are responsible for almost all of the casino
revenue." said Gary Bitner, a Seminole spokesman in Hollywood, Fla.

"We already are more of a regional and national destination based on the new
blackjack games, and that was evident during the Super Bowl," he said. "The
expansion would continue that momentum."

The project could take another year to design and two years to build. It would
be one of four expansions at Seminole gaming sites in Florida that would create
12,000 construction and full-time jobs, with the largest portion of new jobs
being in Tampa, Bitner said. About 3,000 employees work at the Hard Rock at
Orient Road and Interstate 4.

If You Build It, They Will Come

The local expansion would include a 20- to 22-story hotel tower to add 1,000
rooms to the 250-room Hard Rock Hotel, which stands 12 stories tall.

That would make it Tampa's largest hotel, surpassing the Tampa Marriott
Waterside Hotel & Marina with 717 rooms, said Steve Hayes, executive vice
president of Tampa Bay & Co. the county's visitors bureau.

The expansion also would add 50,000 square feet of meeting and convention space,
a 1,500- to 2,000-seat music venue and more casino space and restaurants. A new
outdoor pool area and a new parking garage also is part of the plan.

The Hard Rock has "limited" meeting space that is in flux and Bitner declined to
say how much is available.

"I think the expansion of the Hard Rock with its worldwide brand would add to
Tampa Bay as a destination," Hayes said. "The additional meeting space would not
compete with the Tampa Convention Center and I don't think it would take
business from downtown Tampa."

Instead, other hotels in the Hard Rock area could seek some of the overnight
business created by conferences at the higher-priced Hard Rock Hotel and benefit
from the expansion, Hayes said.

The proposed expansion would follow a $120 million expansion opened to the
public in September. It added 55,000 square feet of gaming space and more than
1,000 gaming machines.

Gambling Pact Still Disputed

In November, the tribe opened 104 tables for blackjack and baccarat games in an
unannounced soft opening that appeared to catch state officials off guard.

Conservative state lawmakers had tried to use the courts to block additional
gambling on tribal property throughout the state.

That was despite the agreement Crist forged with the Seminole Tribe that
provides the state with at least $100 million annually for 25 years as a share
of gaming revenue from Las Vegas-style slot machines put in operation last year
and blackjack.

The state Supreme Court in July ruled the governor overstepped his authority.
But the Tribe, whose gaming falls under federal jurisdiction, contends the
compact became state law in January 2008 and blackjack has continued.

"It's a lot more than leverage at the current time," Bitner said about expansion
being contingent on Legislative approval of the compact. He pointed out that
terms have been on the line since the Tribe forged the agreement with the
governor in 2007.

"This involves billions of dollars and thousands of jobs and an amazing
potential to turn this into a world class casino recreation complex," Bitner
said.

More details were revealed Monday in Tallahassee when the Tribe offered
lawmakers $288 million for the 2009-2010 state budget, at a time the state is $4
billion short of revenue.

However, some lawmakers want fresh negotiations on a compact that they say sets
a precedent for gambling in the state.

Seminole expansion already in the works includes a $22 million renovation to be
unveiled at Seminole Casino Immokalee today, where slot machine space will be
doubled and more than 450 new employees have been hired.

Tribune reporter Catherine Dolinski and News Channel 8 reporter Katie Coronado
contributed to this report. Reporter Ted Jackovics can be reached at (813)
259-7817.

(CHART) DIGITS

$1 billion

Possible cost of expansion

12,000

Number of construction and permanent jobs that could be created for Seminole
expansions; most would be in Tampa

20 to 22

Number of stories of a new hotel

1,000

Number of rooms at the new hotel

717

Number of hotel rooms in Tampa's largest hotel, Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel &
Marina

50,000

Additional square footage of meeting, convention and gaming space for the
Seminole Hard Rock

1,500 to 2,000

Number of seats in the planned music venue

6,000

Number of spaces in the new parking garage

Source: Seminole Tribe, Tampa Bay & Co., Tribune research

(CHART) How The Hard Rock Would Measure Up

Hotel Rooms

MGM Grand: 5,034 rooms

Bellagio: 3,933 rooms and suites

Golden Nugget: 1,947 rooms and suites

Hard Rock: 1,250 rooms and suites

Casino Space

Hard Rock: 170,000+ square feet

MGM Grand: 171,500 square feet

Bellagio: 116,000 square feet

Golden Nugget: 38,000 square feet

Meeting Space

MGM Grand: more than 167,000 square feet of meeting space

Bellagio: more than 77,000 square feet of meeting space

Hard Rock: 50,000 square feet of meeting and convention space

Golden Nugget: 36,000 square feet of meeting space

Sources: Vegas.com, Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino

(CHART) WHAT'S NEXT

The Seminoles say they want to add hotel rooms, meeting and convention space, a
music venue and parking garage and expand the gambling space at the Seminole
Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Tampa. The deal is far from done, though.

LEGISLATURE: The plan is contingent on Florida lawmakers approving a gambling
compact with the tribe when the Legislature meets in March.

FINANCING: Tribe members say they are hopeful they could get financing for the
$1 billion expansion but admit that could be difficult in the current economic
climate.

TIMETABLE: If the legislative and financing obstacles are overcome, the project
could take a year to design and two years to build.

CHANGES AT SEMINOLE HARD ROCK CASINO

Existing (BROWN)

Planned expansion (RED)

New parking garage

New hotel

New swimming area

New entrance/exit ramps

Florida State Fairgrounds

Tribune map; Source: Seminole Hard Rock Casino

Photo credit: News Channel 8 photo by PETER MASA

Photo: This is a model of the proposed $1 billion expansion at Tampa's Seminole
Hard Rock Hotel & Casino. It could take another year to design and two years to
build.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              71 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STIMULUS HEADED THIS WAY

BYLINE: BILLY HOUSE and CATHERINE DOLINSKI, bhouse@tampatrib.com and cdolins

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words


State officials have projected that Florida could get at least $10 billion from
the bill, though not all of it would come this year.

By BILLY HOUSE and CATHERINE DOLINSKI

bhouse@tampatrib.com and cdolinski@tampatrib.com

WASHINGTON - Although many details remained unclear Thursday night, early
estimates are that Florida could get at least $10 billion from the $789 billion
economic stimulus package agreed on by the U.S. House and Senate.

That money includes an added $4.3 billion over two years in federal Medicaid
funding and about $1.95 billion toward helping the cash-strapped state address
budget shortfalls.

That was enough Thursday for GOP Gov. Charlie Crist and Tampa Democrat Rep.
Kathy Castor to applaud the package of spending increases and tax relief. The
House was preparing for a final vote on the legislation as early as today, and
the Senate soon will follow suit.

"You know, what we were looking at just a few months ago was no stimulus at all.
And so, if you compare where we were to where we are now, I'm very, very pleased
for my fellow Floridians for that," Crist said.

Florida Republicans Take Aim

There was criticism from Florida Republicans in Congress, none of whom voted for
the initial Senate or House versions of the bill.

Some, including Sen. Mel Martinez, said the bill does little to address the
state's housing and unemployment crisis, which he termed Florida's big economic
concerns.

By the end of the day, Martinez was taking swipes at Crist on the U.S. Senate
floor, saying, "My governor would like to see this package pass.

"But I don't know that my governor understands all the details in this package.
? At the end of the day, there's not enough largesse that can come to Florida
from the federal government to fill the coffer for state needs," Martinez said.

Castor acknowledged that many of the details "are still rolling out," but she
said the bill represents "great news for Florida families, especially those in
our hard-hit Tampa Bay area."

Among the biggest boosts: Florida is expected to get $4.3 billion over two years
in federal Medicaid matching money.

"There are no earmarks in the bill, but this is the granddaddy of all earmarks
for Florida," Castor said.

She and Crist downplayed what has loomed as one potential snag for Florida to
qualify for a major education funding category that could send well over $1.95
billion more to the state.

Under the House-Senate accord, as it appears in draft form, Florida technically
does not qualify for a share of a $53.4 billion pot of money - mostly for
education needs - to help states such as Florida that are facing huge budget
deficits.

That's because a state must be funding K-12 and higher education at no less than
2006 levels. States that are not would forfeit their share of the money to other
states.

Florida falls $600 million short on that count because it has 30,000 fewer
students than in 2006, the biggest drop in public enrollment in the state's
history.

"It looks like Florida would have to apply for a waiver from the education
secretary," said Ken Lundberg, a Martinez spokesman.

Crist said he is concerned about that but optimistic. "I'm concerned about
everything, ? but I think we have a very good relationship with this new
administration in Washington, and if a waiver might be necessary, I think we
would be successful," he said.

Castor said she does not think getting such a waiver would be a problem.

Still, until more details are available, it isn't possible to determine what
Florida could receive under that broad category of funding.

What Could Have Been

Florida would have received about $3.5 billion in that funding under the House
plan, which set aside $79 billion for the category. The Senate's $838 billion
bill would have set aside $39 billion, with Florida getting about $1.7 billion.

What Florida could end up with from this State Fiscal Stabilization Fund could,
in the end, be closer to the lower amount the Senate bill would have yielded
because some of the compromise bill's $53.4 billion actually replaces a $20
million category of funding sought by House Democrats and Obama for school
repairs.

In addition, a fact sheet sent out by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi shows the fund
apparently now would give governors less flexibility in how to use the money,
which primarily is made up of $40.6 billion for school districts to help prevent
layoffs, for school modernization and other purposes.

These categories were blended because GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, one of
three Republican moderates key to getting the package passed in the Senate,
objected to creating a special category for school construction.

"The state will be able to control a little bit of this money, but it's largely
driven down to school districts," Castor said.

An additional $5 billion would go to states as "bonus grants" for meeting key
performance measures in education; $8 billion would go to states for other
"high-priority" needs such as public safety, which may include education, but
not necessarily.

Martinez and Florida's other Republicans in Congress complained Thursday that
there were not enough details to determine effects of the package on Florida and
that they were likely to vote no on it.

"It's not creating jobs," GOP Rep. Gus Bilirakis said of the plan. "It's a huge
IOU handed to our children and grandchildren - throwing money against the wall
and hoping something sticks.

Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite of Brooksville said constituents are telling her they are
concerned about debt produced by the bill. "This is spending gone amok," she
said.

$4.3 BILLION

Medicaid

An additional $4.3 billion in funding over two years for the insurance program
that, in Florida, serves about 2.2 million low-income families and individuals -
half of them children - as well as people with disabilities. The $4.3 billion
would reflect a boost from 55.4 percent to 67.8 percent in the rate at which the
federal government matches what Florida spends on Medicaid.

$1.95 BILLION

Transit And Highway

To be used for projects eligible under the Federal-Aid Highway Program's Surface
Transportation Program. Some could also go to mass transit, or include rail and
port infrastructure activities at the discretion of the states. State leaders
and local officials have provided lists of projects they think are ready to be
built if they can get some of the stimulus money.

$1.45 MILLION

State Budget Fund

This figure is less certain, but about 75 percent goes directly to local Florida
school districts under existing state formulas, which can be used for preventing
cutbacks and for school modernization. About 10 percent goes to the state to
distribute as bonus grants for meeting key performance measures in education.
The remaining 15 percent goes for other budget needs.

$1.7 BIILLION

Education

Several other education-related categories of funding are not included in the
state budget balancing fund. They include at least $624 million for Title I
schools (schools with large numbers of students from struggling families). There
also is $727 million in special education state grants and $105 million for
Florida in Child Care & Development Block Grants.

(CHART) STIMULUS PLAN PROVISIONS

Here ares some other highlights of the $789 billion House-Senate accord on
President Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan:

*Provide states a total estimated $87 billion over the next two years in
additional federal matching money to help them maintain Medicaid programs in the
face of the massive budget shortfalls. That could bring Florida an added $4.3
billion, officials have estimated.

*Increase the higher education tax credit to a maximum of $2,500, increase the
maximum Pell Grant by $500 (for a maximum of $5,350 in 2009 and $5,550 in 2010),
and add $200 million to the College Work-Study program.

*Provide a refundable tax credit of up to $400 per worker ($800 per couple
filing jointly), phasing out completely at $200,000 for couples filing jointly
and $100,000 for single filers.

*Help more than 4 million additional students attend college with a new,
partially refundable $2,500 tax credit for families.

*Send $1 billion to NASA, including $400 million to put more scientists to work
doing climate change research.

*Help people who have lost their jobs maintain health coverage longer by
providing a 60 percent subsidy for Cobra premiums for up to nine months.

Reporter Catherine Dolinski can be reached at (850) 222-8382. Reporter Billy
House can be reached at (202) 662-7673.

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: (Medicaid)

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CHRIS URSO

Photo: (Transit And Highway)

Photo credit: JupiterImages

Photo: (State Budget Fund)

Photo: (Education)

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              73 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            February 16, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 433 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: What Obama Can Do For Me

Once again an Obama rally has brought out the worst in our fellow citizens. When
candidate Obama was here a nice lady identified as Peggy said she never thought
she would see the day she didn't have to worry about her mortgage or gasoline.
Last week in Fort Myers, three fellow citizens asked not for opportunity, but
for handouts.

It is a sad day when the only question you can ask of the president is what will
he give you.

May I ask for something? Mr. President, when are you going to get the central
government out of my pocket? Why don't you shrink the government down to its
constitutionally mandated size? Do this, and I will take care of myself.

ANDREW NAPPI

Hudson

Obama Elected To Help

Americans elected Barack Obama president instead of John McCain because we need
jobs, not more tax cuts for the wealthy. Trickle-down economics crashed with the
stock market.

Investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency will do more to create jobs,
lower gas prices, reduce electric bills and help with climate change than
putting an oil well or a nuclear plant in everyone's yard. It is time for
Congress to serve the will of the people instead of wealthy and powerful
cooperations. We need the Economic Recovery Act.

RON KUHLER

Lutz

Republicans' Demise

The moment President Barack Obama was sworn in I realized I was watching the
demise of the Republican Party and the American dream. With the enormous power
of his loyal apostles in the press and the "what's in it for me" crowd,
including a rubber-stamp majority in Congress, Obama will serve at least three
terms in the White House, possibly a fourth term.

I suspect that a Republican will never again occupy the Oval Office. Obama may
well transform the U.S.A. into the U.S.S.A, the United Socialist States of
America.

TONY D'ANDREA

Largo

Make Parents Pay

Now we hear that the powers that be want to raise our property taxes again to
fund education. Well, here is one for them: Make the people who have kids in
school pay it.

Those of us who have no kids in school are still paying for nothing. And where
is all that lottery money going? Not for what we were told: education.

The government has billions of dollars to bail out banks that were run into the
ground by idiot management, and all they have to offer us is higher taxes.
Reminds me of the old Beatles song "Tax Man."

Shame on all of you who sit in your plush offices and go home to your
million-dollar homes at our expense

RAYMOND GREENLEE

Riverview

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              79 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa Losing Biggest Race

BYLINE: BILL WARD, wward@tampatrib.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 312 words


Gasparilla Marathon will be held for the final time in 2010.

By BILL WARD

wward@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Citing the strain the event places on city services and resources,
Gasparilla Distance Classic Association race director Susan Harmeling said
Sunday the marathon will cease to be part of the race weekend beginning in 2011.

The 10th and final Gasparilla Marathon will be staged Feb. 21, 2010.

"It's not because we don't do a great job with our marathon because we do,"
Harmeling said. "But we are ever-mindful of what we're asking from the city of
Tampa when we stage a 26.2-mile event. And in the light of the current economic
climate, where the city has to make budget cuts and reduce staff, we believe
this decision is the right thing to do."

The City of Tampa is a co-sponsor of the race weekend and provides services such
as police, road barricades and waste management without charge.

No other major changes are being made to the race weekend in 2011. The
15-kilometer and 5k races will still take place on Saturday and the half
marathon will be staged the following day.

Harmeling said the marathon was not being pulled from the GDCA's 2010 calendar
because she felt it would be "unfair to the local running community," some of
whom have already made plans for the 2010 race.

Including the marathon, this year's race weekend drew a record crowd of more
than 20,000 entrants. But the marathon entries accounted for only about 1,800 of
that field while the half marathon attracted its largest field ever at nearly
4,400. Harmeling said the half marathon could have an accompanying event in
2011, possibly a 10k race.

Reporter Bill Ward can be reached at (813) 259-7456.

Photo: Ronnie Holassie has won the Gasparilla Distance Classic Marathon each of
the past two years.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              81 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Spreading Their Wings

BYLINE: D'ANN LAWRENCE WHITE, dlwhite@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 964 words


Students at Cimino Elementary celebrate the opening of a living habitat.

By D'ANN LAWRENCE WHITE

dlwhite@tampatrib.com

VALRICO - If the first day of spring wasn't cause enough to celebrate, students
at Cimino Elementary School were given two more reasons to rejoice March 20.

They gathered on the school grounds for the ribbon-cutting ceremony and opening
of the school's new living habitat, a $10,000 project funded by the Cimino PTA
and the Odum family in memory of the grandfather of two Cimino students, Paul L.
Odum Jr.

In addition, students, parents, faculty and staff recently were notified that
the school had been named Florida's 2009 State School of Character and is a
nominee for the National School of Character Award.

"It's been an exciting month here," Principal Deborah Talley said as she
prepared to help cut the ribbon for the living habitat, a screened structure
that will be home to an assortment of bugs, butterflies and flowers. "We were
very surprised to hear we'd been named the State School of Character. It's the
first time a school in Hillsborough County ever received the award, and it's
quite an honor."

The award is presented by the Golden Rule Foundation to schools with outstanding
character education initiatives, student behavior, school climate and academic
performance. Winners receive grants of up to $10,000 based on student population
and the character education program, said Linda Cobbe, spokeswoman for the
Hillsborough County School District.

Talley was quick to give credit to Cimino guidance counselor Debbie Minichbauer
for undertaking the lengthy application process to nominate the school for the
award.

A foundation committee assigned to review the applications chose Cimino based on
the seven-year-old school's emphasis on its motto, "Catch the Character Fever,"
which focuses on six core ethical values: respect, responsibility, honesty,
patriotism, caring and thankfulness.

The character traits students study change four times a year. Expected behaviors
demonstrating each trait are outlined in lesson plans and serve as guides for
weekly activities, service projects and schoolwide programs.

Cimino representatives will receive the 2009 State School of Character award at
a luncheon May 20 in Orlando.

"We're very proud to represent Hillsborough County," Talley said.

She said the living habitat goes hand-in-hand with many of the values emphasized
at the school, including respect, responsibility and caring.

The PTA began the project last year under the chairmanship of PTA board member
Christine Oliver. The group raised $5,000 for the structures and another $5,000
for plants, butterflies, larvae, landscaping materials, wood for the plant
holders, plaques and a sign.

Students were invited to submit ideas for names for the habitat. The school then
voted and chose Cougar Creatures Vivarium. The students who submitted the
winning names - Sarah Overly, who suggested "Cougar Creatures," and Constantino
Muniz, who proposed "Vivarium" - won the honor of helping Talley cut the ribbon
and getting their handprints permanently imprinted in paving stones.

Runners-up in the contest have their names and their submissions inscribed on
brass plates that adorn wood benches inside the habitat. Among them were Olivia
Hernandez, who suggested "Look and Learn Garden;" siblings Katherine and Haley
Jones, who offered "Cultivation Station;" Breanna Witt, who suggested "Cougar
Cove;" Heather Wardrop, who offered "Wings and Things;" and Justin Daly for
"Cougar Critters."

The morning of the ribbon-cutting ceremony, Oliver and her husband, Todd, also a
PTA board member, were affixing the last of the brass plates to the wood benches
while 50 monarch and painted lady butterflies she had released into the habitat
were still slumbering.

The wooden benches, she noted, are the handiwork of 19-year-old University of
South Florida student Phillip Ondrovic.

"He made them all in just three days," she said.

Scott and Nancy Nelson, owners of Brandon Garden Center on Bloomingdale Avenue,
advised Oliver on what types of plants to choose for the habitat. She included
penta, lantana, Mexican petunia, salvia and Mexican heather, which all provide
nectar for butterflies. She also added parsley, dill, basil, mint and butterfly
weed to supply food for the butterfly larvae.

In the coming weeks, Oliver will introduce caterpillars and ladybugs so students
can study the stages of metamorphosis through child-friendly magnifying glasses
strategically located throughout the habitat.

Reporter D'Ann Lawrence White can be reached at (813) 657-4524.

Photo credit: Tribune photos by D'ANN LAWRENCE WHITE

Photo: On the first day of spring, March 20, Cimino Elementary students gather
outside the newly completed Cougar Creatures Vivarium for the official
ribbon-cutting ceremony. Students were invited to submit ideas for names for the
habitat.

Photo: To commemorate the contributions of Daisy Troop 431, troop leader Stacey
Donahue created stepping stones for the elementary school's new living habitat.

Photo: Four-year-old Jacob Oliver watches Cimino Elementary PTA board members
Todd and Christine Oliver attach brass plates, with the names of name contest
finalists, to flower boxes.

Photo: Plants that provide nectar for the butterflies, such as the penta, were
chosen.

Photo: Cimino students visiting the habitat will be able to find an assortment
of bugs, butterflies and flowers living in the screened structure.

Photo: A butterfly lights on habitat chairwoman Christine Oliver's fingertips.
The PTA bought 50 monarch and painted lady butterflies for the habitat.

Photo: A couple of monarch butterflies rest in the habitat's screen as the
ceremonies took place.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              82 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Students Share Data On Brains, Tattoos

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


Annual symposium features research by USF undergraduates.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Tattoos, risky sexual behavior, drinking at prom.

These topics took their place alongside Alzheimer's disease, cancer and climate
change at a gathering of undergraduate researchers at the University of South
Florida on Friday.

About 140 USF students presented their findings in talks, poster presentations,
films and even dance at the seventh annual symposium.

Research at USF isn't limited to graduate students and faculty members, said
Naomi Yavneh, director of the USF office of undergraduate research. Any
undergraduate who wants to can be paired up with a faculty member to participate
in a research project.

Senior psychology major Savannah Frazier chose to study what tattoos mean about
women's images of their bodies.

She became interested in the question while working in the body image research
group in the psychology department.

People have researched why women go to tanning booths and get plastic surgery,
but they haven't delved into what's behind tattooing, Frazier said. Some people
think it's related to psychological problems, such as eating disorders. Others,
however, say tattoos are a sign of control and confidence.

Working with psychology professor J. Kevin Thompson, Frazier found that women
with a lot of tattoos tend to feel more shame and self-consciousness about their
bodies than other women, she said.

She still has more work to do to figure out what's behind these feelings, but
she thinks she's onto something. "If [the research] continues to look this way,
it could point to a population more at risk" of having psychological problems.
And it could provide clues to helping them.

Senior Siddarth Joshi studied the differences between the brains of people with
and without memory problems.

"Different areas of the brain age in different ways," he said. "The more we know
about that, the closer we can get to finding a treatment."

Joshi worked with researchers from the USF College of Medicine and expects his
experiences to help him when he applies to medical school next year.

"The faculty love this program," Yavneh said. "It gives them more people to work
with."

And the undergraduates can be more flexible than the graduate students, who
often don't have the time and resources to do research that doesn't show
significant results.

Because there's less at stake for the undergraduates, she said, "they're more
willing to take on a challenge."

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN

Photo: Lindsey Moreno is waiting to discuss her project at the seventh annual
Undergraduate Research Symposium at USF.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              84 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rays Notebook

BYLINE: MARC LANCASTER

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 662 words


Sternberg seeks attendance boost

ST. PETERSBURG - Just hearing the word come out of Stuart Sternberg's mouth
sounded strange, given all the Rays' principal owner has accomplished by the age
of 49. But he used it just the same Monday afternoon as he spoke about his
expectations for his team's attendance this season.

"I want to be average," Sternberg said. "I don't aspire to be average in life or
in anything, but this year, 2009, coming off a World Series appearance, I'm
aspiring to be average. By that I mean I want our attendance to be league
average at the very least. And that's a moving target."

MLB's average attendance last season was 32,528, but many believe that number
will fall this season given the state of the economy. That would help in
Sternberg's quest, as the Rays averaged only 22,259 last season to rank 26th
among MLB teams.

Not surprisingly, Tampa Bay is off to a good start at the gates this season. The
home opener featured a full house of 36,973, and tonight's game, which will
feature the unveiling of the Rays' AL championship rings, sold out Monday.

Those advance sellouts are crucial to the Rays, who want to have as solid a
grasp as they can on how many people will enter Tropicana Field on a given night
so they can staff the venue more efficiently and have a better idea about
long-range revenue projections. They have attempted to change the mind-set of
area fans, most notably by adding a $2 surcharge beginning last season to
same-day tickets purchased less than five hours in advance.

"Walk-up is extraordinarily important, don't get me wrong," Sternberg said, "but
that can't be the engine that drives this operation."

Even in a tough economic climate, it seems likely the Rays will get some sort of
bounce at the turnstiles. Anecdotal evidence suggests the same.

"You look in the stands right now and you see a lot more Rays gear," Manager Joe
Maddon said. "I think we have a legitimate, more devoted fan base right now. A
group that maybe was wondering whether they should root for the Rays in the past
know now that they can and should. So I think it's an entire different outlook
from the fans toward us."

Izzy or isn't he?

Jason Isringhausen has been commuting between Tropicana Field and Port Charlotte
as he continues to get his work in while on the disabled list. The veteran
reliever is slated for two innings in an extended spring training game today and
said his arm feels good.

"I'll come out of this two innings and then hopefully sit down and talk to them
about going to Triple-A or something like that," he said.

Trying to tune in

Monday's home opener was televised by Sun Sports, which also will air the
remaining two games in the Yankees series. The network's package of Rays games
remains unavailable to Knology cable customers, but network officials still hope
to reach a deal with the provider.

"We're continuing to reach out, and as of last week the answer has come back as
no, but that doesn't mean that we're still not trying," said Steve Liverani,
senior vice president and general manager of Sun Sports and Fox Sports Florida.
"Right now it's disappointing for the fans, and that's really the key."

Though the 75-game Sun Sports package already is in progress, Liverani said a
resolution is still possible and "we're hopeful that it's going to get done."

Riggans on DL

Following Monday's game the Rays placed Shawn Riggans on the 15-day disabled
list with right shoulder tendinitis, retroactive to April 10. The Rays selected
the contract of catcher Michel Hernandez from Durham and he is expected to join
the team today.

Marc Lancaster

Photo: Sternberg

Photo credit: Tribune photo by CHRIS URSO

Photo: A giant American flag is unveiled during the playing of the national
anthem before the Rays' home opener Monday night.

Photo: This fan was part of a full house of 36,973 Monday night, and tonight's
game also is sold out.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              85 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCollum declares run for governor

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words


He has the backing of a state GOP that wants to avoid a primary battle.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Attorney General Bill McCollum made it official Monday, announcing his
run for governor and setting up a possible race between a relatively new face in
Florida politics and one that's been around for three decades.

First, McCollum, 64, a former 10-term member of Congress, may have to face a
Republican primary challenge from Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson.

If he is the Republican nominee, McCollum can expect to face Chief Financial
Officer Alex Sink in the 2010 election. She announced her candidacy last week
and has no major Democratic primary opponent.

In his brief announcement speech, McCollum promised "a new way up for Florida"
as a campaign theme.

"Florida needs a new way up, ? a better climate in which we can grow jobs," he
said. "The hallmark of a McCollum administration will be access and inclusion.
This administration will be one that doesn't look at partisan labels," he
promised.

Bronson said Monday he's still considering getting into the race, despite
opposition from party leaders including state GOP Chairman Jim Greer, who hopes
to clear the primary field for McCollum.

Greer, who appeared along with a who's-who of state GOP leaders at McCollum's
announcement, made it clear he wants Bronson out.

After introducing the other officeholders, he noted that Bronson was absent. He
added that he intends to ask the state party to endorse McCollum in July,
regardless of whether there is another primary candidate.

That would violate the normal procedure for a political party, staying neutral
in its own primaries.

Bronson said the party shouldn't shy away from primaries.

"Just because a handful of people in Tallahassee have decided what they want to
do, I'm not sure that's a reason for the rank-and-file Republicans to follow
along," he said. "I'm not sure that's going to energize Republican voters.
You're told, 'Here's your candidate. Take it or leave it.'"

McCollum's "new way" and inclusiveness themes seemed designed to counter
perceptions that he represents old-style partisan politics while Sink is a fresh
face.

"It's a way to express the fact that Bill McCollum as governor has a great many
ideas about how we go about solving some of the greatest challenges this state
has faced," he said in an interview Monday.

Asked how that squares with the fact that Republicans have controlled state
government for more than a decade, McCollum noted his differences from Gov.
Charlie Crist.

"I've not been governor," he said. "I spent the last 21/2 half years on the
Cabinet, and I do see things very differently in our state and would be a
distinctly different governor."

McCollum has taken a more conservative approach than Crist on several issues,
including Crist's initiative to expedite voting rights restoration for former
felons.

About a possible primary, McCollum said he would rather avoid one if possible.

"If my Democratic opponent doesn't have one, I think it would be a lot better
for us to be able to concentrate our resources on the general election," he
said.

McCollum, who ran unsuccessful statewide races for the U.S. Senate in 2000 and
2004 before winning the attorney general's office in 2006, has a better-known
name than Sink, who had never run for office before becoming chief financial
officer in 2006.

"There's a difference in our levels of our experience," McCollum said. "As the
campaign progresses, we will see differences."

Democrats immediately set out to make his experience a liability, not an asset,
referring to him as "A lifelong politician - 32 years running for office, 14
campaigns."

McCollum became known during his congressional career for his high-profile role
in the impeachment of President Bill Clinton in 1999.

University of South Florida political scientist Susan MacManus said there will
be an "old versus new" issue in the McCollum-Sink race.

"Republicans tend to coalesce behind longtime loyalists instead of going for the
new face," as they did in nominating John McCain for president in 2008, she
said. "Democrats will try to take advantage of that.

"Is Florida ready for new faces or more well-known faces? Stability or change? I
think that's what's going to play out in this race."

(CHART) IRA WILLIAM "BILL" McCOLLUM JR.

BORN: July 12, 1944, in Brooksville

EDUCATION: Hernando High School, 1962; University of Florida, BA, 1965; UF, law
degree, 1968

FAMILY: Married to Ingrid Seebohm McCollum. Three grown sons.

LEGAL CAREER: Private law practice; Navy Judge Advocate General Corps, 1969-72.

POLITICAL CAREER: Chairman of the Republican Executive Committee of Seminole
County,

1976-1980; county chairmen's representative, Florida State Executive Committee
for Fifth District, 1976-80; U.S. House member, 1981-2001; delegate, Republican
National Convention, 1984, 1988, 1992, 1996 and 2000; Unsuccessfully ran for
U.S. Senate in 2000 and 2004. Florida attorney general, 2006 to present.

PERSONAL: Served 23 years in Naval Reserve, retiring as a commander.

Sources: wires, Biographical Directory of the U.S. Congress, University of
Florida

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo: Bille McCollum

Photo credit: The Associated Press

Photo: Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum and his wife, Ingrid, hit the
stage in Orlando on Monday for his announcement that he'll run for governor.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              88 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group wants offshore drilling on ballot

BYLINE: CATHERINE DOLINSKI, cdolinski@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 851 words


Activists face tight timeline and hope to get financing from the oil industry to
back effort.

By CATHERINE DOLINSKI

cdolinski@tampatrib.com

TALLAHASSEE - A group of activists intend to launch a petition initiative to
place the issue of offshore oil drilling before voters in 2010. FloridaOil.org
plans to ask Florida voters to lift the state ban and kick-start a new offshore
drilling industry for the state.

"The people have spoken loud and clear; they support this," said Don Baldauf of
Bradenton, head of the small but growing FloridaOil.org, which has members and
volunteers sprinkled across 10 counties.

Baldauf, who runs a small business installing security systems, mounted an
unsuccessful run without party affiliation for the District 13 seat in Congress
last year. Now he plans to ask voters in 2010 to lift Florida's 20-year ban on
drilling in state waters, and mandate Florida build an offshore oil and gas
industry. "Whatever it takes to start drilling and pumping," he said.

details of his ballot question - or questions - are in the works. Baldauf has
registered his organization, which has fledgling chapters in Pinellas and Leon
counties, with the state Division of Elections and has is talking with an
attorney he declined to name about ballot language to submit to the state this
summer.

That places the initiative on a tight timeline, and Baldauf has barely begun
fundraising. But he hopes oil and gas interests will back him financially to put
the effort on the fast track. Making the 2010 ballot requires 676,811 valid
signatures by Feb. 1.

The state House embraced a plan to lift the 20-year ban on drilling in Florida
waters this spring after Speaker-designate Dean Cannon, R-Winter Park, attached
the proposal late in the session to a more modest drilling bill. But the
legislation hit a wall in the state Senate, where President Jeff Atwater, R-Palm
Beach, refused to bring it to a vote because it had not received a full vetting
in his chamber. Cannon and other lawmakers say they intend to improve the plan
and bring it back next spring.

If they do, they'll receive a positive reception in the Senate, predicted Sen.
Ronda Storms, R-Valrico, who supports the concept. A petition initiative, she
said, may further pressure lawmakers to act. "It demonstrates a commitment on
the part of the state and her citizenry, and it also ignites a fire under the
debate."

Baldauf said he can't wait for lawmakers because "Atwater has proven that we
can't rely on him" on this issue. The conservative activist is exploring the
prospect of asking voters to expand Florida's seaward boundaries - and by
extension, its drilling options.

He hopes that a section of the U.S. Submerged Lands Act supports his idea.

The 1953 law defines Florida's Gulf boundary as three marine leagues, or roughly
10 miles, from shore. But it states that if a state indicates "heretofore or
hereafter" by constitutional provision or law that it intends to extend its
boundaries, then that claim "is hereby approved and confirmed ? that its
boundaries extend beyond that line."

Ronald Weaver, a land-use lawyer in Tampa who frequently deals with
property-rights issues, called the language "interesting." He added, "It does
create what we call in the law a 'deference' to the state's assertion of greater
jurisdiction on the subject."

But that deference is not unlimited, he said. Federal case law establishes
strong federal sovereignty over submerged lands and resources in the Atlantic
Ocean. In the Gulf of Mexico, it's more ambiguous, giving states more deference
when they can prove they have a compelling interest. It appears, however, that
the state may prevail only if the federal government has failed to provide
needed regulation or other action, he said.

U.S. Department of the Interior spokesman Frank Quimby said that section of the
1953 law was meant only to establish 3-mile or 10-mile seaward boundaries for
states that had yet to claim any at all. "It wasn't saying that states have
authority to make new claims" beyond that.

Baldauf said he's awaiting input from legal experts before deciding whether to
address the issue in a ballot question. he intends to submit at least one oil
drilling ballot question for 2010. He expects consumer frustration over
increasing gas prices will propel his cause.

That's possible, said Nature Conservancy lobbyist Janet Bowman. She hopes,
however, that the attention President Barack Obama and the Democratic-controlled
Congress have focused on global climate change and alternative fuels will make
people think twice. She and other environmentalists warn there is no guarantee
modern drilling technology will insulate the environment and Florida tourism
from harm.

"The coastal resources of Florida are an incredibly important component of
Florida's economy" she said. "To risk those resources requires an incredible
amount of certainty that they're not going to be damaged. And the jury is still
out on that."

Reporter Catherine Dolinski can be reached at (850) 222-8382.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              91 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS NOTES

SECTION: BRANDON; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 766 words


BIZ BENEFITS KIDS' SHELTER: Bella Garden, an apparel, accessories and gift shop
in Lithia, will host an outdoor market from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. July 25 to benefit
A Kids Place, an assessment, service and shelter center that recently opened in
Valrico. The center serves abused, abandoned and neglected children. Forty
vendor spaces are available outside the shop for other merchants to display
their wares. Booth space fees which are $30, plus a portion of each vendor's
sales for the day and each purchase of a $20 bottle of "Feed Our Friends" water
will benefit A Kids Place. The deadline for vendor registration is July 18.
Bella Garden is at 5664 FishHawk Crossing Blvd. For more information, call (813)
662-1300.


FREE SMALL BIZ INFO: Hillsborough County's Small Business Information Center is
offering a free Business Protection 101 class to help business owners prepare
for hurricanes and other potential disasters. The center also offers 22
additional workshops from July 7 through Aug. 27 on topics such as Getting Your
Business Online, How To Change a Lender's "No" to a "Yes," Smart Start Your
Business and How To Apply For an SBA Loan. Classes are held at the center, 7402
N. 56th St., Tampa, and in various other locations, including Brandon. For class
schedules and locations call (813) 914-4028 or go to www.sbic.hillsborough
county.org.


LOCAL EXECS SHARE STORIES: YP Brandon, a networking group sponsored by the
Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce for young professionals under 40, will host
"CEO Unplugged," a program to feature six local executives who will speak and
answer questions about their background, challenges, successes, failures and
mentors. Rich Strehl, YP Brandon co-chair, said the group decided to offer the
program because it recognizes the advantage of learning from experienced,
successful leaders. The speakers are: Paul Senory, Sencommunications; Mike
Fencel, Brandon Regional Hospital; Tammy Bracewell, Greater Brandon Chamber of
Commerce; Ronnie Ory, Cyprexx; Beth Fiquette, The Centre for Women; and Frank
Fiume, i9 Sports. The program begins 6 p.m. July 16 at River Hills Country Club,
3943 New Riverhills Parkway, Valrico. A $10 admission fee includes an appetizer
buffet. Reservations are required. For information, call Janet Noah at (813)
689-1221 or go to www.ypbrandon.com.


DINING DOLLARS The Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce is offering discount
cards that may be used at 14 local restaurants for dollars-off, buy-one-get-one
free and free-with-purchase deals. The cards cost $5 and are valid through
December. For details or to purchase a card, call (813) 689-1221, e-mail
jnoah@brandon chamber.com or go to www.brandonchamber.com.


NEW STORAGE SPOT: Budget Self Storage has opened at 2504 State Road 60, Valrico,
across from Sweetbay Supermarket. The facility, one of 13 in the state, features
climate controlled units and a digital security system. For information, call
(813) 657-7744 or go to www.budgetselfstorage.bz.


BIKE SHOP OPEN: Just Ride Bicycles has opened at 13431 Boyette Road, Riverview.
Owners David and Jodi Luppino are members of the South West Florida Bicycle
United Dealers, a coalition of Tampa area bike retailers that organizes events
and lobbies for improved local bicycling conditions. The shop also offers a bike
rental program with free local delivery. For information, call (813) 503-9460 or
go to www.justridebicycles.com.


COUPLE LAUNCH TRAVEL CO.: Char and Rick Meese, of Valrico, opened AccessABILITY
Travel, a travel agency that caters to people who rely on wheelchairs, walkers
or scooters for mobility. "We have always loved to travel with our 26-year old
daughter, Liz, who uses a wheelchair, so we know how important accessibility is,
even on vacation," Meese said. "Plus, we have so many veterans coming back
disabled. It's a totally new population of disabled people who will need this
type of service." For information call (813) 842-0948 or go to
www.accessabilitytravel .com.


CHRISTIAN CONNECTION: Connecting Businessmen to Christ meets 7:30 a.m.
Wednesdays at the Village Inn Restaurant, 1995 Lumsden Rd., Brandon. The group
offers networking, fellowship and spiritual support. Those facing unemployment
are welcome to attend. For information, call Dan Shock at (813) 299-9219 or Rich
Bradford at (813) 240-4511.


Send Business Notes at least two weeks before desired publication date to Laura
Frazier at The Tampa Tribune, 933 Chad Lane, Tampa FL 33619, e-mail
lfrazier@tampatrib.com; or fax (813) 627-4767.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              94 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 578 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: FARC gift to leader on video

BOGOTA - A video police found in a computer of an alleged rebel appears to
confirm that Colombia's largest rebel army gave money to the election campaign
of President Rafael Correa of Ecuador.

The video shows a Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia commander reading the
manifesto of founder Manuel Marulanda, which states FARC made contributions to
Correa's campaign

The Associated Press

No cap and tax

If ancient men could build the Great Pyramid and the Great Wall of China and
modern man could put a man on the moon in just a few short years, then why
cannot scientists find a way to reduce greenhouse gases and pollution without
penalizing the entire population of the United States?

Why can't we develop a program that provides bonuses to scientists-businesses
for inventing economically feasible methods to improve our environment? Why do
we have to impose onerous taxes on the general population at a time when the
economy is in dire straits?

RUTH MAHONEY

Riverview

What's in a hot dog?

I don't want the government in my food. The FDA has enough problems overseeing
all the toxic industrial food entering the supply. Small farming practices
ensure a real food supply. So let's leave them alone, please!

CLAUDIA RODRIGUEZ

Brandon

But texting is cheaper

It's admirable that the NAACP wants to urge its supporters to use their cell
phones to take photos of police misconduct ("NAACP goes high-tech on police
issues," July 14). Yes, there is some police misconduct. However, if the NAACP
really wants to help all of America, it should urge the use of cell phones to
validate all misconduct, regardless of the perpetrator.

FRED HOENNIGER

Brandon

Cinematic magic

Seeing The Tampa Tribune review of the latest Harry Potter movie ("New Potter
flick 'Half-Blood' is half good," July 14) reminded me of other recent reports
on the American economy and our politics. At this time last year, while
Americans were spending hundreds of millions of discretionary dollars to see the
latest Batman movie, our news media was harping about the worst economy since
the Great Depression. According to the subtext of the moment, only having a new
regime in Washington would relieve us from the anxiety of our growing economic
problems and presumably allow us to relax sufficiently to enjoy the feature
presentation. Fast forward 12 months. Now the message from the media suggests
that Americans are too poor to pay for their own health care or to even make
sensible choices about it. Thus, we need health-care reform. And now, I presume,
Harry Potter's latest film will gross a record-breaking total. I feel poorer
already.

JIM PARKER

Lakeland

Child predator law

New Internet technologies are emerging every day. While these technologies
provide new learning opportunities and new ways to explore the digital world,
they can also pose a dangerous threat to our children.

As an advocate for the safety of Florida's children both online and off, I
applaud the Florida Legislature for the passage of CS/HB115, which will provide
online safety education to adults and children in our community libraries.

It is encouraging to know that our elected officials and communities are
invested in ensuring that adults and children understand the dangers of online
predators.

STACIE RUMENAP

Washington, D.C.

The writer is executive director of Stop Child Predators.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              100 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           September 20, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Straw polls show GOP base not with Crist

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH, wmarch@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1022 words


The governor has been moving to right to counter bad news.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - If the Republican U.S. Senate primary were up to people such as Andy
Tuck, Gov. Charlie Crist might be in trouble.

Tuck is party chairman in rural, conservative Highlands County. In July, his
party executive committee held a straw vote between Crist and his primary
opponent, Marco Rubio.

Rubio won 75-1.

"I'm not saying (Crist) won't win the primary, but it won't be the cakewalk a
lot of people say," Tuck said. "He is not the conservative Republican he needs
to be to win this race."

Across Florida, mainly in conservative, rural areas but also some urban areas
where Crist is stronger, Republican Party activists are voicing similar
feelings.

Rubio has won party executive committee straw polls in seven counties, including
Hernando County on Thursday night, plus a handful of Republican clubs.

State and national conservative activists and bloggers are voicing
dissatisfaction with Crist for issues from backing President Barack Obama's
stimulus plan to picking Democrats for appointments.

Are these just noisy activists who don't represent the broad mass of Republican
voters?

Or could the governor face a significant challenge from within his own party as
he seeks to move into the Senate?

In polls and fundraising, he is miles ahead of Rubio. A state Republican Party
poll last week gave Crist a 67 percent job approval among Republican voters,
party officials said.

Party activists - the kind voting for Rubio in the straw polls - "are a
different group of people, more ideologically oriented, and they don't always
reflect the mainstream of the party," said Darryl Paulson, a retired University
of South Florida political scientist and a Republican who studies party history.

Nevertheless, Paulson noted, Crist has endured a string of bad news recently,
culminating last week with the Hernando vote, a Rubio endorsement by U.S. Rep.
Ginnie Brown-Waite of Brooksville, and attacks on Crist for past association
with the controversial community organizing group ACORN.

"I'd be getting a little nervous if I was Charlie Crist," said Paulson, who
backed Crist in 2006 in his primary against Tom Gallagher.

Crist, Paulson said, "is extraordinarily popular, but not with the base of his
party - with independents and moderate Republicans and Democrats. They either
don't vote in the primary or can't."

Potential bad news

Crist could see more bad news.

*Pinellas County Republicans will hold a straw poll, likely in December. Coming
in Crist's home county, it will have huge symbolic significance.

*In Volusia County, the party executive committee voted last month to censure
Crist for choosing Democrats for appointive offices and also for supporting the
president's stimulus program.

*A censure move in Palm Beach County failed in a tie; party leaders staved it
off by promising a straw vote in October.

*In Broward County, party leaders held off a straw vote by promising personal
appearances by Crist and Rubio.

Broward Chairman Chip Lamarca said he thinks Crist would win a straw vote in his
county, but Palm Beach Chairman Sid Dinerstein expects Rubio to win his easily.

Besides Hernando, Rubio has won straw polls in Bay, Jefferson, Gilchrist,
Highlands, Lee and Pasco counties. The Hernando vote was 46-0.

Pasco's 73-9 vote in June was a painful reversal - next door to Crist's home
county, it and Broward broke party rules to endorse Crist in his 2006 primary
for governor against Gallagher. Party organizations normally stay neutral in
primaries.

The organizations holding these votes are county Republican executive
committees, made up of representatives from each precinct.

The largest, such as Hillsborough's, may have 400 or more members who swear
party loyalty oaths, attend monthly meetings and volunteer.

Importance downplayed

State Sen. Mike Fasano of New Port Richey, a Crist backer, downplayed their
importance to Crist.

"I haven't been to a Republican executive committee meeting in years, and many
other elected Republicans in Pasco haven't either," he said. "The silent
majority doesn't go to party meetings or read blogs."

State Party Chairman Jim Greer, a Crist ally, said regardless of the straw
votes, polls such as last week's consistently show Crist with strong support
among likely GOP voters.

Asked to explain conservative dissatisfaction with Crist, he said, "There is a
segment of the party that believes that there should be no flexibility
whatsoever in their governing principles and that have very little taste for any
bipartisanship."

Paulson and GOP insiders noted that Crist has never depended heavily on the
party structure.

Nonetheless, the governor has been moving right to counter the bad news.

He canceled his plans for a summit on climate change and dropped his opposition
to Gulf oil drilling.

Greer, who is closely associated with Crist, has engaged in strident rhetoric
attacking Obama on health insurance reform and other issues.

Rubio disagrees about the importance of the party activists.

"These are highly involved Republicans, who are definitely voting and will
influence others on how to vote," he said. "They will definitely work on
campaigns.

"At a minimum, it shows that among those Republicans highly informed and highly
active, we have significant support," he said.

In a low-turnout election such as next year's non-presidential year primary,
Rubio said, those conservatives will matter.

His calculation: About a quarter of Florida's 4 million Republicans will go to
the polls on primary day, so 600,000 votes could win the Senate nomination.

"No one in the world can convince me that there aren't 600,000 or 700,000
conservative Republicans in Florida," he recently said in a speech in
Hillsborough County. "No one in the world can convince me it costs $15 million
to reach them."

Reporter William March can be reached at (813) 259-7761.

Photo credit: Associated Press file photos

Photo: Gov. Charlie Crist, right, is battling Marco Rubio for conservative
support in the U.S. Senate Republican primary.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              101 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             October 4, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deadly amoeba a rare risk for humans

BYLINE: RAY REYES, rreyes@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 866 words


Two Floridians have been killed this year.

By RAY REYES

rreyes@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - Smaller than a speck of dust, subsisting in the mud of warm freshwater
lakes and rivers around the world, the parasite that killed a 10-year-old Plant
City boy last month typically feeds on bacteria.

But in rare cases, the Naegleria fowleri amoeba enters humans through the nose,
making its way to the brain and spinal cord.

The microscopic organism destroys brain tissue, causing the severe infection
primary amoebic meningoencephalitis.

The initial symptoms - headaches, fever and nausea - start between one and 14
days after infection.

The brain swells, which leads to confusion, lack of attention, loss of balance,
seizures and hallucinations, the Florida Department of Health says.

"It's usually fatal," Hillsborough County Health Department environmental
manager Eliot Gregos said.

Death can occur within a week.

No known cure

So far, there is no known cure, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

The risks of infection, however, are extremely low, Gregos said.

Since scientists identified Naegleria fowleri - the only species of Naegleria
that threatens people - and began keeping records in 1962, only 32 people in
Florida have died from the infection, Gregos said. "It's a very, very small
number of deaths," Gregos said. "Fortunately, it doesn't happen often."

In comparison, there were 36,000 drowning deaths nationwide from 1996 to 2005
and millions of recreational water exposures every year, according to the CDC.

The amoeba is blamed for two deaths this year. A 22-year-old man who went
waterskiing at the Orlando Watersports complex died on Sept. 21. In August,
10-year-old Philip Gompf spent a day with his cousins tubing on Lake Arietta in
Polk County and developed headaches five days later.

The next day, Philip started feeling nauseous, his father, Timothy Gompf, said.
The Walden Lake Elementary School student died on Aug. 17. The Polk County
Health Department confirmed Monday the boy died from an amoeba infection.

Gompf, a doctor, said once his son was diagnosed with the infection, he knew the
condition was untreatable. "We really feel like if the correct treatment would
have been started right away, the outcome would have been the same," he said.

Anyone can be infected

Anyone, regardless of their health or fitness levels, can become infected,
health officials say. All the victims in Florida were swimming in bodies of
fresh water or participating in other water sports, Gregos said.

Several drugs are effective against the amoeba in laboratory tests, the CDC
said, but the effectiveness of those drugs is unclear because almost all
infections have been fatal even when people were treated.

Health officials say the amoeba usually thrives during long hot spells in July,
August and September. But there were droughts last year and scorching
temperatures yet no cases of Naegleria infections, Gregos said.

"Some years we have no cases," he said. "Some years we have three or four. We
don't know why."

The increase in amoeba-related deaths during the past three years may be linked
to environmental changes, Polk County Health Department Director Daniel Haight
said.

"They have been seeing some more cases over the last few years, perhaps due to
warmer climates, by increasing population, and more people utilizing
recreational waters," Haight said.

Out of the 32 cases in Florida, 16 were in Orange County, including three boys
who died in 2007, Gregos said.

One of the boys also contracted the amoeba at the Orlando Watersports complex.

There have been no records of infections in Hillsborough County.

Other places the amoeba calls home are man-made lakes, stormwater holding areas,
warm-water discharge areas near industrial plants, hot springs and soil, the CDC
said.

The parasite can inhabit poorly-maintained swimming pools, but "you'd have to
have a pretty nasty pool to have the organism living in it," he said.

(CHART) REDUCING THE RISK

Health officials offer these tips to minimize the chances of getting infected by
the Naegleria fowleri amoeba:

*Do not swim in warm, standing water such as lakes, ponds, poorly-maintained
swimming pools, stormwater holding areas or in places that are posted "No
Swimming." Bacteria and other harmful organisms thrive in warm standing water.

*Wear nose clips, hold your nose shut or keep your head out of the water when
swimming, jumping or diving in any fresh water.

*Avoid swimming in bodies of fresh water during hot summer months when the water
is warm and water levels are low.

*Do not dig or stir up sand and silt while swimming in shallow water. Scientists
say the amoeba lives in the mud and feeds on bacteria.

The infection cannot be spread from person to person or contracted from a
properly maintained swimming pool.

Source: The Florida Department of Health

Reporter Ray Reyes can be reached at (813) 259-7920.

Photo credit: Photo from the Gompf family

Photo: Philip Gompf was killed by a Naegleria fowleri infection Aug. 17. He
developed headaches five days after spending a day with his cousins tubing on
Lake Arietta in Polk County.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              102 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USF talking sustainability

BYLINE: LINDSAY PETERSON, lpeterson@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 687 words


School tilts green, but the commute doesn't.

By LINDSAY PETERSON

lpeterson@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - It has "green" buildings, biodiesel-powered shuttles and a recycling
program, but forces from off campus are cramping a push for sustainability at
the University of South Florida.

It's all those cars and trucks, tens of thousands of them, that travel to and
from the campus each day.

A USF inventory of its greenhouse gas emissions shows that more than 83 percent
of the faculty and staff drive alone to their campus jobs. Add students, and USF
commuting amounts to about 200 million miles a year.

"A lot of people can go around turning off all the lights, but they could do the
most by cutting their travel," said Robert Brinkmann, chairman of the USF
Department of Geography, who helped write the greenhouse gas report this year.

Transportation is a key topic this week at USF's fourth annual campus and
community sustainability conference. It's being held in conjunction with the
Going Green Tampa Bay Expo, which will showcase efforts to create a more
sustainable Tampa Bay area.

The conference, which begins today, includes more than 70 presentations on
topics from water conservation to rail transit. A highlight will be a lunchtime
address on Friday by actor and environmentalist Ed Begley Jr., star of the HGTV
series "Living With Ed."

But today, as Brinkmann and others prepare for the conference, a national
environmental group cast USF in a dim light. The College Sustainability Report
Card 2010, from the Sustainable Endowments Institute, graded more than 330
colleges and universities on dozens of measurements of energy usage and
conservation.

The results, released today, give USF a C. That's an improvement over 2008,
Brinkmann said, but still disappointing.

"It's hard to compare USF, and it's a little frustrating because USF is actually
doing a lot. But because of our size we still have a big footprint," he said.

The institute's report did note that USF's "ConservaBull" competition cut energy
use in its residence halls by 25 percent.

USF's own inventory showed that overall, it emitted 257,565 tons of greenhouse
gases into the atmosphere in 2007.

Its energy use went up by 15 percent and its natural gas use went up by 8
percent between 2004 and 2008. That's largely because building space increased.
During those same years, the number of full-time students went up by 10 percent
to 26,289.

The greatest contributor to the emissions was vehicle and air travel, the
inventory said.

Only 8 percent of faculty and staff carpool, and less than one-half of 1 percent
use HARTline buses, it said.

"It's rough with HARTline," Brinkmann said. "The service is good, but a lot of
people just aren't familiar with the routes."

USF has done a lot to reduce the use of cars and trucks, he said. "We have one
of the best mass transit systems. ? The Bull Runner uses biodiesel, and it's
free."

Also, the university just built a dormitory with more than 1,000 beds.

But the vast majority of USF students don't live on campus and probably never
will.

"Our students lead pretty complicated lives," Brinkmann said. "They are working
part time, going to school. They are juggling family and school, and they need
the convenience of a car."

The answer lies in doing more to offset those vehicle emissions, he said. For
example, USF plans to plant dozens of trees throughout the city to help soak up
some of its carbon emissions.

"That's how we mitigate our impact," Brinkmann said.

Reporter Lindsay Peterson can be reached at (813) 259-7834.

(CHART) Keyword, USF Green. Warren Clark, associate director of Faiths United
for Sustainable Energy, says science has made its case that the Earth is running
out of time. "What we're talking about here is a significant reformation in
religion. We need to take a shift in our thinking as being the dominant species
and having dominion over all to becoming good caretakers for our beautiful
creation." Clark takes part in a panel discussion at 3:15 p.m. today at USF's
sustainability conference.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              103 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Basking in the sun

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH and MARK DOUGLAS, The News Center

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words


Obama comes to Florida to announce "smart grid" grants, of which the state is
getting about $267 million.

By WILLIAM MARCH

wmarch@tampatrib.com

and MARK DOUGLAS

mdouglas@wfla.com

ARCADIA - Saying the nation's electrical distribution system is badly outmoded
and inefficient, President Barack Obama announced Tuesday his administration is
awarding $3.4 billion in "smart grid" energy technology grants, including $267
million in Florida.

A Florida Power & Light project received one of the nation's largest grants:
$200 million to create a smart grid in the company's service area.

The University of South Florida, where researchers have done advanced work on
smart grid technology, has some involvement in that project and other smart-grid
work that will benefit from the grants.

Obama's announcement came during an appearance at the nation's largest solar
generating plant, run by Florida Power & Light in Arcadia, about 45 miles west
of Sarasota.

The plant is designed to supply enough electricity for about 3,000 homes, enough
for Arcadia, and save enough emissions to account for about 4,500 cars on the
road.

Obama equated smart grid technology to construction of the nation's interstate
system 60 years ago during the Eisenhower administration.

"It's time to make the same kind of investment in the way energy travels," he
said.

A smart grid allows power from alternative, renewable sources - solar panels on
a house roof or a biofuel generator at a grocery store - to be fed into the
electrical transmission and distribution system. It also helps customers time
their use of power to avoid high-demand periods, which cuts the number of
generating plants that must be built to accommodate peak use.

Smart meters, which can tell customers how much power they're using and how much
it costs at a given time so they can plan more cost-effective use of appliances,
will reduce demand by 20 percent on hot summer days, Obama said.

The smart grids and meters will save consumers $20 billion on utility bills, he
said.

The FP&L smart grid project will include more than 2.6 million smart meters,
9,000 intelligent distribution devices and advanced monitoring equipment in more
than 270 substations in the company's territory.

Carol Browner, Obama's assistant for energy and climate change, said the program
nationally aims to achieve "a transformational impact on how electricity is
generated and consumed. We have a very antiquated system in this country."

The projects, located in every state except Alaska, will take one to three years
to build. Money will start flowing in two months, administration officials said.

The grant program will use federal money, matched by equal or greater private
investment, totaling $4.7 billion.

FP&L will add $378 million to its $200 million grant. Lakeland Electric, which
was awarded a $20 million grant to install more than 125,000 smart meters, will
add $28 million, the U.S. Department of Energy's fact sheet on the projects
said.

Other smart grid projects in Florida that received funding are:

*$13 million to JEA, a community-owned electrical co-operative in Jacksonville

*$9.7 million to the city of Leesburg

*$8.9 million to the city of Tallahassee

*$8.1 million to Talquin Electric Cooperative in Quincy, and an additional $2.5
million to the city

*$4.9 million to the Intellon Corp. in Orlando

Nationwide, the program will fund 100 grant requests, chosen from among 400
applications. Of those, about 25 are large grants of up to $200 million.

The projects include: 18 million new smart meters, representing 13 percent of
U.S. homes; 200,000 "smart transformers" that signal when they are about to
fail; a nationwide system of transmission sensors that monitor small outages and
help prevent them from cascading into larger outages; and hundreds of thousands
of in-home displays and "communicating thermostats" intended to help customers
manage their power consumption.

White House economist Jared Bernstein said the grant program will create "tens
of thousands of good, nontradeable jobs" in smart-meter manufacturing -
engineering technicians, electricians, installers, informational technology
workers and others.

"This is replacing demand for foreign fossil fuels with renewable energy
produced here at home," he said.

USF researchers and Progress Energy are involved in building a smart grid
serving customers in St. Petersburg and St. Pete Beach. That project will
benefit from a grant to Progress Energy in North Carolina, said Alex Domijan, a
USF electrical engineering professor and head of the school's smart grid
technology research efforts.

PhotoCredit: Staff photo by TODD DAVIS

Photo: President Barack Obama tours the Florida Power & Light solar plant in
Arcadia with CEO Lewis Hay during a stop to announce $3.4 billion in "smart
grid" grants. The Arcadia grid is the nation's largest.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              106 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 8, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: VIEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Union abuses

John Shuey's letter ("Union bashing," Nov. 4) tries to point out the evils of
management while vainly attempting to show the virtues of unionism. Let me point
out to him that while unions did play an important role during the early 20th
century in ridding the many abuses that management was guilty of, this is no
longer the case.

Shuey calls anyone who doesn't see his point a moron. Perhaps he should look in
a mirror. While unions were responsible for the gains mentioned in his letter,
they all date back between 50 and 100 years, and he fails to mention the many
abuses that unions have been guilty of right up to the current time.

Union thugs have physically assaulted and, in some cases over the years,
murdered those who were in opposition to the union position.

Over the years unions have priced themselves out of the market with unrealistic
demands. The auto industry is a prime example. Newspapers are another.

Sadly, our socialist-leaning government bailed out GM and Chrysler and handed
the unions a juicy portion of the interests in these companies.

Unless the unions that are now attempting to run GM and Chrysler open their eyes
and see that there is a point beyond which you must say, "No more," I believe
they will be back asking Washington to bail them out again.

Why doesn't Shuey see that our nation has fallen sharply in manufacturing
capability (made in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, etc.), primarily because union
demands have priced their jobs out of the U.S. workplace?

Here in Florida, the Tampa firefighters and police unions are hungrily pushing
for unrealistic increases in benefits in a very fragile economy. In my opinion,
this is pure greed.

The Obama administration is also hoping to reward unions by forcing unions on
those who want no part of collective bargaining. It would push through
legislation that would take away the secret ballot for workers, who would be
required to vote for or against union representation.

This is American?

I end this letter by saying that capitalism is not a bad thing and without it
workers would not have jobs.

While a few CEOs (probably less than 1,000) are earning what I also would
consider almost obscene compensation, I do not begrudge those who take the risk
of creating and running a business being well compensated for doing so.

In today's climate, unions should keep very low key in making demands to help
jump-start the economy again.

CHARLES SALZMANN

New Port Richey

Fans losing patience

I cannot help but feel badly for the Bucs' coaches and players. Their owners
shop for them on the sales rack and in the bargain bins. After acquiring them at
discount prices, they expect the team to be competitive in a league where, for
many teams, talent and experience are a factor in determining whether they get
the job and paid their salary.

The Glazers shouldn't assume the fans are behind them. After all, look at all
the empty seats at each home game. So I suggest they get with the program or
sell the team.

The fans, players and coaches deserve it.

JUDY HOUSER

Satellite Beach

Change jail policy

Re: "Inmates aid deputy under attack" (front page, Nov. 5): The wonderful part
of this story is how prisoners did not hesitate to rescue 64-year-old Deputy
Kenneth Moon.

The not-so-wonderful part raises a rather distressing and even amazing question:
Why in the world was only one elderly, basically defenseless man overseeing,
according to this story, literally dozens of men, many half his age, held on
charges such as armed robbery, assault and attempted murder?

Surely it was not only me who found this to be almost incredible.

If this is policy and it is not changed, it is a tragedy just waiting to happen.
Please, Sheriff Gee, fix this before it happens.

STEVE WEBB

Tampa

Hitting the road

Last Sunday my husband and I made the trip to Orlando on Interstate 4, a
corridor known for accidents, to meet a friend. While there were places where
traffic thinned out, in many areas it was almost bumper-to-bumper. And this was
on a Sunday night.

This road has no "down time," and I have no wish to travel it, not even for the
Disney attractions. When will the county commissioners and urban planners wake
up and get rapid transit (rail) in here?

It would benefit Tampa, Orlando and everyone in between. Let's put our money
where it won't be wasted by do-nothing officials or one more "task force."

NANCY E. MOORE

Riverview

Need more vision

Drilling for oil is a destructive enterprise that will endanger Florida's
beaches and wild places while doing nothing to reduce our dependence on foreign
oil or the cost to consumers. Rather than follow the advances toward energy
independence pioneered three decades ago in California and adapted by
forward-thinking leaders around the world, Florida languishes in the doldrums of
an antiquated energy philosophy.

We have nothing to lose by encouraging better energy economy in our
transportation, in our homes and offices, in our building technologies and in
our daily lives. It requires vision and political will, both of which seem to be
in short supply in Tallahassee and Washington these days.

MICHAEL MACDONALD

Clearwater

Athletes' dress code

A few years ago we had a high school administrator who wanted to prevent female
volleyball players from wearing uniforms because they were too suggestive. He
lost that argument.

Now our school system wants to direct the runners on how they should dress for
training and contests. ("Feel the heat," front page, Nov. 5). It's totally
ridiculous that our athletes should be subjected to such baseless decisions.
Look around the state and the Southeast, and it is apparent that their thinking
is flawed. That being the case, why not really enforce rules against pants being
worn almost to the knees or the hip-huggers that are suggestive?

What's next? Swimmers wearing sweat suits during competition?

JOE VOSKERICHIAN

Tampa

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              108 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUCS Q & A

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 451 words


TAMPA - The Bucs' 1-8 start has fans scratching their heads about what has gone
wrong, why certain decisions have been made and what the prospects are for the
future. The fans have questions. We have answers.

On TBO.com, we solicited questions for Tampa Tribune beat writers Roy Cummings,
Anwar S. Richardson and Ira Kaufman. Needless to say, they have been pretty busy
writing responses. Here is a sampling.

Q. What is Doug Williams' status with the team? Is he in good standing with
ownership?

Jay, Colorado Springs

A. Ira Kaufman: Doug remains part of the Bucs' front office in an executive
capacity, and he has some input into the club's personnel decisions.

Having said that, Williams is also frustrated because he believes he should be
taken seriously as a GM candidate by other organizations by now. Williams has
confidence in himself that he would do a good job calling the shots and building
a winning team. When the Bucs fired Jon Gruden and Bruce Allen in January, Mark
Dominik was promoted to the GM job by the next day. Dominik had more experience
than Williams on the pro side, but Williams never had the opportunity to
interview for the vacancy.

Q. I know we have a lot of money to spend this coming season, but can the fan
base expect to see a huge amount paid yet again to Antonio "$10 Million Dollar a
Year" Bryant to see more of what we've seen this year?

Marty, Fort Myers

A. Roy Cummings: It's way too early to know what the Bucs are going to do with
Antonio Bryant. One thing they won't do, though, is make him their franchise
player again. That means they'll either sign him to a long-term deal or let him
go elsewhere. In Bryant's case, the final seven games will probably determine
what the Bucs do with him. They're watching him - and listening to him - very
closely. They see what you see, hear what you hear. And they're taking note.

Q. Since our team is so young and we have the advantage of practicing in a hot
climate, why haven't we tried to "run" our opponents more with wide plays or
fast "no huddle" series until their tongues hang out?

David Baker, Floral City

A. Cummings: The run-'em-ragged approach was precisely the one the Bucs wanted
to take this year. Unfortunately for them, very few of their games have played
out in a way that allowed them to take that approach. They've regularly found
themselves behind early and forced to play catch-up. Until that changes, they
won't be able to take advantage of their power running attack and the heat.

Photo: Aqib Talib and the Bucs were downcast after the Dolphins rallied to win.

Photo: Doug Williams

Photo: Antonio Bryant

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


                              111 of 114 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAW & ORDER

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 949 words


Double Homicide 911 Exchange Revealed

CLEARWATER - The call was chilling.

"Rick, put the gun down," a woman says, her words captured on a 911 call made on
the last day of her life.

Investigators say the voice was that of Elizabeth Evans after her estranged
husband, Patrick Evans, 41, burst into her South Pasadena condominium on Dec. 20
and found her and Gerald Taylor, whom she was dating.

A 911 dispatcher then heard a voice, which investigators say is that of Patrick
Evans, telling her to "get on the bed," the documents state. The man also was
heard saying, "Get on the bed, Gerry."

On the tape, Taylor, 43, says he will get on the bed if the intruder puts the
gun down, according to a transcript of the call.

A single gunshot is heard and Elizabeth Evans, 44, says, "Have you lost your ?
mind?" Then there's another gunshot.

The details emerged in a search warrant released Monday after Patrick Evans'
attorneys failed to persuade a circuit judge to keep the document sealed from
the public

Patrick Evans, who had been a vice president of Global Business Units at Jabil
Circuit Inc., is charged with two counts of first-degree murder.

The affidavit accompanying the search warrant provides the clearest picture yet
of the double slaying and what investigators say is the motive behind it.

After she asks the man to put down the gun, Elizabeth Evans is heard on the 911
tape saying, "This is ridiculous, I am putting on a robe," the affidavit states.

She and Taylor were shot in the upper torso in or near the master bedroom about
7 p.m.; both were found nude, the documents state.

The 911 call was recorded after someone from the address called 911 but then
hung up. Following the agency's policy, the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office
communications center called back to ensure there wasn't a continuing emergency.
An unknown subject answers, and that's when the voices are heard.

Investigators later found two spent .40-caliber shell casings and a black
holster at the condominium, the affidavit states.

When sheriff's deputies rushed to Patrick Evans' home in St. Pete Beach on Dec.
20, they found his Ford F-150 pickup, its hood still warm from the engine
running.

Lights in the home at 333 Hermosita Drive were seen from the outside going on
and off. Attempts were made to contact Evans, and the sheriff's office SWAT team
was called in, but he drove away and was not arrested until 7 a.m. the next day,
the affidavit states.

Elizabeth Evans wanted to divorce her husband, but he wouldn't acknowledge her
desire for the split, the documents state.

Woman Identified In Unexplained Death

Hillsborough County deputies investigating a death in Clair-Mel City identified
the victim Monday night as 57-year-old Judith Rolander.

About 3 a.m. Monday, deputies responded to a 911 call at a mobile home at 2413
82nd St. S., Lot 14, and found Rolander dead of unexplained trauma, sheriff's
spokesman J.D. Callaway said.

Rolander lived at that address, Callaway said.

Deputies won't know the official cause of death until an autopsy is complete but
are investigating the death as a homicide, Callaway said.

Man Gets 24 Years In Crash That Killed 1

CLEARWATER - A driver who hit a car last year while fleeing police, killing a
mother of three, has been sentenced to 24 years in prison.

Devonta Merriex, 20, of St. Petersburg, pleaded guilty to a range of charges
Friday before Pinellas Circuit Judge Philip Federico meted out the punishment.

Merriex was convicted of third-degree murder, leaving the scene of an accident
involving death and three counts of reckless driving involving serious bodily
injury, said Assistant State Attorney Gregory Groger, who prosecuted the case.

On July 10, Merriex was in a Chevrolet Monte Carlo and fleeing from Pinellas
Park police when he ran a red light and hit a Ford Taurus. In the Taurus were
Nachenga Robinson, 32, her three children and her father's girlfriend.

Minutes before the wreck, in the Park Place shopping mall, a passenger in the
Monte Carlo identified by police as Rashane Barber had sold undercover police
$140 worth of crack cocaine, Pinellas Park police have said. As roughly a dozen
undercover narcotics detectives and SWAT team members swarmed upon the Monte
Carlo, Merriex sped off and hit the Taurus two blocks from the shopping mall,
Pinellas Park police have said.

Pinellas Park police have maintained that they were not pursuing Merriex when
the Monte Carlo collided with the Taurus. Pinellas Park's pursuit policy allows
officers to chase a suspect only if the suspect has been involved in a violent
felony such as murder or rape. Selling crack cocaine does not qualify.

Man Accused Of Assault With Ax

Frederick Andrews moved toward two Tampa police officers with an ax raised above
his head Sunday night, Tampa police say.

He was arrested at gunpoint at 8:47 p.m.

He was charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a law enforcement
officer and one count each of battery and aggravated assault with a deadly
weapon.

About 8:45 p.m., officers came to 1409 W. Wood St. because of a disturbance.

Andrews held his common-law wife by the throat and had a large ax with his other
hand, according to a police report. The officers ordered him to let the woman
go.

He "responded by running at both officers, while holding the ax above his head,"
the report states. The officers pointed their guns at Andrews and told him to
drop the ax.

He initially refused but ultimately stopped and dropped the ax, according to the
report. The woman refused to cooperate with law enforcement.

He remained in Falkenburg Road Jail on Monday. Bail was set at $20,000.

A staff report

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company
