
                               1 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 17, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Coral Crisis

BYLINE: KURT LOFT , kloft@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at
(813) 259-7570.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 678 words


Damage to global reefs warns of something ominous in the natural balance of
life.

TAMPA - Some call it the soul of the sea.

A soul, they fear, that's dying.

The world's coral reefs, among the most complex ecosystems on Earth, are
struggling against shifts in ocean temperature and overfishing. Both threaten
these magnificent marine edifices and many of the species that make coral their
home, scientists say.

How swift is the damage to these reefs, and what negative ripples will wash
ashore? Can anything be done to restore their health?

Biologists and oceanographers hope to answer these questions as they study the
state of coral systems, which also act as a barometer of climate change.

"The main threat is coral bleaching, which occurs because of warm temperatures,"
says Marj Awai, a curator at the Florida Aquarium in Tampa. "Corals are living
things, and constantly growing. Their health is important because they're a
habitat for a lot of animals, and the coral offers them protection."

The destruction of global reefs, Awai adds, is analogous to cutting down
millions of acres of trees.

"Corals are incredibly diverse," Awai says. "People often compare them to the
world's rain forests. But when they bleach out, the reef will die."

Global warming is a possible cause of coral bleaching. And as of 2000, an
estimated 27 percent of the world's coral reefs were severely damaged, a rise
from 10 percent a decade ago, according to the Global Coral Reef Monitoring
Network.

Reefs live at the upper edge of their temperature tolerance, making them
vulnerable to slight, if prolonged, change, says a report by the World Watch
Institute, an environmental watchdog organization in Washington, D.C. The report
notes that incremental warming above normal can put stress on the microscopic
plants that live in coral tissue and provide reefs with their bounty of color.

If over-stressed, the plants die and the coral turns white, or bleached,
exposing the white calcium carbonate skeletons of the coral colony. Reefs also
are affected by overfishing, an abundance of seaweed, salinity changes and
ultraviolet radiation, all of which can upset the delicate food chain symbiosis
of coral systems.

If these problems can be contained, scientists believe, about half the world's
coral could rebound in the next 20 to 50 years. If they do not, and warming
continues, about 60 percent of all reefs could perish within three decades.

Corals in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary have been grappling with
the seaweed problem. An excess of seaweed blocks sunlight and slowly kills the
reef.

Seaweed also gives off a chemical many marine animals and algae don't like,
which prevents them from living in the coral. Scientists suspect the overgrowth
could be caused by some sort of man-made runoff - agricultural or sewage - which
in turn fertilizes the seaweed.

The problems and possible solutions to the global coral issue are the focus of a
new documentary film, "Coral Reef Adventure," showing at the Museum of Science &
Industry's Imax theater. It attempts to answer questions about reef damage and
what can be done to reverse it.

The film tells the story of reef diversity and demise through the lens of Howard
and Michele Hall, a husband-and-wife cinematography team. The two spent 10
months filming reefs in the Pacific Ocean, making what they call "a lasting
cinematic record of the reefs as they exist today." Their effort shows the sheer
beauty of these underwater marvels and sobering images of reefs in decline.

The renowned conservationist Jean-Michel Cousteau, who is featured in the film,
says corals are warning us about changes in our world.

"Coral reefs are the canary in the coal mine, and the canary is now sick and
dying," he says. "When coral reefs suffer, it's a sign there's something
seriously wrong with the natural balance of our planet."

"Coral Reef Adventure" runs through Sept. 4 at the Museum of Science & Industry,
4801 E. Fowler Ave., Tampa. For film times and admission, call (813) 987-6300.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
MacGillivray Freeman Films

(C) Scientists say rising temperatures, overfishing, an abundance of seaweed and
other factors put stress on coral reefs, exposing their white calcium carbonate
skeletons. "Coral Reef Adventure," a new Imax film, attempts to answer questions
about reef destruction and what can be done to reverse it.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 2, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

The Other Blue Planet

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at
(813) 259-7570.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 553 words


TAMPA - It's springtime on Neptune.

Sure, this frigid blue planet may be 2.7 billion miles away, but it's hardly
hibernating: A series of images by the Hubble Space Telescope reveals a
remarkable change of seasons that could explain much about the dynamics of
planetary atmospheres.

"Neptune's cloud bands have been getting wider and brighter," says Lawrence A.
Sromovsky, a planetary scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and an
authority on Neptune. "This change seems to be a response to seasonal variations
in sunlight, like the seasonal changes we see on Earth."

What baffles scientists, however, is how a planet so far from the sun can have
such a marked change of seasons. Sunlight takes nearly five hours to reach
Neptune, where it is 900 times dimmer than on Earth. Still, Neptune is a violent
place, a swirling ball of hydrogen, helium and methane. Many of its wind
patterns hit speeds of 1,000 mph and flow against the planet's rotation.

"Yet Neptune has the smallest amount of energy of any planet to produce such
atmospheric motion," Sromovsky says. "It's strange the planet can run on so
little energy, so it must be very well-lubricated."

Such a trickle of solar radiation would hardly seem enough to drive a dramatic
weather pattern at the edge of the solar system, says Heidi Hammel, a planetary
astronomer with the Space Science Institute in Boulder, Colo.

"Some theories say it would take too long for Neptune's atmosphere to respond to
sunlight, so it's somewhat of a surprise Neptune has seasons," Hammel says.
"We've been scratching our heads over Neptune for quite some time. But it's
important because knowing how seasons work on other planets gives us a better
understanding of how atmospheres work on all the planets."

The only other "blue" planet in the solar system, Neptune for decades has
fascinated scientists with its weird patterns. The Voyager 2 flyby in 1989 gave
researchers their first close-up optical views, and powerful observations by
Hubble in 1996, 1998 and 2002 show progressively brighter bands of clouds across
the Southern Hemisphere.

Neptune orbits the sun every 165 years, so scientists don't have a complete
understanding of its life cycle. What they are seeing is a spring season that
could span four decades.

Part of the planet's outer changes may be influenced from within. Neptune's
powerful gravity creates internal heat, along with the shifting slush of
hydrogen, helium and methane against the Coriolis force of its surface. This
motion over Neptune's 16-hour day creates friction. But scientists say it's not
enough to spawn climate changes.

"The bottom line is we don't really know what's causing it," Hammel says. "It
could be an internal heat source, combined with very little sunlight. This would
mean Neptune has a very sensitive atmosphere, that very small changes trigger
very visible changes in the atmosphere. You'd have to say it's a sensitive
planet."

(CHART) (C) Neptune: Portrait of a Planet
Discovered: 1846
Composition: Mostly hydrogen, helium and methane
Color: Deep blue (methane absorbs wavelengths of red light)
Length of orbit around sun: 165 years
Length of day: 16 hours
Distance from Earth: 2.7 billion miles
Diameter: 30,500 miles (fourth largest planet)
Largest moon: Triton

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C) CHART (C)
(4C) "Neptune's cloud bands have been getting wider and brighter," says Lawrence
A. Sromovsky, a University of Wisconsin-Madison scientist. Hubble Telescope
images from 1996, bottom, 1998, middle, and 2002 reveal the differences which
scientists say could be a response to seasonal changes.

NOTES: SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 30, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Study Urges Use Of Cleaner, More Economical Fuels

BYLINE: JIM SLOAN, jsloan@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jim Sloan can be reached at
(813) 259-7691.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 713 words


ENVIRONMENTALISTS ARE CRITICAL OF BUSH

TAMPA - A new study urges U.S. leaders to boost auto fuel economy and search for
cleaner, more efficient fuels, but environmentalists say those recommendations
may grind to a halt with the pro-industry Bush administration.

The study, issued Thursday by the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, says
American vehicles spew more carbon dioxide than any other nation's entire
economy, except China.

It calls for using existing and emerging technology to boost fuel economy, as
well as stepping up research into gasoline alternatives - measures, some say,
that may meet resistance from auto manufacturers, the petroleum industry and the
Bush administration.

"The political reality with this White House is that it is more interested in
protecting the short-term interests of Detroit than fighting global warming,"
said Gary Skulnik of the Sierra Club's Global Warming and Energy Team. "I don't
see a whole lot getting done this year."

Difficult Task Ahead

One of the report's authors, however, says there's hope that lawmakers will heed
the report's warnings.

"It's going to be difficult, no question," said David L. Greene of the Center
for Transportation Analysis at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. "But there are
auto manufacturers who want to do something about the climate. They realize
that, sooner or later, something has to be done."

Dave Ryan, spokesman for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said Bush has
not ignored vehicle emissions. He's pushed programs to replace old school buses
with cleaner-running models and cut the sulfur content in diesel fuel.

"The administration has taken steps that will eventually reduce a significant
amount of air pollution in the U.S.," he said.

So-called greenhouse gases promote climate change, including a phenomenon
scientists refer to as global warming. A major concern is carbon dioxide emitted
from power plants and vehicle exhausts.

Nearly a third of the nation's greenhouse gases comes from the transportation
sector, and the amount is growing every year, according to the report.

Bush acknowledged the serious threat posed by global warming during his
presidential campaign and pledged to pursue regulations that would curtail
carbon dioxide emissions.

President Does About-Face

Two months after his inauguration, the president reversed his position after
representatives of the fossil fuel, utility and automotive industries expressed
their opposition.

It would be "inexcusable" not to take advantage of affordable ways to boost
transportation efficiency in the United States, said Pew President Eileen
Claussen, a former assistant secretary of state for the Clinton administration.

Some of the report's recommendations:

Research and develop alternatives to gasoline, such as liquefied petroleum and
hydrogen-powered fuel cells. While futuristic fuel cells may be a long-term
solution, the report adds, their development will require a massive research
investment by private industry.

Revamp the country's transportation system to make it more efficient for mass
transit, including more use of trains for transporting cargo instead of
gas-guzzling trucks.

Boost fuel economy for new cars and light trucks, aiming for a 25 percent to 33
percent improvement during the next 10 to 15 years and 50 percent to 100 percent
by 2030.

Institute mandatory policies for research into new fuel technology, so emerging
technologies can be brought to market quicker.

A "reasonable combination" of such measures, the report says, could slash carbon
dioxide emissions by 25 percent by 2015, and up to 50 percent by 2030.

"Yes, there is the question of whether we have the political will to do these
things," Greene said. "But these are practical things that ... in the long run,
will have a very significant impact."

Skulnik suggests environmental "champions" including Sens. John McCain and John
Kerry will help make the report's recommendations a reality.

"I don't think they [the report's authors] are saying there's any one silver
bullet that will work," he said. "But if there's the political will to look
seriously at global warming and provide our kids with a better future, our
leaders will take the necessary steps."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 29, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Chamber Celebration

BYLINE: LELAND HAWES, lhawes@tampatrib.com; Leland Hawes can be reached at (813)
259-7827.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1087 words


It's a 75th anniversary, but the community leadership group began its work in
Tampa more than 100 years ago.

Although the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce traces its start to May 12, 1885,
it's celebrating a 75th anniversary.

How did that happen? Because it has been a "chamber of commerce" for 75 years.
Before 1928, it was called a "board of trade."

The arrival of Henry B. Plant's railroad in January 1884, Tampa's first
steam-engine link to the rest of the country, brought the movement to stir up
business development and "put Tampa on the map."

It took awhile for the leaders in the then-tiny community - not yet incorporated
as a city - to officially organize the Tampa Board of Trade, as such groups were
then called.

John P. Wall, a prominent physician, was the first president. The board's first
priority became building a bridge across the Hillsborough River.

The bridge was important: Plant had dangled the prospect of a giant resort hotel
on the western bank of the river, but only if a bridge connected it to downtown.

Thus, the board pushed ahead on what was known as the Lafayette Street Bridge.
Its successor span is today's Kennedy Boulevard Bridge.

The Board of Trade was off and running, soon actively involved in bringing an
ice plant to Tampa - and helping acquire the town's first major industry: cigar
manufacturing, in Ybor City.

By 1928, the Board of Trade was solidified in its role of promoting Tampa as a
destination for new business and winter visitors.

1928 Brought Changes

But 1928 was not a time for bold optimism. Tampa was suffering from withdrawal
pains, as was Florida generally, following the wild real estate speculation that
peaked in the boom of 1925.

When James T. Swann was elected president of the Board of Trade that year, he
initiated an internal analysis that brought about several personnel changes and
new organizational targets.

Minutes don't reflect the motivation for a name change, only that a referendum
among members favored "chamber of commerce," 343-110. Apparently, it was part of
a national trend.

The Tampa board of governors directed its executives to put the wheels in
motion, and a special membership meeting confirmed the change. The corporate
charter was amended, creating the Tampa Chamber of Commerce on Dec. 1, 1928.

W. Scott Christopher, in his 1993 book "Tampa's People With a Purpose," wrote:
"Nationally, the new name enhanced its cooperative relationship with other
chambers of commerce. This was particularly true with the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, headquartered in Washington, D.C."

In later years, another trend brought an addition to the Tampa chamber's name.
It became the "Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce."

Today, it is one of 18 chambers of commerce in Hillsborough County - ranging
from Apollo Beach to Town 'N Country.

Although the chamber boasted several hundred member firms in 1928, today it
counts about 2,100, representing more than 230,000 employees in Hillsborough
County.

Today's Chamber

Robin de la Vergne, vice president of membership and marketing, says 80 percent
of those companies have 50 or fewer employees. "So we're not just a bunch of
large companies," she said. "We look a lot like the community."

Although women were scarce among chamber members 75 years ago, the organization
is headed today by Chairwoman Deanne Roberts of Roberts Communication Marketing
Inc.

In an interview, she said that although the old board of trade worked to provide
a bridge for Plant's hotel, today's chamber is wrestling with solutions to
modern transportation problems.

"We're repeating some history," Roberts said.

In past years, the chamber played a significant part in lobbying for and
acquiring the medical and engineering schools for the University of South
Florida, she said. Now it is concentrating on beefing up biotechnology to
enhance the economy.

Roberts also pointed to an April talk by Richard Florida sponsored by the
chamber. His thesis on "The Rise of the Creative Class" focused on how a city's
arts and entertainment climate can prove critical in improving its business
climate.

World Competes For Jobs

Randy Simmons, chairman of the chamber's Committee of 100, said, "We compete all
over the world now. We were quasiparochial at one time, competing with Pinellas
County. Now we're in partnership with Pinellas.

"Today, we compete with Atlanta, Austin [Texas] and Charlotte [N.C.] as well as
places in Ireland and India."

Job creation is the committee's main aim, pursuing targeted industries and
international trade.

"We're a lot more immersed in the port and the airport," Simmons said. "We're
positioned to take advantage of globalization."

Simmons added: "We're doing pretty well. Our Committee of 100 was rated among
the top 10 in the world by Site Selection magazine."

The name of the committee originated when it cost $100 to be a member. Now the
minimum fee is $3,000, and there are "several hundred" members, Simmons said.

Leadership Tampa is another chamber unit. It's a nine-month program to connect
newcomers and chief executive officers with "people, issues and ideas."

Among the members of the chamber's board of directors is MacDill Air Force Base
commander Col. David "Tanker" Snyder. The chamber's military affairs council is
proud that Tampa recently received the prestigious Abilene Trophy, based on
community support for MacDill.

In 1928, the chamber occupied a castlelike building that had housed the Knights
of Pythias and a short-lived newspaper called The Tampa Morning Telegraph. The
spacious structure served as the chamber's home into the 1960s.

In recent years, the chamber has leased space in downtown buildings. It now has
14,000 square feet at the Channelside complex. Roberts likes the location.

"It's good to be on the street level," she said. "We have good signage, and it
reminds people we're here."

"We're at an exciting juncture in the growth of our community," said Kim
Scheeler, president and chief executive officer of Greater Tampa Chamberof
Commerce. "We've come a long way in the past 75 years and we are well positioned
to turn Tampa into a Tier 1 city. The rich history of this community, combined
with theexcitement and enthusiasm today and the fantastic quality of life we
havehere, practically ensures our future greatness. With the dynamic
past,present and future leadership, the chamber is well prepared to be a
catalystfor the future development of our community."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Burgert Brothers photo from John F. Germany Library

This castlelike building at Morgan and Lafayette (today's Kennedy Bouevard)
streets was the home of the Tampa Board of Trade in 1928, when the decision was
made to change its name to the Tampa Chamber of Commerce. The building in 1926
housed the Tampa Morning Telegraph.
Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO

The leaders of today's Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce are, from left, Deanne
Roberts, chairwoman; Kim Scheeler, president and chief executive officer; Randy
Simmons of the Committee of 100; and John Ramil, who will be chairman next year.

NOTES: LELAND HAWES HISTORY & HERITAGE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 8, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1183 words



Stop Killing Gators

In the article "Gator Class Draws Hunters, Protesters" (Metro, Aug. 3), the word
"harvest" is used several times to describe the killing. It is euphemisms such
as this that hide from the public this stark reality: Humans in power boats with
high-tech tracking gear and killing devices such as harpoons, hooks and
.44-caliber bangsticks are slaughtering these animals for profit and fun.

After people have encroached without restraint upon the alligator's habitat, a
state spokesman has the nerve to ask us to believe that we are doing the
alligators a favor by killing them. Nice spin, but it's also nonsense.
Throughout nature, as food supplies diminish, populations decrease.
State-sponsored killing is not the answer. Let's show some respect for this
magnificent symbol of the Florida Everglades.
HEATHER LISCHIN
Fort Lauderdale
The writer is managing director of the Animal Rights Foundation of Florida.

Strikes May Backfire

Regarding "Surgeons' Protest Spreads" (Nation/World, Aug. 5):

The solution to the malpractice problem is so simple it defies reasonable
explanation as to why it has not occurred: Our Legislature should mandate a
freeze or roll-back on malpractice insurance rates.

Malpractice insurance companies need to treat doctors as auto insurance
companies treat their insured drivers: Good doctors should have the best rates,
bad doctors should pay more, and really bad doctors should get their insurance
canceled and the state should then suspend their licenses, quickly!

These professionals need to stop acting like adversaries on a playground and
grow up. Strikes and bickering will not solve the problem. It just makes people
mad at doctors!
CHARLES S. COHEN
Thonotosassa

Human Activity A Factor

The Geological Society of America may have raised some eyebrows about the
scientific importance of supernovas, cloud cover and the sun in relation to our
current threat, global climate change (Other Views, Aug. 5), but it failed to
mention the chief contributor in the steady rise of the Earth's temperature:
humans. There is no doubt that the activity in our galaxy increases the global
mean temperature, but the column neglected to mention that the natural
occurrences in the universe aren't the only contributors.

Ever since the Industrial Revolution, humans have tainted the natural greenhouse
effect by adding fuel to the fire - no pun intended. It has been written in many
publications that if Kyoto (or some other protocol) is not implemented, there
will be more hobbled ecosystems, less biodiversity and less potable water.

Furthermore, health concerns over the long term would include increases in
transmissions of vector-borne infectious diseases such as malaria and yellow
fever.

The problems of global climate change are current and familiar. People need to
be aware of its effects on their environment and their bodies.
ANTHONY KACZMAREK
Plant City

Tampa Not "Haute'

I was not at all surprised to learn that Lord & Taylor is closing its
International Plaza store and, in fact, all of its Florida stores (Nation/World,
July 31). The only surprise here is that it took the May Department Stores
management so long to reach this decision. I expect Neiman Marcus and a number
of the upscale, pricey boutiques in International Plaza to soon follow Lord &
Taylor "out the door."

One has only to take a stroll through Neiman Marcus or walk through the rest of
the mall and peek in the swank boutiques and it becomes readily apparent that
these retailers are simply not generating enough foot traffic to sustain their
operations.

The problem Lord & Taylor and other haute couture retailers have is that Tampa
seems to be the center of the "dress like a bum" universe.

When I moved here from New York, one of the first things I noticed is that very
few men seem to dress in anything above shorts, jeans, T-shirts, sandals and
tennis shoes. Getting dressed up for these guys is wearing a pair of khakis, a
polo shirt and loafers (socks optional).

Even many of the women here seem to prefer jean skirts or jeans, with the
seemingly obligatory midriff-baring tank- or halter-top blouse.

I've gone to dinner at Bern's Steak House, Roy's or Fleming's Prime Steakhouse
on several occasions and seen men arrive in the company of immaculately dressed,
finely coiffed women, while they themselves were wearing "dress jeans" (now
there's an oxymoron for you) or even shorts, the usual T-shirt or polo shirt and
tennis shoes, Timberland-boot-type shoes or sandals.

I realize that wearing a suit and tie or a jacket and a collared shirt during
the summer months in Tampa can be a torturous experience, but even a pair of
"real" dress slacks, a dress shirt and a pair of shined shoes seem to be too
much to ask of the "dress like a bum" crowd.

So long as this attitude toward dress dominates here, upscale clothing retailers
would be well-advised to steer clear of the Tampa Bay area. There is no market
for their goods here.
H. DAVID BRASWELL
Tampa

Feeble Criticism

Regarding "Fabulous George" (Other Views, Aug. 6):

Well, that one little word - "fabulous," as elaborated upon by the great Marsha
Mercer - is another clue that a certain segment of the media is really thrashing
about for reasons to object to our president and his successful first term!
Mercer seems unable to come up with anything more than a feeble essay on Bush's
use of the word "fabulous," but on the same page Mona Charen writes a
thought-provoking and insightful piece on the United States, our president and
his administration since Sept. 11, 2001.

When one reads Mercer, the word "petty" comes to mind; on the other hand, the
writing of Charen can be best described by the word "deep."

Mercer's grasping for relevance in her piece on "Fabulous George" reminds one of
another little word used by that man who used to be president, when he was
elaborating on what the meaning of the word "is" is!
ANNE CRUISE
Clearwater

A Trivial Pursuit

Regarding "Fabulous George" (Other Views, Aug. 6):

I think Marsha Mercer should look up the meaning of "nitpicking."
SARA LOGAN
Tampa

With God's Blessing?
Regarding "Episcopalians Vote To Allow Gay Bishop" (Nation/World, Aug. 6):

So, the Episcopal Church has chosen an openly gay bishop to lead them - which,
according to many pundits, will fracture the church into two diametrically
opposed groups: namely, those who voted for him and those who did not.

I just have to wonder: Which way did God vote?
ALLEN PERRIN
Ruskin

Teach Views, Not Hate

Regarding "Proposal To Broaden Professors' Academic Freedom Is Under Fire"
(Saturday Forum, Aug. 2):

V. Dion Haynes should check his sources of information. Sami Al-Arian was not
fired for criticizing the government. Possible links to terrorist groups and
violation of university policy are something else.

Professors should have the right to teach different viewpoints, but teaching
hate of any kind has no good reason to be in the academic world.
SAM CIATTO
Zephyrhills

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 13, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 474 words


Walking Off Diabetes

Taking a brisk, half-hour walk every day can decrease a person's risk of
developing diabetes, according to researchers at the University of Pittsburgh
School of Public Health.

"We have found that men and women who incorporate activity into their lifestyles
are less likely to develop Type 2 diabetes than those who are sedentary, no
matter what their initial weight," says Andrea Kriska, author of the study in
the American Journal of Epidemiology.

MOSI To Honor Scientist

Mario Molina, winner of the 1995 Nobel Prize in chemistry, comes to Tampa this
week as the honored guest for the Museum of Science & Industry's third annual
National Hispanic Scientist of the Year Gala. Born in Mexico City, Molina is an
atmospheric chemist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge
and specializes in the effects of chlorofluorocarbons on the atmosphere.

MOSI's annual award recognizes outstanding Hispanic scientists who have promoted
public understanding of science and who motivate young Hispanics to enter
science as a career. For information, call (813) 987-6313.

Broken Ice Shows Change

The largest ice shelf in the Arctic has broken up, and scientists cite it as
evidence of ongoing and accelerated climate change in the north polar region,
according to the American Geophysical Union. The Ward Hunt Ice Shelf is on the
north coast of Ellesmere Island in Canada's Nunavut territory. This ancient
feature of thick ice floating on the sea began forming about 4,500 years ago and
has been in place for at least 3,000 years.


USGS To Hold Open House

Want to get more involved with the physical world around you? Then consider the
U.S. Geological Survey's fifth annual open house, "Eyes on Planet Earth:
Monitoring our Changing World," Oct. 24 from 3 to 6 p.m. at the USGS Center for
Coastal and Watershed Studies, 600 Fourth St. S. in St. Petersburg.

Scientists will present exhibits and discuss subjects such as hurricanes; beach
erosion; volcanoes; ground water; coral reefs; and Florida hydrology, geology
and native wildlife. Families can participate in educational experiments and
pose questions to scientists. The event is free. For information, call (727)
803-8747 or go to coastal.er.usgs.gov/openhouse2003.html online.


Science Stumper

Eric Vlahov of Tampa was the first reader to correctly answer last week's trivia
question: What was the first solid food consumed in space, and who developed it?
Answer: Space Food Sticks, eaten by Mercury astronaut Scott Carpenter during his
May 1962 mission on Aurora 7. The sticks were marketed by the Pillsbury division
of General Mills foods.

Now for today's stumper: In his "Critique of Pure Reason," how did ImmanuelKant
describe Euclidean space?

Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls, please.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Mario Molina

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 29, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

ZONING CHANGES

BYLINE: Compiled by Tom Brennan, who can be reached at tbrennan@tampa; trib.com
or (813) 657-4528.

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 463 words


Hillsborough County commissioners approved the following area rezonings and
land-use changes this week.

Boyette

Allowing the developer of a 329-acre project on the south side of Rhodine Road,
about 800 feet west of Boyette Road, to change the minimum backyard width of
three lots that abut existing homes on its eastern boundary. The project is
approved for 260 homes, a public stable and equestrian center for up to 40
horses.

Brandon

Installing four speed humps on Greenbriar Drive between Westfield Drive and
South Kings Avenue.

Installing three speed humps on Montclair Avenue North between State Road 60 and
East Sadie Street.

Installing two speed humps on Sherry Drive between Greenbriar Drive and
Bloomingdale Avenue.

Tearing down the Amoco station at the southeast corner of S.R. 60 and Kings
Avenue to make way for a 14,287-square-foot, free-standing Eckerd drug store. RZ
03-0109.

Building a 35-home, gated subdivision on 15 acres on the east side of Kings
Avenue, across from Climate Drive.

Gibsonton

Allowing A-Fab-Co Inc. expand its facility on the east side of U.S. 41, about
100 feet south of Nena Avenue, to a half-acre lot immediately to the south. RZ
03-0274.

Riverview

Converting a home on a quarter-acre at the southeast corner of Johanna and
Krycul avenues into 5,000 square feet of professional office space with the
option to expand or replace the home.

Converting a home on a half-acre on the northeast side of U.S. 301, about 100
feet northwest of Bloomingdale Ridge, into a contractor's office.

Allowing general commercial uses on 11/2 acres southeast of Gibsonton Drive,
about 600 feet west of Kenlake Drive.

Subdividing 6 acres at 8234 Rancheria Drive into 1-acre home lots.

Thonotosassa

Building a 147-home, equestrian-theme subdivision on the 645-acre Hendry cattle
ranch east of Lake Thonotosassa, west of McIntosh Road and north of Thonotosassa
Road.

Building 13 homes on 131/2 acres on the north side of Knights Griffin Road,
about a quarter mile east of Ed Denison Road.

Valrico

Building a 30-home subdivision on 10 acres on the west side of of St. Cloud
Avenue, about 200 feet north of Treadway Drive. The homes would have
7,700-square-foot minimum lots. RZ 03-0102.

Commissioners continued until April 8.

Lithia

Letting the developer of FishHawk Ranch modify its development orders to allow
apartments on 26 acres southeast of FishHawk and FishHawk Crossing boulevards.
The tract originally had been approved for office space and stores. The
developer is not asking for any more residences than already approved. FishHawk
Ranch is a 4,400-acre project approved for 5,679 homes, 2,000 apartments, 92,000
square feet of offices and 390,000 square feet of commercial space.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ZONING CHANGES

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 12, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Monroe Is County's Only Nominee For National Change Award

BYLINE: ELLEN GEDALIUS, egedalius@tampatrib.com; Reporter Ellen Gedalius can be
reached at (813) 259-7684.

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 298 words


PORT TAMPA - Monroe Middle School is the Hillsborough County school district's
only nominee for the National School Change Award, which honors schools that
have improved their reputations and test scores.

"We felt there wasn't an award like this," said Lew Smith, founder and director
of the awards program. "This is an award to recognize schools that weren't doing
very well" and now are.

Winners receive $5,000 and professional training for the principal.

Monroe was "the first school that I thought of," said Jackie Heard, the
district's general director of middle schools. "I'm just amazed and impressed by
their school culture and climate."

She said community members know they can count on the school when they need
help. She recalled an occasion, for example, when a woman needed someone to
drive her to the grocery store because she had no way to get there. Within
minutes, Heard said, the school had found a volunteer.

The school also was selected for its rising test scores.

"For years, Monroe has had a reputation of being a mediocre school," Principal
Joe Brown said. "We live in a poor section of town. We couldn't compete with
other schools in the district."

But the school received an A on the 2001 Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test
after two years of Cs.

"That first year [of receiving an A] just kind of raised the bar," Brown said.
"We broke that barrier and now anything less is unacceptable."

The school received its second A from the state last year.

People are noticing, Heard said.

"Five or six years ago, the reputation of that school was that it was an OK
school. Nothing great," Heard said. "Parents did special assignments to other
schools."

Now, Heard said, fewer people request special assignments away from Monroe.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Joe Brown

Will get training as part of the award

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   January 25, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Aiming At Aggression

BYLINE: ELLEN GEDALIUS , egedalius@tampatrib.com; Reporter Ellen Gedalius can be
reached at (813) 259-7684.

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words


Some schools are learning to help teenage girls develop healthy relationships
through the Ophelia Project program.

SOUTH TAMPA - Little girls gossip.

They whisper behind each other's backs. They roll their eyes. They spread rumors
and give their peers the silent treatment.

Enough, says Susan Wellman, president of the Ophelia Project. The culture needs
to change. It won't happen overnight, but it must change.

Schools in South Tampa are part of the movement.

The Ophelia Project was born in 1997 in Erie, Pa., after Wellman read Mary
Pipher's "Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls." Wellman
finally understood what had led her daughter to years of battling bulimia, binge
drinking and a suicide attempt.

"What had happened to my daughter is happening to middle school students across
the country," Wellman told dozens of parents at St. Mary's Episcopal School.
"She lost her identity. She had to pretend to be something else."

She had to fit in.

And she was a victim of relational aggression, which is defined as behavior
intended to harm someone by damaging their relationships with others.

In other words, girls tend not to hit each other. It's the covert things they do
- the nasty stares, the passed notes - that beat up their classmates.

"They become very catty," said Michele Lambert, head of the middle school
division of St. John's Episcopal. "They gang up and they gossip. Boys will punch
each other and it's over with. Girls will carry it through, write nasty notes."

Boys do some of that, too, and girls will hit, but in most cases, the reverse is
true.

"Relationships are so paramount in females' lives that if I want to hurt you and
hurt your relationships, I've really got you," Wellman said.

And because it's covert, it continues.

"It's a problem at every school I've ever encountered," said Steve Edwards, head
of St. Mary's upper school. "The kids don't do it in front of the parents, in
front of the teachers."

South Tampa schools want to be part of the solution, and the Tampa Metropolitan
Area YMCA is the main financial backer.

Faculty problems can be fixed, St. Mary's Headmaster Scott Laird said.
Curriculum issues can be remedied. Athletic glitches can be solved.

"When we're talking about student behavior and student interactions, those are
the things, as educators, that keep us awake at night," Laird said.

The entire St. Mary's school community is participating in Creating A Safe
Social Climate In Our Schools, a $10,000 program created by Ophelia Project
leaders. In return for the money, schools get intensive training and materials
to combat relational aggression. St. Mary's is one of just five schools
nationwide to participate this year.

The goal is to create an emotionally and physically safe environment for
children. The path there is a long one.

It starts with training. Staff and teachers will be part of a 11/2-day training
program, and some people, including Edwards, will travel to Erie for more
training.

The school will develop new procedures so students, parents and staff will know
how to address relational aggression. Schools tend to know how to handle
physical aggression but not relational.

"It is scarring them," Wellman said. "It is taking away their spirit. And they
walk into school day after day with no one to intervene."

As part of the program, St. Mary's will work to create safer classrooms, educate
parents and train mentors.

The mentors, perhaps St. Mary's alumni, could be role models for younger
students and inspire them to stop peer aggression.

"What we found is children listen to children," said Elizabeth Fowler, vice
president of the board of trustees.

Parents need to be part of the process, too, Wellman said. They need to talk to
their children about relational aggression and teach them why it's wrong. And
they need to realize that even if they're good role models, their children still
could be the classroom bully.

"Kids learn bullying from each other and sitcoms and movies, not necessarily at
home," Wellman said. "The kids had become so manipulative they outsmarted their
parents every step of the way. That's the collective denial this whole nation is
in."


A Breath Of Fresh Air

Other schools in South Tampa are trying to shed that denial.

While not participating in the Creating A Safe Social Climate In Our Schools
program, they are embracing the theories of the Ophelia Project.

"We do adolescents a disservice by not answering their questions," Lambert said.
"The Ophelia Project is just a breath of fresh air for us."

St. John's Episcopal School, for example, is forming a mother-daughter book
club. The first meeting was Tuesday, and participants will read stories that
deal with adolescent teen issues.

They're starting with "What Every Girl (Except Me) Knows," the story of a young
girl growing up without a mother.

"We're really just trying to open the lines of communication between mothers and
daughters," Lambert said. "We really want them to hear what these girls are
worrying about, fear about."

She sees the book club as a safe way for girls to express themselves because
they can displace their fears on fictional characters.

Lambert also is looking into older girls serving as mentors to younger ones.

That's also the case at Plant High School. Seniors might mentor ninth graders,
and sophomores and juniors might mentor middle school students, guidance
resource specialist Margaret Gandy said.

Academy of the Holy Names also is exploring mentorship programs, said Patty
Bohannan, director of alumni relations.

Coleman Middle School plans to implement a program by spring, said Nancy
Laskowitz, a Parent Teacher Association board member. The school is considering
bringing in speakers to teach children how to deal with problems and combat
relational aggression.

No matter the approach, there's no Band-Aid remedy, Wellman said.

"It's going to take years," she said. "We've got to forget about quick fixes."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C)
Tribune photos by JAY CONNER

(C) Emily Merrill, 10, and her mother, Susan Merrill, participate in a
mother-daughter book club at St. John's Episcopal Middle School.
(C) The mother-daughter book club is reading "What Every Girl (Except Me)
Knows."
Susan Wellman

(C) President of the Ophelia Project that has come to south Tampa

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 21, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Fast Forward

BYLINE: KURT LOFT

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 417 words



Computer Worm

The "sapphire" computer worm that attacked the Internet this year is the
fastest-spreading computer virus recorded, say scientists at the International
Computer Science Institute in Berkeley, Calif. They call the worm a significant
- and troubling - milestone in the evolution of computer viruses.

Sapphire, also known as "slammer," doubled its numbers every eight seconds
during its first minute of attack. The initial 75,000 infected computer hosts
then spewed billions of copies of the worm into cyberspace. It slowed Internet
traffic and disrupted businesses transactions worldwide.

"Sapphire represents a major new threat in computer worm technology," says
Stuart Staniford, co-author of a new report the center published on the subject.
"Lightning-fast computer worms are not just a theoretical threat, but a
reality."


Florida Shipwrecks

The waters surrounding Florida's coast are filled with sunken ships that date
back hundreds of years, and many of their stories surface in "Shipwrecks of
Florida," airing Tuesday at 8 p.m. on the History Channel. Part of the series
"Deep Sea Detectives," the special includes underwater footage of a 15th-century
Spanish galleon, a U.S. Navy schooner and an English brig.


Clipped Wings

Bird populations around the world are declining faster than expected, and the
influence of people is a major cause, says the new report "Wing Messengers: The
Decline of Birds." The report is published by the Worldwatch Institute, an
environmental advocacy group in Washington, D.C.

The problem stems from habitat loss, chemical threats, climate change and
illegal hunting. The increase in nonnative species also has created an imbalance
in bird populations, the report states.

"Declining bird populations mark not only the loss of unique species but the
unraveling of delicate natural balances," says Howard Youth, author of the
study. "Birds are valuable environmental indicators because they warn us of
problems through their waning or flourishing populations."

The report can be purchased for $5 by calling 1-888-544-2303 or visiting
Science Stumper

Nobody offered the correct answer to our last trivia question: What note on the
musical scale is the sound of a typical American car horn, and what note is a
standard telephone dial tone? Answer: F and A, respectively.

Now for today's stumper. A person's retina keeps developing until roughly what
year of life? Send your answers to . No phone calls, please.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
(C) (Egret)

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 9, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Chardonnay Remains A Major Player Despite Competition

BYLINE: KEN COLLURA, asksommelier@bernssteakhouse.com; Ken Collura is head
sommelier at Bern's Steak House in Tampa.

SECTION: BAYLIFE FLAVOR, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words


There was a time, not too long ago, when chardonnay was the equivalent of "white
wine" in this country. If it said chardonnay on the label, it was an easy sell;
if it didn't, it wasn't. Chardonnay was the reigning queen, and it basically
steamrolled any other white wine in its path.

Well, a great change has come, and rightfully so.

It's a broad market out there today, and just about anything goes. I remember
noticing an Austrian gruner veltliner, an Alsatian pinot blanc and a Spanish
albarino on three different tables one day recently. To me, this represented
proof that new doors have been opened and confirmed that the public's
preferences are in transition.

Don't count chardonnay out, however. It may have lost a bit of luster but still
remains a major player in the scheme of things.

Think about this: What do the wines that have stolen market share from chard,
such as Italian pinot grigio and New Zealand sauvignon blanc, have in common?
They're tank-fermented and crisp, with lively acids. I'm of the opinion that
some of today's forward-thinking winemakers are attempting to redefine
chardonnay in an effort to capitalize on this.

In just the past year or so, I've seen a subtle move away from those
buttercup-yellow, creamy-smooth oak-bombs that dominated the American
marketplace for so many years. Oh, there will always be folks who ask for
"buttery" chardonnays, and there's certainly no lack of availability of this
style. But in general, I find these requests are coming from those with
less-sophisticated palates, and I sense that winemakers recognize that their
better clientele are making a shift toward lighter, more food-friendly whites.

Stylistically, this grape expresses itself differently in every place it's
grown. Trying to describe the taste of chardonnay is like to trying to describe
what a flower looks like. The wines differ, and it's quite tricky being specific
in the face of so much diversity, but I'll try to relate my perception of what
to expect from some of the world's chardonnays.

Burgundy

Burgundy is the yardstick by which all chardonnay must be measured. When it's
right (why do we always use this caveat when referring to Burgundy?), there is
no better chard on Earth.

The same comment, with the identical caveat, can be used for the pinot noir
grown in this French region. And if you want the really good stuff, you gotta
pay.

The top bottlings come from in and around four towns: Chablis, Meursault,
Chassagne-Montrachet and Puligny-Montrachet. Although they bear a resemblance to
one another, they're really distinctive. No other region is more
producer-oriented, so once you find a domain you like, stick with it year in and
year out.

Chablis: Its wines are pale gold-green in color, with marked acidity and a
minerality (both nose and palate) not encountered anywhere else.

Meursault: I often discern hazelnuts and floral overtones from these wines.

Chassagne: The boldest of this grouping, it offers fatter, fuller wines that are
sometimes rich in context.

Puligny: Its offerings are finer, elegant and finesse-driven.

California

I did a little blind-tasting test for myself prior to writing this piece. I had
one of my stewards pour four glasses of California chard from Napa, Russian
River Valley, Santa Maria Valley and Monterey. One was fat and oaky, another
thin and crisp. The third was immense and tasted of burnt pineapples, and the
last was lemony and perfectly balanced.

Afterward, I was shaking my head because I was basically clueless as to where
they came from. I made some guesses, but went 0-for-4. They send you down to the
minor leagues if you do that too often.

It's hard for me to distinguish California whites from one appellation to
another, especially chardonnay. I've come to believe that the vision of the
winemaker or winery is the focal point of many wines coming out of California,
thus blurring terroir. As time goes on, I'm confident this will change, as more
properties become devoted to making wines that clearly represent each region's
individual characteristics.

Oregon-Washington

The chards from Oregon are often austere and crisp in a Burgundian sort of way.
Cooler climates make for a brisk feeling in the wines. They rarely disappoint,
but on the other hand, they rarely excite.

Washington state produces chards that seem to be a halfway point between
Burgundy and California. It's for this reason that I like them. They seem to
have their own niche, with a unique weight and texture.

Australia

These are really pretty rich versions, sometimes bordering on off-dry. If you
want to serve 'em fat and sassy, bring out something from Oz. Those from New
South Wales are the richest, but South Australia bottlings can be big as well.
Victoria and Western Australia have the coolest climates and best balance.

Others

New Zealand has that high-acid, rich-fruit mix I find so intriguing. Italy's
chardonnays are generally rather thin, lively drinks for summer. Those from
Chile and Argentina are all over the place in style and truly difficult to
categorize.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WINESPEAK

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 21, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: KURT LOFT

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 438 words



Stress And Exercise

Are you stressed out, feeling deflated and constantly worrying about trivial
things? Then try a regular butt-busting workout, say health experts studying the
effect of heavy exercise on mental health.

Although many doctors recommend moderate exercise to counter tension and stress,
a new study by researchers at the University of Missouri-Columbia shows that
relatively high-intensity exercise is better in reducing complications that may
lead to heart disease. The amount of stress and anxiety a person experiences is
a major factor in cardiovascular disease, the researchers say.

Grilling Grills

If you enjoy cooking on a backyard grill, digest the following facts from the
U.S. Department of Energy.

An estimated 60 million Americans fired up their barbecue grills during the
Fourth of July weekend, burning the equivalent of 2,300 acres of forest and
consuming enough energy to meet the residential demand of a town the size of
Pensacola for a year. A day of grilling would emit nearly 225,000 metric tons of
carbon dioxide.

So what kind of grill pollutes the most: gas, electric or charcoal?

If you're thinking charcoal, think again. Although electric grills emit no
carbon dioxide, they have the highest emissions per hour of all grills when
considering fossil fuel emissions from producing and transmitting electricity,
says researcher Tristram West of the energy department's Oak Ridge National
Laboratory.

An electric grill operated for an hour would account for 15 pounds of carbon
dioxide, a charcoal grill would emit 11 pounds, and a gas grill, 5.6 pounds.
Carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, is generally believed to be a major factor in
climate change.

Science Stumper

Peter J. Post of Tarpon Springs was the first of many readers to correctly
answer last week's trivia question: On the Celsius scale for temperature, water
freezes at 0 degrees and boils at 100 degrees. On the Fahrenheit scale, water
freezes at 32 degrees and boils at 212. How did these seemingly arbitrary
numbers for Fahrenheit come about?

The German physicist G. D. Fahrenheit based his reference points on the
temperature of brine water and ice - 0 degrees - and the relative temperature of
his wife's body, which was about 100 degrees (actually 98.6). Using these
reference points, pure water froze at 32 degrees and boiled at 212.

Now for today's stumper: When the Russian chemist Dimitri Mendeleev was creating
the Periodic Table, now a staple in every high school chemistry class, how many
elements were known? Send your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com. No phone calls,
please.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
(C) (Grill)

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 7, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Global Warming Treaty Undone By Chilling Economic Realities

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 669 words


The United States, long ridiculed by European nations for ignoring the Kyoto
Agreement, is being proved correct. The international effort to slow the assumed
increase in global temperatures just isn't working.

Now, Russia too is talking about tossing the global-warming restrictions into
the fire because the restrictions on emissions would kill its economic growth.

The concept to sharply cut emissions of greenhouse gases that trap the sun's
heat in the atmosphere is impossible to enforce. No one objects to having less
smoke in the air, but almost everyone objects to the sacrifices required.

Consider what's happening in Ireland, which signed the treaty. The Irish economy
has been healthy, so Irish motorists are driving more places in bigger cars, as
are Americans. Ireland is on track to blow its Kyoto limits by a factor of 10.

And it isn't alone. A reported 13 of the 15 countries in the European Union are
violating their Kyoto limits.

Or take a look at Canada, another party to the flawed treaty. The Canadian
government is spending $1 billion to try to meet 8 percent of its Kyoto target.
Kenneth Green of the Risk & Environment Centre of the Fraser Institute estimates
that to uphold its agreement, each Canadian taxpayer must pay an extra $4,700
per year for the next five years, while the Canadian economy will shrink by 6
percent a year because of the mandated slowdown in economic activity.

The payback, should the entire world make similar sacrifices, is a small
slowdown in the projected increase in temperatures. One irony of the simplistic
restrictions is that they work against the sort of innovations needed to make
dramatic decreases in harmful emissions.

Ron Brenneman, head of Petro-Canada, one of Canada's largest energy companies,
explains that his company faces Kyoto-inspired deadlines and has no time to try
out experimental technologies. It is forced to buy emissions credits from
companies in other nations, so "instead of putting money into technological
innovation here in Canada, we seem to be encouraging capital outflows with very
dubious benefit."

Many U.S. corporate leaders have issued similar warnings. James A. Kosowski of
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. told Congress earlier this year that following
the Kyoto restrictions would reduce "greenhouse emissions to a level that is 7
percent below their 1990 levels by 2012. Because the United States has
experienced significant economic growth during much of that time, that means
emissions would need to be reduced by 30 percent. The only way to reduce those
emissions by 30 percent is to reduce energy use.

"How much would 30 percent equal? That would be equivalent to the total amount
of energy used for transportation in 1996. So reducing energy use to meet the
accord would be tantamount to permanently stopping all highway, rail, water and
air traffic."

Former President Clinton favored the treaty but understood the costs, which
explains why he didn't push for ratification. His energy officials estimated
that to sign Kyoto would mean gasoline prices would go up 52 percent,
electricity prices would go up 86 percent, and the economy would shrink by more
than 4 percent a year.

It is not politically possible to impose so great a cost on a democracy for so
dubious a goal. Yet that reality ought not preclude sensible changes to reduce
waste.

There Are Rational Alternatives

Here in Florida, a proposal to set minimum-efficiency standards for 10 products
- including ceiling fans, commercial freezers and traffic signals - was rejected
by Gov. Jeb Bush's Department of Community Affairs.

The energy savings would have more than made up for the higher initial costs of
the appliances, and statewide the standards would have eliminated the need for
three new power plants.

Kyoto is dead, but problems of high energy costs and pollution remain no matter
what happens with the climate in the next century. Sensible energy use remains
good economics and smart politics.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUR OPINION

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 3, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Largemouth Bass Virus

BYLINE: SANDY HUFF , Tribune correspondent

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1194 words


Pasco Bass Not Affected By Dormant Virus For Time Being

Just a few months ago, travelers wearing masks were a common sight at airports
throughout the world. Nobody knew where the SARS virus came from, but it caused
panic where it appeared.

Now, a virus may be affecting one of the top game fish in our country. And it
might have been here for decades.

Bass are Florida's top game fish, generating millions of dollars in revenue.
Industries are built around bass fishing. There are bass boats, bass lures, bass
seminars and uncountable bass fishing tournaments.

Plus, they are fun to catch.

But a hidden sickness might lurk inside each fish in the state.

Largemouth Bass Virus (LMBV) is a disease that so far has affected only those
members of the black bass family called largemouths, Micropterus salmoides.

The virus may have been around far longer than we know. It first came to
national attention in 1995 in South Carolina, when many fish died at Santee
Cooper reservoir.

It might have occurred in Florida a decade ago, first at Lake Walk in the Water
near Lake Wales. Dozens of big adult largemouth bass suddenly appeared on the
surface of the usually placid lake.

That same summer, more bass died at Lake June in Highlands County.

At the time, Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission fisheries
biologists who studied the dead carcasses had no idea what had killed these
fish, many of them female. They said that perhaps a lack of food in the form of
smaller fish might have killed them.

But when the two scientists at Auburn University reported finding a new strain
of virus, which they dubbed the Largemouth Bass Virus, Florida biologists looked
at the two old fish kills with new eyes.

Tom Champeau, fisheries biologist at the commission's Lakeland office, was
quoted in The Lakeland Ledger as saying: "We just kind of wrote it off due to
the population being weak because of a lack of food supply. But when it started
to become known that there was a virus, it definitely sounded like that."

Once they knew what to look for, Arkansas scientists found the virus was
widespread. It has been found from Texas to Chesapeake Bay, as far north as
Vermont, even here in Florida.

The biggest fish kill so far was in Arkansas. More than 1,000 bass died in Lake
Monticello, one of the best bass spots in that state. The dead fish were large
adults, ranging from 16 to 24 inches.

Working in a lab in Warm Springs, Ark., U.S. Fish and Wildlife scientists tested
9,412 bass from 408 sites around the southeast U.S. The virus was found in 8.2
percent, or 773 fish from 153 sites.


Florda Research

Based on research from Arkansas, Florida scientists add that LMBV might have
been here in Florida as early as 1991, as symptoms of a fish kill in Lake Weir
appear to be related to those of a Texas fish kill.

But Lake Weir is in Central Florida, in Ocala National Forest, near the tiny
town of Salt Springs. How did the virus get there?

Humans might not be the villains. Birds could have carried the tiny virus cells
on their wet feet. And as the virus can be transmitted through water, it simply
might exist in any chain of lakes.

The virus may have been in Florida for a long time.

All of the bass sampled at the commission fisheries lab in Eustis had the virus.
But as long as they were in clean, cool water, the disease stayed dormant.

One scientist commented that a bass with LMBV was like a human with a cold sore.
The herpes virus always is in your body, but only pops up when your body is
weakened by other factors.

Despite huge advances in medical science, viruses still are not well-understood.
A virus is defined as a non-cellular microscopic organism capable of causing a
disease. Viruses can live in warm- and cold-blooded animals for years, surfacing
and causing symptoms for no apparent reason.

So far, scientists have isolated several strains of LMBV. It is an iridovirus, a
virus that affects only cold-blooded fish, amphibians and reptiles. Humans and
other warm-blooded animals are not affected.

Hybrid striped bass that were kept in aquariums with infected largemouth bass
also developed the disease. However, this does not seem to have happened in the
wild.


Symptoms, Causes

During hot weather, bass simply act lethargic. They swim near the surface, and
if a boat gets close, they struggle to swim away.

The virus seems to affect the swim bladder. Infected bass can't stay upright and
appear bloated.

Other than that, infected bass seem to be completely normal. They just die.

Scientists do not know how the virus started in Florida. It is only one of more
than 100 virus strains found in fish. It is closely related to a virus found in
frogs.

Aquarium fish may have brought it into the United States. Under high- powered
microscopes, the virus is almost identical to a fish virus found in guppies and
doctor fish imported from Southeast Asia.

The dying fish seem to have been stressed. Scientists are debating which stress
factors bring it on. Ideas include pollution, overpopulation, catch-and-release
bruising, low oxygen levels, habitat changes and global warming.

Because bass are such an important part of the sport-fishing industry, the virus
received immediate attention.

In 2001, more than 75 fisheries biologists, veterinarians, pathologists and
other experts met in Jacksonville to study the disease.

That high-powered seminar, sponsored by B.A.S.S. Inc., might have been a tempest
in a teacup. During 2000, only a dozen fish died from LMBV.

The disease, it seems, peaks, then goes away. Once a water body has suffered a
fish kill, the remaining fish seem to be immune. Stocks come back, both in
numbers and in behavior.

But since the virus has the potential to infect more fish, biologists are
closely studying it. Their goal is to both understand the virus and reassure
anglers.


In Hot Water

Our Florida bass may be in hot water, both literally and figuratively. Warm
water seems to make the disease worse. Fish kept in aquariums at 86 degrees
Fahrenheit died 3.3 times faster than fish in 77 degree aquariums.

Other factors did not seem to trigger the disease, such as the presence of lots
of underwater plants, or the use of underwater herbicides.

The good news is Pasco County bass seem to be OK. The virus has been found in
seven other waterways tested around the state.

The bad news is many of our Pasco lakes are shallow. This means they heat
rapidly during hot weather.

Bass traditionally hang out in deep spots, and this may be because the water is
cooler there.

While only big bass have been noticed with the disease, biologists wonder if
there might be long-term problems among younger fish. These changes might
include different behavior, growth rates and changes in reproductive strategies.

So far, scientists do not know of a cure for LMBV. The fish seem safe to eat,
though most large bass are released during fishing tournaments.

But if you are fishing for bass, use common sense. If you intend to eat the bass
you catch, only take home the frisky ones. Any fish that seems to be sleepy
might be infected.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Tribune file photo by FRANK SARGEANT

If you notice a largemouth bass acting sleepy, throw it back because it may be
infected with LMBV.

NOTES: OUTDOORS SPORTS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 20, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FAST FORWARD

BYLINE: Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words



Bearing The Cold

Unless the pace of global warming slows, polar bears could disappear within a
century, says a University of Alberta expert in Arctic ecosystems. While it has
been known for some time that the polar bear is in trouble, new research shows
that Arctic ice - the animal's primary habitat - is melting much faster than
scientists had believed, says biologist Andrew Derocher.

"The climate predictions coming out are showing massive changes in sea-ice
distribution," says Derocher. If the predictions are correct, he says, "we'll
certainly lose polar bears in a lot of areas where we currently have them."

Polar bears rely on sea ice to survive, using it to pass between forest dens and
hunting grounds where they prey on seals. There are about 15,000 polar bears in
northern Canada, accounting for about two-thirds of the world's total
population. To make matters worse, sea-ice melting is accelerated by "positive
feedback loops." Sea ice acts as a reflector of solar energy, but when the ice
disappears, the ocean absorbs that heat energy, which in turn prevents ice from
freezing.

"Once climate warming initiates, you get into a self-warming cycle," Derocher
says. "That's why there's urgency on the issue for polar bears now."

Deep Thoughts

In 1938, a South African fishing boat dredged up a living relic from the age of
the dinosaurs, a fish thought to have been extinct for many millions of years.
Since then, more of these coelacanths have surfaced, begging the question of how
and why they have survived for so long. Learn more about these strange animals
during "Ancient Creature of the Deep," a "Nova" science special airing Tuesday
at 8 p.m. on WEDU, Channel 3.

Give A Day

Volunteers are needed to participate in the Tampa Bay Estuary Program's "Give A
Day For The Bay" event, which will help re-establish a nature trail at McKay Bay
Nature Park in Tampa. People are needed to cut and cart away Brazilian pepper
plants, an invasive species. The event is Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., at the
park, located 2 miles east of downtown Tampa off Adamo Drive on 34th Street.
Lunch and T-shirts will be provided. Reservations must be made by calling (727)
893-2765 or signing up by e-mailing the program at nanette@tbep.org

Science Stumper

Last week's question received a lot of response, in part because of an incorrect
statement about the moon's rate of rotation. We thank readers for pointing out
the error. Marion Smith of Tampa was the first to correctly answer the
phenomenon that describes why the moon, in its synchronous rotation around
Earth, always shows the same face. Answer: gravitational phase locking. Here's
our stumper for today: What is the world's largest terrestrial carnivore? Send
your answers to kloft@tampatrib.com No phone calls, please.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCIENCE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 11, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Across the Region

BYLINE: A staff report; ELIZABETH LEE BROWN; YVETTE C. HAMMETT; KARLAYNE R.
PARKER; DONNA KOEHN; A STAFF REPORT; NATASHIA GREGOIRE; RICK BARRY

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1299 words



HILLSBOROUGH
Extension Of Sewer Lines On Sensitive Lands Wins OK

LUTZ - A city-county planning agency endorsed a proposal Monday that allows the
extension of sewer lines into rural areas.

The Hillsborough County City-County Planning Commission voted 6-3 to back a
change making it easier to stretch utilities onto environmentally sensitive
lands.

For a rural area to connect to a sewer line, a property has to be at least 50
acres, within 1,000 feet of the urban service boundary, be reviewed under the
planned development zoning, have houses on minimum half-acre lots, and lie
within the wellhead protection or Tampa Bay Water mitigation areas.

A developer also could get service from only Hillsborough County.

The change would affect portions of Lutz, Branchton and Lithia. The proposal
heads to a public hearing at 6 p.m. Feb. 27 before the county commission.


Vandalism Prompts Removal Of Civil Rights Leader's Bust

TAMPA - University of South Florida officials removed a bust of Martin Luther
King Jr. from the campus after it was vandalized.

School maintenance workers discovered Friday that someone tried to pry the bust
of the civil rights leader off its pedestal. The sculpture sat in Martin Luther
King Jr. Plaza in the center of USF's Tampa campus.

School officials temporarily removed the bust to prevent it from being stolen.
USF spokesman Michael Reich said campus police are investigating.

"We are highly frustrated because it's the signature piece of our campus," he
said.

The bronze bust was created by local artist Linda Ackley-Eaker and placed in the
plaza when the area was dedicated in November 1996. Reich said the bust will be
on display on campus until repairs are made, but the location had not been
decided.

IT: Michele Sager

Strawberry Research Takes Center Stage

DOVER - The Gulf Coast Research and Education Center is opening its doors to the
public Thursday for a Strawberry Field Day.

The lab, run by the University of Florida, will celebrate 40 years of scientific
research in Dover that has led to a multitude of improvements for strawberry
growers. Those improvements include the introduction of strawberry varieties
genetically engineered to suit Florida's climate.

The field day includes a walking tour of the center to tell visitors about its
programs, including plant pathology, entomology, breeding and genetics.

The event is from 2 to 5 p.m. Refreshments will be served at 4 p.m.

"Everyone will have an opportunity to talk to the faculty and ask any question
they'd like," said Dover office coordinator Christine Cooley.


Plant City Fire Rescue Will Hire, Promote 16

PLANT CITY - Plant City Fire Rescue will fill 16 positions this month, the
largest number of hirings and promotions in its history, officials said.

Some of the positions are being created, and others are being filled because of
promotions or retirement, said Bill Bowers, chief of operations for the
department.

Of the vacancies, three are new captain positions. Another three are for new
firefighters. The remaining positions, driver engineers and firefighters, are
being created by three retirements and by the expectation of promotions to the
higher-level positions.

The positions are being created because the volume of emergency calls to the
department has increased since it added an ambulance service, said Chief George
Shiley.


Event Supports Relatives Providing Child Care

RUSKIN - Grandparents and other relatives who are primary care providers for
children can bring the family to a free event from 4 to 6:30 p.m. Thursday
featuring games, prizes, food - and a little encouragement.

"Celebrate the Heart of Kinship Families" is sponsored by the Catholic
Charities' Kinship Care Program, which provides services to family caregivers in
Lithia, Wimauma, Ruskin, Apollo Beach, Gibsonton, Riverview and surrounding
areas.

Organizers hope the event, which is in Ruskin, will generate interest in new
kinship support groups that will meet from 4 to 5 p.m. on the first and third
Thursdays of each month beginning in March.

For information about the event, call (813) 671-5250. To learn more about
services in Hillsborough County, call (813) 901-3401.


Miss Tampa Pageant Seeks Contestants

TAMPA - The deadline is nearing for contestants to apply for the Miss Tampa
Scholarship Pageant.

Entrants must apply by Feb. 24 to compete in the March 8 pageant at the Tampa
Bay Performing Arts Center. For more information, call Faye Williams at (813)
677-7184.


PINELLAS
TV Show Features Local Family Reunion

ST. PETERSBURG - Several photographers and a television crew were present when
Penny Lewis, formerly Deborah Jean Davis, was reunited with her birth family
after 41 years.

The reunion took place on Treasure Island in November and was filmed for the
television show "Life Moments." It airs at 8 a.m Wednesday on WTOG-TV, Channel
44.

The 20-minute segment will feature the emotional weekend when Lewis was reunited
with her mother and siblings, thanks to the work of St. Petersburg private
investigator Lynn-Marie Carty of ReunitePeople.com

Lewis was separated from her family in 1961, after her 21-year-old mother walked
out on an abusive marriage and gave up four of her six children for adoption.

Over the years, the family began to find one another through a series of chance
encounters - but couldn't find the redhead they called Deborah Jean until Carty
came along last year and volunteered to find her.

Since the reunion, Lewis, who lives in New York, works as volunteer for Carty's
business.

"She wants to help us reunite another family," Carty said. "Her life has
absolutely changed."


New Yorker Journalist Discusses Crisis In Colombia

ST. PETERSBURG - Alma Guillermoprieto, a distinguished staff writer for The New
Yorker based in Latin America, will present "Dateline: Colombia," Thursday night
at Eckerd College.

Guillermoprieto sees Colombia as a country fatally splintered among the
government and left-wing guerrillas who control much of the nation and
right-wing paramilitary forces. Her talk begins at 7:30 p.m. in Fox Hall in the
Hough Center on the college campus, 4200 54th Ave. S.

Guillermoprieto is the author of four books including "Samba," nominated for the
Book Critics Circle Award in 1991, was named a MacArthur Fellow in 1995 in
recognition of her accomplishments in journalism, and won the George M. Polk
Award in 2001, among many others.

The lecture is free and open to the public. The Eckerd Campus is south of
Pinellas Bay Way off Interstate 275 in St. Petersburg.


PASCO
Memorial Wall Offers Place For Community To Grieve

LAND O' LAKES - Just as it did to commemorate those who died when terrorists
hijacked four jetliners and attacked America, Loyless Funeral Home has erected a
memorial to honor space shuttle Columbia's crew.

"We've learned more than we ever knew about the community aspect of grief since
Sept. 11, 2001," John E. Loyless, the funeral home's general manager, said in a
news release. "People need a place to go express their sense of loss - whether
with quiet reflections or waves of emotion.

"By erecting this simple memorial, we hope to provide such a place to the people
of Land O' Lakes."

The seven astronauts died when Columbia broke apart Feb. 1 over Texas, 16
minutes from a scheduled landing at Cape Canaveral.

People can learn more about the Columbia crew and pay tribute at
www.keymemories.com

The Web site www.aboutourkids.org offers advice about helping children cope with
national tragedy and personal loss.

The funeral home at 5310 Land O' Lakes Blvd. (U.S. 41) invites people to place
flowers, memorabilia, children's drawings and other tributes at the memorial.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACROSS THE REGION

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 3, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A Safe Haven

BYLINE: CLOE CABRERA, ccabrera@tampatrib.com; Reporter Cloe Cabrera can be
reached at (813) 259-7656.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words


Despite the war in Iraq, immigrants who fled violence in their own countries
feel more secure in the United States.

TAMPA - The abductors were casually dressed and held automatic rifles.

They snatched Javier Forero from his vehicle on a bustling Colombian road in
front of his young son. The men robbed him of identification and demanded
$50,000.

Pay in 24 hours, they said, or his son would be killed.

That day, Forero bought three airline tickets to Miami. The family spent the
next five days hiding at his grandmother's house, awaiting their flight.

"I knew to protect my family we had to leave my country," says Forero, 38, who
owned a string of jewelry stores in Bogota. "I was tired of living in fear for
my family. You never know when or where violence is going to strike; that's no
way to live."

Forero and other immigrants who fled random, brutal violence in their homelands
came to the United States looking for a safe haven.
For a while after they arrived, many continued to move cautiously, to keep an
eye on their neighbors and the people in uniforms carrying guns. But eventually,
most relaxed. They turned their attentions toward learning a new language,
working, saving money and raising children.

With the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, the U.S.
government's heightened security alerts and the war in Iraq, some of that old
tension has returned, Forero says.

"We lived in a country where, every day, innocent people were killed," says
Forero, who arrived here in 2001. "I've always been against war and bloodshed of
any kind. This reminds me of home. We lived these things every day, and it is
very frightening."

Maria Helena Isaza, a clinical psychologist in Tampa, says immigrants who faced
danger in their native country are better able to cope with the current climate
than their American-born counterparts.

"People who have been faced with daily violence become almost desensitized to
it," she says. "They learn to live with it; it's their way of coping with the
helplessness. Individuals who have never had trauma take it more deeply, because
you have nothing to compare it to."

Here, There Is Hope

The threat of random violence and drug-related crimes was enough to prompt Felix
Otero to leave behind the small clothing business he owned with his wife,
Concepcion, in Bogota.

Otero, 57, emigrated two months before the Sept. 11 attacks. He says he has
heard from friends and relatives back home who say the United States has become
as dangerous as his native country.

"The image of the United States may have changed to some, but it's still better
than it is back home," says Otero, who works in construction. "The government
can give its residents stability and protection; you don't have that in
Colombia."

It has been hard for the couple to re-establish their lives here, says Otero,
who has yet to gain permanent residency. But that won't shake the confidence of
Colombians who call the United States home.

"Despite the war, the economy or terrorist attacks, nothing is as bad as it is
in Colombia," he says. "Here, I can hope for a better life. In Colombia, there
is no hope."


Laws And Rights
Venezuelan native Nora Rios and her family - a son, daughter and two
grandchildren - emigrated in 1999 because of upheaval in her country.

There, controversial president Hugo Chavez's attempts to retain power have
resulted in political and economic turmoil, including bloody protests.

In February, terrorists in Venezuela blew up Spanish and Colombian diplomatic
missions.

Rios, 57, says relatives have compared the climate here to that of her homeland
and ask why she doesn't return home. That's not an option - despite another
daughter and a farm in Venezuela she visits every six months when her tourist
visa expires.

"Every day the situation in my country gets worse," says Rios, who was once
attacked, and her son nearly kidnapped, during a home invasion in Caracas.

"We wait for change, but it never comes.

"You live in constant terror of being robbed and assaulted. I sit here and I
don't worry about that," she says, motioning to an open sliding glass door that
leads to the swimming pool.

"There are laws here, and they are respected. In my country, there are no laws
and no human rights."

Rios doubts the war, potential terrorist acts and shaky economy will stop
Venezuelans or other Latinos from immigrating.

Future Remains Bright

None of those reasons deterred Hildren Francis and her husband, who fled Puerto
Rico's abject poverty, drug-related crimes and increasing violence with their
three daughters in June.

"Puerto Rico is going through a very difficult time," says Francis, 37, who was
a lawyer in her homeland. "We made the decision to come here because of our
daughters. With 9/11, terrorist attacks and the war, people are living with a
fear they have never had before.

"But looking to the future, 10, 15 years down the line, I would prefer them to
be here than in Puerto Rico. They have a chance at a better life here than in
Puerto Rico."

The Foreros agree.

Despite regular calls from relatives back home concerned for the family's safety
- their son's school, Bay Crest Elementary, was evacuated three times recently
because of bomb threats - they wouldn't live anyplace else.

"We may not be as comfortable here as we were back home, but I've never
regretted our decision," says Pilar Forero, who celebrated the birth of a
daughter in February. "My children are going to grow up in a country where
freedom and liberty are their fundamental rights.

"This country is at war, but it's a just war. There is no justice in Colombia's
war."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 (3C)
Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO

(C) Pilar and Javier Forero say they have no regrets about fleeing Colombia
after the life of son Mateo, now 6, was threatened. "My children are going to
grow up in a country where freedom and liberty are their fundamental rights,"
says Pilar, who holds daughter Abby.
Forero family photo

(C) The Foreros were married in 1994 in Bogota, the capital of Colombia, where
Javier owned a string of jewelry stores. They left in 2001.
The Associated Press

(C) Many immigrants come to the United States to escape worse turmoil in their
homelands, including Venezuela, where a bomb exploded in February outside the
Colombian consulate.
The Associated Press

Colombia residents protest escalating violence in their homeland in February
after a car bomb killed 32 people in Bogota.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 9, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

RAYS NOTEBOOK

BYLINE: CARTER GADDIS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 607 words



Rays Starter Parque Makes Quick Exit

ST. PETERSBURG - For the seventh consecutive game, a Devil Rays starting pitcher
was ineffective and had to leave early. Jim Parque lasted 12/3 innings, a season
low for Rays starters.

Joe Kennedy's seven-inning effort on Opening Day remains the bench mark for a
staff that came into Tuesday's game last in the majors in ERA at 7.33 and
leading the American League in walks issued with 34.

Rays manager Lou Piniella is willing to give his pitchers some benefit of the
doubt - but not much.

"You've got to remember, too, in regard to our pitching, we've played two series
against potent offenses [New York and Boston] and we've played inside where it's
warm and it's climate-controlled," Piniella said. "That helps hitting some. But
at the same time, the walks and the number of pitches thrown ... that's an area
we need to improve on."

Piniella has said he plans to stick with his current rotation through April 27,
but that could change.

"Right now, our starting pitching is our bugaboo," he said. "I don't want to put
any undue pressure on any of our fine, young men, but if I continue to see this,
we will have changes immediately."

At least three minor leaguers might be able to pitch their way into the
major-league rotation by then if things don't improve.

One is Dewon Brazelton, who allowed two runs in 42/3 innings Monday in his debut
with Triple-A Durham. Two others, left-hander Jon Switzer and right- hander Doug
Waechter, are with Double-A Orlando.

Brazelton, who makes $350,000 whether he's in the minors or the majors, probably
would have made the Rays' rotation had it not been for minor leg injuries.
Switzer, 23, and Waechter, 22, impressed the coaching staff with their arms
during spring training, but neither has pitched in a level more advanced than
Double-A.

FOR HIS OWN GOOD: With a left-hander on the mound for Baltimore, Piniella
postponed by one day Aubrey Huff's professional debut in RF. Right-handed
hitting Damian Rolls got the start instead, and Huff played DH.

VAUGHN NOT FORGOTTEN: LF Carl Crawford found a few bats left behind by Greg
Vaughn and decided to use them for batting practice. Vaughn's 34-ounce Canadian
maple Sam Bats are three ounces heavier than Crawford's black Louisville
Sluggers, so his own bats feel light by comparison. Saturday against the
Yankees, Crawford's own bat broke, so he used the bat he had handy - Vaughn's -
and went 3-for-5.
"I don't know if he's going to be using them," Crawford said. "I hope he's not
mad."

Vaughn, released by the Rays in spring training, was turned down by the Reds
when he offered his services at the major-league minimum ($300,000) after Ken
Griffey Jr. was injured.

AROUND THE HORN: Crawford, Travis Lee and Rocco Baldelli extended their hitting
streaks to eight games, setting a Rays record for the longest streaks at the
start of a season. Quinton McCracken hit safely in seven consecutive games to
start 1998. ... Lee's hit streak is actually at 10 games, including his final
two games of 2002 with the Phillies. His career-long hit streak is 11 games. ...
Baldelli's 12 hits in the first seven games were the most by a rookie after the
first week of the season since Montreal's Mike Lansing had as many in 1993.
Oakland's Mitchell Page also had 12 hits in his first seven games in 1977. In
1970, San Francisco's Al Gallagher had 15 hits in his first week as a rookie.
... Tampa Bay's five infield hits increased their major-league leading total to
18. ... Lee and 3B Damion Easley tied the team record for hits in a game with
four. It's been done 53 times.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by MARK GUSS

Tampa Bay's Rey Ordonez dodges Orioles catcher Geronimo Gil to tie the game 6-6
in the sixth inning.

NOTES: RAYS NOTEBOOK BASEBALL

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 17, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Across the Region

BYLINE: CURTIS ROSS; BARBARA KENT; SHERRI ACKERMAN; CARL ORTH; NATASHIA
GREGOIRE; MARK S. SCHANTZ; CHARLES MCKINNEY; NANCY VICKERS-PYLE; BOB BALGEMANN;
BILL HEERY

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1210 words



HILLSBOROUGH
White Stripes Concert Moves To USF Sun Dome

TAMPA - Wednesday's White Stripes concert has been moved again.

The show had been scheduled for the University of South Florida's Recreation
Center's Upper Gymnasium but was moved to the USF Sun Dome Corral because of
greater-than-expected ticket demand. That demand has necessitated another move,
to the Sun Dome itself.

All tickets for the concert, regardless of venue, will be honored. Tickets, $32
plus service charges, still are available for the show, which begins at 7:30
p.m. Wednesday. Call the Sun Dome, (813) 974-3002, or Ticketmaster, (813)
287-8844.


Bealsville Fundraiser To Help Historic School

BEALSVILLE - The annual fundraising banquet of Bealsville Inc. will be at 7:30
p.m. Saturday at the Bealsville Recreation Center, 5009 Nesmith Road, in Plant
City. Walter Smith will be the guest speaker.

Donations for the event are $15 per person.

Proceeds will be used for the ongoing renovation of the Glover School National
Historic Site at 5104 Horton Road.

For information, call (813) 737-2004 or (813) 737-9045.


Fighting Hunger In Spotlight At Forum

TAMPA - Social service providers, government agencies, religious groups and
residents will come together Wednesday to address hunger in the Tampa Bay area.

The Hunger Collaborative is scheduled from 8:45 to 11 a.m. at the Salvation
Army, 1603 N. Florida Ave. The forum will feature a panel discussion, "From the
Beltway to Tampa Bay," and will focus on three areas of national concern:
faith-based initiatives, the school lunch program and Head Start.

Grant applications will be available for the coming Hunger Walk, along with
copies of the Community Food Security Resource Kit, a publication to help
service providers find money and technical assistance to fight hunger.

For reservations, call (813) 744-5519, Ext. 128.


PASCO
County Revamping Little-Fivay Junction

HUDSON - Pasco County has started improvements on a traffic bottleneck at Little
and Fivay roads.

State grants are helping fund widening of Little Road to six lanes between State
Road 52 and Fivay Road and the installation of a traffic signal at the junction.

About one-third of the cost of the widening project will be paid through a state
grant, said Doug Uden, transportation planning coordinator for the county.

The changes also will install dual left-turn lanes for drivers northbound on
Little who want to turn west on Fivay Road.


PINELLAS
Camp Needs Donations For Homeless Children

CLEARWATER - Programs such as Camp Joy, a free summer camp for homeless
children, are growing in importance as the number of homeless children rises.

According to a recent survey conducted by the Pinellas County Homeless
Coalition, children make up 20 percent of the county's estimated 10,000 homeless
each year.

The annual camps provide some of these children with a retreat to build
self-confidence and character.

This year's four-day Camp Joy is scheduled for July 24-28 in Ellenton.

Participants are given beds, three meals a day, counseling, school supplies,
clothes and other gifts.

Organizers say they are in need of individual sponsorships in the amount of $100
per child, and corporate donations of school supplies, clothing, sleeping bags
and other items.

For information, call camp director Melonie Holloway at (727) 548-7349.


More Upgrades Coming To Tarpon Golf Course

TARPON SPRINGS - Improvements to the Tarpon Springs municipal course on
Alternate U.S. 19 continue to attract golfers, even in an economic climate in
which national growth in the sport remains flat, according to Chuck Winship,
course manager.

Membership to the course has remained stable during the past few years, at 75 to
100 players. However, 90 percent of the people who play the course are not
members, he said.

"The course attracts a lot of regular locals," he said.

As the improvements to the course become apparent, more players will choose the
Tarpon Springs Golf Course when taking to the links, Winship said.

Landscaping improvements that give greater definition to the course are under
way.


Teen Center To Open In Crystal Beach Next Month

CRYSTAL BEACH - A teen center is about to open at the Crystal Beach Youth
Center.

Although there will be adult oversight, young people will have a big say in the
center's operation.

"This center will be run by teens and for teens," said Roberta Wyandt, director
of the youth center. "We're tremendously excited by the news."

The center is a collaborative effort of the Crystal Beach Youth Center and the
Boys & Girls Clubs of the Suncoast, Wyandt said.

The center is funded by a grant from the Eckerd Family Foundation in Clearwater.

Teens will be responsible for forming programs and activities for the center,
and there will be a teen board of directors.

The center will open in early July.

In the meantime, youth center leaders are looking for an adult to serve as
director.

For information call Wyandt at (727) 787-7523 or Tara Stabile, director of
adolescent services for the Boys & Girls Clubs of the Suncoast, at (727)
547-5437, Ext. 105.


HIGHLANDS
U.S. 27 Widening A Month From Completion

AVON PARK - A contractor is putting finishing touches on a project to widen a
segment of U.S. 27 to six lanes.

Construction is expected to be finished in mid-July, said Joe Turner, an
official with Better Roads. Turner said from the Better Roads headquarters in
Naples that the inside lanes needed to be paved and a friction course of asphalt
needed to be put down across all six lanes.

The construction to widen U.S. 27 from Hal McCrae Boulevard to Ponce De Leon
Boulevard has been plagued with weather delays and utility replacement and
relocation, Turner said.

Once the work is complete on this segment, U.S. 27 will have six lanes from Main
Street in Avon Park to U.S. 98 south of Sebring.


Prison Moves Forward With Sewage Plan

SEBRING - Avon Park Correctional Institution has taken two of four steps needed
to pipe effluent to three treatment ponds in a rural, residential neighborhood
off County Road 64, six miles west of the prison.

The Highlands County Zoning Board of Adjustment recently voted to approve the
request for a special exception in agriculture zoning. Then those same six men
and one woman, sitting as the planning and zoning commission, voted to recommend
approval of rezoning and a land-use change from agriculture to public/
quasipublic facility and institutional lands.

Residents who don't want the project will have a second shot at it when the
county commission hears the recommendation at its meeting June 24.

In an emotionally charged, three-hour hearing, prison representatives said
attempts to find other places to pipe the sewage had been unsuccessful.


POLK
Road To Close For Curbs, Sidewalks

LAKELAND - The city will close the eastbound lane of Lemon Street from Lake
Beulah Drive to South Missouri Avenue for six weeks beginning Wednesday.

The closure is necessary to install curb and brick sidewalks, city officials
said. Detours will be marked with signs to minimize effects on businesses,
residents, traffic and pedestrians.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACROSS THE REGION

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 6, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Paycheck To Paycheck

BYLINE: SHERRI ACKERMAN , sackerman@tampatrib.com; Reporter Sherri Ackerman can
be reached at (813) 259-7144.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2124 words


A middle-class, middle-aged woman loses her job in corporate upheaval and learns
how quickly a person can reach the edge of homelessness in today's climate.

TAMPA - Yolanda Billups wanders along gleaming aisles in Kash n' Karry, rubbing
elbows with Carrollwood shoppers who don't think twice about grocery bills.

Nine months ago, Billups was one of them - a middle-class mother living in
suburbia with her SUV, earning $38,000 a year and buying as much food as she
wanted.

On this Friday afternoon, she can barely afford to part with $6.72 for a can of
Manwich, a bag of Lays potato chips, a bottle of Dr Pepper, a loaf of Wonder
Bread and Merita buns marked on sale.

The items, bolstered by Sunday's leftovers at her dad's, are carefully
calculated to feed Billups and her 15-year-old daughter, LeMecia, through the
weekend.

At 39, Billups finds herself in a place she never expected. She works two
part-time jobs since being laid off as a full-time telemarketer in October.
Still, she can't make ends meet.

The telephone bill is two months behind, her car insurance is overdue, and the
rent is late again. At the end of the month, "there's nothing left over," she
says in frustration. "There's nothing."

It's a common refrain among Florida's working poor.

"They're working, but they're not making enough to feed themselves," says John
Darby, director of human services for the Salvation Army in Tampa. "They've just
lost their jobs or had their hours cut at work, and they're making some
difficult decisions every day on how to spend their money."

For the first time in their lives, many Tampa Bay area residents are standing in
line at soup kitchens or counting on local charities to help pay bills.

"They're just one paycheck away from living on the street," says Rayme Nuckles,
executive director of the Homeless Coalition of Hillsborough County. "It doesn't
take that much for it to happen."

A sudden job loss, illness or rent increase can change lives drastically. A
struggling economy and an affordable housing shortage add to the misery.

Billups barely hangs on to her two-bedroom apartment, where she and LeMecia have
lived for seven years. The complex near New Tampa is in a good neighborhood and
close to LeMecia's school.

Today, Billups earns about $1,400 a month after taxes. Sometimes her hours are
cut or her check is unexpectedly short. She has no health benefits.

Her monthly payments include $670 for rent, $102 for car insurance, about $100
for electricity, $25 for water and trash, $80 for the telephone, $120 for gas
and $20 for her credit card with a balance of $500. She also pays $389 a month
on her 2002 Mazda sport utility vehicle - one remnant of her past life.

At the end of the month, every month, Billups is broke. Cable TV, the cell phone
and a savings account for emergencies are long gone. She skips breakfast and
lunch to save on food.

"I just want to be comfortable," she says.

It's a struggle to keep the SUV. But with its bumper-to-bumper warranty, the
vehicle is dependable transportation to work, school and job interviews. It
seems reasonable enough, although Billups finds herself explaining constantly.

She has discovered in her new low-income status that although the rich don't
have to justify their choices, the poor don't get to choose.


Life Changes Suddenly

Billups learned in August that she was losing her job at WorldCom. The
telecommunications company eventually filed for bankruptcy after news about
faulty accounting surfaced last year. Hundreds of Tampa employees lost their
jobs.

Billups immediately started paying bills in advance and looking for full-time
work.

"Oh, you can apply," she says knowingly, "and I have applied. I get the
interviews, but it's hard. A lot of people are looking for college kids to pay
less."

She's intelligent, personable and computer-literate. After some college and
vocational courses, she signed on for five years in the Air Force.

She has skills, but employers still "look at me as a single mother, that I can't
be here all the time because I have kids," she says.

Billups accepted temporary work, but by March, her six-week severance pay from
WorldCom and meager savings were gone. She needed help.

It wouldn't come quickly.

Obtaining unemployment benefits can take weeks and require pages of paperwork,
lengthy documentation and constant monitoring. Billups didn't have time for
that, she says, and more important, she wanted to work.

She landed a part-time job at $15.04 an hour delivering mail at the post office
on Ehrlich and Lynn Turner roads, but it was only one day a week.


Reaching Out Reluctantly

With her world crumbling, she went to a Hillsborough County Neighborhood
Services center in north Tampa for help with bills, food and rent. Billups says
she didn't feel welcome.

"Another poor black woman looking for a handout, that's how I felt," she says.
"They showed me no respect. Everybody deserves respect."

At Metropolitan Ministries downtown, Billups received vouchers for a box of
food.

"I really didn't care for it, though," she says. She was grateful, but "you
don't get to pick your food. It might be something you can eat, but it might be
something you're allergic to or stuff the kids wouldn't eat."

At the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, an outreach agency that links clients with
services, Billups received seven $5 gift certificates for groceries. But she
found the procedures unrealistic. She couldn't qualify for financial aid, she
says, until she had a three-day late rent notice on her door with a $35 fee
attached.

"At first they wouldn't help me because I had only one part-time job," she says.
"I needed another to show I can pay my bills. I started crying and said, "If I
could find a job and pay my bills, I wouldn't need you.' "

A week later, Billups was hired part-time at $9.09 an hour to assist patients
during registration at Morton Plant's North Bay Hospital in New Port Richey. It
was about 40 miles from her home, but it was a job, a means to an end.


What Does Poor Look Like?

Sugar, a box of Froot Loops, a few canned vegetables sit in the cupboards. In
the freezer are two Stouffer's microwave dinners and a stack of ice cube trays.
There are more condiments than entrees in the refrigerator.

"It's rocky right now, but it's not always going to be this way," Billups says.

Two jobs and lots of worries are taking their toll, though. Her tired body
slouches over the counter as she pours thick tomato sauce onto nests of
spaghetti. From her neck dangle two delicate chains, anchored by gold charms.
One spells "Sister." The other reads, "Why Me Lord?"

It's her night to cook for the family, which includes sister Jacqueline Billups,
34, and 16-year-old niece Savina. The sisters alternate the duty to help stretch
groceries and support each other.

"I couldn't make it without her," Billups says of her sibling, a school nurse
who won't earn a paycheck this month because of summer vacation. "We don't have
much, but what we got, we share."

Leaning on family isn't easy for Billups. Her brother has wired money before,
but he has a wife and four children to support. Her mother is retired in
Colorado, and her father in Tampa didn't know how bad it was for her until
recently.

"I was too embarrassed," she says. "I believe I should be independent. I've been
working for so long, taking care of myself."


No Handouts, Please

After her layoff, Billups worked sporadically and often at night while her
sister cared for their girls. The teens are more like sisters than cousins.

LeMecia, entering her freshman year at Freedom High, is fiercely private. She
might be a lawyer one day, but for now she's intent on being a teen, listening
to B2K - the boy band's posters cover her bedroom walls - and spending time on
her computer.

Like her mom, LeMecia loves math and science. She hasn't seen her father since
she was 2; her parents never married, and Billups didn't seek child support.

When she thinks about what it means to be poor, LeMecia shrugs her shoulders.

"Having no food," she says.

She doesn't feel poor. She doesn't look poor. Sometimes that puts Billups on the
defensive.

"People say, "You don't look like you're struggling,' " she says. "What am I
supposed to look like? Dirty? Walk around with my hand out? I was taught to look
clean, be respectful, not to have torn clothing."

Billups accepts the occasional grocery certificate from her employers as a
reward for good work. And she is grateful for the "brothers and sisters" at
Greater New Hope Apostolic Church in east Tampa. An elder gave her $100 to buy
food one month; the bishop helped with rent. Her daughter sometimes cleans the
pastor's office for movie money and sweeps the floor at a church member's salon
in exchange for hair styling.

"He's got his angels around me," she says.

Another "sister" lets Billups know about an opening at St. Joseph's Hospital.
It's the same job she has at North Bay, but this one is closer to home.

On the Wednesday of her interview, Billups dresses in a crisp white shirt, long
black skirt and black pumps. The clothes come from better days, when she was
looked upon as a professional.

She aces the first interview and is referred to another in the hospital's
emergency room. The interviewer says she'll let Billups know Friday whether she
got the job.

But when Friday comes, Billups can't wait. She calls the hospital first. She is
hired part time, "but I can work as much overtime as I like, and they pay extra
for nights and weekends," she says excitedly.

She now has three part-time jobs, and still no health benefits.


One Day At A Time

At the end of a 78-hour workweek, six days straight, Billups can hardly stand,
and her body aches to sleep.

"It's just been real tiring," she says. "It's a struggle to get up early, get
everybody where they need to be."

She has left her job in New Port Richey, but her harried schedule isn't any
easier. Still, she musters strength for a big night in which LeMecia stars in a
church youth group play about family love - and turns 15.

With the commotion that comes with starting a new job while working another,
Billups neglects to buy her only daughter a birthday gift.

"She understands," the mother says quietly as LeMecia stares stoically at her
computer.

A few days later, Billups buys the girl a CD featuring Ginuwine and declares:
"Things are looking up."

The next week, the rent check bounces because her bank account was $2 short.

Billups knows there's a hard road ahead, and no real time for fun. Someday she
would like to date again, maybe get married. For now, her lifestyle is too
rigid.

"I go to work, to church and then home to sleep," she says. "I'll probably keep
this up until school starts. Then I'll know where I'll be, what I need."

But she already knows what she needs: one full-time job that pays enough to get
back on track.

"One job, oh yes," she says. "That's my nightly prayer."

(CHART) (C) THE SERIES
Thousands of Bay area families live on the brink of poverty. For many, it's the
beginning of a spiral into homelessness. In reports from Hillsborough, Pinellas
and Pasco counties, The Tampa Tribune offers snapshots of the working poor, the
chronically adrift, and the women who make up the fastest-growing segment of the
homeless.
TODAY
Living paycheck to paycheck
MONDAY
Mentally ill have few options
TUESDAY
Homeless women fight the odds

(CHART) Bills to Pay
Yolanda Billups is broke each month after paying her monthly bills. Even with
two jobs, she can't make ends meet. Billups relies on social service agencies,
family and friends for help with food and other necessities.
Approximate monthly salary, before taxes: $1,400
Description Payment
Rent: $670
SUV: $389
Car insurance: $102
Electric: $100
Telephone: $80
Gas: $120
Water and trash: $25
Credit card: $20
Total: - $106
Tribune graphic

(CHART) HOUSING NEEDS
A report released last month by Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing
Studies found that 3 in 10 U.S. households struggle to afford housing, with 14.3
million spending more than half their income on housing.
Hillsborough, Pasco, And Pasco Counties:
Family earning annual median income of $50,500 can afford to spend $1,262 on
housing per month.
Polk County:
Family earning annual median income of $47,000 can afford to spend $1,175 on
housing per month.
(see microfilm for more details)
Tribune chart; Sources: National Low Income Housing Coalition, 2000 census

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 6 (2C) CHART 3 (1C)
Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN

(C) Yolanda Billups talks to her sister after a day of working at the post
office. "I couldn't make it without her," Billups says. "We don't have much, but
what we got, we share."
(C) (Man lying on a cot)
Tribune photos by JAY NOLAN

LeMecia Billups eats before going out with her mother, Yolanda, to church for a
play and to celebrate her 15th birthday.
Grocery shopping has been difficult for Yolanda Billups, who struggles to get by
on salaries from part-time jobs. She says she skips meals to save on food. "I
just want to be comfortable," she says.
One of Billups' jobs is a $15.04-an-hour position delivering mail at the post
office on Ehrlich and Lynn Turner roads. "I believe I should be independent,"
she says. "I've been working for so long."
Yolanda Billups

NOTES: LIVING ON A PRAYER [First of Three Parts] RELATED STORY, Page 13:
Services for the homeless suffer big budget cuts.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 6, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Paycheck To Paycheck

BYLINE: SHERRI ACKERMAN , sackerman@tampatrib.com; Reporter Sherri Ackerman can
be reached at (813) 259-7144.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2124 words


A middle-class, middle-aged woman loses her job in corporate upheaval and learns
how quickly a person can reach the edge of homelessness in today's climate.

TAMPA - Yolanda Billups wanders along gleaming aisles in Kash n' Karry, rubbing
elbows with Carrollwood shoppers who don't think twice about grocery bills.

Nine months ago, Billups was one of them - a middle-class mother living in
suburbia with her SUV, earning $38,000 a year and buying as much food as she
wanted.

On this Friday afternoon, she can barely afford to part with $6.72 for a can of
Manwich, a bag of Lays potato chips, a bottle of Dr Pepper, a loaf of Wonder
Bread and Merita buns marked on sale.

The items, bolstered by Sunday's leftovers at her dad's, are carefully
calculated to feed Billups and her 15-year-old daughter, LeMecia, through the
weekend.

At 39, Billups finds herself in a place she never expected. She works two
part-time jobs since being laid off as a full-time telemarketer in October.
Still, she can't make ends meet.

The telephone bill is two months behind, her car insurance is overdue, and the
rent is late again. At the end of the month, "there's nothing left over," she
says in frustration. "There's nothing."

It's a common refrain among Florida's working poor.

"They're working, but they're not making enough to feed themselves," says John
Darby, director of human services for the Salvation Army in Tampa. "They've just
lost their jobs or had their hours cut at work, and they're making some
difficult decisions every day on how to spend their money."

For the first time in their lives, many Tampa Bay area residents are standing in
line at soup kitchens or counting on local charities to help pay bills.

"They're just one paycheck away from living on the street," says Rayme Nuckles,
executive director of the Homeless Coalition of Hillsborough County. "It doesn't
take that much for it to happen."

A sudden job loss, illness or rent increase can change lives drastically. A
struggling economy and an affordable housing shortage add to the misery.

Billups barely hangs on to her two-bedroom apartment, where she and LeMecia have
lived for seven years. The complex near New Tampa is in a good neighborhood and
close to LeMecia's school.

Today, Billups earns about $1,400 a month after taxes. Sometimes her hours are
cut or her check is unexpectedly short. She has no health benefits.

Her monthly payments include $670 for rent, $102 for car insurance, about $100
for electricity, $25 for water and trash, $80 for the telephone, $120 for gas
and $20 for her credit card with a balance of $500. She also pays $389 a month
on her 2002 Mazda sport utility vehicle - one remnant of her past life.

At the end of the month, every month, Billups is broke. Cable TV, the cell phone
and a savings account for emergencies are long gone. She skips breakfast and
lunch to save on food.

"I just want to be comfortable," she says.

It's a struggle to keep the SUV. But with its bumper-to-bumper warranty, the
vehicle is dependable transportation to work, school and job interviews. It
seems reasonable enough, although Billups finds herself explaining constantly.

She has discovered in her new low-income status that although the rich don't
have to justify their choices, the poor don't get to choose.


Life Changes Suddenly

Billups learned in August that she was losing her job at WorldCom. The
telecommunications company eventually filed for bankruptcy after news about
faulty accounting surfaced last year. Hundreds of Tampa employees lost their
jobs.

Billups immediately started paying bills in advance and looking for full-time
work.

"Oh, you can apply," she says knowingly, "and I have applied. I get the
interviews, but it's hard. A lot of people are looking for college kids to pay
less."

She's intelligent, personable and computer-literate. After some college and
vocational courses, she signed on for five years in the Air Force.

She has skills, but employers still "look at me as a single mother, that I can't
be here all the time because I have kids," she says.

Billups accepted temporary work, but by March, her six-week severance pay from
WorldCom and meager savings were gone. She needed help.

It wouldn't come quickly.

Obtaining unemployment benefits can take weeks and require pages of paperwork,
lengthy documentation and constant monitoring. Billups didn't have time for
that, she says, and more important, she wanted to work.

She landed a part-time job at $15.04 an hour delivering mail at the post office
on Ehrlich and Lynn Turner roads, but it was only one day a week.


Reaching Out Reluctantly

With her world crumbling, she went to a Hillsborough County Neighborhood
Services center in north Tampa for help with bills, food and rent. Billups says
she didn't feel welcome.

"Another poor black woman looking for a handout, that's how I felt," she says.
"They showed me no respect. Everybody deserves respect."

At Metropolitan Ministries downtown, Billups received vouchers for a box of
food.

"I really didn't care for it, though," she says. She was grateful, but "you
don't get to pick your food. It might be something you can eat, but it might be
something you're allergic to or stuff the kids wouldn't eat."

At the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, an outreach agency that links clients with
services, Billups received seven $5 gift certificates for groceries. But she
found the procedures unrealistic. She couldn't qualify for financial aid, she
says, until she had a three-day late rent notice on her door with a $35 fee
attached.

"At first they wouldn't help me because I had only one part-time job," she says.
"I needed another to show I can pay my bills. I started crying and said, "If I
could find a job and pay my bills, I wouldn't need you.' "

A week later, Billups was hired part-time at $9.09 an hour to assist patients
during registration at Morton Plant's North Bay Hospital in New Port Richey. It
was about 40 miles from her home, but it was a job, a means to an end.


What Does Poor Look Like?

Sugar, a box of Froot Loops, a few canned vegetables sit in the cupboards. In
the freezer are two Stouffer's microwave dinners and a stack of ice cube trays.
There are more condiments than entrees in the refrigerator.

"It's rocky right now, but it's not always going to be this way," Billups says.

Two jobs and lots of worries are taking their toll, though. Her tired body
slouches over the counter as she pours thick tomato sauce onto nests of
spaghetti. From her neck dangle two delicate chains, anchored by gold charms.
One spells "Sister." The other reads, "Why Me Lord?"

It's her night to cook for the family, which includes sister Jacqueline Billups,
34, and 16-year-old niece Savina. The sisters alternate the duty to help stretch
groceries and support each other.

"I couldn't make it without her," Billups says of her sibling, a school nurse
who won't earn a paycheck this month because of summer vacation. "We don't have
much, but what we got, we share."

Leaning on family isn't easy for Billups. Her brother has wired money before,
but he has a wife and four children to support. Her mother is retired in
Colorado, and her father in Tampa didn't know how bad it was for her until
recently.

"I was too embarrassed," she says. "I believe I should be independent. I've been
working for so long, taking care of myself."


No Handouts, Please

After her layoff, Billups worked sporadically and often at night while her
sister cared for their girls. The teens are more like sisters than cousins.

LeMecia, entering her freshman year at Freedom High, is fiercely private. She
might be a lawyer one day, but for now she's intent on being a teen, listening
to B2K - the boy band's posters cover her bedroom walls - and spending time on
her computer.

Like her mom, LeMecia loves math and science. She hasn't seen her father since
she was 2; her parents never married, and Billups didn't seek child support.

When she thinks about what it means to be poor, LeMecia shrugs her shoulders.

"Having no food," she says.

She doesn't feel poor. She doesn't look poor. Sometimes that puts Billups on the
defensive.

"People say, "You don't look like you're struggling,' " she says. "What am I
supposed to look like? Dirty? Walk around with my hand out? I was taught to look
clean, be respectful, not to have torn clothing."

Billups accepts the occasional grocery certificate from her employers as a
reward for good work. And she is grateful for the "brothers and sisters" at
Greater New Hope Apostolic Church in east Tampa. An elder gave her $100 to buy
food one month; the bishop helped with rent. Her daughter sometimes cleans the
pastor's office for movie money and sweeps the floor at a church member's salon
in exchange for hair styling.

"He's got his angels around me," she says.

Another "sister" lets Billups know about an opening at St. Joseph's Hospital.
It's the same job she has at North Bay, but this one is closer to home.

On the Wednesday of her interview, Billups dresses in a crisp white shirt, long
black skirt and black pumps. The clothes come from better days, when she was
looked upon as a professional.

She aces the first interview and is referred to another in the hospital's
emergency room. The interviewer says she'll let Billups know Friday whether she
got the job.

But when Friday comes, Billups can't wait. She calls the hospital first. She is
hired part time, "but I can work as much overtime as I like, and they pay extra
for nights and weekends," she says excitedly.

She now has three part-time jobs, and still no health benefits.


One Day At A Time

At the end of a 78-hour workweek, six days straight, Billups can hardly stand,
and her body aches to sleep.

"It's just been real tiring," she says. "It's a struggle to get up early, get
everybody where they need to be."

She has left her job in New Port Richey, but her harried schedule isn't any
easier. Still, she musters strength for a big night in which LeMecia stars in a
church youth group play about family love - and turns 15.

With the commotion that comes with starting a new job while working another,
Billups neglects to buy her only daughter a birthday gift.

"She understands," the mother says quietly as LeMecia stares stoically at her
computer.

A few days later, Billups buys the girl a CD featuring Ginuwine and declares:
"Things are looking up."

The next week, the rent check bounces because her bank account was $2 short.

Billups knows there's a hard road ahead, and no real time for fun. Someday she
would like to date again, maybe get married. For now, her lifestyle is too
rigid.

"I go to work, to church and then home to sleep," she says. "I'll probably keep
this up until school starts. Then I'll know where I'll be, what I need."

But she already knows what she needs: one full-time job that pays enough to get
back on track.

"One job, oh yes," she says. "That's my nightly prayer."

(CHART) (C) THE SERIES
Thousands of Bay area families live on the brink of poverty. For many, it's the
beginning of a spiral into homelessness. In reports from Hillsborough, Pinellas
and Pasco counties, The Tampa Tribune offers snapshots of the working poor, the
chronically adrift, and the women who make up the fastest-growing segment of the
homeless.
TODAY
Living paycheck to paycheck
MONDAY
Mentally ill have few options
TUESDAY
Homeless women fight the odds

(CHART) Bills to Pay
Yolanda Billups is broke each month after paying her monthly bills. Even with
two jobs, she can't make ends meet. Billups relies on social service agencies,
family and friends for help with food and other necessities.
Approximate monthly salary, before taxes: $1,400
Description Payment
Rent: $670
SUV: $389
Car insurance: $102
Electric: $100
Telephone: $80
Gas: $120
Water and trash: $25
Credit card: $20
Total: - $106
Tribune graphic

(CHART) HOUSING NEEDS
A report released last month by Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing
Studies found that 3 in 10 U.S. households struggle to afford housing, with 14.3
million spending more than half their income on housing.
Hillsborough, Pasco, And Pasco Counties:
Family earning annual median income of $50,500 can afford to spend $1,262 on
housing per month.
Polk County:
Family earning annual median income of $47,000 can afford to spend $1,175 on
housing per month.
(see microfilm for more details)
Tribune chart; Sources: National Low Income Housing Coalition, 2000 census

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 6 (2C) CHART 3 (1C)
Tribune photo by JAY NOLAN

(C) Yolanda Billups talks to her sister after a day of working at the post
office. "I couldn't make it without her," Billups says. "We don't have much, but
what we got, we share."
(C) (Man lying on a cot)
Tribune photos by JAY NOLAN

LeMecia Billups eats before going out with her mother, Yolanda, to church for a
play and to celebrate her 15th birthday.
Grocery shopping has been difficult for Yolanda Billups, who struggles to get by
on salaries from part-time jobs. She says she skips meals to save on food. "I
just want to be comfortable," she says.
One of Billups' jobs is a $15.04-an-hour position delivering mail at the post
office on Ehrlich and Lynn Turner roads. "I believe I should be independent,"
she says. "I've been working for so long."
Yolanda Billups

NOTES: LIVING ON A PRAYER RELATED STORY, Page 13: Services for the homeless
suffer big budget cuts. [First of Three Parts]

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 17, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

An Industrious Vision For The Lacoochee Area

BYLINE: BOB LORING; The writer, who lives near San Antonio, chairs the U.S.
Marine Corps Reserve's Toys for Tots Program for east Pasco.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1189 words


"To pour forth benefits for the common good is divine," Ben Franklin said.

And with July upon us I declare the official start of east Pasco's 2003 Toys for
Tots Campaign. Now in my fifth year at the program's controls, I thought I might
share with the community some of my unbridled optimism and my deepest concern.

Let's take the good news first.

I am honored to have the opportunity to work with the finest folks in our fair
county. Each year I am overwhelmed by the abundance of caring and generous
support given to our beloved program. Truly, there is scant room in this article
to honor each person, organization and business that cheerfully assists us each
year in providing a merry Christmas to many of our most deserving children.

Since 1999, the year I took the controls of this noble program, many new and
exciting changes have occurred. Thanks to the post office Letter Carriers Toy
Drive and legions of caring folks, we now serve 3,000 deserving tots.
Additionally, working with a marvelous faith-based organization, Food for Tots,
we are able to provide a food parcel for each participating family.

With the development of The American Dream, students from Saint Leo University
and Pasco-Hernando Community College are being trained by Big Brothers/Big
Sisters to mentor a growing number of children we serve. Additionally, early
next year The American Dream will host our 3rd congress for our area's child
care practitioners and other concerned citizens. We will convene on the campus
of Pasco-Hernando Community College.

With the eyes of our community beginning to focus on the possibility of building
a community center here in east Pasco, we have great hopes that many of our
social service agencies might resolve to come together, under one roof, and
coordinate various services.

Exciting new initiatives are springing up throughout our part of the county. For
instance, next week concerned citizens and professionals will convene to discuss
a community development and revitalization project targeting the oft-times
overlooked Tri-Lacoochee area.

If voters pass the "Penny for Pasco" tax initiative, our school and other
agencies would gain a much-needed funding boost. New this year is a Marine Corps
League detachment. The Sgt. Maj. Curtin Detachment #1124 was chartered in
Zephyrhills. This may be of minor concern to many folks, but for the first time
in the history of Toys for Tots of East Pasco we may now depend upon them for
needed assistance and logistical support.


Industry Park

Suffice to say our community is coming of age; we are starting to squarely meet
some of the needs of our most precious children living in the bitter clutches of
poverty.
However, each time I allow myself to begin to feel better, a reoccurring
nightmare leaps back into my consciousness. Pasco County's Achilles' heel is our
serious lack of employment opportunities. We simply do not have the jobs to meet
our ever-growing population.

Suppose, for a moment, we were able to meet most of these children's vast needs.
Suppose we could offer adequate education, necessary social service support,
food and clothing in abundance. Would that be enough? No! As adults they would
be faced with the inability to find adequate and gainful employment.

If we do not do something soon to create new jobs we will surely fail them, and
we also will fail ourselves. In our county the insufficiency of job
opportunities has caused rampant unemployment, homelessness and a host of other
consequences.

Using Toys for Tots as a barometer, this gloomy tendency reveals itself during
the Christmas season. Each year I observe an alarming number of new families
slipping into poverty and requiring our support. As this trend continues to
increase, Toys for Tots can expect to soon be overwhelmed. And I submit to you,
if this pattern is left unchecked, our other struggling social systems will
likewise be overpowered.

Now, I can hear my honored community psychology professor's voice ringing in my
ear: "Bob," he has advised me, "If you feel the need to grouse about a community
situation, at least think it through enough to make a clear and positive
recommendation."

I recommend designating a large area of underused east Pasco land for an
industrial park, a tax-deregulation zone. Here we would simply trade the
prospective business person a tax advantage for their promise of steady,
meaningful and abundant jobs.

I'm talking about a huge amount of acreage set aside for constructing large
manufacturing plants. We could provide them with tax-exempt incentives. If we
really put our mind to it, we also could provide some really creative new tax
loopholes and other benefits that any profit-minded entrepreneur could not
resist.

The current world climate, our war on terrorism, might hold a great advantage.
Consider the mind of a contemporary entrepreneur or corporate executive wishing
to invest in building a plant. Today, perhaps for the first time in decades, he
or she may be looking to locate a new company within the safe confines of our
great United States, forgoing a gamble in a less secure foreign country.


Student Power

East Pasco grants several advantages for attaining such a lofty goal. We possess
many acres of open, unused land. We have a large, employable labor force. We
have easy access to a major city's airport and seaport. We have a county willing
to accommodate planned change. We have a skillful group of active contractors.
We have a multiethnic population to attract possible investors from both South
and Central America. And, finally, we have abundant Florida sunshine.

But we would still need to get the word out. For this I suggest using our
community's student power to help us address the important task of marketing all
these exciting advantages. Suppose our business students studying at Saint Leo,
PHCC and our local public schools were to provide the person power to assist our
local chambers of commerce and civic clubs to find and entice major
manufacturers to look us over.

What a meaningful and valid education they would receive by working closely with
our chambers. And who would have a greater stake in its outcome then these
business-minded students.

Much like large cities' attempts to lure the Super Bowl, we, too, could learn to
specialize in an all-out, aggressive, marketing campaign. Attracting
manufacturing investors to see for themselves the many exciting and profitable
business opportunities available at our proposed East Pasco Industrial Park
Complex would be the name of the game.

Our schools and proposed community center could begin to customize job-training
efforts to meet the requirements of these prospective positions. Then, we would
assist these new companies by tailoring our training to meet their specific job
needs.

The East Pasco Industrial Park Complex should be targeted for land north of Dade
City, running toward the county line. The Tri-Lacoochee area was once a thriving
company town. It could, once again, be revitalized.

Let's get busy, east Pasco! An uncertain future is briskly approaching.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY VIEW

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 26, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Developer Asks For Zoning Change Delay

BYLINE: SUSAN M. GREEN, sgreen@tampatrib.com; Reporter Susan M. Green can be
reached at (813) 657-4529.

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 301 words


COMPANY RE-EXAMINES DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS

BRANDON - A zoning change that would allow a free-standing restaurant on Parsons
Avenue just north of Lumsden Road is scheduled to be heard Monday in Tampa.

But The Bayshore Co., which is developing the site, sent a fax Friday to county
officials asking to postpone the hearing until Feb. 24.

Brian Grady of Hillsborough's Planning and Growth Management Department said the
letter indicated Bayshore was re-evaluating its development options at the site.

The hearing is scheduled for 6 p.m. on the second floor of County Center, 601 E.
Kennedy Blvd. County officials say it would be up to the zoning hearing master
to grant or deny Bayshore's request.

Bayshore President Jim Lewis initially offered his proposal to open a restaurant
on the east side of Parsons near Vonderburg Drive as a way to save an 1890s home
known as the Galvin-Jaudon House. He said he was willing to move the house,
which dates to Brandon's founding, from its current location at 201 Victoria St.
and remodel it for restaurant use.

But Lewis last month canceled his contract with the home's owner, First Baptist
Church, saying the economic climate and community opposition squelched his
enthusiasm. He said he might take the house later if the economy improves.

Hillsborough's Planning and Growth Management Department recommends approving
the restaurant only if the plan includes salvaging the Galvin-Jaudon House. The
county's planning commission has recommended against the proposal.

Meanwhile, First Baptist applied for a permit to demolish the Galvin-Jaudon
House. Members of the county's Historic Resources Review Board took no action to
block the permit last week. The review was required under county rules because
the house is on a list of historic sites.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP (C)
Tribune map by CAITLIN H. WRIGHT

(C) (MAP) Restaurant proposed for office park

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 22, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Deputy Hopes Cleanup Helps Tommytown Pride

BYLINE: CANDACE J. SAMOLINSKI, csamolinski@tampatrib.com; Reporter Candace J.
Samolinski can be reached at (813) 948-4215.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words


LIGHTS FOR HOLIDAY AND STREETS IN PLANS

TOMMYTOWN - Residents in this eastern Pasco County neighborhood plan to show off
a little this holiday season.

Pasco County sheriff's Deputy Will Gibson, better known as Officer Friendly,
hopes to help the area shine with a cleanup today. It's part of a larger plan to
craft a climate of pride in the impoverished community.

"I want this area to look good for people coming to visit for the holidays,"
Gibson said. "I want the climate to change here. I think it already is."

Gibson toured Tommytown until after 9 p.m. Thursday passing out fliers about the
cleanup. Volunteers will receive a 7 a.m. breakfast at Norma Godinez Learning
Center on Polk Avenue. Trash bags will be provided.

With the help of the Pasco Community Development Division, Gibson arranged for
trash receptacles to be brought to Hillsborough, Lock and Meredith streets and
Seminole Avenue.

Garbage, construction materials, appliances, furniture and tires may be
discarded, but no hazardous materials, such as paint, batteries or combustible
liquids will be accepted.

Once the area has a clean start, Gibson hopes to work with county commissioners
and Dade City officials to adorn power poles with seasonal decorations.
Tommytown never has had decorations, unlike downtown Dade City.

"I have contacted [County Commissioner Ted Schrader] and I hope he will help us
get some decorations," Gibson said.

Holiday lights aren't the only things he hopes will illuminate Tommytown's
streets soon. Gibson also is lobbying for street lights along Lock, Meredith and
Tait streets.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 30, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Puerto Ricans: Numero Uno

BYLINE: CLOE CABRERA , ccabrera@tampatrib.com

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words


The group has surpassed Cubans as the largest Hispanic community in Hillsborough
County, census figures show.

TAMPA - The neighbors on Hubert Avenue in Pine Crest are familia, and for good
reason - they were neighbors back in Brooklyn, N.Y.

And before that, they all came from Puerto Rico.

They're not so unusual. Such migration has become something of a tradition for
puertorriquenos, helping the group surpass Cubans as the largest community of
Hispanics in Hillsborough County, according to U.S. Census figures and
immigration experts.

They're also the largest group of Hispanics in Pasco and Pinellas counties.

During the course of 10 years, Puerto Ricans more than doubled their numbers in
Hillsborough, increasing from 25,080 residents in 1990 to 52,568 in 2000,
surpassing the Cuban population of 35,123. Puerto Ricans make up 29.3 percent of
the county's Hispanic population, compared with Mexicans' 19.7 percent and
Cubans' 19.5 percent.

The Hubert Avenue neighbors help explain why.

At the heart of their story are Jose and Evelyn Julbe, who first visited Tampa
nearly 30 years ago on their honeymoon.

"It was so clean," recalls Evelyn, 50, of those two weeks in June 1974. "There
was no graffiti, or gum on the sidewalks. It was hot, but we loved it. I
couldn't believe there was a place like this."

Two years later, the couple and their two children packed up and left Brooklyn.
And during the next three decades, they helped more than two dozen neighbors,
including their sisters and brothers, move as well. All to Hubert Avenue.

"They were our family," says Jose, 48.


"We Help Each Other'
They all joined the same church - Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses - helped
raise each other's children and held summertime pig roasts.

"We had a bond that couldn't be broken," Jose says. "When you want a better life
for yourself, you also want it for your family."
Their extended family includes the Oquendos and their three children; the Cruzes
and their son; Jose's brothers Francisco and Osvaldo and Osvaldo's wife; Jose's
sister Jenny, her husband and four children; the Ramirezes and their child; and
Candida Perez and her children.

As each arrived from New York, they moved in with the Julbes - sometimes for
months at a time - until they were able to find jobs and support themselves.

Eventually, Jose, who owns a construction company, built five homes on Hubert.

"We help each other," says Jose. "That's what family does. It's easier when you
have someone you can depend on."

Karen Perez was 15 when her mother, Candida, moved the family to the Julbes'
home in Tampa. A single parent, Candida Perez would not have been able to leave
Brooklyn without help, her daughter says. It was help the teenager took for
granted.

"I never knew we weren't related until I got much older," says Karen Perez, now
39 and a clinical therapist. "To me, they were my real tia and tio" - aunt and
uncle.

Like some in the Julbes' extended family, Perez eventually moved out of the
neighborhood; she lives in New Tampa with her three children. She recently
visited her old friends for the first time since leaving the neighborhood.

"It felt as if only a week or so had gone by, not more than 20 years," Perez
says. "We just picked up where we left off."

While five families remain on Hubert, others have moved away. A number went to
Orlando and Kissimmee, helping drive dramatic census changes there. In metro
Orlando, Puerto Ricans nearly tripled their numbers, from 51,800 in 1990 to
140,000 in 2000.

Central Florida, which includes Orlando and Tampa, saw the largest Puerto Rican
growth of any major metropolitan area during that period.

As a group, Hispanics are still in the minority. They make up 18 percent of
Hillsborough County's population, 5.7 percent of Pasco's and 4.6 percent of
Pinellas'.


"A Latino Phenomenon'

Much like the Julbes, Delia Tamayo helped other Puerto Ricans move to her
Timberlane neighborhood.

A native of Vayamon, Puerto Rico, she moved to the New Jersey suburbs and
married at 14. Occasional trips to Tampa to visit her sister sold her on life
here, she says.

She finally moved in 1995.

"I fell in love with the atmosphere, the tranquillity and the climate," says
Tamayo, whose neighborhood is just a few miles from Pine Crest in northwest
Hillsborough. "There are a lot of Latinos here."

A niece and nephew, son and daughter-in-law soon left New Jersey as well, moving
into homes in Timberlane.

"I'm very happy living here," Tamayo says. "It's a nice neighborhood, a lot like
where I lived in Puerto Rico, but with a lot more diversity."

The resettlement of Puerto Ricans to neighborhoods where their families live is
not surprising to Tony Morejon, Hillsborough County's Hispanic liaison.

"It's not immigration - it's migration," says Morejon. "People think it's all
Cuban and Mexicans here, and it isn't. Puerto Rican families have discovered
this beautiful part of the world. And when they get here, they tell their aunts
and uncles and compadres and bring the entire community with them.

"I think it's really a Latino phenomenon," he says, adding that Hispanics tend
to be family-oriented. "We want our family close to us, and if that means moving
to be closer to them, we do."

The relocation of middle-class Puerto Ricans from New York has been increasing
because they can find better schools and jobs, and a better quality of life, in
other locales, said Rodney Ortiz, a Tampa community activist from Puerto Rico.

"Given the changes in the economy, they are now faced with high rent and
unemployment," he says.

"They are looking for a new place to resettle where there are jobs and the
weather is nice; Tampa offers a great opportunity."

Cuban-born Marc Vila, general manager of Latin-music radio station WQBN, 1300
AM, has no qualms about being outnumbered.

"It's an asset," says Vila. "We all have a common denominator, which is
language."

It's not surprising that the influx of Cubans has slowed, he says. It's hard for
modern Cubans to move to the United States. For Puerto Ricans, who are U.S.
citizens, it's much easier.

"Cubans were pioneers coming to the area," Vila says. "They've opened the way
for those that followed."

Reporter Doug Stanley contributed to this report. Reporter Cloe Cabrera can be
reached at (813) 259-7656

(CHART) (C) PUERTORRIQUENOS ON THE RISE
Puerto Ricans have become the largest Hispanic group in Hillsborough, Pasco and
Pinellas counties, thanks in part to family - and neighborhood-migration.
(see microfilm for details)

Source: Census data compiled by DOUG STANLEY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C) CHART (C)
Tribune photos by JAY CONNER

(C) Karen Perez, center, of New Tampa returns to her old neighborhood in Pine
Crest to visit Evelyn and Jose Julbe, who befriended Perez's family when it
moved to Tampa from Brooklyn, N.Y. Perez was 15 at the time.
(C) "We just picked up where we left off," Perez says of her visit with Evelyn
Julbe and her husband, whom she hadn't seen in more than 20 years. The Julbes
have helped more than two dozen New York neighbors move to Tampa.
Tribune photo by JAY CONNER

(C) Karen Perez, left, of New Tampa looks at family photos while visiting her
longtime friend Evelyn Julbe in her Pine Crest home. Perez, whose family moved
in with the Julbes when she was 15, says it wasn't until she was much older that
she learned they weren't her real aunt and uncle.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 7, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Go Blog Wild

BYLINE: KEVIN WALKER, kwalker@tampatrib.com; JEFF HOUCK AND KEVIN WALKER; Kevin
Walker can be reached at (813) 259-7975.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words


Personal diaries - once kept under lock and key - are posted online for all the
world to read.

"Oh. My. G-D. Did you know that a recent poll showed that as many as one in
three Germans under age 30 believe that the U.S. was behind the 9/11 attacks?"

Click.

"So I just wrote Dave Letterman's CBS Mailbag for the first time ever. Inquiring
minds wanna know ... what gives with the dark suits, dark loafers and (always)
white socks? These are the things that keep me awake at night."

Click.

"I have a confession to make. It's a deep dark secret, so I hope you all can
stand knowing it. I

NEVER READ THE HARRY POTTER BOOKS."

Click.

"So, yeah. I got a raise today. Now answer me this - why am I so lackadaisical
about it?"

Click.

"I really really really hate this time of year. It may not seem logical, what
with the shining sun and the warm weather just beckoning one outside, but it's
true. These are the days that test my patience through and through. For now we
have entered in the quiet before the storm that is football season."

Click. Turn off computer.

So there go five minutes of your life.

But was it time well-spent?

Bloggers would have no problem answering that question: Yes.

In what has become the hobby du jour for Internet users, blogs (short for Web
logs) are the fashionable way to express yourself.

In short, a blog is simply a Web page where the author muses about whatever he
chooses.

They usually choose themselves.

Most blogs read like journals, frequently updated and in chronological order,
and cover everything from bad restaurant experiences and terrible traffic to
illness.

Others provide links to stories the writers find amusing or alarming (like the
one above about the German survey).
Others concentrate on jokes, politics and sports.

A cursory surf around the Web turns up thousands of blogs. And with most
offering readers a chance to respond to every blog entry, blogging has helped
facilitate instantaneous global conversation.

Pasco Couple Meets Californian

Pasco County resident Robyn Pollman, 30, who runs a blog called Ain't Too Proud
to Blog, has received almost 25,000 responses on her site since it began three
years ago.

"This all started as a way to keep in touch with friends in Oklahoma," says
Pollman, who moved to this area from Oklahoma seven years ago with her husband,
Todd.

"But I'm constantly amazed at the number of people who read the site who are
complete strangers."

Pollman said the blog has led to meeting people from the area, as well as making
friends from across the country. One man flew from California to visit after
meeting the Pollmans through their blogs.

So, how was it meeting someone face to face after knowing them only via the
Internet?

"Let me put it this way: He gets to come back," Pollman says, laughing.

Sharing Their World Views

Jen Sisler, 30, also has a local blog, Crazy Island. She often writes about
personal experiences or her world view, which she concedes can be bleak.

For example, she recently posted an entry after surveying the current worldwide
political situation and concluded we might all be "doomed."

"I need to stop watching the news so much," Sisler says, laughing. "Sometimes it
really drags me down."

Apparently, based on reader reactions, others feel the same.

"I guess it's really nice to know there are people who feel the same way about
things as you do," Sisler says.

However, she adds, blogs also provide access to alternative views.

"I read people all the time that I don't necessarily agree with," Sisler says.

In the introduction to "We Blog: Publishing Online With Weblogs" - considered by
some bloggers as the definitive tome on blogging - authors Paul Bausch, Matthew
Haughey and Meg Hourihan address the popularity of blogging.

"Weblogs written by a single author usually take on a personal tone and offer an
almost voyeuristic look into someone's life," they write. "The author writes
about the interesting things he has found on the Web, what types of successes
and struggles he finds at work and home and what world events fascinate him.

"There are no editors, so the writing on most Weblogs feels honest and real."

Site Gets You Started

So, what do you need to blog? A computer, imagination and little else.

The best place for beginners is Blogger (at www. blogger.com). "There are
already premade templates for you, so it's easy," Pollman says.

If the phrase "premade templates" already is throwing you, just check out the
Blogger site, which notes: "Don't worry if you don't know what any of that
means, it's not necessary."

All you need are about two minutes to set up your blog.

After that, all you need is something to say.

(CHART) Web Log Site Seeing
A blog (short for Web log) is a Web page made up of short, frequently updated
posts that are arranged chronologically, like a journal. Though the content is
entirely up to the writer, most blogs provide the writer's view on current
events, a peek into his or her personal life and/or links to things the writer
finds amusing on the Internet.
The general consensus on where beginners should start is Blogger
(www.blogger.com), a site that provides free help in setting up your own blog.
The Blogger site also provides links to blogs that are already up and running so
you can get a feel for how it's done.
However, we took the liberty of listing some of our most frequently visited
blogs, starting with those operated by bloggers in the Tampa Bay area.
Crazy Island - www.crazyisland.net/weblog.php
Ain't Too Proud to Blog - www.tampatantrum.com/
Demented and Sad - www.dementedandsad.com/
Suburban Blight - www.suburbanblight.net/
Annessa - www.annessa.net/blog/
BillGee - billgee.com/
My Single Mom Life - www.mysinglemomlife.com/
Gonzonia - www.gonzonia.com/
Solonor - solonor.com/blogger.html
Here are some of the more popular blogs outside this area:
The Presurfer - presurfer.meepzorp.com/
Dave Barry - davebarry.blogspot.com/
Coolio's - coolios.flabber.nl/
Rabbit Blog - rabbitblog.fillerama.com/
Primal Purge - quiplash.blogspot.com
Margi Lowry - www.margilowry.com/
Bunsen.TV - bunsen.tv/
Joel Stein - www.thejoelstein.com/
Evan Williams, co-creator of Blogger - www.evhead.com
Paul Bausch, co-author of "We Blog: Publishing Online With Weblogs," has a blog
at www.onfocus.com/

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C) CHART
Tribune photo by VICTOR JUNCO

(C) Jen Sisler, 30, of Tampa shares personal experiences and her views on global
politics on her Web log, Crazy Island. She also likes to read the alternative
viewpoints of other bloggers.
Tribune illustration by ANDY DORSETT

(C) (A box with a computer, keyboard, clock and coffee can)

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 3, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Look Beyond Keyshawn Jerseys For Great Gifts

BYLINE: MARTY STRASEN, mstrasen@tbo.com

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words


TAMPA - Stores are practically giving away Keyshawn Johnson jerseys. Not unlike
the Bucs' approach with the player himself.

But if it's a less-outdated holiday gift you'd like for that sports fan on your
shopping list, allow us to offer some suggestions for $25 or less:

Hop on the Bolts bandwagon. The Lightning not only got off to a blazing start,
they also play one of the most exciting brands of hockey in the NHL. Tickets are
among the most affordable in the league, starting at $8 a game, and you can
reduce your costs even further by watching for group and family promotions.

There are also several apparel options on the team's official Web site,
tampabaylightning.com.

Warm up the Bucs. Bucs souvenirs were hot sellers a year ago, for obvious
reasons. But while the team has been cold as ice since winning a championship,
at least your favorite fan's hot drink will hold its temperature in a coffee
travel mug with 3-D Bucs logo.

We found one for $19.95 at www.sportsfangifts.com, and it's made of a Bucs
official color: die-cast pewter.

Several other inexpensive Bucs-related options are at TBO.com's Fan Shop. The
link is on the right side of the Bucs page.

Buy the book. There's plenty of good reading available for a sports fan. In
general, you want to stay away from the fiction section.

"Who's Your Caddy," by Sports Illustrated's Rick Reilly, is a fun read for any
golfer. Each chapter is a story unto itself, a recounting of Reilly's adventures
while caddying for prominent celebrities - only some of whom are golfers. The
John Daly chapter is, predictably, outrageous. The list price is $24.95, but
Amazon.com has it for $14.97.

"Not Till The Fat Lady Sings" is an impressive collection of 50 of the most
dramatic finishes ever. Jim McKay narrates the supplementary DVD and Doug Flutie
writes the foreword. List price is $29.95, but Barnes & Noble's Web site offers
it for $17.97.

Rev up. With Nextel replacing R.J. Reynolds as the title sponsor, 2003 was the
final year for Winston Cup racing. If there's a racing fan on your shopping
list, NASCAR.com offers several "Winston nostalgic" shirts for less than $20.

And for half that price, you can order a tree ornament with Santa Claus or a
snowman dressed as your favorite NASCAR driver. Few things say happy holidays
quite like a Tony Stewart Santa.

Which brings us to one last suggestion ...

Make it practical. If the sports fan on your list doesn't use a letter-opener,
he or she is not going to start using one just because it has a Bucs logo on it.
A nice shirt might be the way to go.

Keyshawn or otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
www.sportsfangifts.com

A travel mug will keep your favorite Bucs fan's coffee warm.

NOTES: FANATICS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 21, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

A Magical Place

BYLINE: CHARLOTTE WAGENHEIM, Special to the Tribune; Charlotte Wagenheim
received a master's degree in gerontological nursing from Michigan State
University, where she became an instructor as well as a community health nurse
and gerontological nurse practitioner. She has been married 40 years, and has
five children and three grandchildren. Her hobbies include boating and
watercolor painting.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words


TRINITY - Florida's magic came to me long before the arrival of the infamous
mouse and his friends, back when Orlando was just a blip on the map, a place to
drive through on the way to more interesting venues.

My excitement about this state began when I heard stories from my parents about
their trip to a strange and exciting place very distant from the conservative
New England town in which I lived. I listened eagerly to talk about alligators,
palm trees and Spanish moss.

My favorite topic at age 7 was Polly, Great Aunt Florence's parrot that had been
her pet for 20 years or more. I could not imagine that anyone could own such a
beautiful and exotic bird, and I brought pictures of Polly to school to show my
classmates.

I bragged about my parents' trip to Florida, too, even though I secretly
resented the fact that my sister and I were left at home with my grandmother.
Roads at that time were not the expressways of today, and it took my parents
four to five days to make the trek south to Miami from New Bedford, Mass.

It was so exciting to hear descriptions of places such as Virginia, the
Carolinas and Georgia, especially considering my classmates and I were learning
about the Civil War.

My parents also recounted how they had to shed jackets and sweaters as they
drove farther south, and they told us of how they swam in the ocean in the
middle of February! To the ears of a 7-year-old, it was unimaginable that
another state could be so warm when we had been ice skating at our local pond
for weeks.

In keeping with the trends of the time, my parents visited Weeki Wachee, Cypress
Gardens and the Parrot Jungle, and I was the recipient of stuffed parrots,
parasols and miniature mermaids as souvenirs.

They also brought home many photographs of Florida that showed wide beaches
lined with palms. I recall that several coconuts adorned our dining room table
for many months after their return home.

Seeing For Myself

As time went on, I never forgot about these stories. Many years later, when I
was married and had children of my own, I finally was able to see for myself
what this exciting and mysterious place was all about.

My husband and I drove down to St. Petersburg in the late 1960s in a new
Chevelle, and I experienced for myself the gradual change in climate, the moss
and my first palm tree. All of the things my parents had described were there.

I was hooked on Florida.

Many trips followed over the years, and we traveled from Disney World to the
Florida Keys. Each place was different and exciting.

My Florida connection reached a new level seven months ago, when I became an
official resident.

My husband and I retired and moved away from Michigan when we became empty
nesters; our youngest child had entered the University of South Florida. We
moved to the Tampa area, where we continue to enjoy new sights and sounds daily.

We have gone from blizzard alerts to tropical depressions and from wind-chill
factors to a heat index. We've even learned what a Category 3 hurricane means.

Experiencing our first shuttle launch at the Space Center was spectacular, and
we find that Disney World is as much fun today as it was when the children were
younger.

So Much To Offer

How very different and wonderful it is to be living here. I wake up most days to
the sun shining and warm temperatures, and it feels especially good when I hear
reports of snow up north. It gives me great pleasure to work in my garden and to
enjoy the sun and warmth.

I really enjoyed decorating the house for the recent holidays without shivering
from the cold.

It is difficult to imagine a place with so much to offer, from the beautiful
beaches to the many tourist attractions, from the serenity of the Everglades to
the bustle of the cities, and from the diversity of Florida's residents to the
excellent colleges and universities within our boundaries.

I may be 7 no longer, but I still believe Florida is, indeed, a magical place!

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Tribune photo by ANDY JONES

(C) Charlotte Wagenheim's fascination with the state of Florida led her to move
from Michigan to Trinity several months ago when the last of her children left
home. The weather was a big draw.

NOTES: "I Remember It Well" is a feature of the Prime Time page. Please send
entries via e-mail to dkoehn@tampatrib.com or in typewritten form to Donna
Koehn, The Tampa Tribune, P.O. Box 191, Tampa FL 33601. Include a phone number.
Submissions cannot be returned.I REMEMBER IT WELL PRIME TIME

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 23, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Al-Arian Inquiry Took Turn After 9/11

BYLINE: WILLIAM MARCH , wmarch@tampatrib.com; Reporter William March can be
reached at (813) 259-7761.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words


PATRIOT ACT AIDED IN INDICTMENT

TAMPA - When four jets crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a
field in Pennsylvania on Sept. 11, 2001, the terrorists may have sealed Sami
Al-Arian's fate.

No one has alleged that Al-Arian, a University of South Florida computer science
professor, or any of his associates are linked with Sept. 11 or the al-Qaida
terrorist network.

But the attacks added impetus to many investigations of alleged terrorist groups
unrelated to al-Qaida, lawyers involved in those cases say. Often they were
linked, like Al-Arian, to the Palestinian cause.

And some of those investigations, after going on for years, have produced
concrete legal results in the past year or so - arrests, freezing of charities'
assets or organizations' bank accounts.

Announcing the Al-Arian indictment Thursday, the Department of Justice listed
scores of other cases it considers successes, including:

More than 70 investigations into terrorism financing.

36 entities designated as terrorist organizations.

$113 million frozen in financial assets of 62 organizations alleged to support
terrorism.

The department claimed 23 criminal convictions so far. Among the most notable is
an Islamic charity executive charged with raising money for al-Qaida, who
pleaded guilty in a plea bargain to diverting charitable contributions to rebel
fighters in Bosnia and Chechnya.

Cases in North Carolina and Detroit focused on aid funneled to the Middle
Eastern terrorist group Hezbollah; one in Houston alleges a drugs-for-weapons
plot involving a paramilitary group in Colombia.


Fight Against Global Terrorism

"We're fighting global terrorism - Jihad, FARC in Colombia, Abu Sayyaf in the
Philippines, you name it," Department of Justice spokesman Mark Corallo said.
"We've never said they're all linked together, but I don't think we're drawing
distinctions between the terrorists in South America who kill and kidnap
American citizens or the al-Qaida or any other terrorist group."

In Al-Arian's case, until the indictment announced Thursday, the investigation
had seemed to languish, spanning nearly a decade.

The indictment contains wiretap information from as early as January 1994.

In that time, the divisive, unresolved investigation hung over the Tampa Bay
area and the University of South Florida like an irritating cloud of mosquitoes.

Asked at a news conference Thursday why it took so long to bring the Al-Arian
case to an arrest, U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft said the Patriot Act
helped bring it to conclusion.
"Obviously, after 9/11, [the Al-Arian case] took on more importance," said Steve
Cole, spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in the Middle District of
Florida, which brought the case.

But the Sept. 11 attacks changed both the nation's political climate and the
attitude of investigators, experts on the terror war say.

"Prosecutors make political and practical decisions as well as legal ones," said
Niels W. Frenzen, law professor at the University of Southern California. "I
think the government is making a tactical decision they're more likely to
succeed post-9/11."

"Palestinian issues are more viable targets than before 9/11, even though it has
little to do with what happened on 9/11," Frenzen said.

The Sept. 11 attacks made possible new laws giving investigators broader power
to conduct more intrusive investigations on U.S. soil - powers that in some
cases they had sought unsuccessfully for years.

The most important example is the USA Patriot Act, passed within a month after
the Sept. 11 attacks.

Ruth Wedgwood, a former federal prosecutor and law professor at Johns Hopkins
University, said congressional views on some of those investigative techniques
changed almost overnight - including "pooling" criminal and intelligence
information, which federal law officers long had desired.

That was a key to the Al-Arian investigation, federal agents have said.

Despite its all-American name - an acronym for "Uniting and Strengthening
America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct
Terrorism" - the law was controversial from the start.

Lawyers say it gives investigators and prosecutors the ability to take steps
previously unthinkable in American criminal courtrooms, including warrantless
searches and wiretaps and use of trial evidence that's not shown to the
defendant.

Many of the toughest provisions of the law haven't yet been used, say some
lawyers and law professors knowledgeable about the act.

Lawyers in other terrorist cases said the attacks changed federal prosecutors'
approach to their cases.

"They'd been digging through our trash and following our people since the
1990s," said Roger Simmons, attorney for the Illinois-based Global Relief
Foundation, one of the nation's largest Muslim charities.

The case presented against Global Relief last year, when federal investigators
froze the organization's assets, included photos dating from 1997 and intercepts
of phone calls from 1994 and 1995, he said.

In 2001, the government froze Global Relief's assets. In 2002, the U.S. Treasury
Department designated it a terrorist organization because it has received
funding from a top al-Qaida financier, and its leader worked for an Afghan
resistance group created by Osama bin Laden in the 1980s.

Simmons vehemently denied the charges, saying that, at the time, the U.S.
government also supported the Afghan group.


Investigators' Attitudes Change

Not just the law has changed, but also the attitudes of investigators, Wedgwood
said.

"The [FBI] has learned a lot. Its culture has changed," she said.

Before Sept. 11, she said, the FBI was reluctant to send agents to investigate
any group that might claim its free speech rights were being violated -
political groups, mosques or other religious or cultural groups - even when
there might be legal justification.

"The deference you would pay to a cultural institution of any kind was
extraordinary," she said. "The idea was to stay far, far away from the edge" of
what was legally allowed, to avoid provoking possible over-reaction and
oppressive regulation that Congress might impose in response.

Now, she said, "There's a new willingness to penetrate the facade of [charitable
or cultural ] organizations. The view has changed, if only for a limited period
of time. Would I give up some privacy to keep a quarter-million people from
being blown up by bin Laden? You betcha."

(CHART) ANTITERRORISM LAW
Highlights of the USA patriot Act:
Search And Surveillance
Permits more electronic eavesdropping, Internet communications tracking,
property searching without notifying suspect
Allows federal officials to get nationwide search warrants for terrorism
investigations, including e-mail, physical searches, billing records, voice mail

Money Laundering
Permits investigation of foreign banks, accounts, transactions; U.S. banks must
report suspicious transactions
Bioterrorism
Outlaws harmful biological agents or toxins in potentially deadly quantities
Immigration
Gives government greater authority to detain immigrants; charges must be brought
within a week
Sharing Data
Permits federal officials and intelligence agencies to share on "need to know"
basis information obtained in criminal investigations, grand juries, wiretaps,
tax returns
Note: Many of the law's search and surveillance provisions expire in four years
Graphic by Knight Ridder/Tribune

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 CHART
Al-Arian

(C) Investigated almost a decade for terrorist link
The Associated Press

Six weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, President Bush signed the USA Patriot Act,
a law that gives unprecedented authority to law enforcement agencies that are
fighting terrorism.

NOTES: RELATED STORY, Page 11: Three Florida companies on terror ties list.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 16, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Schumacher's Job: "Selling A Cause'

BYLINE: BART O'CONNELL, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 590 words


TOP FUEL DRIVER ALSO TOP ARMY RECRUITER

GAINESVILLE - His makeshift home for race weekend more closely resembles an
armed fort than a pit area. His facade away from the drag strip is eerily
similar.

No matter where you run into NHRA Top Fuel driver Tony Schumacher, it's
impossible to escape his feelings on world politics. There's a reason for it:
He's seen the world, its best and worst parts, and is far closer to politics
than most athletes can claim.

Schumacher does not sign checks from your average sponsor. He signs them from
the U.S. government. The Army, to be exact.

Because of this, "The Sarge," as Schumacher is known, is at the center of the
Army's recruiting campaign, a campaign that could be sending many NHRA fans
right into war in Iraq.

"This is a very important job that we're doing out here," Don Schumacher, Tony's
dad and team owner, said. "It's a big task; we're very supportive of what the
Army's doing."

Tony Schumacher - in Gainesville this weekend for the NHRA's MAC Tools
Gatornationals - is required to recruit 100,000 people into the Army each year.
He's made trips to Afghanistan, Kuwait and Qatar. He's fired weapons and driven
tanks.

Put it all together and it's obvious: This is more than just a sponsorship. This
is an enormous responsibility, one that Schumacher does not think some people
would take.

"They wouldn't want what comes with the ride," Schumacher said. "It's a lot of
work, it's a lot of P.R., it's a lot of traveling around, but personally I
wouldn't want to trade it for the world."

Fact is, many of those people just do not agree with going to war. That's what
makes this relationship intriguing. Athletes are fired all the time by sponsors
who don't like their antics or their performance. In many ways, this
relationship could be considered the opposite. Schumacher could be losing fans
because of his political beliefs. Good thing for the Army that Martin Sheen is
not driving the car.

But the change in political climate was still a surprise. In August 2000, when
Schumacher made the deal, war was not considered imminent. Ever since 9/11, it
has been.

Talking to Schumacher, you get the sense he would act the same even if he
weren't taking the Army's money. He lets out a hearty laugh after unveiling his
newest shirt, given to him by a friend. The shirt reads: "Hard Rock Cafe.
Baghdad. Get bombed for free."

"You're not just asking [fans] for the Army to pay for college and join to go
work a job, you're asking them to go keep America free, and you've got to
believe in that," Schumacher said. "That's not something that's easy to sell if
you don't. There's a lot of the people I helped put into the Army; me not
willing to go [overseas] would have been hypocritical."

Although willing to make more trips to the Middle East, even if war breaks out,
Schumacher admitted the Army probably won't ask him to do that. His reasoning?
The job he's doing here is too important to risk.

That job, the job of keeping the sponsors happy, certainly has changed during
the years. In some cases, such as Schumacher's, it's not about selling beer or
auto parts. It's about selling a cause, whether the average person believes in
it or not.

"You have to do that today in any form of motorsports," Don Schumacher said.
"You have to create a business-to-business reason for a sponsor to be involved
with you. There's more to it than put your name on a car and we'll get you some
TV time. You have to support your sponsor for the sponsor to support you."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: GATORNATIONALS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 29, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

NEW LEASE ON SAFETY

BYLINE: B.C. MANION, bmanion@tampatrib.com; Reporter B.C. Manion can be reached
at (813) 259-7150.

SECTION: BAYLIFE AT HOME, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2157 words


In these times of terrorism threats and war, keeping apartment complexes secure
has become a greater concern for the lessor and the leasee.

TAMPA - As a flight attendant, Beth Thomas deals with the possibility of
terrorism on a daily basis.

When she comes home at night, she likes to know the gates at her apartment
complex open only if you have the right kind of access card or remote control.

Thomas, 32, also likes to be able to turn on the television in her apartment to
see who is at that gate.

Feeling safe has become a greater concern for apartment dwellers as the nation
braces for potential terrorist attacks. Federal officials mentioned apartments
as possible targets in May and again in February, when officials raised the
nation's alert level to code orange, the second highest.

Chris E. McGoey, an expert in apartment security, says terrorists aren't likely
to target most complexes. They tend to like high-profile targets.

"Blowing up a building of 100 units - it's not that big of splash," says McGoey,
who operates the Crimedoctor.com Web site. High rises in big cities are more
vulnerable to attack, he says.

Rod Graber, president of the Bay Area Apartment Association, agrees. He thinks
apartments with 1,000 units or more, in places such as Los Angeles or New York,
are more likely targets than typical apartment developments in Tampa.

"Most of the apartment communities in and around Tampa are smaller communities,
100 to 500 units," Graber says.

Just the same, apartment professionals are encouraging their staffs and
residents to be vigilant.

"We tell people if they see any suspicious activity on the property they should
call 911," says Dave Watkins, president of the Florida Apartment Association.

"Don't discriminate, but have a discriminating eye," says Marc Rosenwasser,
immediate past president of the Bay Area Apartment Association.

"Focus on the behavior, not on how they appear," agrees Susan Weston, director
of education for the National Apartment Association.

"We call it "Giving it the Aunt Edna test.' If your Aunt Edna were doing it and
you still thought it was bizarre, then pick up the phone" and alert authorities,
Weston says.

Concerns about potential threats prompted the National Apartment Association to
conduct regional panels on terrorism last year.

The panels included representatives from the local FBI office or Department of
Homeland Security, professional screening companies, local law enforcement and
apartment professionals.

The national association offers these recommendations to members:

Require thorough background checks of potential tenants.

Keep storage areas locked and maintain an accurate inventory of tools and
supplies, especially potentially dangerous materials such as chlorine,
fertilizer and wiring.

Require full descriptions and tag numbers for vehicles parked on the property.

Enforce a "no solicitors" policy.

Conduct regular checks of amenity areas to be sure there are no unattended
packages or parcels.

Empty trash containers regularly.

Hold gatherings so residents can get to know each other.

At Alta Key, an apartment community in south Tampa, a number of security
measures are in place.

Staff members cannot get a key to enter an apartment unless they pass a
fingerprint test. Packages won't be accepted by the front office unless they are
addressed to a specific apartment.

Even with sophisticated security measures, Stephanie Gifford, Alta Key's
property manager, says she can't promise safety.

"We try to make [tenants] comfortable without guaranteeing anything you can't
really provide," Gifford says.

"Nobody can guarantee your safety, but we can try to control access," adds John
Bouser, a marketing representative for Alta Key.

Erika Nakamura, 62, says the property's security measures were one of the key
reasons she and her husband, Herbert, chose to rent there.


Know Thy Neighbor

Residents can play a key role in keeping a property safe, managers say.

"It's a matter of knowing your neighbors," says Rosenwasser, whose company,
Meadow Wood Property, hosts regular get-togethers so residents can mingle. That
way, they know one another and can spot strangers more easily.

Residents can provide valuable information, says Tampa police Officer Art
Hushen, who specializes in crime prevention.

"Be aware of what people are throwing away," he says.

It's not a good sign if someone is tossing out lots of empty chlorine or ammonia
drums, Hushen says.

Apartment managers can reduce opportunities for people to store illegal
chemicals or weapons by making sure there are no dark places where the materials
can be easily unloaded, Hushen says.

Rosenwasser says his staff watches for suspicious behavior. That includes:

Apartments where lots of people are coming and going at all hours.

Blinds that are always closed.

Locks that have been installed on doors by tenants, not management.

Although apartments may not be popular targets for terrorists, they do tend to
live in rental housing, McGoey says.

Well-managed complexes have checks and balances that should keep them out, he
adds.

Good managers require a credit history, rental history and proof of employment,
and they also check references, he says.

"For the most part, do you think terrorists are going to have a good credit
history? Someone who has just snuck into the country is not going to have a
credit history," says McGoey, who has offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles.


Expanded Background Checks

Background checks are nothing new, but some managers have expanded the screening
to include a list of known or suspected terrorists, says Jay Harris, a vice
president for the National Multi Housing Council.

That list is kept by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, part of the
Department of Treasury, Harris says.

Even small apartment developments have intensified tenant screening, says Ellen
Zusman of Zee Management Inc. in south Tampa.

She says tighter screening began over concerns about liability related to sexual
predators.

"We do a criminal background check on everyone, and we're a little guy," says
Zusman, whose company has 12 buildings with 100 units.

The bottom line is sharing information, says Katie Hughes, a spokeswoman for the
Tampa Police Department.

People know what's normal in their neighborhood, so they can sense when
something isn't quite right, she says.

If they suspect danger, they should report it, she says.

"It's more important than ever before that there be a partnership between law
enforcement and the community," Hughes says.

"The homeland-security risk is nationwide. No one is exempt."

(CHART) (C) PROPERTY MANAGER TIPS
Be thorough in screening tenant applications. Require original identification
documents to prove identity. Run criminal background checks. Match applicants
against the FBI's most-wanted, fugitive and terrorist lists.
Note any prospect insisting on a specific unit location.
Note any individual renting more than one apartment.
Watch for rents being paid by different people with money drawn from different
bank accounts.
Maintenance staff should report any suspicious materials they see out in the
open. Those items include chemicals or caustics, weapons or ammunition, ID-
making materials, bomb-making materials such as PVC or metal piping, nails,
timers, gunpowder or fertilizer.
Report any suspicious packages delivered to the office.
Monitor for suspicious behavior (for example, frequent visitors at a unit, no
one seen leaving the unit, people taking photographs of the area or nearby
landmarks).
Require proof from contractors that they screen their employees.
Establish a visual signal or a code for employees to use in a threatening
situation.
Apply policies and procedures consistently to ensure fair housing practices.
Source: National Apartment Association

(CHART) (C) SAFE AT HOME
High-Rises
In any high-rise apartment or office building, know where the emergency exits
are located. If the building comes under attack:
Move away from file cabinets, bookshelves or other items that might fall.
Face away from windows and glass.
Move away from exterior walls.
Determine if you should stay or leave.
Listen for and follow instructions.
Take your emergency kit, unless you have reason to believe it has been
contaminated.
Do not use elevators.
Stay to the right while going down stairwells to allow emergency workers to come
up.
Neighborhood Or Apartment Complex
Get to know your neighbors. You can help each other in an emergency.
Find out if anyone has specialized equipment or special knowledge, such as an
expertise with power generators or a medical background.
Decide who will check on elderly or disabled neighbors.
Make backup plans in case you can't get home to your children.
Talk about your plans ahead of time.
Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security

(CHART) (C) Get Through Attack With Proper Preparation
Stocking up for war-related emergencies isn't much different than preparing for
a hurricane, says Dennis LaMonde, a spokesman for the Hillsborough County
Emergency Management Office.
People should realize there may be a loss of some services, LaMonde says. They
should fill up their cars' gas tanks and have cash on hand in case the power
goes out and gas pumps and ATMs are not working.
Stockpiling certain supplies may take a small amount of effort and expense, but
it should provide peace of mind. And if nothing happens, you'll have them when
hurricane season starts in June.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security encourages people to assemble a kit
that contains:
Water
One gallon of water per person per day, for drinking and sanitation. More water
may be needed here because of our warm climate. Keep at least a three-day supply
for each person.
Food
Select foods that require no refrigeration, preparation or cooking and little or
no water. Be sure to have a manual can opener.
Suggested foods include ready-to-eat canned meats, protein or fruit bars, dry
cereal, granola, peanut butter, dried fruit, nuts, crackers, canned juices,
nonperishable pasteurized milk, high-energy foods, vitamins, infant foods and
comfort foods.
Supplies
Paper cups, plates, plastic utensils
Flashlight and extra batteries
Battery-powered radio and extra batteries
Plastic garbage bags and ties
First-aid kit
Map of the area
Whistle to signal for help
Moist towelettes
Paper towels
Utility knife
Sanitation
Toilet paper
Plastic bags and ties for personal sanitation
Plastic bucket with tight lid
Personal-hygiene items
Disinfectant
Household chlorine bleach (To use bleach as a disinfectant, dilute it using nine
parts water to one part bleach. To use it to purify water, use 16 drops of
regular household bleach per gallon of water. Do not use scented or color-safe
bleaches or ones with added cleaners.)
Nose And Mouth Protection
An industrial face mask may offer protection in a chemical or biological attack.
Use a mask or a dense-weave cotton material that covers the nose and mouth.
Masks are available in hardware stores. They are rated based on how small a
particle they can filter in an industrial setting.
Other barriers: Use heavyweight plastic garbage bags or plastic sheeting and
duct tape on windows, doors and air vents. Once a room is sealed, you may want
to use a portable air purifier with a HEPA filter to help remove contaminants.
Family Documents
Keep copies of insurance policies, identification and bank-account records in a
waterproof, portable container.
Clothing And Bedding
Pack at least one complete change of clothing and shoes per person including a
jacket, long pants, long-sleeve shirt, sturdy shoes, hat and gloves, and
sleeping bag or blanket.
Tools
First-aid book
Cash
Fire extinguisher, small canister, ABC type
Tube tent
Pliers
Compass
Matches in a waterproof container
Aluminum foil
Plastic storage containers
Signal flare
Paper, pencil
Medicine dropper
Shutoff wrench, to turn off household gas and water
First-Aid Kit
Two pair of sterile gloves
Sterile dressings to stop bleeding
Soap and antibiotic towelettes
Antibiotic ointment
Burn ointment
Adhesive bandages
Eye-wash solutions
Thermometer
Prescription medications
Prescribed medical supplies such as glucose and blood-pressure monitoring
equipment
Things That May Be Helpful
Cellphone
Scissors
Tweezers
Tube of petroleum jelly or other lubricant
Aspirin or nonaspirin pain reliever
Antidiarrheal medication
Antacid
Syrup of Ipecac
Laxative
Activated charcoal (use if advised by the Poison Control Center)
Special Needs
If you or a family member - especially infants, elderly adults or people with a
chronic medical condition - has special needs, stock up on supplies used daily.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C) CHART (3C)
Tribune photos by VICTOR JUNCO

(C) Angelica Busch of Alta Key apartments demonstrates the complex's gate
monitoring system.
(C) Residents at Alta Key apartments must use a keyless access device to get
into some areas of the complex.
Tribune photos by VICTOR JUNCO

(C) Alta Key takes extra steps to make residents comfortable, but property
manager Stephanie Gifford says the apartment complex can't guarantee anybody's
safety.
(C) Alta Key monitors its exercise room with a security camera. Safety experts
encourage managers and residents to look out for suspicious activities.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 18, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Musical Wanderings Fuel Calexico's "Feast'

BYLINE: CURTIS ROSS, cross@tampatrib.com

SECTION: FRIDAY EXTRA!, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 323 words



CALEXICO: FEAST OF WIRE (QUARTERSTICK) B-

Calexico's desert storm throws together mariachi and muted jazz trumpet, Tex-mex
and trip hop, and whatever else the wind blows in. The duo of Joey Burns and
John Convertino bake these seemingly varied styles into musical adobe, with
which it constructs "Feast of Wire."

The structure's only weak spots are those built on Americana plainsong, with
earnest lyrics and salt-of-the-earth chord changes.

Even those tunes aren't complete wastes. The pair and their musical partners
dress up "Sunken Waltz" with accordion and tremolo guitar; and just when
"Quattro (World Drifts In)" threatens to become indie-rock's "The Boys of
Summer," it's rescued by a sprightly horn chart.

Things get way more interesting after that as the rusty music-box sounds of
"Stucco" intro "Black Heart," which relocates Portishead's trademark gloom noir
to a less humid climate. The chorus drags itself out of the murk for a brief
shot of glory.

"Not Even Stevie Nicks ... ," besides being a great title, also is a very good
pop song, brisk, heartfelt and dramatic. "Attack El Robot! Attack!," besides
being a fantastic title, sounds like the theme to a low-budget '50s sci-fi film
as scored by a border-town bar band.

"Across the Wire," on the other hand, sounds so authentically Mexican it begs
for a Spanish-language version. "Crumble," on the other hand, could pass as jazz
- real, live jazz - in a blindfold test.

"Feast of Wire" is at its best when Calexico mixes and matches, as on "Dub
Latina," "Guero Canelo" and "Whipping the Horses Eyes," a trio of instrumental
(save for some distorted mutterings in "Guero Canelo") pieces that display
Calexico's bold but unpretentious musical wanderings.

Burns' voice is serviceable but adds little to the mix, and the album drags
toward the middle, suggesting some editing might have been in order. But "Feast
of Wire" deserves mostly accolades.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
Touch & Go

(C) Joey Burns and John Convertino

NOTES: MUSIC

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 28, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Workers' Comp Reform Shoved Through Senate

BYLINE: MIKE SALINERO , msalinero@tampatrib.com

SECTION: METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words


TALLAHASSEE - It took stopping the official Senate clock to avoid a procedural
deadline, and claimed a committee chairmanship along the way, but the Florida
Legislature managed to ram through a workers' compensation reform bill late
Tuesday that now goes to Gov. Jeb Bush.

When the smoke cleared, insurance carriers were giddy, labor unions dejected and
some legislators still unsure they had done the right thing in voting for the
bill. But pro-business Republicans felt they had answered the pleas of
businesses for relief from some of the highest workers' compensation premiums in
the country.

"No business is going to want to come to the state of Florida when we don't have
a workers' comp climate that is healthy," said Sen. Paula Dockery, R-Lakeland.

"I do believe it's going to bring down rates," said Sen. Tom Lee, R- Brandon.

Democrats, who were on the losing end of a 25-14 vote, said the bill eroded
workers' protections without guaranteeing savings for businesses. The measure
also passed largely along party lines in the House, 82-35.

Senate President Jim King, R-Jacksonville, promised to form a study panel to
determine this year how the system could be improved, and then consider those
suggestions during the 2004 session.

Chief among the Democratic objections was a $1,500-per-incident limit on fees
attorneys get for representing workers in claims disputes.

Republicans maintain that one of the factors driving increases in workers'
compensation costs are attorney fees, as well as fraud and abuse. But Democrats
pointed out that the bill does not cap how much insurance companies can pay
their lawyers when opposing a claim.

"If I had to pick one area that I think is unbalanced, I worry about the working
men and women having a fair shot against attorneys that are so good in this
area," said Sen. Rod Smith, D-Alachua.

The Senate forced the House to accept some amendments that Republicans felt were
more worker-friendly. One kept current law on what kinds of injuries are defined
as totally and permanently disabled. The House bill had required the loss of two
body parts to claim total disability benefits. The Senate returned the
definition to the loss of one body part.

But Democrats said the change was meaningless because the worker can get the
benefit only if he or she can't find a sedentary job within a 50-mile radius.

"If I lost my arm and I'm a pianist and I can't be a pianist, all I have to do
is find them a chair and put them in the chair and they're employable," said
Sen. Skip Campbell, D-Fort Lauderdale.

Campbell and several other Democrats tried to block the bill with procedural
moves. Campbell said one of his parliamentary maneuvers cost him his
chairmanship of the Finance and Taxation Committee, although Senate President
Jim King disputes it. Campbell said he was making noises that the bill was
unconstitutional and King told him to let up.

"Senator King made a decision he wanted me to resign from Finance and Tax,"
Campbell said. "I said the letter would be on his desk in 25 minutes. I got it
there in 15 minutes."

King gave a different version. He said he told Campbell there would be
"ramifications" to his continued posturing. King said Campbell asked if he
should resign his chairmanship and King said, "You do what you've got to do, and
I'll do what I've got to do."

King had to track down Gov. Jeb Bush and get him to authorize adding the amended
workers' comp bill to the special session agenda. Campbell said he still thinks
the bill is unconstitutional.

Democrats also threatened to railroad the bill by stopping the Senate from
extending the session past the chamber's legal 7 p.m. adjournment time. It takes
a two-thirds vote to extend the adjournment time, and Democrats voting as a
block could have run the clock out.

At one point the Senate clock stopped at 6:27 p.m. and stayed that way for about
15 minutes. King said there had been mechanical trouble with the electronic
voting board where the clock is located.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Tribune photo by COLIN HACKLEY

Sen. Skip Campbell, D-Fort Lauderdale, listens to workers' comp debate after
resigning his committee chair Tuesday.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 5, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Ocean Stewardship Must Improve, Report States

BYLINE: MARK HOLAN , mholan@tampatrib.com; Reporter Mark Holan can be reached at
(727) 815-1082.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 989 words


MARINE RESOURCES POLLUTED, THREATENED

NEW PORT RICHEY - Depleted by overfishing, polluted by runoff and encroached
upon by development, the nation's oceans, its largest and most valuable
resource, are in desperate straits.

A new report, billed as the first comprehensive look at domestic oceans in a
generation, calls for rethinking how the United States should protect and manage
its marine resources.

"America's oceans are in crisis, and the stakes could not be higher," the Pew
Oceans Commission report released Wednesday states. "The status quo is
unacceptable."

The 144-page report states "proven, workable solutions" exist to address
overfishing, pollution, coastal development and other woes, but will work only
if there's a new "ethic of stewardship and responsibility toward the oceans."

Among dozens of recommendations, the report calls for creation of a federal
oceans agency and regional councils that oversee entire ecosystems rather than
individual species.

It also suggests doubling federal spending on oceans research to $1.5 billion
annually.

The privately funded Pew report is the first of two major releases this year
that ocean advocates hope will stir public concern about the nation's marine
resources.

The U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, heir to the 1969 Stratton Commission that
launched federal marine oversight in the Vietnam era, postponed its scheduled
June 20 release until fall.


Diverse Reaction

Initial reaction to the Pew report in the Tampa Bay area was as diverse as the
sea itself.

"Nowhere is this more important than in Florida," said David White, director of
the Ocean Conservancy's Southeast Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico regional office in
St. Petersburg. "It's a wake-up call for what needs to happen."

White gave his strongest support to the report's recommendation of expanding the
network of protected underwater areas off the nation's coastline, such as the
Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary.

The report doesn't specify areas for designation but suggests the benefits of
such protection will extend beyond their boundaries.

Bob Spaeth, president of Madeira Beach Seafood and executive director of the
Southern Offshore Fishermen's Association industry group, blasted the Pew
commission as "ecoterrorists."

"We have stocks growing in the United States and that's due to the management
that we have," he said, naming species of grouper, snapper and mackerel as
examples. "But if fisheries aren't in crisis, they don't have a job."

He said a coalition of commercial fishing associations will lobby elected
officials to ignore the "doom and gloom picture" painted by the report and block
effort to create "new layers of bureaucracy."


Local Importance

About 1,100 people in Hillsborough, Pinellas and Pasco counties earn their
living as commercial fishermen, according to state figures. Thousands more hold
recreational saltwater fishing licenses and work in related industries.

But ocean resources "once viewed as too vast and inexhaustible to be harmed by
human activity" are increasingly at risk, the Pew report states.

"Now, thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of investment have either been
lost or are jeopardized by collapsing fisheries," according to the report.

More than 50 percent of the nation's population lives in coastal counties.
Pollution monitoring has introduced a new generation of beachgoers to mandatory
closings.

The Pew Oceans Commission was led by Californian Leon Panetta, the former
congressman and chief of staff to President Clinton. None of its 18 members
lives in Florida.

University of South Florida marine science professor Frank Muller-Karger is
serving on the 16-member U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy.

"They have their heart in the right place," he said of the Pew commission. "They
are raising the visibility of the issues. I think we can all agree to improve
[marine science] education at the K-12 and up to the university level."

James Watkins, chairman of the ocean policy commission, attended the release of
the Pew report and said it will be examined and "taken under serious
consideration."

The Pew Oceans Commission was started three years ago with a $5.5 million grant
from the Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

The Commission on Ocean Policy has an $8.5 million budget for three years. It
will explore port and shipping issues as well as marine life.

The United States claims out to 200 nautical miles from shore as an exclusive
economic zone. Including territory in the Caribbean and South Pacific, the 4.5
million-square-mile ocean zone is 1.5 times larger than the lower 48 states, the
Pew report states.

(CHART) IN THE REPORT
Highlights of the Pew Oceans Commission report:
Enact a National Oceans Policy Act to maintain and restore marine health.
Establish regional ocean ecosystem councils and a national system of protected
marine reserves.
Separate the science of stock assessments from the politics of allocation
decisions.
Regulate fishing gear that is destructive to marine habitats and require more
monitoring of unintended catches.
Protect watersheds and address runoff pollution from inland areas.
Redirect government programs and subsidies away from coastal development and
toward wetlands restoration.
Address nontraditional sources of pollution, such as invasive species and noise.

Set national standards for marine aquaculture.
Double funding for ocean science.
Broaden ocean education ans public awareness of the issues.
The full report is available at www.pewoceans.org

(CHART) U.S. COASTAL WATERS IN CRISIS
Top reasons for the decline in ocean wildlife, increase in polluted beaches and
collapse of commercial fishing in U.S. waters
(See microfilm for details)
Graphic by Knight Ridder/Tribune; Sources: Pew Oceans Commission Report, Status
of U.S. Fisheries Report to Congress for 2002.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART 2

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 17, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SENIOR NOTES

BYLINE: Compiled by Donna Koehn; Submit Senior Notes to Donna Koehn at
dkoehn@tampatrib.comor mail to The Tampa Tribune, P.O. Box 191, Tampa FL 33601.
Include name, address and telephone number.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 547 words



Society Offers Tips For Healthy Travel

TAMPA - It's travel season, and the U.S. International Society of Travel
Medicine offers these tips for those 50 and older who plan to travel abroad:

Find out what vaccinations you need and get those up to date.

Review your health insurance policy to be sure it provides adequate coverage.
The U.S. government does not pay to have you evacuated if you become ill, and
Social Security does not provide for payment of hospital or medical services
outside the United States.

Bring an ample supply of medication in its original containers, as well as
copies of your prescriptions, and, if possible, a letter from your physician
explaining the need for the drug and what kind of treatment you would require
should you become ill.

If you use a wheelchair, considering bringing the owner's manual because
security personnel sometimes remove parts to check for weapons.

Don't overextend yourself. Traveling can be strenuous, and changes in diet and
climate can have medical consequences.

Community Service Nominees Sought

ST. PETERSBURG - AARP seeks nominations for its 2003 AARP Andrus Award for
Community Service, which honors volunteers whose experience, talent and skills
enrich the lives of others in their communities.

Judges will look for one or more of the following: an impact on the lives of
AARP members and prospective members, improvement of the community in which the
work was performed, a focus on service to youth, an improvement in home or
community-based services for older adults, an impact on nursing home quality or
services that provide benefits to low-income elders, or an impact on other
volunteers.

Application deadline is June 30; the selection will be announced Sept. 1.
Nominees must be members of AARP, and the service or accomplishment should have
occurred during 2002.

Contact Lynn Magnusson at (727) 592-8009 for information and a nomination form,
also available at www.aarp.org/volunteeronline.

Agencies Can Check Their Own Service

TAMPA - A new self-assessment tool is available for social service agencies to
measure their responsiveness to employees who are caregivers of elderly
relatives.

The five-page checklist can be completed together by agency staff members and
their employees. The checklist's sponsors, the American Business Collaboration
and the National Association of Area Agencies on Aging, hope the results will
help agencies create more caregiver-friendly environments.

According to the National Partnership on Women and Families, more than 14
million workers in this country care for aging family members. That's about one
in every eight employees.

The self-assessment materials are at www.n4a.org/caregiver_assessment_tool.cfm
online. For information, call 1-800-767-9863.

Lawyers Address Issues For Seniors

TAMPA - Elder care attorneys Thomas Greiwe and Jack Rosenkranz will discuss
senior legal issues from 10:30 to 11:30 a.m. June 25 at University Community
Hospital-Carrollwood, 7171 N. Dale Mabry Highway, in the medical arts tower
conference room.

The free lecture will cover such topics as power of attorney, living wills,
guardianship, health care surrogates, probate, trusts and more. For information
to register, call (813) 615-7300.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SENIOR NOTES PRIME TIME

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

            June 18, 2003, Wednesday,June 18, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL
                              EDITIONFINAL EDITION

Rain's Lake Effect Takes Toll On Neighborhood Secession From City Is Rejected

BYLINE: MISSY STODDARD , mstoddard@tampatrib.com; Reporter Missy Stoddard can be
reached at (813) 779-4635.; MARK HOLAN, mholan@tampatrib.com; Reporter Mark
Holan can be reached at (727) 815-1082.

SECTION: PASCO PASCO, Pg. 1Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words


DELUGES REVEAL PROBLEMS ALONG AUSTIN SMITH ROAD

ZEPHYRHILLS - Eighteen months ago, Terry Mears and his family moved into their
dream home - a 2,800-square-foot, khaki-colored stucco block house on Austin
Smith Road.

The retired Army sergeant major, who now teaches Junior ROTC at Zephyrhills High
School, paid about $300,000 for the land and house.

He fears the recent heavy downpours may wash away his dream.

Mears and his neighbors, Tony and Toni Millican and Jerry Stacy, found their
land underwater Tuesday after nearly a week of constant rain was capped by a
torrential thunderstorm Monday evening that dropped up to 5 inches of rain in
two hours in east Pasco, according to Tom Dougherty, a meteorologist with the
National Weather Service in Ruskin.

Exhausted and frustrated, Mears and his neighbors worked until midnight Monday
and all day Tuesday building sandbag buffers along their homes' perimeters. In
addition to being afraid of the forecast - which calls for showers and
thunderstorms for the next seven days - the residents are angry at the county
for not having infrastructure, particularly culverts, to divert runoff.

"The county's got to do something here," Mears said. "They gave us a permit to
build our houses. They assured us that this was a buildable site. They charged
us $4,000 each for a permit for impact fees. So what did they spend my money
for?"

The Millicans, who have lived in their home about a year, echoed those
sentiments.

"This is forced flooding, due to inadequate water runoff, not natural flooding,"
Toni Millican said.

"It's a domino theory," said her husband, Tony.

County officials were in a commission meeting Tuesday and unavailable for
comment.

The residents think the county should have designated the area a flood plain.
They say they have learned that in 1997, their neighborhood flooded during
storms precipitated by El Nino, the periodic climate disruption responsible for
heavy rains in the South and dramatic weather changes in other parts of the
world.

During the winter of 1997-98, other Zephyrhills families found themselves
surrounded by water that damaged their homes and also closed Silver Oaks Golf
and Country Club, south of Austin Smith Road, for months.

Michael Molligan, a spokesman with the Southwest Florida Water Management
District, commonly called Swiftmud, said his agency is working with Pasco County
to expedite short-term fixes to reroute water and move it through the system
faster. The problem is trying to do so without hurting residents living
downstream.

"We don't have any specific solutions yet," he said.

On Monday and again Tuesday, Swiftmud sent a crew of four and a sand machine to
the Austin Smith Road area to provide some relief. Molligan said about 1,500
bags of sand were made Monday and 3,000 Tuesday.

There also was flooding along Sunshine Road, which leads to Austin Smith.

The residents along Austin Smith Road, a dirt road about a mile west of Fort
King Road, took off work Tuesday to try to stave off the rapidly rising water.

"I didn't sleep the last two nights," Mears said. "I'm thinking about how I'm
going to save my house."

Mears, the Millicans and Stacy live on 5-acre parcels on Austin Smith Road,
where two other houses are under construction. Just days ago, their back yards
were grassy green fields peppered with imposing 100-year-old oak trees. On
Tuesday, those fields were a full-fledged lake, about 5 feet deep and ready to
swallow already raised drinking water wells.

When that happens, the well water will be contaminated and unsafe to consume.
The soil became so saturated that one of the mammoth oaks became uprooted and
fell over.

Now inhabiting the body of water that was grassy acreage are snakes, moles,
floating ant piles, leeches and who knows what else, Mears said. He said he has
spent $1,400 since Monday on fencing, plywood and sump pumps in an effort to
protect his property.

The water already had destroyed Mears' $4,000 hot tub and a tractor whose diesel
engine was flooded. He said he is grateful his family is not home to witness the
damage. His wife is on National Guard duty and their two children are away for
the summer.

"Right now I wouldn't want them here because I know they would be in tears," he
said. "I did 21 years in the military, went to war, built my dream home and this
is what I get."

NEW PORT RICHEY - After a brief but heated exchange Tuesday night, the city
council rejected a bid by some residents to have their neighborhoods removed
from the city limits.

"This is the finest hour for those determined to cause trouble," Councilman Tom
Finn said before the unanimous vote.

He said approximately 250 people who signed petitions requesting "deannexation"
from the city were misled by those behind the effort.

"They just bought a Brooklyn Bridge," he said.

Deannexation leader John DiGiorgio stormed out of the council chambers as he was
called out of order by Mayor Frank Parker for yelling back at Finn.

DiGiorgio of Fleetwood Street in the Tanglewood Terrace subdivision vowed to
appeal the council's decision to state officials.

Justin Billings of Glenwood Drive in Tanglewood also led the petition effort but
didn't attend the meeting.

The two men were part of the Citizens Action Committee organized three years ago
to fight street paving assessments in Tanglewood. DiGiorgio lost bids for a city
council seat in 2001 and 2002.

Jeanette Buter of Madison Street in Tanglewood appeared to sum up the view of
most of those who want to leave the city.
"This is something we really want because in the last few years we haven't felt
like we had a voice," she told the council. "I've only got one thing to say: Let
us go."

Others said they can't afford taxes and fees levied by the city.

Residents of Conniewood Square, Sunny Brook condominiums and the Imperial Courts
mobile home park also signed petitions.

City Attorney Thomas Morrison told the council that the neighborhoods can't
leave the city because they also qualify for annexation, or being joined to the
city.

Parker said the law protects cities from secessions and neighborhoods from
takeover by other municipalities.

Another council vote Tuesday determined where visitors can stay in the city.

The council split over whether to allow a bed and breakfast at 7022 Jasmine
Drive, with Parker and councilmen Scott Chittum and Bob Langford voting against
a special use ordinance.

Finn and Councilwoman Ginny Miller supported the business proposal by homeowners
David and Kathleen Wolf, who live northwest of downtown.

A dozen people voiced their opinion, with nine against the bed and breakfast.

Most said they opposed any commercial encroachment.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 (3C)
Tribune photos by SCOTT ISKOWITZ

(C) At Terry Mears' house on Austin Smith Road near Zephyrhills, neighbors
including Tony Millican, right, pile sandbags Tuesday. The Southwest Florida
Water Management District says it has no solutions yet to improve runoff of
rain.
(C) Water creeps up on Mears' house. "The county's got to do something. ... They
assured us that this was a buildable site," he said.
(C) Austin Smith Road looks more like Austin Smith River on Tuesday. Two more
houses are under construction in the small neighborhood.
Tribune photo by SCOTT ISKOWITZ

Terry Mears spent Monday and Tuesday trying to save his dream home. The water is
5 feet deep in some areas of his yard.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     July 2, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Feaster Dives Into Free-Agent Pool

BYLINE: SCOTT CARTER , scarter@tampatrib.com; Information from Tribune wires was
used in this report.

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words


TAMPA - Lightning general manager Jay Feaster said his job this summer is to
find the right pieces to the puzzle and make sure they fit - on the ice and in
the budget.

He rolled up his sleeves and got to work Tuesday, the first day of the NHL's
free-agency period. As expected, Feaster spent most of the day on the phone with
agents and other teams.

Coming off its first playoff berth in seven years, Tampa Bay seeks defensive
depth - and another offensive weapon if forward Vinny Prospal leaves as an
unrestricted free agent. Prospal turned down the Lightning's five-year, $12.5
million offer before Monday night's deadline and plans to test the open market.

With ownership's approval to increase the payroll from last season's $28 million
to $33 million, Feaster and his staff started evaluating the complete roll of
players on the free-agent list the league released Tuesday.

Though the Lightning plan to jump into the free-agent pool for a change, a trade
is possible if there's nothing to Feaster's liking on the open market. Feaster's
policy is not to discuss specific players.

Some of the more notable defensemen available - and who possibly fit within the
Lightning's puzzle - are Greg de Vries, Jason Woolley, Fredrik Olausson, Bill
Houlder and Ken Klee.

If Prospal moves on and there's more wiggle room, Tampa Bay could pursue upper
mid-class defensemen, such as Glen Wesley or Dmitry Yushkevich.

"We're looking at all our options," Feaster said.

AVALANCHE: Acquired defenseman Karlis Skrastins from the Nashville Predators for
future considerations. The Monday night trade came with Colorado anticipating
the loss of de Vries, an unrestricted free agent.

Skrastins has played in 269 consecutive games, the third-longest active streak
in the NHL. He had three goals, 10 assists and 44 penalty minutes last season.

BLUE JACKETS: Andrew Cassels and Columbus agreed on a new two-year deal shortly
before the veteran center would have become eligible for free agency.

Cassels, 34, agreed late Monday to a base salary of $3.05 million a year with a
$175,000 signing bonus. He holds the option on a third year of the contract if
he meets incentives.

CANADIENS: Bought out the contracts of forwards Mariusz Czerkawski and Randy
McKay, making them unrestricted free agents.

Montreal also re-signed Chad Kilger to a two-year, $1.6 million deal. Kilger
wasn't extended a qualifying offer by Monday's midnight deadline. His qualifying
price was $1.24 million.

New Montreal GM Bob Gainey signed Kilger for less money Tuesday, $800,000 for
next season and $800,000 for 2004-05.

FLYERS: Goaltender Jeff Hackett signed a two-year contract. Hackett replaces
Roman Cechmanek, traded to Los Angeles in May. Terms of Hackett's contract
weren't immediately known.

PENGUINS: The team did not make a qualifying offer to former No. 1 draft pick
Alexander Daigle, allowing him to become a free agent less than a year after he
began his NHL comeback.

The Penguins also let defensemen Joel Bouchard, Shawn Heins and Hans Jonsson and
forward Ville Nieminen become free agents by not offering them 10 percent raises
more than their 2002-03 salaries.

RANGERS: General Manager Glen Sather said he will coach the team again because
he was unable to find a suitable replacement.

Last week, Larry Robinson decided not to leave the Stanley Cup champion New
Jersey Devils' organization and pulled himself out of consideration for the
Rangers' job. Sather declined to identify any other coaching candidates.

Sather, 59, took over behind the bench for rookie coach Bryan Trottier, fired 54
games into last season.

RED WINGS: Darren McCarty avoided becoming an unrestricted free agent when he
agreed to a four-year deal late Monday night to remain with Detroit.

McCarty, 31, has spent his entire 10-season career with the Wings, winning three
Stanley Cups. He said it was important for him to have a four-year deal,
considering the economic climate of the

NHL.

SHARKS: Acquired Rangers captain Mark Messier for future considerations hours
before he became an unrestricted free agent.

The move was made Monday night and announced Tuesday. It allows the Sharks to
collect a compensatory draft pick when Messier signs with another team.

The Sharks also allowed left wing Adam Graves to become an unrestricted free
agent by declining to pick up his $3 million option for next season. The Sharks
still hope to re-sign Graves, General Manager Doug Wilson said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Associated Press

The Lightning are preparing for life without Vinny Prospal, who rejected Tampa
Bay's five-year, $12.5 million offer.

NOTES: HOCKEY

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 14, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 384 words



Shedding Light On Downtown

As a member of the Downtown Development Board for the City of Clearwater, I was
happy to learn that citizens of Clearwater consider downtown development an
important issue. However, as an elected member of the DDB, there are certain
issues that I see remain in the minds of some citizens, which are not accurate.
There are actually two surprisingly little-known facts that I would like to take
this opportunity to point out and hopefully this might enlighten those who read
this letter. These are:
1. The Church of Scientology is the largest taxpayer in downtown Clearwater and
the seventh largest in the City of Clearwater.

2. Property values in downtown Clearwater rose a whopping 22 percent when last
evaluated in October 2002.

These statistics can be verified with the property appraisers office in Pinellas
County. I think it is time that these things are more broadly known so as to
help change the climate that can be created by false information.
JOANIE SIGAL
Clearwater

A Citizen's Warning About City Water

I was surprised to read in the letters page of the Sunday Pinellas section that
only one letter had been received from a Pinellas resident regarding the dangers
of fluoridation.

Count this as the second letter. According the the handbook "Clinical Toxicology
of Commercial Products," fluoride is more poisonous than lead and just slightly
less poisonous than arsenic. It is a cumulative poison which accumulates over
time in bone.

Check your Physicians' Desk Reference for what it says regarding the effects of
fluoride in chemically sensitive individuals.

The Journal of the American Medical Association published 3 separate articles
between 1990 and 1992 linking hip fracture rates to fluoride in water. Type in
"danger of fluoride" on your computer and read for yourself.

I, for one, will not be drinking my own city's water.
ROBIN SAENGER
Tarpon Springs

Praise For Commissioner Todd

I didn't write a letter to the editor about fluoride because it had already been
voted in.

I commend Commissioner Todd for voting an informed NO. Fluoride is a toxin and
an industrial byproduct. It must be disposed of in an ecological way, so why not
sell it to cities? Big industry wins again?
COURTNEY JAY
Clearwater

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 22, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Tampa Residents Waiting For More Tables Outside

BYLINE: BRAD SMITH , bsmith@tampatrib.com; Reporter Brad Smith can be reached at
(813) 259-7365.

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words


LIMITED OPTIONS HURT GROWTH, SOME FEAR

TAMPA - When Kim Markham wants fresh air with her restaurant meal in Tampa, she
finds herself limited to the same few places that offer outdoor dining.

For Markham, that means Estela's, a Mexican spot on Davis Islands, or Iggy's, a
tiny Cuban cafeteria near the Port of Tampa. There, she sits on bare picnic
tables amid port hands gobbling spicy black beans as heavy trucks rumble past.

Markham, who edits a newsletter for Channel District residents, thinks Tampa's
al fresco dining options should multiply greatly if the city expects to become
the vibrant place some envision.

"I often do go out looking for food, and I always take advantage of outdoor
dining if it's available," she said recently. "But I often feel frustrated."

Markham is not alone in her quest to dine in the sunshine, free of air
conditioning at meat-locker levels.

Strolling the streets of other cities, hungry diners spar over tables squeezed
onto sidewalks in New York's Greenwich Village, Boston's Back Bay,
Philadelphia's City Center or Washington's Georgetown. Even in the winter,
tables are often full.

But in a state with the nation's balmiest weather, Tampa has a scarcity of
eateries that take advantage of it.

Some object that the weather is too tropical in Tampa, at least in the summer.
Yet Miami's South Beach, in a climate zone 10 degrees hotter, is filled with
trendy sidewalk cafes along Lincoln Road.

"People feed off other people," said James Moore, an architect who used to teach
at the University of South Florida. "If there's a strip of outdoor dining,
people will want to be there. It will play upon itself."

The real problem is ambience, said architect Joe Toph, who designed a South
Howard Avenue Starbucks that has become a popular outdoor hangout despite the
area's barren streetscape.

"We have such an unattractive public realm," Toph said. "I mean, go down
Nebraska, Dale Mabry, Henderson or Gandy, all our main streets, and it's a
horrible environment. No trees. I don't want to sit outside and dine there."

Toph fought unsuccessfully 20 years ago for an outdoor-dining ordinance. City
officials worried about rats, roaches and sanitary conditions. Traffic engineers
warned of cars jumping curbs and plowing into people.

Paul Wilborn, Tampa's new director of creative industry, theorizes that religion
may be a factor. Raised as a Southern Baptist, Wilborn suggests the aversion to
open air relates to Tampa's Bible Belt history.

"People in Tampa like to drink but didn't want their friends from church to see
them drinking, so we do it inside," he said, not quite tongue-in-cheek.

"Truthfully, I don't get it," he said. "We have virtually no waterfront dining
and very little outdoor dining."

Some Success Stories

Wilborn, who moved back to his hometown from Los Angeles, is in charge of
helping Mayor Pam Iorio find ways to make the city more exciting.

"In California, there are lots of great waterfront joints," he said. "But in
Tampa? Don't get me started."

Even the city's best-known establishments, such as Bern's Steakhouse on South
Howard and the Columbia Restaurant on Seventh Avenue in Ybor City, offer no
outdoor dining, although a Columbia branch on St. Armands Circle in Sarasota has
sidewalk tables that are usually full.

"We need a lot more places that are really people-gathering places," said Deanne
Roberts, a director of CreativeTampaBay, a group working to draw more creative
workers to the area.

A close look reveals at least a few casual eateries with outdoor tables. Beyond
Estela's and a couple of others on Davis Islands, they include Jackson's on
Harbour Island and Rick's On The River on North Willow Avenue.

But some places, in what seems to be an afterthought, just plop a few tables on
hot concrete or beside a busy street. Cooling misters or heat-shielding awnings
are rare.

And few customers gulp down Quarter Pounders or Big Bufords at the little tables
set up beside the exhaust fumes of the drive-through lanes at fast-food joints.

Lois Greenbaum of Hyde Park is one of those looking for more outdoor choices
than the handful of restaurants with sidewalk tables in pedestrian-friendly Hyde
Park Village.

"They're not bad," Greenbaum said, although in some cases diners are "sitting
right against the roadway." She said she likes The Wine Exchange, where the
tables are "set back a little bit" from Swann Avenue.

"Maybe it's the landscaping or something, and they have fans so you're not
really that hot," she said.

Look To The Future

Moore, the architect, cites a need for more construction that provides al fresco
dining space off the sidewalk.

"One ironic thing is that people are drawn to areas with a lot of traffic," he
said. "We like areas with good movement, but you have to provide a place for it.
If you create a narrow walking area, it will be an uncomfortable experience for
all."

At some of Tampa's newest and most popular chain eateries - Maggiano's Little
Italy, the Palm Restaurant and P.F. Chang's China Bistro at WestShore Plaza, for
example - diners sit practically in the parking lot, and the view is acres of
cars.

Still, change may be coming.

Florida's new restaurant smoking ban is driving some establishments to create
their first outdoor decks.

And Markham, the Channel District newsletter editor who blames poor planning
that stripped downtown of residents years ago, sees the city working to lure
people back to downtown and to the rapidly evolving district.

Markham maintains there is hope for Tampa to become more like Montreal or
Seattle, cities with vibrant street life.

"As we meet with each new developer," she said, "we tell them this is a
"live/work' neighborhood, and we try to get them to build facades with cafes and
small bookstores, dry cleaners and retail shops. These are uses where we can all
live on top and walk downstairs for a coffee."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C)
Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

The Associated Press

(2C) Tampa residents struggle to find restaurants offering dining al fresco,
limited to such places as The Wine Exchange, left, while some of the larger U.S.
cities have sections where sidewalks are lined with outdoor seating, such as New
York's Greenwich Village.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 28, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Miltner Becoming A Leader For Vols

BYLINE: SHANNAN D. POWELL, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words


DESPITE INJURY, EX-DURANT STAR EXCELLING AT UT

As a freshman, Morgan Miltner started her volleyball career at the University of
Tennessee with a bang. As a sophomore, she has been a little banged up.

Miltner has been suffering from undiagnosed pain in both shins since the end of
the 2002 season. Despite undergoing surgery in the spring and hours of
rehabilitation, she has not been able to play for the Vols, who are 10-2 and
preparing to start conference play this week.

"It's really hard to see your team playing without you," Miltner said.

"It's really frustrating; it's been exactly a year since I first got injured."

But her eagerness to get back on the court has helped her retain her role as a
defensive team leader. Last year she earned the team's libero (rover) position
and accumulated 337 digs, including a career-high 25 against South Carolina,
which put her in the Vols all-time top 10 for a single game. Her dig record
placed her third in the Southeastern Conference.

She is using her experience to help this year's crop of defensive freshmen
adjust to the Tennessee system.

"Last year I was the leader of the back row," Miltner said. "Even when I'm not
playing, everyone looks to me to lead the defense."

"Morgan has the potential to be a great defensive player and libero for us,"
head coach Rob Patrick said. "Unfortunately, she has been hampered by leg
problems. She's really been a brave person this year."

Miltner graduated from Durant in 2002, a member of the 1999 and 2001 state
championship teams. Though the transition from Durant to UT went better than she
expected, Miltner had to make several adjustments.

On the court, she was faced with the task of learning a new system and playing
at a more concentrated level.

"The games are a lot faster. The skill level is higher and more businesslike,"
Miltner said. "It's really focused. I mean, we do a lot of scouting teams before
we play them, watching films, looking at reports and just preparing for each
individual team."

In addition, she found that strength training - lifting every day for at least
an hour - and conditioning were year-round requisites for staying competitive.

Off the court, besides a big change in climate, Miltner found the academic
schedule challenging, but not as challenging as she had expected.

"We had a mandatory study hall for eight hours a week that gave me a lot of time
to get focused," said Miltner, whose good grades exempt her from study hall this
season.

She would like to major in anthropology with a minor in art history on her way
to eventually working in a museum.

One aspect of being at UT that helped make her transition easier was the
closeness of her team, the supportiveness of strangers who soon become family.

"Our team is really close, one of the closest at Tennessee," Miltner said. "It
was like I had sisters automatically."

With Patrick as eager to get Miltner back as she is, he has her working with the
training staff daily after classes, and practicing when she is able. He has seen
her potential to make a big impact for the Vols, and she has her sights set on
bigger records.

"Once I get better I want to lead the SEC in digs - that's just one of the
statistical goals I want to reach," Miltner said. "Right now I'm just trying to
get better so I can keep playing, to help the team improve every day and to get
to the tournament."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2
Morgan Miltner
University of Tennessee photo

Former Durant volleyball star Morgan Miltner hopes to return soon at the
University of Tennessee after undergoing surgery.

NOTES: SPORTS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 18, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Chamber Honors Year's Best Small Businesses

BYLINE: YVETTE C. HAMMETT, yhammett@tampatrib.com; Reporter Yvette C. Hammett
can be reached at (813) 657-4532.

SECTION: BRANDON, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words


PEERS AWARD 4 COMPANIES FOR QUALITY, PUBLIC SERVICE

BRANDON - Four of the area's longtime business leaders with distinguished
careers in the business community and beyond were honored by their peers this
week with the prestigious Small Business of the Year Award from the Greater
Brandon Chamber of Commerce.

The chamber chooses winners in four categories, based on the number of
employees.

In the category for businesses with 16 or more employees, Flooring America,
owned by Rufus Ashby, took the 2003 Small Business of the Year Award.

Susan and Kenneth Fearnow of the Fearnow Insurance Agency won the award for
businesses with six to 15 employees, and Pat Magruder and her Magruder Agency -
Nationwide Insurance, won in the category for one to five employees.

For home-based businesses, the award went to CRG Training & Consulting Inc.,
launched in 1996 by Carole R. Gill.

The awards were presented during the Small Business of the Year banquet at the
Crowne Plaza Hotel Thursday night.

"This is not just a banquet where people walk up and take their award," said
Laura Simpson, vice president of business and communications for the chamber.
"It is truly a celebration of small businesses."

About 300 people attended the reception and dinner, during which Carlen Maddux
of the Maddux Business Report served as keynote speaker. The chamber's own
George T. May IV was master of ceremonies.

Flooring America

Rufus Ashby was in the flooring business long before starting Flooring America
here in 1998, when he had two employees. The business, which sells and installs
carpet, ceramic tile, hardwood flooring and more, has grown to 34 employees.

Ashby is a member of the Sales and Marketing Executives of Tampa, served on the
board of directors of the World Floor Covering Association, graduated from the
chamber's Leadership Brandon class of 2001 and serves on the chamber's board of
directors. He also sponsors numerous chamber and community events.

Other finalists in the 16-plus category include Paul and Tammy Holmberg, owners
and operators of Chick-Fil-A in Brandon Village, and Dahlia Fernandez, owner of
La Septima Cafe.

The Holmbergs are active in more than 50 local Brandon schools, churches, clubs,
youth programs and charitable organizations.

Fernandez opened her restaurant in 1995, serving home-style Latin cooking she
bills as "A Taste of Old Ybor." The cafe has been recognized in the Best of
Brandon competition for seven years running.

Fearnow Insurance

The Fearnows, who started their business here in 1991, have 30 years of combined
experience in the insurance industry. The agency has steadily grown to 10
employees. The couple is committed to continued education and both are certified
insurance counselors, said chamber spokeswoman Janet Noah.

The Fearnows are involved with the chamber and give their time to a number of
charities, church and their children's youth activities.

Other finalists in the six to 15 employee category were Mary Boor of Whidden
Florist and Lela Lilyquist of Nature's Health Foods Inc.

Boor purchased the long-established Whidden Florist in 2000 and oversees the
operation and its six employees. She specializes in weddings, special events,
funerals, home and business decorating, holidays and parties.

Lilyquist has been the proprietor of Nature's Health Foods Inc. in Brandon since
1996. As a former surgical technologist and a licensed homeopathic therapy
practitioner, her mission is to help customers make positive change based on
personal responsibility for health and wellness.

Magruder Agency

Pat Magruder started her career as an insurance agent in 1989 in Tampa, then
decided to move to Brandon in 1992 after receiving the distinction of being
named Career Agent with Nationwide Insurance. Her business has continued to
grow, and Magruder has purchased her own office building on Lumsden Avenue,
fulfilling a long-term personal goal.

She has licenses in property and casualty, life and health and annuities and has
a series six license, which means she can offer clients a wide variety of
products.

Magruder serves on the board of the Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce, the
Brandon YMCA and the Leadership Brandon Alumni Association.

Other finalists in the category of one to five employees are Tracy Halfman of
Drug Screen Solutions and Rachel Weissman of Allstate Agency - Weissman &
Associates.

Halfman's company distributes and sells on-site drug testing supplies and
equipment. Since starting the business, she has expanded into eight other
states. The company offers drug testing and collection services to employers,
probation and parole offices, lawyers and parents.

Weissman, after several years as an insurance agent in Brandon, opened Allstate
Agency - Weissman & Associates, an insurance and financial service agency in Sun
City Center. Weissman's agency has grown to three employees since 1998. She is a
certified insurance counselor and one of the top producing Allstate agents in
her territory.

CRG Training & Consulting

Carole R. Gill, after working for GTE for 17 years, decided in 1996 to start her
own human resource development company. CRG Training & Consulting Inc. provides
training and consulting services to individuals and companies, Noah said. Each
program is custom designed for each client.

Gill is a professional member of the National Speakers Association and a member
of Society of Human Resource Management, International Association of
Facilitators and the National Association of Women Business Owners Tampa Bay
Chapter, for which she served as president for 2001-02.

As an active member of the Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce, Gill is a
graduate of the Chamber Leadership Brandon class of 2001, serves as chairwoman
of the planning committee for the Leadership Brandon class of 2004 and is a
member of the small business development committee.

Other finalists in the home-based business category include Chuck Long of Ice
Pro Mechanical, and Shirley Alquist of Alquist Enterprises.

Long in 1998 achieved a long-term goal of becoming a state certified mechanical
contractor. Two years later, he started his own business, He is a member of the
Chamber of Commerce Leads Group and a graduate of the Chamber Leadership Brandon
class of 2003.

Alquist was a school teacher for 35 years before becoming a full-time
businesswoman. She owns and operates Alquist Enterprises, distributing AMSOIL
synthetic oils and lubricants to consumer markets through a network of
independent contractors.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4 (1C)
Tribune file photo by CANDACE C. MUNDY (2001)

(C) Rufus Ashby, president of Flooring America, wins Small Business of the Year
honors for a business with 16 or more employees.
Pat Magruder She opened up her agency in Brandon in 1992 and is active in the
community.
Carole Gill

Started her home-based human resource development company in Brandon in 1996.
Photo from Greater Brandon Chamber of Commerce

Ken and Susan Fearnow's business, Fearnow Insurance Agency, was named as one of
four small businesses of the year.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 21, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

The Juice Inside "Smart' Cards

BYLINE: MICHAEL SASSO , msasso@tampatrib.com; Reporter Michael Sasso can be
reached at (813) 259-7865.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words


Solicore Inc. makes tiny batteries that just might change how you spend.

LAKELAND - Is your wallet overflowing with plastic?

Take heart: Credit cards under development will have internal microchips and be
able to store multiple credit, debit and gas card accounts on a single card.

If these "smart cards" take off, an upstart battery manufacturer from Lakeland,
Solicore Inc., could reap the rewards. Solicore expects to begin mass-producing
credit card batteries next month, and Polk County economic development officials
eagerly await the results.

"The sky is the limit on smart card development," said Jim DeGennaro, director
of business development for the Polk County Office of Economic Development. "All
they need to get is one Visa account, and the Lakeland facility is set for the
foreseeable future."

Smart cards have been talked about since at least 1974, when they were developed
by a French inventor, according to a recent article in The Financial Times.

Today's smart cards essentially are miniature personal computers that can hold
far more information than magnetic stripe cards. For example, PrivaSys Inc. of
California has developed a card with a chip, battery and 10-number keypad built
into the card.

But smart cards have been slow to take off, particularly in the United States,
said Sabine Middlemass, a Visa International spokeswoman.

Among other reasons, credit card transactions are more secure here than
overseas, so credit card issuers do not feel compelled to switch to smart cards.

If the United States moved to smart cards, retailers would have to buy readers
for them.

The Smart Card Alliance, an industry trade group pushing for the adoption of the
cards, estimates there are 15 million "smart" bank cards in the United States,
according to its Web site.

But according to Visa USA spokesman Greg Jones: "It's still very much an
evolutionary process. And certainly magnetic stripe is still the standard
platform in this country."

Nonetheless, Solicore sees an enormous domestic and world market for smart
cards. An estimated 2 billion financial transaction cards are in use around the
world. Another 7 billion cards, such as gift cards and security cards, use
similar "smart card" technology, said Solicore's chief financial officer,
Lawrence Keim.

Next month, Solicore will start producing batteries for two bank card
manufacturers, which make cards for financial institutions.

Company executives would not name the customers but did say Solicore will turn
out about 100,000 batteries a month from its headquarters in an industrial park
near Interstate 4. The company has 38 employees and expects to add at least six
for the new production.

Solicore may expand to produce 450,000 batteries a month before long, and, if
smart cards take off in coming years, it may have to produce batteries for 100
million cards a year. Getting up to that level would require at least two years'
time and require 20 production lines, compared with the single line it is
building now, said Robert W. Singleton, Solicore co-founder and president.

Down the road, it likely will move manufacturing to the Southwest, which has the
dry climate needed for battery production. The Lakeland facility would do
research and development, Singleton said.

Although the future of smart cards is uncertain, Solicore has fared better than
most local start-ups in getting venture capital. Investors have pumped $25
million into the privately held company since late 2001.

The company's patented technology is its selling point. Although most batteries
have a liquid or gel component inside them, the guts of Solicore's batteries are
entirely solid. They are safer than traditional batteries, which can leak,
Singleton said.

The batteries also can be molded and placed into all sorts of devices, said
Scott MacDonald, an investment manager with OPG Ventures, the investment
subsidiary of Canadian electric giant Ontario Power Generation. OPG Ventures has
$5 million invested in Solicore.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2(1C) MAP
Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

(C) Solicore CFO Lawrence Keim holds a mock "smart card" using a Solicore
battery. The Lakeland start-up is poised to benefit from the emerging
technology. The cards hold far more information than

magnetic-strip credit cards.
Tribune photo by GREG FIGHT

Christine Duprea of Solicore gathers lithium batteries after trimming them. The
company is gearing up to produce more.
Tribune map

(MAP) Solicore, Inc.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 2, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Hydrogen Research Fuels Advances In Our Energy Economy

BYLINE: M. JACK OHANIAN ; M. Jack Ohanian is professor emeritus of nuclear and
radiological engineering at the University of Florida.

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words


One of the reasons that Congress is having so much trouble passing new energy
legislation - which we desperately need - may be confusion over the ultimate
goal of our energy policy. Every interest group seems to have a different
approach.

Let me propose a simple goal that government and industry should keep in mind as
they make their countless energy decisions: I would like to be able to pull my
car into a service station on any major highway in the year 2020 and be able to
fill the tank with something other than gasoline.

That should be a strategic goal of this nation. If we had an affordable
alternative to gasoline, abundant in the United States, we would be solving
several of the most serious problems we are facing. We would no longer be
dependent on other, unpredictable countries for our major energy source, paying
more than $1 billion a week for the oil. Moreover, we would not have such a
complex involvement in the tensions of the Middle East. This would clearly be
the most important goal that a national energy policy should have.

And that is a key goal in the legislation Congress is considering. The
administration has proposed a major national research and development effort to
produce hydrogen as a fuel. Over five years, $2.15 billion would be authorized
to develop cars powered by hydrogen fuel cells.

The legislation contains many other important elements that would help provide
the energy resources we need for the next 20 years, until hydrogen would be
available. Incentives for domestic production of oil and natural gas, along with
the development of clean coal technology and advanced nuclear plants, are in the
energy measure. Clean coal plants and nuclear units would then be available to
provide the energy that the hydrogen process needs to transform water into
usable hydrogen.

If, however, we wish to derive full benefit from hydrogen, the best choice for
producing it is emission-free nuclear energy. Nuclear plants release no air
pollutants or greenhouse gases. Such a strategy would use nuclear energy to
directly solve the central environmental and national security problems of our
times: global warming and energy dependence.

So that nuclear plants will be available to supply hydrogen for fuel cells, the
energy bill earmarks $1.1 billion for construction of an experimental
"cogeneration" reactor that produces both electricity and hydrogen. The reactor
would be built at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory,
where the first nuclear-generated electricity was produced 50 years ago.

The hydrogen reactor promises to be even safer and more economical to run than
current nuclear plants. One of the key benefits envisioned for the hydrogen
reactor is the possibility of using different mixes of uranium or other nuclear
fuel that could minimize the quantity and/or toxicity of the waste that must be
disposed.

Hydrogen must become the core element of our nation's energy economy. Certainly
we would be better off replacing oil with hydrogen. It would make a huge
difference in reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and the instability in the
Middle East makes it abundantly clear that we cannot continue to depend on the
whims of sheiks, kings, generals and dictators.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: (C) Research priorities in the energy bill would promote development of
hydrogen as an alternative fuel, furthering the work already being done by major
automakers to create prototype hydrogen-powered cars.
AP photo

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 3, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

County Considers Changing Blue Laws

BYLINE: JULIA FERRANTE , jferrante@tampatrib.com; Reporter Julia Ferrante can be
reached at (813) 948-4220.

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words


SUNDAY ALCOHOL SALES COULD START AT 11 A.M.

NEW PORT RICHEY - Sunday morning golfers, football fans and others soon may be
able to buy a beer earlier in Pasco County.

County commissioners told the county attorney's office Tuesday to draft an
amendment to an ordinance to allow beer, wine and liquor sales from 11 a.m.
instead of 1 p.m. on Sundays.

Commissioners in recent months have declined to amend the hours of Sunday
alcohol sales, or the so-called blue laws.

But they seemed to soften their stance Tuesday after Commissioner Steve Simon
read a letter from the managers of the Seven Springs Golf Course, who said their
business is severely hurt by the ordinance.

Many players forgo a Sunday morning round of golf at the Seven Springs club
because beer is not available, Simon said.

He said he supports changing the alcohol ordinance to help the golf course "in
these tough times of doing business."

"Do I think this is an earth-shattering issue?" Simon said afterward. "No. I
don't drink.

"But in this business environment, we are putting the golf industry, which has
been struggling, at a unique economic disadvantage," he said.

The Port Richey City Council voted in November to allow earlier alcohol sales on
Sundays, the first government in Pasco to do so.

Commissioner Pat Mulieri noted that Hillsborough County commissioners recently
rescinded their decision to expand alcohol sale hours on Sundays.

Pasco commissioners would schedule public hearings to consider any proposed
changes to the alcohol sales ordinance.

In other action, commissioners:

Adopted a resolution supporting the use and development of alternative water
sources rather than new pumping at wells, which is being considered by the
region's water supplier, Tampa Bay Water.

Introduced an ordinance to adopt fire and rescue service impact fees for new
houses and businesses.

Public hearings on the impact fees are slated for this month.

Found that sites earmarked for proposed elementary and middle schools in west
Pasco are consistent with the county's comprehensive plan.

Residents in the neighboring Timber Oaks and Forestwood communities have said
the schools will lower the value of their houses and create traffic gridlock.

But commissioners said they don't have control over the selection of school
sites.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 21, 2003, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Aruba, Island Of The Unexpected

BYLINE: BRUCE HUNT, Special to The Tribune; Bruce Hunt is a freelance writer and
photographer living in Tampa. He has written five Florida travel books. His
latest, "Visiting Small-Town Florida, Revised Edition" (Pineapple Press), came
out in November.

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2055 words


Drawn by spectacular reefs and wrecks, scuba divers also discover fine Caribbean
scenery and cuisine.

ARUBA - We can see the tip of the bow of the sunken freighter jutting out of the
water as our dive boat idles to a drift. But like an iceberg, it is just a hint
of what lies beneath.

At 410 feet long, the Antilla is the largest wreck in the Caribbean. It rests,
broken in half, in 60 feet of water, just a half-mile off the northern tip of
Aruba.

Of course you don't want your breath taken away when you're scuba diving, but it
can't be helped when you step off the boat at this dive site.

The hull rises from the sandy bottom like a tilting skyscraper. "Big" doesn't
describe it. "Titanic" might. Although visibility is good enough for us to see
all the way to the bottom, the ship's seemingly endless length stretches into
the blackness.

It was the Antilla that first attracted my dive buddy, Mark, and me to Aruba. It
would be another scuba landmark to add to our resume. But we, along with my
girlfriend, Loretta, found so much more here that charmed and surprised us: an
eclectic mix of cultures, a landscape lifted straight from the Sonoran Desert
(complete with red rocks and tall cactuses) and fabulous food.

Beachfront accommodations line the island's western coast, and they are divided
into the "High-rise District" (on Palm Beach, at the northern end) and the
"Low-rise District" (on Manchebo Beach and Eagle Beach, at the southern end).

The high-rise hotels tend to be larger resorts (many are all-inclusive) combined
with casinos, including the Renaissance Aruba, Wyndham Aruba and Radisson Aruba.
They are luxurious and expensive.

The low-rise hotels are smaller and more subdued, although Manchebo and Eagle
beaches are unquestionably the widest and most idyllic on the island, with palm
trees alongside Aruba's icon: the twisted and windblown divi-divi trees,
sprouting from the sand.

We opted for the Manchebo Beach Resort and were very pleased. It took Loretta,
who is not fond of reptiles, a couple of days to become accustomed to sharing
the grounds with iguanas, of which there are two varieties: the small, sleek,
bright green lizards and the large, spiny-backed, 1960s dinosaur movie
stand-ins.

They were everywhere - in the trees, on the beach, among the tables at the
Manchebo's beachside Pega Pega Bar & Grill, waltzing through the open-air lobby,
basking poolside and on our second-floor balcony. But they are harmless seemed
oblivious to us except during lunch at the Pega Pega, where there was a chance
of snagging some lettuce left over from a salad.

The easiest job in Aruba has to be weatherman. His report is the same every day:
high 85, low 75, constant 20 mph breeze, low humidity, 10 percent chance of a
sprinkle.

Only 15 miles off the coast of Venezuela, the 18-mile-long island of Aruba lies
far enough south to avoid the Caribbean hurricane corridors and close enough to
the equator that the weather changes little.

We rented a Jeep for the week, and we never put the top up once (come to think
of it, I don't believe it had a top).

Our daily routine became: scuba dive in the morning, explore the island in the
afternoon, then feast on great local cuisine at a different restaurant every
evening.

Waterfront Cliffs Line Park

The Jeep was indispensable for our afternoon outings, particularly the afternoon
we spent at Aruba's Arikok National Park. Arikok covers 15 square miles, or
about a fifth of Aruba's land mass, and borders its rocky northeast coast. It
includes two of the island's tallest "mountains," Arikok, at 570 feet, and
Jamanota, the tallest at 610 feet.

We followed a gravel road that led us through the center of the park and across
a red, boulder-strewn, desert landscape. Wild goats and donkeys grazed among
towering cadushi cactus. Halfway into the park, we stopped and hiked a short
trail to the top of Jamanota, where we took in a view that stretched from one
side of the island to the other.

Continuing along the road, we reached the coast and Boca Prins. The shoreline
here contrasts sharply with the broad sandy beach at Manchebo. Waves smack the
50-foot-high overhanging sandstone cliffs, and in spots they have carved out
secluded coves. We were surprised to find a tiny open-air cafe at Boca Prins,
and the aroma from the grill was too much to resist.

We had the special of the day, grilled red snapper in a spicy pepper and tomato
crioyo sauce, with plantains and pan bati, flat corn bread pancakes - an Aruban
staple.

After our late lunch, the owner suggested we take a side road from there down to
explore the Fontein Caves. On the short tour, our guide pointed out
hieroglyphics on the cave's ceiling likely drawn by Caiquetios/Arawak Indians
more than 500 years ago.

We took two other Jeep trips, one to Aruba's Natural Bridge on the northeast
coast near Andicuri, where waves have eroded the elevated sandstone shore and
left a 40-foot-high bridge. And we drove to one of the island's most scenic
vistas, the California Lighthouse at California Point, at its northern tip. It
is named for another wreck, the SS California, in 50 feet of water north of
here.

Friendly Drivers Yield, Wave

I should mention a few things about driving in Aruba. There are a lot of yield
signs but almost no stop signs. Locals all drive pint-size microcars, too small
to sell in the United States. One popular model, the Diahatsu Terios, has to be
the world's smallest sport utility vehicle. Even the Earth Liberation Front
would be happy with it.

There are plenty of police officers but seemingly little traffic enforcement.
Everyone drives as fast as they can. Even at a leisurely pace, it doesn't take
long to get from one end of the island to the other. But here's a bit of irony:
They are the most polite drivers I've ever encountered. They may be racing along
like Juan Montoya, but if they see you at an intersection waiting to merge, they
will slam on the brakes, smile and happily wave you in ahead of them.

The Aruban license plate reads, "One Happy Island," and it's not just a slogan.
Many here really do seem to be exceedingly happy and friendly.

Though most seem to speak fluent English and Dutch, the islands of Aruba and
nearby Curacao and Bonaire have a language of their own, Papiamento. It mixes
Dutch with some Portuguese, Spanish, French and African, a reflection of the
many historical influences on these three islands.

The Arubans will greet you with "Bon bini" ("Welcome") or "Bon dia" ("Good
morning"). Aruba was under Dutch rule from 1636 to 1986. Dutch influence is
evident throughout the island, particularly in Oranjestad (pronounced
Oran-U-stad), its largest city and capital.

Many of the town's streets have Dutch names: Wilhelministraat, Havenstraat,
Kerk-straat. And the downtown architecture, bright colored buildings with
decorative fasciae, will make you think you are in Amsterdam.

Mouth-Watering Meals

Did I mention the fabulous food? Aruban cuisine mixes flavors in much the same
way that Papiamento mixes languages. You would expect lots of fresh seafood on a
Caribbean island, and Aruba has plenty, but beef is just as popular,
particularly Brazilian and Argentinean beef.

On our first night, we dined at El Gaucho, an Argentinean grill restaurant at
the edge of downtown Oranjestad. Loretta and I had 12-ounce, narrow-end
tenderloins. Mark feasted on the specialty of the house, the Argentine Grill,
with beef ribs, sausage, pork tenderloin and two cuts of steak. Then we split a
dessert of Argentine vanilla ice cream with sweet potato marmalade.

The next night, we switched to seafood and had delicious Aruban-style, pan-fried
barracuda at the Driftwood, also in Oranjestad.

Perhaps our best meal was at an elegant restaurant called Pasion, well off the
beaten path in the village of Noord. We had cilantro- and jalapeno-rubbed
grouper baked in corn flake crumbs, and it was out of this world.

The restaurant with the most ambience was a tiny place called the Flying
Fishbone, on a beach in Saveneta, at the south end of the island. They set up
tables in the beach sand, with gentle waves lapping at our feet.

Our waitress climbed a palm tree next to our table and cut down a fresh coconut
to make dessert.

Fish, Sea Life Thrive At Wreck

Aruba doesn't get as much scuba-diving press as its neighbor Bonaire, but all
week Mark and I dived on spectacular reefs - pristine and full of sea life and
color.

We saw no dead coral and only once saw another dive boat on our site.

We saved the best for our last day of diving. On May 9, 1940, while Germany was
invading Holland, the Antilla, a German freighter suspected of supplying
U-boats, was anchored off the northwest point of Aruba.

Local islanders actually commandeered the ship without a fight, then gave the
crew until the following day to unload their cargo.

In the middle of the night, the Antilla's captain ordered his crew to run the
boilers to maximum and then flood the engine room. The subsequent explosion
ripped the hull wide open and it sank immediately.

From the moment we broke the surface, the Antilla's immensity overwhelmed us.
From the bow, Mark and I glided down along its canted deck, crusted with six
decades of coral and sponges, past a wheelhouse and huge exhaust stacks, then
over the side and down the clifflike hull.

Eventually, we worked our way back to the middle, where the explosion had
blasted the ship nearly in two. A gaping split from top to bottom turns the
inside of the hull into a cavernous amphitheater, and we were drawn inside.

Giant grouper lurked in the rubble on the floor, and schools of barracuda darted
along the ceiling 30 feet above us, while we coasted through the center over
steel beams and through rusted-out compartments.

This is the granddaddy of all Caribbean wreck dives - well worth the trip and a
worthy addition to Mark's and my list of scuba-diving exploits.

There is more to do here. More wreck dives that we missed. More terrific
restaurants. There's windsurfing; windsurfers from around the world attend
Aruba's competitions.

And Aruba is famous for its casinos, though we never set foot in one - not
enough time. But we have to save something for a return trip, and we will
definitely return.

(CHART) It's A Breeze To Plan Vacation In Aruba
Entry requirements: U.S. and Canadian citizens are not required to have a
passport (although it is always preferable when traveling outside the United
States), but without a passport, you must carry an officially issued birth
certificate (not a copy) and a photo ID such as a driver's license.
Getting there: Round-trip air fare from Tampa to Oranjestad, Aruba, is $574.75
on American Airlines; 1-800-433-7300 or www.aa.com.
Currency exchange: The Aruban dollar is called the florin. It fluctuates with
the American dollar at a stable exchange rate of 1.77 florins to the dollar.
American dollars also are widely accepted.
Climate: The weather in Aruba is consistent year-round: highs in the mid-80s,
lows in the mid-70s, always windy, with occasional brief showers. Aruba is well
south of the "hurricane corridor."
Hotels:
Manchebo Beach Resort, Manchebo Beach, 1-800-223-1108 (Best Western), (297)
582-3444, www.manchebo.com; $129 to $249 per night
Bucuti Beach Resort Aruba, Eagle Beach, (297) 583-1100, www.bucuti.com; $140 to
$350 per night
Amsterdam Manor Beach Resort, Oranjestad, (297) 587-1492 or 1-800-932-6509,
www.amsterdammanor.com; $130 to $374 per night
Wyndham Aruba Beach Resort & Casino, Palm Beach, (297) 586-4466 ;
www.arubawyndham.com
Radisson Aruba Caribbean Resort & Casino, Palm Beach, (297) 586-06555,
www.radisson.com/ palmbeachaw
Renaissance Aruba Beach Resort & Casino, Palm Beach, (297) 583-6000, www.aruba
renaissance.com
Other useful contacts and Web sites:
Aruba Tourism sites:
www.aruba.com
www.arubabound.com
www.arubatourism.com
www.interknowledge.com
Mermaid Sport Divers, (297) 587-4103 or (297) 587-4106,
www.scubadivers-aruba.com
Atlantis Submarine, for those who want to see Aruba underwater without scuba
diving, (297) 588-6881,
www.atlantisadventures.com
Value Car Rental, Koyari 30C, Noord, 1-888-628-7602 or (297) 586-1709,
www.valuearuba.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 5 (2C) MAP CHART
Photo by DOMINIQUE SERAFINI, Dreamwrecks

Photo by BRUCE HUNT

(2C) The Antilla shipwreck, the largest in the Caribbean, lies a half-mile off
Aruba. Down the coast are Arikok National Park's cliffs and coves, top.
The Associated Press

Brightly colored buildings with decorative fasciae line the streets of
Oranjestad, Aruba's capital and largest city.
Arbua Tourism Authority

Spiny-backed iguanas hang out all over Aruba - on the beach, in the trees and at
the hotel lobby and pool deck.
Aruba Tourism Authority

Wave erosion of sandstone created the 40-foot-high Natural Bridge on the
northeast coast.
Tribune map by VAUGHN HUGHES

(MAP) (Aruba)

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   September 19, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TAILORS'S STRONG SUIT

BYLINE: JENNIFER BARRS , jbarrs@tampatrib.com; Reporter Jennifer Barrs can be
reached at (813) 259-7832. Information from The Washington Post was used in this
article.

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1033 words


Men's fashion returns to the custom-made dapper duds created by such London
tailors as Brian Lishak.

TAMPA - Calling himself "a clotheshorse by default," Carl Dockery is a Lakeland
businessman who swears by the exquisite cut and characteristic detail of his
London-made suits.

"Oh, they converted me slowly," says Dockery, grinning as tailor Brian Lishak
takes one more measurement, one more exacting nip and tuck along the lines of
his blazer.

"Once dressing this way becomes a habit," Dockery adds, "well, there's just no
comparison. I feel proud."

Pride and history may have blazed the way for one of the newest trends in men's
fashion: a return to the bespoke, or handmade, suit created by tailors who work
along London's Savile Row.

Costing an average of $4,000 for a jacket and pants, it is an investment indeed.
But wearers swear by every stitch, and the visual impression remains stunningly
clear: A bespoke suit signifies that here is a gentleman of means and power.
Authoritative, indulgent and precise - a bonus in an economic climate where
first impressions can make or break a business deal.

Lishak, 64, entered the world of textiles in his youth, first as a sales
associate for the venerable H. Huntsman & Sons Ltd., then as a tailor who fell
in love with the cloth and the customers - whom he describes as extraordinarily
interesting. Now a tailor for Savile Row resident fashion house Richard Anderson
Ltd., Lishak travels the world fitting men with finesse.

He estimates that 60 percent to 75 percent of his business is exported to
customers living outside Great Britain. And pop culture certainly has had a hand
in driving this dapper desire. Think Pierce Brosnan conducting business during a
suit fitting in the movie "The Thomas Crown Affair." Or Michael Douglas flexing
his clout in front of his tailor in "Wall Street."


Looks That Last

"I think what one has to appreciate is that this kind of clothing not only lasts
a long time, but retains the same look for years because of the extensive
handwork inside," says Lishak, speaking by telephone from New York City.

In a three-day period there earlier this month, he performed dozens of fittings;
he'll be in Tampa Wednesday to serve Bay area residents.

"These clothes go on for years and years, and it's not uncommon to refurbish
them as time goes by. But ultimately, the whole experience should be one of
enjoyment," Lishak says. "And I often have customers tell me, "I don't drive
fast cars; I don't go with fast women. I just love clothing.' "

For Savile Row regulars, that love is hardly a passing fancy. These customers,
Lishak says, enjoy the elaborate elegance and personal attention that may
require more than 30 measurements and sometimes up to three fittings for a
single garment.

In the first fitting, the base or basted fitting, the tailor is establishing
balance and a general size. In some instances, this may include using the
garment's preselected fabric. By the second or forward fitting, there are
discernible jacket lapels and pockets. The third session, if needed, is called
the advance fitting.

Distinctly individual patterns are customized to each man, and these are kept on
file at the Savile Row shop, Lishak says. Consequently, after the first order,
suits can be fashioned in less time, with only one or two fittings. The patterns
also can be altered to reflect physical changes, say, if pounds appear here or
muscles there.

Ultimately, such handmade suits are works of three-dimensional gallantry, where
sagging shoulders or a poochy paunch can be disguised in the details. Richard
Anderson's so-called "house style" features a slightly longer jacket, intended
to make the wearer appear taller and slimmer.

How? With a notch in the lapel that is cut slightly higher. With shoulders that
are neat and don't protrude over the body. With an elevated armhole that
accentuates the long line from armpit to waist.

"Floridians, in particular, don't like to be overly constricted in their
clothing," Lishak says. "Hand tailoring can make these clothes, well, easier."


Suits Appear In Early 1800s

This garment that so kindly provides pear-shaped men with shoulders and renders
the couch potato athletic first appeared in the early 1800s, according to Anne
Hollander, author of "Sex and Suits: The Evolution of Modern Dress."

The contemporary business suit had been foreshadowed in the late 17th century,
when men began to wear a loose-fitting buttoned coat. But in the 1800s, fashion
turned. Menswear became simpler. Preferences moved away from surface decoration
to the beauty inherent in construction.

At the same time, the English began to exploit the great quantity and sculptural
qualities of wool, notes Hollander. With steam, pressure and manual
manipulation, wool could be coerced into conforming to the physique.

Fast-forward to 2003, and popular fabrics include a variety of natural fibers -
cotton and cashmere blends, linens, silks - while the fall collection features
fabric with tiny, distinct patterns such as herringbone and subtle stripes.

Serious suiting seems to have rebounded from the rumple of office casual. The
volume of all tailored menswear sold in the United States increased by 9.2
percent during the 12 months ending in February, according to NPD Group, a
market information company. And though many men have been frugal and inventive,
choosing relatively inexpensive suits, the money spent on tailored clothes such
as those from Savile Row has risen by 4.1 percent.

Frankly, Lishak says, business has increased against a backdrop of economic
uncertainty.

"These fashions seem to follow financial trends. When things are good, people
seem to dress in a more casual way, in a way that is easy. But if things tend to
be tight economically, straightaway people become more concerned about their
futures."

(CHART) (C) NIPS AND TUCKS
WHAT: Visit by Brian Lishak of Richard Anderson Ltd., a tailor headquartered on
London's Savile Row
WHEN: Wednesday; call (610) 417-6905 or go to www.richardandersonltd.com in
advance for information
WHERE: Grand Hyatt Tampa Bay, 6200 Courtney Campbell Parkway, Tampa.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4C) CHART (C)
Tribune photos by VICTOR JUNCO

(2C) London tailor Brian Lishak, left, makes sure the final measurements on a
suit for Lakeland businessman Carl Dockery are perfect. Lishak, who works out of
his hotel room, above, represents Richard Anderson Ltd. and travels the world
fitting men for handmade garments.
(C) Color swatches for ties, handkerchiefs, socks and other accessories are
available to clients, who also must choose fabric for their tailor-made suits,
which average $4,000.
(C) The inner lining shows the intricate details of a handmade suit that is
designed not only to last a long time, but also to retain the same look for
years.

NOTES: STYLE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 24, 2003, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1309 words



Regarding Gen. Franks

In the May 23 edition of The Tampa Tribune, there is a news story titled "Gen.
Franks Announces Retirement" by Keith Epstein. In that story is a quote
attributed to me by your reporter. I never made that statement to your reporter,
nor have I made that statement in any forum - private or public - to anyone.

I have known Gen. Franks for many years and have been privileged to serve in his
company in our magnificent Army.

Throughout the ongoing operations of the global war on terrorism, he has proven
himself to be an extraordinary commander, with a unique skill set that has
permitted him to successfully plan and execute the campaigns in Afghanistan and
Iraq in a manner that will be the foundation for the study and development of
the military art into the next century.

Like all his comrades-in-arms - and as his close friend - I regret that he will
be leaving active service, but I can think of few who have given so fully of
themselves to the service of their country. He is deserving of the thanks of a
grateful nation.
GEN. JOHN M. KEANE
Washington
The writer is vice chief of staff of the U.S. Army.

Serving Up Dignity

Regarding "Time, Money Running Out For Trinity Cafe" (Metro, May 18):

As a volunteer at Trinity Cafe, I was heartened to read Steve Otto's column.
There are many in Tampa who cannot afford to eat, and Trinity Cafe provides the
opportunity to have one good hot meal each day, Monday through Friday. Otto is
right that Chef Alfred Astl is a genius, but the quote he included - "You give
them a gourmet meal, and where's their incentive to work?" - may lead many to
believe the Trinity Cafe is feeding its patrons gourmet food.

The food is, in fact, very simple. The "gourmet" attribute comes from Astl's
ability to work magic on the basics he is given. Through imagination, expertise
and judicious use of spices, Astl is able to make the mundane (meat, starch and
vegetable) taste like something very special. Nothing is wasted. Astl uses every
leftover for soup. His economies are well-known to those of us who work with
him.

The anonymous quote questioned where the incentive to work would come from if
people are well-fed. I wish that person could come in, sit down and spend an
hour talking to the patrons at Trinity. Many come in dispirited because their
search for work has turned up nothing. Our aging poor are not always welcome in
the current job market. Nor are the ill, nor the homeless, who lack the ability
to present a polished image. Many of them pray for work, and some disappear for
a time to do seasonal or day labor. Often our patrons have been ground down by
their lives. Our great privilege is to give them a warm meal and some
companionship, treating them with dignity and respect.

Some of Trinity's patrons wish to pay for their meals. They cannot offer
anything financial, but they work hard cleaning, preparing food, washing dishes,
doing any work they can to be meaningfully busy to show their gratitude for the
meals they are given. When I serve a table at Trinity Cafe, I never feel I am
serving people who expect something for nothing. I feel I am sharing food with
hungry people who are grateful for the short respite from hardship in their
lives.
K. MAGUIRE
Tampa

Time To Attack Spam

Regarding "Not The Best Tool To Stop Spam" (Our Opinion, May 22 ):

You are certainly correct that the federal government needs to give authorities
more tools to attack "the Internet menace known as spam." But in reporting that
I want to apply federal racketeering laws to "anyone who deceptively uses a
computer ... to send unsolicited e-mail," you erred.

In fact, I have proposed to outlaw unsolicited bulk e-mail from phony addresses
or routing information and to require legitimate senders to let recipients opt
out from such messages. At the suggestion of former prosecutors, I also have
proposed that tough antiracketeering laws be used when criminal gangs use mass
e-mails sent from here or foreign sources to solicit Americans in schemes
ranging from investment fraud to child pornography.

Additionally, I've asked the Federal Trade Commission to submit other ideas for
attacking spam. Internet users, including major businesses, are fed up with the
nuisance variety of spam, and harmful scams that are being launched through junk
e-mail need to be stopped now.

It's time for action.
BILL NELSON
Washington, D.C.
The writer represents Florida in the U.S. Senate.

U.S. Culpable Too

Regarding "Sponsors Are Culpable" (Letters, May 21):

George Kelly really puts the "we" in "we don't appear to have any brains out
there." I'm guessing he doesn't know who sold Iraq its WMDs and the technology
to build them.
LEE BRUCKART
Thonotosassa

Mass Transit By Air

Regarding "A Fresh Way Of Thinking About Rapid Rail In Florida" (Our Opinion,
May 18):

Several times a year, it seems, someone in the upper levels of Media General
management points a gun at the head of some poor editorial scribe and orders:
"High speed rail good. Write." How else to explain The Tampa Tribune's
continuing attempts to justify rapid rail without ever providing a factual or
financial basis in reality? The continuing absence of any cost estimates
whatsoever would be enough to get the writer hooted out of a freshman business
class and should be enough to justify being laughed off the table of a serious
editorial board's meeting.

The Tribune legitimately cites problems to realizing its latest vision (Amtrak
lite?) without once sharing with us where in the world such problems have been
solved. The environmental problems alone will surely delay it for years. Witness
the 30 years it took New Jersey to complete just a 20-mile section of Interstate
78.

"New thinking" is what the Tribune wants, but it continues to advance steadily
into the 19th century. Future mass transit hubs are already built, if not
developed, at airports such as Vandenberg and Lakeland Linder, which could be
served by planes like the more than 200 70-seat-
and-under jets that USAir ordered last week. You didn't notice this significant
development? Then maybe you should focus on trains more appropriate to the scope
of your vision: models made by Lionel.
PETE WHITTIER
Lithia

Need An Infrastructure

My first response to the "new thinking" for high-speed rail or rapid transit was
that most current suggestions would end up with passenger terminals out of town
instead of in the center of the city or village, which made trains of the past a
profitable and convenient form of transportation. Then I realized that none of
the suggestions or solutions offered was workable. The rapid rail transport is
of no value to the passenger because it puts him at a rail station with nowhere
to go and no way to get there.

Rail transportation of years past was workable because of the local
infrastructure of buggy, bus, taxi or subway that provided prompt, economical
transport from the terminal to the business, store, hotel or other point of
interest the traveler was wishing to get to. Today we have no readily usable
form of transportation from railhead to point of visit. You sure can't walk from
the rail station to a hotel in Tampa. In most cases, visiting people rent cars
to get out of the airport.

We need to retain our railroads and build new, better and faster ones. Until we
also develop an infrastructure to support them and move people easily and
cheaply to their ultimate destination, rail transit cannot economically exist.
The same applies to getting from home to rail station without our personal cars.

Future planners for rail transit must plan the trip from home to railhead, the
rail route and method and the dispersal and transport for passengers at the
terminus railhead.
RICHARD F. MORRIS
Sun City Center

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 16, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Concentrating On Business

BYLINE: KURT LOFT, kloft@tampatrib.com; Reporter Kurt Loft can be reached at
(813) 259-7570.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1375 words


Crystals International Owner Shares Her Juicy Secrets Of Success

PLANT CITY - Jennifer Closshey is crystal clear about her approach to business:
make a high-end product, keep employees involved and go global.

Her philosophy over the past decade has made Crystals International Inc. a key
player in the foods industry, although millions of people who enjoy the
company's multitude of products don't even know what they're putting in their
mouths.

Billed as the world's leading provider of instantly soluble freeze-dried fruit
juices, Crystals keeps its trade secrets. The president and chief executive
officer, however, keeps few secrets about success.

"If you don't have good people, all you have are empty buildings and equipment,"
Closshey says from her Plant City office. "I have good people here, and it's an
atmosphere of respect. My employees essentially are running their own business."

That business is growing. The company's exclusive products - no one else makes
them in quite the same way - top more than $15 million in annual worldwide
sales, with shipments to clients in 54 countries, according to the Dun &
Bradstreet business information service.

Major-league customers include Outback Steakhouse, the U.S. military and the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, whose astronauts drink Crystals
reconstituted juices in orbit. Orange and grape juice powders are the biggest
sellers, although the company provides the food service industry with hundreds
of ingredients, from a popular margarita mix to a filler for key lime pie.

"We manufacture our own ingredients, and nobody in the world freeze dries
products the way we do," says the 50-year-old businesswoman, whose 22-year-old
daughter, Charleene, was crowned Miss Tampa in March. "And we have thousands of
companies that use the finished products we help make."


Process Wrings Out Moisture

Most of Crystals' techniques and recipes are proprietary, developed over years
by tweaking a continuous vacuum, freeze-drying process in the main plant.
Workers begin with concentrated fruit juice or pureed ingredients - pineapple,
bananas, lemons - and freeze them at 29 degrees Fahrenheit. The product is
pasteurized, cooled and then dried in two 60-foot chambers that resemble a pair
of small submarines.

The vacuum process gently removes moisture - 45,000 pounds of orange concentrate
loses 15,000 pounds of water weight - but retains the natural sweetness or
tartness of the juice. Powders are tested hourly for moisture content, sugar
levels and other standards, says John Foskey, Crystals' quality-assurance
technician.

The company produces about 400 flavor, color and specialty ingredients for
frozen confections, candy bars, pharmaceuticals, herbal supplements, health
foods, sports drinks, vitamins and sugar substitutes.

"The idea was, "How do you take a product that anyone can make just by adding
water and make it successful?' " Closshey says about the filling for key lime
pie. "We make them idiot-proof."

The crystalized product often is brilliant in color, can be milled to suit a
buyer's needs, requires no refrigeration and can be stored on the shelf for more
than two years. The powder rehydrates instantly: water returns it to the natural
consistency, taste and nutrients of the concentrate. A pound of freeze-dried
orange powder equals the juice from about 45 oranges.


Military A Good Client

This is what the Department of Defense needed in 1955 when military officials
had the Agriculture Department find a business that could create a nutritious,
freeze-dried citrus juice for American troops. A Plant City company called Plant
Industries won the contract and later changed its name to reflect its product
and growing diversification.

Crystals supplied orange and grape powders to 220,000 U.S. soldiers in the Iraq
campaign. The company also was a principal supplier of rations for 500,000
soldiers during Operation Desert Storm more than a decade ago, says Lt. Col.
James Fagan, a Defense Department spokesman in San Antonio, Texas.

"They are known for getting a quality product to us on time," Fagan says. "And
if you miss a boat or airplane, you don't get the supplies over there."

Fagan says troops in the Middle East rely on fruit powders because they exceed
the nutrition standards required by the military.

"The product is especially critical in warm climates because you get all these
nutrients in the beverage base," he says.

Production manager Suzie Brown has been with the company for eight years and has
helped process 1.1 million pounds of freeze-dried orange and grape juice since
January. When asked about what makes the Crystals process different from
competitive techniques, she mentions the original equipment.

"The dryers have been here since 1955," she says. "It's an old technology, but
it's tried and true, and there aren't any others like them. Being able to run
the dryers isn't so much of a science as it is an art."


Training Strengthens Employees

Like all Crystal employees, Brown may not be doing the same job next year. She
cross-trains, which Closshey says gives employees a better feel for the
operation, not just one part of it. Training in other positions also offers job
security, allows people to move from one department to another and cuts down on
overhead.

Consequently, the work force dropped from 134 people a decade ago to 80 today,
and business operations and product lines have expanded.

Closshey says she treats her employees as equals, including her husband,
Charles, the company's plant engineer. So she ships everyone off to school,
Crystals International University, which offers in-house classes in
problem-solving, business communications, writing, sales, technology development
and time management.

The classes help people keep pace with a growing business, says technical
services manager Dorrie Francis: "It's a turn-on-a-dime atmosphere. There's
never a long day here."

The school isn't run by outside professionals, but company employees.

"Almost everyone here teaches something," she says. "It's helped to create a lot
of positive energy. Most CEOs have fears about their staff. I have no fears
because I trust them, and I learn from them."

Closshey see herself as the head of a large, diverse family. So she often holds
informal "family day" gatherings, where she gets to know employees in a more
personal way. Then she hands out awards.

"So their families see them honored, and kids need to see their parents'
accomplishments," she says. "What I want is every person who works here to have
balance in their lives, to be proud of what they do - and to give 150 percent at
work."

(CHART) The process:
1. Frozen fruit concentrate or pureed ingredients arrive by tanker truck.
2. The concentrate is mixed with other ingredients, and then frozen.
3. Pasteurization kills bacteria.
4. The mixture is dried in large vacuum chambers.
5. The product comes out as tiny crystals that are packaged and shipped.


(CHART) Noteworthy clients:
Department of Defense - dry, instant breakfast juices that go into field rations

National Aeronautics and Space Administration - dry, instant orange juice for
shuttle missions
National Distributing Co. - cocktail mixers, juice and pie mixes
Subway - flavored mixes for smoothies
Disney Corp. - sweet and sour mix
Jimmy Buffett - signature "Margaritaville" margarita and key lime pie mixes

(CHART) Most popular products:
Orange and grape juice mixes, margarita cocktail mix, sweet and sour cocktail
mix, pineapple juice, key lime pie, smoothies, raspberry and lemon juice powders


(CHART) Top export countries:
Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Japan, Netherlands, Philippines, South Korea,
Thailand, United Kingdom, China

(CHART) MEET THE BOSS
Jennifer E. Closshey Age: 50
Family: daughter, Charleene; husband, Charles
Home: Plant City
Title: president and CEO of Crystals International
Joined company: 1991
Previous career: Real estate
Company profile: Crystals International produces freeze-dried fruit and
vegetable powders through a technique first developed for the military in 1955.
Management philosophy: learn, teach, encourage

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 11 (5C) CHART 5
Tribune photos by CAROL CLEERE, above, and JIM REED, top left

Photo of margaritas from Crystals International

(3C) Concentrated juice is transformed into colorful powders, which become the
basis for hundreds of products, including margarita mixes, pharmaceuticals and
desserts. The Plant City company's clients range from Outback Steakhouse to
NASA, whose astronauts drink their juice in space.
Two 60-foot chambers that resemble submarines are key to the process.
Cover photo-illustration by CAROL CLEERE

(C) (Orange in a vise, fruit powder, orange juice in a glass)
(Margarita mix)
Tribune photos by JIM REED

Technician John Foskey checks the moisture content of a juice product, which is
done hourly during the freeze-drying process. Production manager Suzie Brown,
right, says the drying equipment, which has been at the plant since 1955, is
tried and true and makes the Crystals product unique.
(3) Making dessert with the company's product is, well, as easy as pie. "We make
them idiot-proof," Crystals International President Jennifer Closshey says about
the filling for key lime pie.
(C) Jennifer E. Closshey

NOTES: BUSINESS & TECHNOLOGY

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 6, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Letters

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1274 words



Advice For Aquarium

In February 2002 my wife and I visited The Florida Aquarium with some friends
who are from the Washington, D.C., area, as we are. The price of admission was
higher than the Baltimore aquarium's fee, but the great disappointment was the
weakness of the exhibit. The aquarium does not seem to have either focus or
scope. If the curators wish to display a global view of aquatic life, they are
far short. If they wish to enlighten us about aquatic life around the Gulf Coast
and its rivers, they gave us only a glimpse. Homosassa Springs did a better job.

We have not been back to the aquarium. We have not taken our children or
grandchildren there. We like visiting first-class aquaria at fair, even steep,
prices. We would take grandchildren to third-rate aquaria (The Florida Aquarium
qualifies) at low prices.

I wish the aquarium great success in the future. To provide a successful
exhibit, the curators need to decide upon a theme. Once they have determined a
theme, they should strive to exhibit that theme in an informative and
entertaining manner. When they accomplish that, visitors and funding will almost
certainly follow.
C.D. MCFARLAND
Sun City Center

Bush's Leadership Poor

Ed Sullivan's letter about the outstanding leadership of George Bush (Nov. 4) is
a little confusing. On the subject of the economy, we now have the largest
federal deficit in history, there are still a lot of articles in the paper about
companies reducing their work force, and it would be difficult to find any
brokerage firm that would classify the stock market as booming. There have been
some increases, but booming?

The oppressed people we are attempting to assist in obtaining freedom are
killing and injuring our military personnel at a very high rate; it's almost as
though they do not want us in their country. Even the civilian relief
organizations are either pulling out or on the verge of abandoning their efforts
because of the danger to their people. There have been no announcements of
France or Germany committing any military personnel to assist in the Iraq area.
This is leadership? All indications are that we are lucky that this type of
leadership did not exist in the previous administration.
PAUL TYLER
Tampa

Blaming The Media

The letter "A "Silent' Movement" (Oct. 27) strung together a series of
falsehoods and inaccuracies to bolster the tired old myth of "liberal bias" in
the media. The truth is that a big chunk of the media - talk radio, Fox News and
much of talk TV - does have a bias: a conservative bias. As for the so-called
mainstream media, they are not ideological, but ratings-driven. When Hillary
Clinton's health care reform went to Congress, the O.J. Simpson story broke.
Guess which one the media covered exhaustively?

The writer of the letter also used the McCarthy-ite tactic of lumping together
his political foes with an odious phenomenon, i.e., "the American Civil
Liberties Union, child porn and left-wing causes." Child porn is not a left-wing
cause, and the ACLU has traditionally defended all stripes of unpopular opinion.

Attacks such as this one on the phantom "liberal media" always intensify when
things are not going well for Republicans at home and abroad. Iraq has not
turned out well - there is no clear exit strategy and costs are mounting, and
there is serious doubt about whether Western-style democracy can take hold
there. Instead of admitting that this is a real problem, some conservatives -
like the letter writer - blame the media. The talk-show hosts so admired by the
writer (who all exemplify the adage that "a little knowledge is a dangerous
thing") do not contribute positive solutions to our problems at home and abroad.
Instead, they impugn the motives of the people who are trying to solve our
problems. In this way, they do a great disservice to the country whose flag they
frequently wrap themselves in.
PETER WELLING
Tarpon Springs

Rough Economic Times

Regarding "Robust Economy Undermines Democrats' Assault On Bush" (Our Opinion,
Nov. 3):

I agree with you: Why don't the Democrats call President Bush another Reagan?
After all, Ronald Reagan promised to bring the deficit to zero and never did.

Reagan's 1981 tax cut contained "revenue enhancements" that eliminated tax
deductions on, among other things, auto loans, credit card interest and student
loans, which offset the tax cuts and actually raised taxes for millions of
Americans.

If I were one of the 9 million-plus unemployed Americans, I'd have a very
difficult time jumping up and down over the GNP increase. The unemployment rate
has remained unchanged at 6.1 percent for months, and the economy is getting
better?

Perhaps we should publish the names of and statistics on U.S. companies hiring
and spending abroad and outsourcing high-paying jobs to China, India, the
Philippines, etc.

Next time you're in Wal-Mart, check the label for where the product was
manufactured. Your purchase probably created another job in China.
BOB LAWRENCE
Gibsonton

Reducing Infections

This letter is in regard to your front-page article on hospital infections
(Nation/World, Oct. 31). The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services are
working with hospitals across the country on a project to reduce the surgical
infections for Medicare patients. In Florida, 53 hospitals have agreed to
participate. The project focuses on three quality indicators related to choice
and timing of antibiotics.

There are also steps patients can take to reduce surgical site infections. They
can ask their doctor if an antibiotic will be prescribed to prevent infection.
The antibiotic should be given within one hour prior to the incision. Patients
should stop tobacco products 30 days before surgery and have an antiseptic bath
the night before surgery. They should insist on not having hair at the surgical
site shaved, but clipped, and on staying warm before surgery.

For more information about the CMS project, call 1-800-MEDICARE or log on to
www.surgicalinfectionprevention.org
NANCY PIPER
Tampa
The writer is surgical infection prevention coordinator of Florida Medical
Quality Assurance Inc.

Use Impact Fees

Regarding "If Only The Commissioners Could Get Blood From A Stone" (Our Opinion,
Nov. 5):

They can, if they have the political will to do so. I live in south county and
see the increasing growth and need for infrastructure every day. These costs can
and should be passed on to those creating the needs, i.e., the developers and
new residents, through a system of impact fees. The basic concept is simple. All
the costs for new roads, fire stations, schools, utilities, etc., necessitated
by new development in a given area are added together and prorated over the
acreage being developed in that area. The developer then pays the county these
"impact fees" and adds them to the price of the homes or commercial buildings
being built. They are factored into the mortgages, and the people creating the
demand for services pay for the services.

This collection from developers may be very much akin to "getting blood from a
stone," but that developer has only one vote, even though he may be a big
campaign donor. Consider how many votes are effected by taxing the rest of us
for added services we did not create the demand for.

This could possibly slow growth somewhat or even cut into the huge profits of
landowners and developers, but why should our elected officials let them walk
away with money from those of us who do not benefit from the development and can
least afford to pay for it?
LYNN GREGORY
Ruskin

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 91 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 30, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Siberian Firm Offers IT Outsourcing

BYLINE: MICHAEL SASSO , msasso@tampatrib.com; Reporter Michael Sasso can be
reached at (813) 259-7865.

SECTION: MONEYSENSE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words


ENTERRA'S FIRST OFFICE IN U.S. IS IN TAMPA

TAMPA - Chances are, subzero temperatures and white tigers are the only
impressions many Americans have of Siberia.

But a Siberian company has opened a Tampa office in the hope that the Russian
region can find a niche in the multibillion-dollar market for outsourced
computer programming and other information technology work.

Enterra Inc. opened its first U.S. office in Tampa this fall, with an eye on
landing contracts with American companies for outsourced information technology
work. Enterra says it employs 90 IT professionals at its offices in Siberia.

However, Enterra faces a crowded field of foreign outsourcing companies vying
for American contracts.

From its small office on North Florida Avenue in Tampa, Enterra's domestic
subsidiary, Enterra U.S., is off to a modest start since opening in September.

The company's two Tampa employees have spent much of their time familiarizing
American companies with its computer programming services. So far the company
has signed three small U.S. clients, said Enterra U.S. Chief Operating Officer
Paul Swengler, an American hired by Enterra.

However, prospective clients have been upbeat about a new entrant in the booming
"offshore outsourcing industry," Swengler said.

Although Russia does not have the stature of outsourcing leaders, such as India,
in the IT industry, Swengler said, "many of the programmers at the higher levels
have a great deal of respect for the Russian technologies."

Enterra was founded in 1999 in Barnaul, in southern Siberia, and since has
opened offices in Moscow; St. Petersburg, Russia; and Heidelberg, Germany. Its
90 employees who primarily have worked on behalf of other Russian companies and
big manufacturers in Germany, including DaimlerChrysler and Siemens, the company
said. Enterra is owned by the large Russian conglomerate formally known as
Sibirenergouglesnab but better known as the Siberian Coal Supply Co.

Enterra said it chose Tampa for a U.S. office because of the warm climate and
because the company found Florida's economy healthier than other locations, said
Swengler, 58.

Today, Enterra is hoping to capitalize on the offshore outsourcing revolution
sweeping across American industry.

Last year Forrester Research estimated that as many as 3.3 million U.S. jobs
would move offshore by 2018. Of those, nearly 1.7 million will be office jobs
and 472,000 will be computer-related jobs, Forrester reported.

Many of Enterra's projects for clients involve Web-based applications. For
example, Enterra has been talking with a Denver-area company called Starkey
International Institute for Household Management. Starkey trains butlers and
"household managers" to run estates for a wealthy clientele.

Enterra's computer program will aid household managers to record how homeowners
want their food prepared or shirts laundered, Swengler said.

An executive of Starkey International said her firm just started using Enterra
and couldn't offer a critique. Swengler said Enterra also is trying to focus on
landing contracts for document management and imaging.

Like other offshore outsourcing firms, Enterra is offering cheaper labor than
American programmers might provide. For example, its programmer fees run between
$20 and $35 an hour, including all benefits. In comparison, an American
programmer might charge $35 to $60 an hour, Swengler said. Still, he
acknowledged Enterra's rate is significantly higher than many Indian programmers
earn for simple computer coding projects.

"We're not going to the bottom of the marketplace," Swengler said. "We're
looking for the applications that require some sophistication."

In fact, Russian firms such as Enterra generally market the quality of their
work instead of lower fees, said Stephen Lane, a research vice president for the
Boston-based research firm Aberdeen Group.

The Russian IT industry sprouted from the former Soviet Union's military
industrial complex and from its strong math and science traditions. So, Russian
IT companies tend to prefer intensive projects where they can diagnose a problem
and find a solution. In contrast, Indian companies are better known for
nuts-and-bolts programming, Lane said.

Still, Russian firms have a long way to go to capture the market share that
Indian firms have, Lane said.

The global market for outsourced Russian software services comes to only about
$250 million a year, compared with India's roughly $9 billion market, Lane said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C) MAP (C)
Tribune photo by CLIFF McBRIDE

(C) Paul Swengler heads a small office on North Florida Avenue as Enterra Inc.,
with home offices in Siberia, seeks contracts in this country for outsourced
computer programming and other information technology work.
Enterra Inc. photo

Enterra Inc. employs 90 IT professionals at its office in Barnaul, Russia, in
the southern Siberian region. In addition to a small office in Tampa, it also
has opened two other offices in Russia and one in Germany. Its clients include
DaimlerChrysler and Siemens.
Tribune map by CAITLIN HOPE WRIGHT

(MAP) (C) Enterra Inc. headquarters

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
