
                               1 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 3, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

The usual globaloney

BYLINE: JEFF JACOBY

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 882 words


Q.  Says here the United Nations is holding a big confab in Kyoto, Japan, to
draft a treaty that will stop global warming. Can they really stop global
warming?

A.  There may not be any to stop.

Q.  Come again?

A.  Well, it's true there has been a slight worldwide warming over the last
century - about 0.5 degrees Celsius (roughly 1 degree Farenheit). But that may
be nothing more than a normal flutter in Mother Earth's temperature.

Q.  Oh, come on. Everybody knows global warming is caused by humans - cars and
factories and whatnot pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and trapping
the sun's heat: the greenhouse effect.

A.  We're pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, all right - more of it
since 1940 than at any time in history. Yet most of the past century's warming
took place before 1940. It may have nothing to do with humans.

Q.  Then what could it be?

A.  Any number of things: interactions between the atmosphere and the oceans,
fluctuations in sunspot activity or solar radiation, even the Urban Heat Island
effect.

Q.  The what?

A.  "UHI," to the climate-science boys. It may be that global warming is nothing
more than bad data, caused by putting weather stations near major population
centers - where things tend to be warmer. As Roy Spencer, a researcher at NASA's
Marshall Space Flight Center, told The Washington Post, "Traditional land-based
measurements have been skewed by city buildings and concrete that absorb heat
and make temperatures artificially high." That's why the picture looks different
when you get off the ground. Since 1979, satellites and weather balloons have
actually recorded a slight cooling trend - temps are down about 0.04 degrees.
May not be much, but warming it ain't.

Q.  So why do I keep seeing these flashy graphs - the ones that show the earth's
temperature jagging upward, until we all turn to toast in a hundred years?

A.  Ignore 'em. Those come from computer models, not verified climate
observations. Computers are only as good as the data you feed them, and a lot of
these global climate models subsist on pretty spotty diets.

Here's the dirty little secret of these computer models: They keep getting
revised downward. In 1988, the Toronto conference on atmospheric change
predicted a global warming rate of 0.8 degrees per decade, leading to a
temperature rise of 3 degrees by 2030. Scary, right? But two years later, the
first report of the IPCC - the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the
big U.N. committee dealing with global warming - said that the warming rate
would be only 0.3 degrees per decade. By 1995, the second IPCC report had gone
even lower: 0.2 degrees of warming per decade. And even that's probably too
high.

Q.  Are you sure? I thought the scientists all agreed on this thing.

A.  Sure? Nobody who's serious about this can be sure. The only scientific
consensus on global warming is that there's no consensus.

Hey, don't take my word. In 1991, Gallup surveyed 400 members of the American
Meteorological Society and the American Geophysical Union on whether there has
been a human-induced global rise in temperatures. Only 19 percent said yes. That
same year, Greenpeace asked scientists who had worked on the IPCC report if
current practices would lead to catastrophic global warming. Only 13 percent
answered "probably"; 47 percent said "probably not."

Q.  But that was six years ago.

A.  True, but the lack of consensus has only deepened since then. Just six
months ago, Richard Kerr, a senior environmental writer for Science, wrote an
article ("Greenhouse Forecasting Still Cloudy") making that very point. "Many
climate experts caution that it is not at all clear yet that human activities
have begun to warm the planet," he wrote. "Indeed, most modelers now agree that
the climate models will not be able to link greenhouse warming unambiguously to
human actions for a decade or more."

Q.  Then why does Al Gore call it "bordering on the immoral" to be dubious about
global warming? I read in The Weekly Standard that he compared skeptics to
tobacco executives who claim smoking doesn't cause lung cancer. And Interior
Secretary Bruce Babbitt said that questioning the Clinton administration's
claims about global warming is "un-American in the most basic sense."

A.  Look, you have to understand what an environmental crisis means to these
guys: power. A global warming frenzy offers governments a chance to mine rich
new veins of political and economic control. If Gore and Babbitt were really
backed up by hard science, would they be using McCarthyesque language?

Q.  OK, but just suppose global warming is real. Aren't you even a little bit
panicked?

A.  What's to panic? Worst-case scenario, temperatures creep up very gradually,
over decades. Do you panic when we go from freezing winters to steamy summers?
If we can adapt to that jolt in temperature every single year, we can certainly
adapt to a slo-o-o-w global warming.

Q.  So what's this Kyoto thing really about?

A.  Oh, politics. Fearmongering. Gore's presidential campaign. Chicken Littles
shouting that the sky is falling. Some antibusiness radicalism. The usual
globaloney.  Jeff Jacoby is a columnist for The Boston Globe. His e-mail address
is jacoby@globe.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 2, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Global warming conference heats up

BYLINE: A Tribune wire report

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words


KYOTO, Japan - The United States is pushing hard for its agenda. Some say
thousands of American jobs may be at stake.

After two years of preliminaries, the world's governments got down to the final
critical round of negotiations Monday on controlling energy use in the 21st
century to protect the planet against global warming.

"These 10 days could change the history of mankind," said Keizo Obuchi, Japan's
foreign minister, welcoming almost 10,000 participants in the U.N. Framework
Convention on Climate Change to this shrine-filled ancient capital.

The Kyoto conference was convened to strengthen the 1992 Climate Change Treaty
by setting legally binding targets for reducing industrial nations' emissions of
carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse" gases linked to global warming. If it
succeeds, it will set the energy course for much of the world for decades to
come, helping change what we drive, how we produce electricity, even what we
feed our cattle.

But the countries are separated by vastly different interests and economics. The
effort to make legally binding cuts in emissions has intensified tensions among
wealthy countries and those still developing.  While some governments favor
reducing the industrial world's emissions by as much as 20 percent below 1990
levels as early as 2005, President Clinton has proposed cutbacks only to, not
below, 1990 levels, and only as of 2012.

But soon after Monday's ceremonial opening of the Kyoto sessions, U.S. delegate
Melinda Kimble announced a change: The United States would consider
"differentiation," setting different target levels for different countries
instead of a uniform rate among the 34 affected nations.

It is the United States - the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases and
yet the home of many of the scientists and environmentalists who have helped
push global warming onto the international agenda.

The U.S. delegation argues more extensive energy restraints could cost hundreds
of thousands of American jobs, but benefit U.S rivals and fast-developing
countries not bound by the Kyoto agreement. Days before the conference,
Undersecretary of State Stuart E. Eizenstat said America will not sign a pact
that it does not consider favorable, in economic and environmental terms.

In an announcement that some analysts see as buttressing the belief that the
United States will bargain hard and that it hopes for a successful conference,
Vice President Al Gore - the administration's top voice on the environment -
announced that he would attend the Kyoto conference.

Topping the list probably would be conversion of power plants from coal- and
oil-burning to more climate-friendly natural gas.

Carbon dioxide, methane and other gases allow sunlight through to Earth but trap
the heat the planet emits back toward space.     (CHART) Global warming   A
snapshot of climate change science:   WHAT'S KNOWN   In the atmosphere, carbon
dioxide and other "greenhouse" gases - mostly produced by burning coal, oil and
gas - allow sunlight through but retain infrared radiation that Earth emits back
toward space.   Since the Industrial Revolution began, carbon dioxide
concentration in the atmosphere has risen from 280 parts per million to 358.
Since the late 1800s, mean global temperature has risen between 0.3 degrees and
0.6 degrees Celsius (one-half and 1 degree Fahrenheit).  Oceans, which expand
when warmed, rose up to 10 inches.   Computer models project further temperature
increases of between 1 and 3.5 degrees Celsius (2 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit) by
2100, possibly the most abrupt climate change in thousands of years.   WHAT'S
UNCERTAIN   The precise ratio of past warming attributable to man-made emissions
and natural causes.   The precise magnitude of warming that will result from
given levels of atmospheric gases.   The role clouds and oceans may play in
mitigating - or aggravating - warming.   Future population and economic growth,
which affect emission levels.   Future technological and lifestyle changes that
may affect emissions.   The Associated Press  Read more stories from The
Associated Press on the Global Warming conference at http://tampatrib.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; CHART,
 Chim Ten Gwende of Zimbabwe addresses the opening of the U.N. Framework
Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto, Japan. Vice President Al Gore has
announced he will attend.  AP photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 8, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

From ice age to hothouse, scientists tout theory

BYLINE: CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The world is meeting in Kyoto, Japan, to decide how much wreckage to visit upon
the Western economies to prevent global warming. Kyoto aims to seriously reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, which would seriously curtail energy use and, with it,
economic growth. All under the premise that humans produce global warming and
that global warming will produce a human catastrophe. Is this true?

There has been a very slight warming of Earth's atmosphere in this century
(although one still has to explain why satellite and balloon data show no net
temperature rise in the last 19 years). But first, it is not clear how much is
due to natural variation. Second, even assuming a substantial human
contribution, it is not clear what, say, a doubling of CO2 emissions would do to
temperatures.

You can get answers by modeling. But scientific models are notoriously subject
to the tweaking of underlying assumptions. The predictions of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have already been significantly
modified. In 1990, it predicted a 6-degree (F.) rise by 2100. The prediction is
now down to a 3+-degree rise, a 40 percent drop. And there is a huge range of
uncertainty: The lower-end estimate is less than 2 degrees.

But uncertainty is a feeling foreign to global warming fundamentalists, many of
them now gathered in Kyoto. Take that great American evangelist, Vice President
Gore, a last-minute attendee. Now, Gore may turn out to be the
environmentalists' villain because he fears infuriating labor allies at home if
he agrees to serious curbs on U.S. CO2 (and thus energy) production. But
whatever he ends up doing for personal political reasons, it is clear what he
believes. Just two months ago he likened those who question global warming to
tobacco executives who with a "straight face" denied that smoking causes cancer.
This is a serious charge: not just error, but bad faith.

This attitude is echoed by many scientists. Stephen Schneider, a Stanford
scientist and participant at Clinton and Gore's Global Climate Change Roundtable
last July, has said that when it comes to global warming, it is
"journalistically irresponsible to present both sides."

It is worth noting that 25 years ago this same Schneider was vociferously
denying global warming. Even a tenfold increase in human production of carbon
dioxide, he wrote, "which at the present rate of input is not expected within
the next several thousand years," is "unlikely to produce a runaway greenhouse
effect on Earth." Indeed, "the doubling of carbon dioxide" - which is what Kyoto
is trying so desperately to prevent - "would produce a temperature change of
less than one degree (Centigrade)."

Schneider argued then that the real threat was global cooling: The production of
aerosols screening Earth from the sun could produce "a decrease of the mean
surface temperature by as much as 3.5 degrees centigrade" which "if sustained
over a period of several years ... could be sufficient to trigger an ice age."

This is nuclear winter without the nukes. And this was no offhanded comment.
This was a paper in the prestigious journal Science, complete with equations
containing a gaudy excess of exponents and Greek subscripts.

Nor was Schneider alone. In the 1970s, which were - surprise! - cold, global
cooling was the vogue. Nigel Calder, former editor of New Scientist, said in
1975 that "the threat of a new ice age must now stand alongside nuclear war as a
likely source of wholesale death and misery for mankind." And Science Digest
declared that "how carefully we monitor our atmospheric pollution will have
direct bearing on the arrival and nature of this weather crisis," i.e., a new
"ice age." All this doomsaying provoked J. Murray Mitchell of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to remark in 1976 that "Whenever there is
a cold wave, they (the media) seek out a proponent of the ice-age-is-coming
school and put his theories on page one. ... Whenever there is a heat wave ...
they turn to his opposite number (for a prediction of) a kind of heat death of
the earth."

It is one thing to change your mind. It is another to then write the view you
have just abandoned out of polite society, as does Schneider by saying that
journalists shouldn't even present the non-global warming view, and as does Gore
when he makes skeptics into the moral equivalent of tobacco executives.
Ironically, as climate change predictions become more malleable and contingent,
climate change activists become more inflexible and intolerant.

The ease with which politicians, popularizers and even scientists can be caught
up in popular enthusiasms for one doomsday or another should give us pause. This
is not a call for ignoring climate change. It is a call for a modicum of
humility before we go ahead and wreck the good life we've developed over 200
years in the name of a theory.  Charles Krauthammer's column is syndicated by
The Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 14, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Business climate hot, says survey

BYLINE: JEAN GRUSS; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words


SUMMARY: A recent survey of local companies reveals an improving business
climate, with higher job and revenue growth in 1996.

TAMPA - A large number of companies in Hillsborough County added new employees
and reported increased revenues in 1996, signaling an improving business
climate.

In a University of South Florida survey of 1,200 Hillsborough companies, nearly
one-third of the companies said they added employees last year while 12 percent
reported a decrease in employment.

And nearly half said revenues were up last year compared to 1995, while
one-third reported no change and 15 percent said they were down.

"We're in an economic expansion. You can just feel it in the air," said Guy
King, chair of the Committee of One Hundred, the industry recruiting arm of the
Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, which asked USF to do the survey.

Eighty percent of the local companies surveyed indicated that the business
climate in Hillsborough in 1996 was better or comparable to 1995.

Increased business activity means there's more money circulating in the local
economy.

"The market is growing, so people don't have to fight so much for market share,"
said King, who also is president of M.E. Wilson Co. Inc., a Tampa-based
insurance company.

Still, the survey revealed some dissatisfaction among businesses, with 17
percent of respondents - nearly one in five - reporting a worse business climate
in the county last year compared to 1995.

Insurance and health care costs were rated the most burdensome factors to
business. Managers' greatest concerns were government red tape, with development
regulations and permit procedures singled out in particular.

Despite that, more than half of the 1,200 businesses said they are likely to add
jobs in the future.

The chamber's existing industry committee headed by Tampa attorney Marsha
Rydberg will examine issues that have been identified in the survey as concerns,
such as the fact that nearly half of local businesses buy their supplies outside
the county.

Other issues that the committee likely will explore are educating small
businesses about permit regulations, establishing crime prevention programs and
examining worker skills issues in manufacturing.     (CHART) Taking a pulse
The Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce recently released results of a survey of
existing businesses in Hillsborough County. Some of the highlights:  - Of 1,200
firms surveyed during the year, only 144 (12 percent) reported decreases in
employment; nearly 400 reported an increase in their work force.  - Nearly half
(588) of the respondents indicated revenues were higher than last year; 32
percent reported no change and 15 percent reported a decrease.  - More than half
buy business or product materials locally, offering an excellent opportunity to
create a "buy local" program targeting the other 48.4 percent.  - Some 83
percent consider the county's business climate better or comparable to the
previous year; only 17 percent reported some dissatisfaction.  - Financial,
insurance and real estate firms (54.3 percent) reported the largest proportion
of business managers with favorable opinions of the business climate, followed
closely by managers in services (49.5 percent) and construction (47.8 percent);
manufacturing had the lowest proportion of managers expressing positive views on
the climate (38.3 percent).  - Because of seasonal factors, the highest levels
of confidence were reported in December 1995 and April and May 1996; lowest
levels were in July and August.  - Insurance and health care costs were rated
the most burdensome business factors.  - Business managers' greatest concerns
were governmental red tape, development regulations, permit procedures,
development and impact fees and state or local environmental regulations.  -
Even though waste disposal and crime or police protection are weighted at the
lower end of the scale, the concern expressed by managers is important because
these are areas of higher priority relative to business interruptions.   Source:
University of South Florida, Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 15, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

A conservative approach to the environment

BYLINE: RICHARD B. ANDERSON

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 797 words


President Clinton's global warming initiative, announced at a U.N. speech in
June, has provoked a predictably negative response from many areas of government
and business. The critics avoid substantive policy questions by questioning the
state of research on global warming.

Concerns about the state of our knowledge are not necessarily ill-founded.
Carbon dioxide, the principal contributor to the greenhouse effect, is a trace
gas constituting 0.03 percent of the atmosphere. Predictions of global warming
depend on debatable assumptions about the effect of more greenhouse gases on
clouds, water vapor, surface reflectivity and other related factors. These
assumptions are contained in computer models whose validity is fiercely
contested. There are respectable scientists who argue that human effects on the
climate may be trivial.

The trouble is that none of this may matter. While the existence and danger of
global warming may be difficult to prove, it is equally difficult to disprove.
The material issue is that, without knowing what we are doing, we are conducting
a planetwide experiment in geochemistry. And this is not the only risk or even
the most serious risk we are taking.

Global warming is only one of a suite of environmental effects of human
activities. We are degrading the global environment through deforestation,
desertification, ozone depletion, destruction of fisheries, pollution,
destruction of habitat, extinction of species and many other effects similar in
extent and seriousness. All of these changes are happening at the same time, and
together they are much scarier than when considered one by one.

In dealing with such enormous global changes, we are confronted with the deepest
mystery of life and science - we don't know what we don't know.

Considered in isolation, each of the changes in the environment appears to be an
incidental problem that might have a manageable solution, and it's plausible to
believe that minor adjustments would allow us to proceed with business as usual.

Considered together as a single phenomenon, human-caused global change appears
to threaten the viability of the natural systems that support life and
civilization. In 1992 more than 1,500 of the world's most prominent scientists,
including a majority of the then-living Nobel Prize winners, issued a "Warning
to Humanity," which stated, "Human beings and the natural world are on a
collision course." They went on to caution that our current practices risk the
future of human society and "may so alter the living world that it will be
unable to sustain life in the manner that we know."

Our political system appears to be incapable of reacting to the dilemma of
environmental change. Both sides of the current political debate are preoccupied
with fairness: fairness of taxation and government regulation vs. fairness of
the distribution of income and benefits of the industrial society.

This preoccupation is potentially deadly, because the universe is not fair. If
we humans choose to be preoccupied with our own narrow interests, the implacable
forces of nature will not give us dispensation. And ignorance is neither a
defense against calamity nor a license to proceed regardless. As naturalist
Wendell Berry noted, "Though we cannot produce a complete or even an adequate
description of the natural order, severe penalties are in store for us if we
violate it."

Of all our difficulties in dealing with the realities of global change, perhaps
the deepest and most difficult is a conceptual one: We appear to have no place
in our thinking for ordinary prudence. We need an approach to thinking about
human affairs that includes all risks, including those that are currently
unknown. In the past we humans have managed our lives in the absence of
certainty by allowing ourselves to be guided by principles of caution and
restraint. ,Perhaps we need a new vision of conservatism.

Understood in the absence of the ideological baggage it has acquired,
conservatism is a fundamental principle of prudence and responsibility in regard
to change. There are signs that this principle is resurfacing at the highest
levels in connection with global warming. John Browne, chairman of British
Petroleum, said recently in an interview with The New York Times that the time
to act in regard to global warming "is not when the link between greenhouse
gases and climate change is conclusively proven, but when the possibility cannot
be discounted and is taken seriously."

That is a prudent view, a conservative view, and a model for the way we should
approach our environmental situation.  Richard B. Anderson, an author and
lecturer in environmental studies at University of California at Santa Barbara,
wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 1, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

The hot debate: the global warming controversy boils into a world summit.

BYLINE: KURT LOFT; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The world could get hot around the collar beginning today as 160 nations meet in
Japan to address one of the most burning questions of our age: how to curtail
global warming without economic anarchy.

Nobody expects easy solutions to the so-called greenhouse effect, in which
certain gases in the atmosphere trap the sun's heat, leading to a gradual
warming of the planet. Most everyone agrees a problem exists, but differs on
what to do about it.

"This is a wake-up call for world leaders," says Dudley Herschbach, professor of
chemistry at Harvard University. "Scientists and citizens around the world will
hold leaders accountable if a strong climate treaty isn't reached."

The goal of the 10-day international summit is to reduce the output of
human-made greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide. Levels of carbon
dioxide have increased by 30 percent over the last 200 years and if current
trends continue, scientists expect it to double during the next century.

The glitch is that most of these human-made gases are created from electric
power plants, factories, automobiles and refrigerants - all essential to a
well-oiled society. Significant cutbacks could alter jobs and lives in
uncomfortable ways, says Ross Gelbspan, author of the 1997 book "The Heat is On:
The High Stakes Battle Over Earth's Threatened Climate." For this reason, he
says, the summit could be more political than scientific.

"There's no question global warming exists, but there's a division over the
degree of urgency," Gelbspan says. "The science is clear. The real uncertainty
is how to accomplish what we have to accomplish."

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a body of 2,500 experts from
around the world, estimates that societies everywhere need to cut total
emissions of human-made gases by 50 to 70 percent just to stabilize the level of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at current levels.

In 1995, carbon emissions from burning fossil fuel reached 6.1 billion tons,
breaking a previous record five years earlier. Many scientists say society must
stop relying so heavily on fossil fuels - coal, oil and natural gas - and invest
in non-polluting renewable technologies such as solar, wind and geothermal
power.

"The renewables are at hand," Gelbspan adds. "The real issue is how to finance
this transition, and that might mean an end to our fossil fuel diet. But if you
leave it to the free market or politicians, it won't work. You'll be setting up
a new arena of perpetual economic warfare."

Some strongly disagree with economic sanctions - such as gas rationing and taxes
- to curb greenhouse gases. S. Fred Singer, author of "Hot Talk, Cold Science:
Global Warming's Unfinished Debate," believes too many people are overreacting.
The greenhouse "disaster," he says, exists "only on computer printouts and in
the feverish imagination of professional environmental zealots."

The Earth's long-term climate could be little more than a series of hot and cold
cycles, suggest Columbia University researchers armed with new data that the
Earth cools naturally every 1,500 years. They say these cooling cycles, based on
studies of ocean sediment cores, have continued uninterrupted for at least
32,000 years.

The greenhouse effect refers to the natural phenomenon that keeps the right
temperature for life on the planet. As the sun's energy hits Earth and reflects
back into space, some heat is absorbed by gases in the atmosphere - mostly water
vapor - that create a layer of insulation.

Global warming refers to a rise in this natural temperature as a result of too
much heat trapped by atmospheric gases. Scientists have said with temperature
rising 3 or 4 degrees Fahrenheit over the next century, the world might see the
following changes: a sea level rise of 3 feet; a spread of insects to northern
climates and serious outbreaks of disease; major disruption of agriculture; and
severe stress on forests that absorb carbon dioxide.     (CHART) (C) Greenhouse
effect: How it works

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART (C),
 (C) (The world)

NOTES: SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 11, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

Hard work is paying off for small businesses

BYLINE: CHERYL JACKSON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1242 words


SUMMARY: Small businesses report a better business climate in Hillsborough this
year than last, according to a chamber survey.

TAMPA - David Carmena had to hire someone last month to complete the growing
amount of paperwork at his company, MWC Computers Inc.

He would much rather have hired a staffer to help in sales at the 12-worker firm
that offers software, makes computers and resells other brands.

"Forty percent of her job is filling out paperwork. There's a stack that's two
feet high," Carmena said.

Much of the paperwork is generated because MWC Computers qualifies for minority
purchasing programs. To qualify, the company has to fill out a lot of forms. And
many forms for qualifying on state and local levels often request the same
information.

Despite the concerns small businesses had with paperwork and red tape, surveys
indicate they are fairly upbeat about business prospects this year.

Small businesses employ 54 percent of jobs in private industry and contribute 52
percent of all sales in the country.

About 46 percent of the companies responding to a Florida Chamber-Mason Dixon
business poll said they believed business is better this year. Thirty-six
percent reported their businesses were more profitable.

And 62 percent said that the state's overall business environment is attractive
enough for them to expand operations.

Those good feelings apply locally as well, according to a recent Greater Tampa
Chamber of Commerce survey of 300 Hillsborough County businesses owners.

Forty-nine percent of the respondents said the business climate in Hillsborough
is better this year than it was last year. Fifteen percent said it is worse.

Fifty percent said the local business climate was the leading factor in business
performance, while 19 percent listed the national business climate and 16
percent cited market expansion.

Affordable computers and continued downsizing at major corporations have led to
more folks starting technology-related companies at home.

The biggest problem facing new entrepreneurs is finding money to get their
ventures started, according to a survey of 200 readers by Income Opportunities
magazine.

According to the May issue, nearly 57 percent of entrepreneurs use personal
savings to get started.

Forty-seven percent need other sources of financing, but only 10 percent of
those get a traditional bank loan. Credit cards, loans from friends, home equity
loans and pension savings are among other sources to which entrepreneurs turned.

Start-up costs range from $ 500 to begin a janitorial or residential cleaning
service to $ 100,000 for a restaurant with a lot of overhead and employees, said
Irene Furst, interim director of the University of South Florida's Small
Business Development Center.

Her center saw about 3,000 potential entrepreneurs last year.

She said her clients often see red tape involved with starting or growing their
businesses.

Among businesses who needed permits for projects involving two or more
government agencies in the past two years, 73 percent encountered serious
problems, 51 percent of which involved conflict or interaction between the
agencies, according to a Florida Chamber-Mason Dixon poll.

"One client started a home-based business and went through rezoning, and then
she finds out she needs another license!" Hurst said.

Of course, businesses also need money to continue growth. And working capital
continues to be a problem.

"There are not many banks that, if you don't have a strong track record, would
be willing to provide backing," Carmena said.

"That's always in the back of your mind," he said. "You're almost afraid to win
too many contracts. This company's always walking a fine line."

More money is needed to keep up with changing technology, said Lorian S.
Williams, owner of Chaslo Merchandise and Printing Corp., which does printing
and specialty marketing and distributes Afro-centric computer clip art.

When she worked at Florida Power, she gave lots of time to the St. Petersburg
Chamber of Commerce. But she didn't think the chamber reached out to black-owned
businesses.

"As a small business person, I think they are really missing out on outreach to
African-American business owners," said Williams, who is active with the
National Minority Supplier and Development Council, which helps match
minority-owned businesses with companies that want to buy supplies or services
from those firms.

Small firms often are unable to hire more experienced people, who are wooed to
larger companies for better pay and benefits.

Williams said she can't offer health insurance to employees.

"Getting the top-of-the-line employee who's willing to go through the stages
with an employer is tough," she said.

Fifty-one percent of the local chamber's survey respondents said they likely
would hire people within the next two years.

About 24 percent of small business owners surveyed by Padgett Business Services
said they expect to hire more employees.    (Chart) Top 10 industrial/consumer
goods companies  West Central Florida industrial/consumer goods companies ranked
on total revenue:   '96 total '95 total % change   revenues revenues revenues
Rank Company name Business description ($ millions) ($ millions) '95 to '96  1
Walter Industries Inc.  Diversified holding company   $ 1,494.9 $ 1,496.6 -0.12%

 2 Kaydon Corp.  Manufacturer of custom engineered products   $ 290.7 $ 229.9
26.42%  3 Uniroyal Technology Corp.  Manufacturer of high performance plactics,
coated fibers $ 208.7 $ 214.3 -2.63%  4 Catalina Marketing Corp.  Manufacturer
of consumer and pharmaceutical products $ 162.1 $ 128.9 25.81%  5 Superior
Surgical Mfg.  Manufactures apparel and accessories for medical fields $ 141.4 $
135.2 4.60%  6 Orange-co Inc.  Growing and processing citrus products   $ 124.2
$ 104.1 19.31%  7 Davel Communications Group.  Makes and services pay telephones

  $ 37.0 $ 31.8 16.16%  8 Nobility Homes Inc.  Manufactures manufactured homes
$ 36.5 $ 30.8 18.34%  9 Contour Medical Inc.  Manufactures orthopedic care and
rehabilitation products $ 35.7 $ 6.3 466.69%  10 Paradise Inc.  Production of
candied fruit and molded plastic   $ 20.4 $ 20.0 1.81%  Source: Nordby
International Inc. (nordby.com) Boulder, Colo.    (Chart) Top 10 service
companies  West Central Florida service companies ranked on total revenue:   '96
total '95 total % change   revenues revenues revenues  Rank Company name
Business description ($ millions) ($ millions) '95 to '96  1 Danka Business
Systems PLC Supplies photocopiers, fax machines, and parts $ 1,647.3 $ 1,095.0
50.44%  2 Lincare Holdings Oxygen and respiratory therapy service   $ 348.9 $
274.8 26.95%  3 MTL Inc.  Transports bulk liquid products   $ 235.6 $ 190.1
23.96%  4 HealthPlan Services Corp.  Managed health care   $ 193.8 $ 100.3
93.36%  5 Kimmins Corp.  Solid waste handling service   $ 116.2 $ 111.3 4.33%  6
C.H. Heist Corp.  Industrial maintenance, temporary employees   $ 106.5 $ 102.7
3.76%  7 Romac International Inc.  Employment services   $ 94.2 $ 45.7 106.35%
8 HSN Inc. (Silver King) Owns, operates television stations   $ 75.2 $ 47.9
56.88%  9 TransCor Waste Services Inc.  Waste management services   $ 44.2 $
41.1 7.48%  10 ABR Information Services Health care benefits administration   $
40.8 $ 23.6 73.21% Source: Nordby International Inc. (nordby.com) Boulder, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 4; CHART 2,
 From left, Gil D'Amore, David Swift and Mike Kline joined forces to create A
World of Maps in Tampa. The small business offers local, national and global
maps from nautical to geographical street-finders. The company also will create
custom maps.  KAREN FLETCHER, Tribune photo

NOTES: SIGNIFICANT OTHERS TRIBUNE 50

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 27, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Is it global warming or just a lot of hot air?

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 556 words


Over the ages the Earth's climate has apparently undergone many changes. We have
evidence of an early ice age and we have the Viking reports of Greenland as a
mild, fertile land that is now a barren icebox.

Actually, I would like to address two questions. First, is there actually any
real evidence of global warming and to what extent have the activities of humans
influenced this phenomenon?

I had always considered myself a good environmentalist until environmentalism
became a religion instead of a science. I am an engineering graduate with
extensive post graduate work at the University of Southern California. I
consider myself more qualified on scientific matters than Al Gore who, judging
by some of his comments, was a scientific illiterate who apparently seized upon
a hypotheses by Roger Revell, an American professor, that C02 emitted into the
atmosphere would lead to global warming. Though far from tested, this weak
hypothesis was seized upon by an impressionable Gore as his schtick to further
his political career and mobilize the forces of environmental activists in a
moral crusade to save the planet and gain political capital.

Actually, many of the scientists who the environmental activists claim support
the global warming theory are not climatologists, but often gained their
expertise in far different fields. The most knowledgeable of these experts claim
only to have measured a one-half degree Celsius rise in temperature in 100
years, all of this prior to 1940. Actual measurements taken with weather
satellites show the climate getting colder during the past 20 years.
Unfortunately, when the intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC)
developed a computer model based on the one-half degree global temperature rise
to forecast the dire consequences of continued global warming, it unfortunately
was unable to define many variables that would influence its models, i.e.,
effects of oceans, trees, clouds, etc. The list is quite lengthy, which brings
to mind the old computer programmers' mantra GIGO: Garbage in, garbage out.

The IPCC, whose reports had exalted status at Kyoto, keeps revising its computer
models' predictions of global warmings impact downward. The data refuses to back
up the fear mongers. Since 1979, satellite temperature readings have crept down,
while ground readings have crept up. In other words, we have no discernible
trend. Now, the environmental theologians do not want to be bothered with
science, except where the science supports their faith. The politics are
something else.

Now assuming the concept of global warming to be real, though not proven, if the
villain is man and C02 as the activists claim, some facts are interesting. In
1992, an extensive study by serious climate physicists claimed that all
worldwide human activity released, at the most, 6 billion tons of C02 per year.
Nonhuman activity, such as that produced by oceans, animals, volcanoes, etc.,
released more than 200 billion tons of C02 per year. How can humanity possibly
be causing the catastrophe when our contribution is so small?

It is interesting that the vice president, according to the media, wants to
abolish National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the only federal agency
manned by a large proportion of climatologists.  JOE F. REYNOLDS  Sun City
Center

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 22, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

State constitution needs revision, especially in process of initiatives

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words


As the Florida Constitutional Revision Commission sets to work, Gov. Lawton
Chiles has pointed its members in a particularly apt direction - toward
reforming the process of initiative and referendum. This well-intended device to
change the constitution has been much abused.

Certainly, citizens ought to be able to enact reforms by placing their ideas
before the voters when they can get no satisfaction from the Legislature. Those
who devised the current system in 1968 never envisioned how it could be
manipulated and twisted. For instance, they never considered the casino industry
in their calculations.

The state has since witnessed more than one subversion of the grand ideal of
civic participation. Money is no object to the casino industry. In 1994 casino
groups hired an army of mercenary solicitors to collect signatures on petitions,
paying them for every name they gathered. The result was what one might expect -
a veritable festival of fraud. They signed up dead people, pets, all sorts of
imaginary voters.

This experience made clear the danger from loopholes in the law. Not only was
there fraud, but it was largely untraceable fraud, because there was no record
of which paid solicitor ginned up the phony names.

That part of the problem has since been changed. During the past session of the
Legislature, the state revised the law to require that those gathering petitions
sign every one they collect, so fraud could be traced to its source.

Still, there are other changes that would be beneficial. Current law allows
signatures to remain valid for four years following the date on which they are
collected. That's too long. Bally Entertainment Corp. was in Florida last year
collecting signatures to change the state constitution and allow casino
gambling, but it withdrew, finding the political climate too hostile. The
company can sit on those petitions for four years, coming back to pick up more
at its leisure. An idea that has widespread public appeal does not require four
years of petition-gathering.

Pam Iorio, Hillsborough County's supervisor of elections, says the threshold for
putting something on the ballot might be too low as well. It takes about 430,000
signatures to have an initiative placed on a statewide ballot. "There may have
been a time when that was a lot," she says, but these days, with paid solicitors
collecting names for $ 1 each, "all it takes is $ 500,000."

For a citizens' organization, that is a huge amount of money, but for a large
corporation or special-interest group, it is small change. It does seem as if
the intent of this constitutional provision has been lost.

TaxWatch, the Tallahassee government watchdog group, was so dismayed by the
corrupting of the system in 1994 that it suggested requiring a two-thirds vote
of the electorate to pass a constitutional amendment. Regrettably, that would
penalize the legitimate citizens' initiative.

Another option would be to allow state statutes, not the constitution, to be
altered through initiative. Of course, the Legislature and governor could
rescind such changes, but they would do so at their political peril, because
such action would require them to go against the will of the voters.

That sort of reform would prevent the type of overkill which occurred when the
state constitution was amended in order to ban commercial fishing nets. The
issue should have been dealt with by lawmakers themselves. The public ought not
be forced to write something like this into the state constitution.

So Chiles was right to direct the Constitutional Revision Commission to this
topic for reform. It is worth noting that those joining him in support of this
view include former Gov. Reubin Askew, former Gov. Claude Kirk, Senate President
Toni Jennings and Supreme Court Justice Ben Overton.

Askew has also suggested that the state House of Representatives might be too
large with 120 members. The constitution currently allows 80 to 120 House
members. Well, there is some appeal in cutting down on the number of politicians
in the state, especially since summer is upon us and that would reduce the
amount of hot air.

Still, we think there are advantages to having 120 members in the House. For one
thing, this means they represent smaller geographic districts, whose boundaries
are more likely to be within a single county or city. Larger districts would be
even more subject to gerrymandering and would include more people. The smaller a
district is, the more responsive the representative ought to be to his or her
constitutents.

The state of Nebraska has gone so far as to dispense with a House entirely and
rely on a unicameral legislature made up of 49 senators. That may work well for
a state with more cows than voters, but there are 14 million people in Florida.
It does not seem excessive to give them 120 representatives in the House.

The Constitutional Revision Commission is going to hear a lot of fine ideas and
some crackpot ones in the coming months. Its members make up a distinguished
group, and we trust they will manage to sort out these proposals and offer
worthwhile improvements to Florida's constitution.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    December 9, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. willing to cede ground on greenhouse gas emissions

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 393 words


KYOTO, Japan - The United States, in intense negotiations for a new climate
agreement, has offered to cut U.S. gas emissions more than originally proposed
in President Clinton's plan for combating global warming, negotiators reported
Tuesday.

European delegates said the U.S. team offered a 2 percent deeper cut than
previously envisioned in the Clinton plan, which proposed reducing greenhouse
gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2012.

The Europeans complained that was too little to achieve a compromise.

American negotiator Todd Stern said, however, that the 2-percent report was an
"understatement" of what U.S. officials were offering, and negotiations were
continuing.

Given a freer hand, U.S. negotiators early today reported progress in the final
intensive talks to piece together a historic accord to control energy use and
protect the planet against global warming in the 21st century.

In a one-day visit Monday, Vice President Al Gore announced he was giving the
U.S. team "increased negotiating flexibility" to end a standoff with Europe over
how deeply to cut fuel emissions.

After meeting with Gore on Monday, Britain's deputy prime minister sounded
optimistic that the 150-nation Climate Change Treaty conference will conclude
successfully Wednesday.

"It leads me to believe the flexibility and political will is there to reach an
agreement," John Prescott said.

But even if the U.S.-European differences are bridged, the U.S. team still must
nail down another major feature - commitments by developing countries to limit
emissions - to improve chances the agreement will be ratified in the U.S.
Senate.

The Kyoto conference was convened to strengthen the 1992 Climate Change Treaty
by setting legally binding targets for reducing industrial nations' emissions of
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases linked to global warming.

A new treaty protocol would set the energy course for much of the world for
decades to come - from how we produce electricity to what we drive - by
encouraging movement away from coal and other carbon-heavy fuels.

Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, mostly products of fuel combustion,
allow sunlight through to Earth but trap heat emitted back toward space.

Scientists believe atmospheric warming will boost temperatures up to 6 degrees
by 2100 if emissions aren't controlled.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 11, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Nations agree to reduce globe-warming emissions

BYLINE: ROBERT A. RANKIN ; of Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 646 words


KYOTO, Japan - There's an agreement on a treaty to battle global warming, but
uncertainties abound.

Exhausted and bitterly divided delegates to the U.N. climate summit reached a
historic accord early this morning, agreeing to substantial cuts in greenhouse
gases emissions among industrialized countries but leaving until next year the
contentious issue of whether and how the world's poorer nations would
participate.

The draft treaty would not require Third World nations such as China to cut
emissions, but rich nations such as the United States would have to make
profound changes in the way they use energy, which could harm their economies.

That prospect prompted Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., to warn the
Senate will never ratify the treaty. And even treaty proponents warned many of
its key terms are so vague huge uncertainties remain about how it would work.
For example, there is no enforcement mechanism to make sure its terms are met.

In frenzied marathon bargaining this week, the United States joined the European
Union and Japan in seeking more ambitious environmental goals than the Clinton
administration has ever embraced.

That prospect is precisely what troubles U.S. industrialists, who say achieving
such ambitious targets could cripple the U.S. economy.

The 160 countries are to begin signing the final version of the treaty March 15.
The signing period will last one year, to be followed by ratification by each
country. A follow-up conference is scheduled for November 1998 in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, where proponents hope to persuade developing nations to participate
under the treaty more fully.

President Clinton is not expected to submit the treaty to the Senate before
1999.

Meanwhile, his administration could begin ordering tighter energy efficiency
standards for home appliances and push for tougher fuel-economy standards for
motor vehicles, opponents fear.

According to the compromise agreement, the European Union would reduce its
greenhouse emissions by 8 percent below 1990 levels, the United States by 7
percent, and Japan by 6 percent.

Twenty-one other industrialized countries would meet similar binding targets,
and the reductions would be achieved between 2008 and 2012. All are committed to
more profound cuts after that.

The United States, as the world's biggest, most energy intensive economy, emits
almost one-quarter of the globe's gases.

Unless U.S. energy habits change, emissions of greenhouse gases will increase by
34 percent above 1990 levels by 2010, according to the latest projections from
the U.S. Energy Department.

To meet the new treaty's goal, U.S. emissions must be cut by about one-third
from what they would be under business-as-usual policies. That challenge
delights environmentalists and chills industrialists.

Studies by consulting firms such as WEFA Group and DRI, which independent
economists consider generally accurate, project U.S. gasoline prices would have
to rise by about 50 cents a gallon to force behavior changes enough to cut gas
emissions.

If the new emission targets are met, "the economic impact will be far worse,"
said Connie Holmes of the Global Climate Coalition, an alliance of U.S.
auto-makers and energy industries opposed to any binding treaty.

To minimize the economic impact, however, the United States won an agreement to
permit industrial nations to trade emissions credits among themselves. The idea
is if it is cheaper to stop carbon emissions by shutting down an out-of-date
plant in East Europe, for example, a U.S. company could win credits for paying
the expenses of shutting down that plant rather than updating its own
technology.

That approach promotes efficiency, the administration argues. But the Sierra
Club - the nation's biggest environmental group - worries those terms open a
huge loophole in the treaty.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 3, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

A young, restless Seay

BYLINE: KEVIN WELLS; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words


SUMMARY: Transformations on the mound and in life could lead Tampa Bay Devil
Rays pitcher Bobby Seay to baseball stardom.

ST. PETE BEACH - This is your $ 3 million dollar ace, the top schoolboy
left-hander in the nation last year. This is your Devil Ray cut-up.

This is your monster.

This is Bobby Seay.

Give me the damn ball.

Misha Dworken, Seay's summer-league catcher of six years, listened to the only
command his pitcher had ever directed to him during a game. The voice, a fierce
whisper, remains in Dworken's head.

Give me the damn ball. It was the voice from the closet of a 5-year-old's
bedroom.

Seay (pronounced SEE) took the mound and listened to taunts in last May's prep
playoff game against North Fort Myers, which had routed his team, Sarasota,
10-0, earlier in the 1996 season. Seay's first pitch, an 89 mph fastball, was
hit for a home run - the first he had ever surrendered.

He asked for a fresh ball ... in that voice. And it signaled the transformation
- the mood change so many coaches, scouts and batters have spoken of, but have
labored to explain. This time, though, the metamorphosis was cataclysmic.
Wrought intensity collided with wretchedness in his gut.

He recently had been arrested by Sarasota County sheriff's deputies for driving
under the influence and possession of marijuana - although a Breathalyzer showed
a blood-alcohol level of .047, half the level at which Florida law considers
drivers to be impaired. He said the marijuana was left by a friend.

He had been suspended from Sarasota's baseball team for a month. Some townsfolk
had laughed at him. Now rowdy fans were jeering.

"People were happy that he failed when he got arrested," Dworken said. "Some
kids in the community thought he'd lost all the draft money. Some kids thought
he was a joke."

Dworken handed Seay the new baseball amid a cacophony of boos, laughter and
mockery on the late-spring night in Port Charlotte.

As the home run hitter, a slender kid named Mike Chikowsky, rounded the bases,
Dworken reassured Seay for the first - and only - time in his life. He
approached the mound like it was a volcano. Softly now: Hey Bobby, don't worry
about it. You're the money man. Let's go.

Dworken could have been speaking to the dead. Seay heard nothing. They say he
never hears anything when he's this way, when the ball, the game and his
integrity lay softly in his left palm. Voices, catcalls, cheers - all the noises
in the world die and break into pieces at this uncommon image of the 6-foot-2
left-handed pitcher.

They say Bobby Seay intensifies, alarmingly so, when he's in this state. Things
get strange.

"I played with Bobby for the Junior National Team, and he looks like a fun,
relaxed guy off the field," Devil Rays pitcher Matt White said. "But I looked at
his face during a game once, and it was scary."

"His personality changes completely," Sarasota coach Clyde Metcalf said. "Things
get very personal. He becomes like a fierce animal."

"He gets into this different type of zone," Sarasota assistant coach Ted Lyke
said. "He's at another level."

"He's a whole different person out there," Dworken said.

After settling back into his crouch, Dworken - who has had the opportunity to
catch former Sarasota No. 1 draft picks Doug Million and Matt Drews - went on to
catch the best-pitched game of Seay's life.

"Bobby's home run pitch was 89 mph," Dworken said. "After the game, I heard some
scouts talking - not another of his pitches was below 90. It was unbelievable."

Seay went on to strike out 17 North Fort Myers batters. No one else hit a pitch
cleanly. Sarasota won, 2-1. Two weeks later, together, the Sailors lifted a
state championship trophy.

Two years earlier, Seay helped lift Sarasota to a national championship. But
last May's state title was an elixir, a mother's touch. He was well again.

"I made a stupid mistake and was in the wrong place at the wrong time," said
Seay, overlooking the Gulf of Mexico at a St. Pete Beach restaurant. "All of a
sudden, you find out people are rooting against you. They wanted me and our team
back on their level. It seemed like they wanted us down."

The state championship flushed the pain away only temporarily. Shortly after the
Sailors' title, Greg Livorsi - the best friend who backed Seay throughout the
pandemonium - used a gun to commit suicide. When assistant principal Ed Foster
broke the news, Seay broke down in a hallway.

"He was the only person I told everything to," said Seay, hunched over, cap
pulled down low. "That's the toughest kind of friend to lose. It's strange what
can go on in somebody's head. ... Last year was a very tough year."

Seay said he wants to wear No. 71 as a memorial to Livorsi, who wore the number
on his Sailors football jersey.

"In 1996, I went from a being a kid to a man. Greg shot himself. I made a stupid
mistake that was blown out of proportion," Seay said. "People can hang me for it
for the rest of my life, that's fine. But it's time for me to go on."

Devil Rays owner Vince Naimoli and General Manager Chuck LaMar are confident
Seay can go on to become one of major-league baseball's greatest left-handed
pitchers. He has Steve Avery's demeanor, Al Hrabosky's intensity, Roger
McDowell's wit and kind of looks like a left-handed David Cone.

But he is none of those.

Off the field, he clowns and laughs a lot. He dropped a handful of live frogs
into a Gatorade bucket last summer, and watched his summer league teammates
unknowingly swallow slimy water for seven innings. He owns and sometimes warmed
up with baseball's missing link - the left-handed catcher's mitt. His cap was on
sideways, of course.

You could say he's part Eddie Haskell, but that's not altogether right. Haskell
was a nerd, and Seay's friends say he blends wit with composure, and he'll crack
you up. They say he's free as the wind, and you'll never guess he was the one
who sprayed Nair into your cap.

"He's the practical joker who always got away with it," Lyke said. "He's the one
snickering in the corner who you'll never catch unless you see the twinkle in
his eye."

"I can't really give you an example of a practical joke now," Seay said. "But
shoot, I think there's one every day."

He is an individual. He recently drove to a workout in his brand new $ 54,000
Mustang Saleen - the only car on the highway capable of changing colors while
changing lanes. The $ 8,000 paint job looks like George Clinton standing next to
a rainbow.

"I've seen the car go from purple to green to blue to gold," Seay said. "It's my
little play car, but I won't drive it too much. I'll mostly use it for car
shows."

He relates. He pulls for the Chicago Bulls because he likes Dennis Rodman, and
he wanted to root for the Cowboys in the Super Bowl. "Rodman has done some
stupid, stupid things, but on the court he's hard all the time," he said.
"Everyone hated the Cowboys because of all the stuff that went on. I like them
because they still won after the adversity they faced."

Chicago White Sox Vice President Ron Schueler has called Seay cocky, with which
Seay has no qualms. "If he perceives me that way, fine," Seay said. "I just like
to joke around. If you take life seriously all the time, you're not having any
fun."

He likes his downtime, ESPN, golf, playing pool, his jewelry and wants his music
played fast and hard. When he's wearing headphones, it's usually Tupac Shakur,
Wu-Tang Clan or a variety of West Coast rap he's listening to. Unless it's the
World Series, he won't be watching a baseball game.

Martin Luther King is his hero.

His worst fear is unhappiness. Second is failure.

And he craves confrontation.

"There's no other rush like throwing strikes on the corner while you and the
batter are both out there doing your business," Seay said. "A lot of those guys
up there are cocky and want to rip the heck out of you. I just take each and try
to strike them out, work the outside corner, mow them down.

"I expect the worst to happen with each batter. People say I get too intense,
but it is my business out there. I hate to fail. I hate it. Once you step on
that mound, it's everything you've practiced for.

"Winning is my motivator."

The White Sox wanted him. But after they couldn't agree to terms, Seay - the
first left-hander taken in the draft at No. 12 - accepted a $ 3 million signing
bonus to pitch for Tampa Bay.

"Bobby Seay was the best left-handed pitcher in the draft," LaMar said. "That's
why we paid him what we did."

Is an 18-year-old kid worth $ 3 million? Consider: Seay went 30-4 in his three
seasons at Sarasota and is the prep powerhouse's career leader in ERA (0.79) and
strikeouts (362). He has ideal size (6-foot-2, 200 pounds), makeup and
mechanics.

His fastball, called explosive by scouts, is consistently clocked at better than
90 mph. He has an above-average curve and a change-up scouts say will improve in
the maturation process.

Among his prep-aged contemporaries, his mound presence was unparalleled. Off in
some universe we don't know about.

His agent, Scott Boras, said one major-league team offered his client the
opportunity to pitch in the majors last September if he signed with them. Boras
and Seay said clubs offered more money than the Devil Rays.

So why is Seay wearing this expansion team's colors?

"Everyone treated me really nice, and I really liked the personnel," Seay said.
"And look at this climate and how close it is to home. Look at me - I'm 30
minutes from home."

Metcalf thinks the Devil Rays spent wisely. "He has a very live arm and great
command of all of his pitches," Metcalf said. "He's rare. He's all business on
the mound. Bobby is a competitor and he wants to win. Each pitch is a personal
challenge.

"You'll see a lot of pitchers go out with an adrenalin rush. For a few innings
they'll perform above themselves, and then they crash. I've never seen Bobby
Seay crash.

"The child that came into our program has left it as an adult."

Another of those transformations they talk about.     (CHART) Bobby Seay's high
school stats   Pitching statistics at Sarasota High School:   Year G GS CG IP W
L Sv ShO H BB SO ER ERA   1994 17 12 6 782/3 10 1 1 2 53 37 117 7 0.62   1995 18
12 5 722/3 10 1 3 4 37 44 123 11 1.06   1996 14 11 4 70 10 2 0 2 33 29 122 7
0.70   Total 49 35 15 2211/3 30 4 4 8 123 110 362 25 0.79

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2 (1C); CHART; SIGNATURE (C),
 Bobby Seay "went from a being a kid to a man" in 1996. Tribune file photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  February 26, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Take on new role, United Way told

BYLINE: MICHELE DRAYTON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words


SUMMARY: The national head of the United Way comes to town and urges the local
agency to take a lead role in solving problems in the community.

TAMPA - If the United Way of Hillsborough County is going to move forward, it
must be at the center of efforts to improve the community, the agency's national
board chairwoman said Tuesday.

Paula Harper Bethea, addressing a crowd of more than 300 at the local United
Way's annual luncheon, heaped praise on the local agency but challenged it not
to rest on its laurels.

"We can no longer just hope to change things," she said. "We must expect to
change things."

The organization should see its role as a broker - not a charity - in which
staff, volunteers and supporters invest money, time, labor and love and reinvest
the dividends to build a better community. It must maintain that role as
government cuts back even in the face of growing social needs, she said.

Such a changing climate has led the United Way of America to change the way it
does business. It establishes partnerships with other agencies, the government
and the private sector. And it's extremely focused, Bethea said.

"We have recognized that we are about the business of community building. United
Way must be the convenerand the leader around community issues and
opportunities," Bethea said.

"We see United Way moving from an organization, which has heretofore been a
crisis intervention organization to an organization, which is a leader in
prevention," she said.

The local agency appears to be in step with the national program with its new
vision to be "the recognized leader" in bringing the community together to
resolve "its most urgent human needs."

"These simple words ... build a foundation for action," said Alex Sink, the new
board chair of the local agency.

Its 1996 accomplishments include raising $ 11.9 million in its annual
fundraising campaign and funding 50 local agencies that reached more than
210,000 people.

The organization also recognized companies that distinguished themselves through
giving and volunteer service. TECO Energy, whose employees gave $ 685,000, and
Holland & Knight, whose employees contributed $ 94,705, were recipients of the
first Ferman Motor Car Co. awards.

The National Football League also was recognized for donating air time to United
Way across the country to the tune of $ 45 million annually.

New officers for United Way of Hillsborough County are: Sink of NationsBank
Florida; chair-elect, William Meurer of Arthur Andersen; Immediate Past
Chair/Secretary, Joseph House of HCB Contractors; Chair, Communications, Mark
Wiskup of Business Video Productions; Chair, Community Services, Cindy Kane of
TECO; Chair Finance/Treasurer, Jan Larson of Price Waterhouse; Chair, Labor
Services, Jerry Cain of West Central Florida AFL-CIO Federation of Labor; Chair,
Resource Development, Tim Adams of Time Customer Service; Chair, Strategic
Planning, James Malone of HMI Industries; and Chair, Volunteer Services, Jack
Bailey of JCPenney.

Other new members to the local board are: Judge Dennis Alvarez; Tom Draude of
USAA; Fassil Gabremariam of US Africa Free Enterprise Education Foundation;
Margarita Gonzalez of the city of Tampa; Tampa Mayor Dick Greco; Earl Lennard of
Hillsborough County Public Schools; Bruce Siegel of Tampa General Hospital;
Wayne Thrasher of MetLife; and Luis Vargas Jr. of Tampa Electric Co.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Paula Harper Bethea, United Way national board chairwoman, third from left,
talks with, from left, Tim Guzzle, Kim Scheeler, Bernie Barton, B.  Crane and
Bill McBride during a board of directors luncheon meeting. GARY RINGS, Tribune
photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 4, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Public housing overhaul;
Tampa, St. Pete awarded grants

BYLINE: MICHELE DRAYTON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


JerriLovett, 30, has lived in public housing for more than a decade. But given
the means, she would move out of her faded blue apartment sandwiched between two
others at the Ponce de Leon public housing complex.

She would choose to be free from the outside noise that her closed door can't
shut out. Her dream? "A decent apartment like the kind in Carrollwood, a private
place of your own."

That dream came closer to reality Friday as the Tampa Housing Authority won a $
32.5 million HOPE VI grant to demolish College Hill and Ponce de Leon - two of
Tampa's largest public housing projects.

The grant is one of the city's largest and it could change the face of housing
for Tampa's poor. Gone would be 1,300 apartments and in their place would come
1,500 duplexes, triplexes, town houses and single-family homes.

Tampa wasn't alone in benefiting from the federal government's largesse. St.
Petersburg received $ 27 million and Orlando received $ 6.8 million.

The St. Petersburg Housing Authority will use the money to renovate the Jordan
Park complex in south St. Petersburg as well as provide job training and day
care.

Jordan Park was created in 1940, and the housing authority initially planned to
raze the development, until residents complained.

In Tampa, construction is only one phase of the project. The Tampa authority's
plan includes developing a neighborhood shopping center and increasing the
number of training programs to address the lack of jobs and education that
stymie sustained neighborhood progress.

The goal is a neighborhood of mixed incomes. About 900 units would be for public
housing residents while 600 would be sold to anyone at market rates. Despite the
apparent reduction in public housing units, no one will be left homeless,
authority Director Art Milligan Jr. has said.

Vice President Al Gore, who announced the awards in Tampa Friday, called the
grants an opportunity "to give the people of Tampa a fresh start as they move
toward independence."

City officials concurred.

"This is going to give us a chance to start over, to do as right as you can do
with public housing. I can't wait to get started," said Tampa Mayor Dick Greco,
who was among the local entourage that lobbied Washington lawmakers this summer.

The city plans to help public housing residents afford a piece of the new dream
through the city's access to state and federal subsidies that let new homeowners
make lower down payments and mortgages.

Fernando Noriega, Tampa's director of businesses and community development,
figures the city can turn the $ 32.5 million into $ 150 million more with aid
from the public and private sectors.

"We've gotten large grants before but never to change the complexion of public
housing," Noriega said.

Noriega noted the authority won $ 23 million in the early 1990s, but that money
was earmarked for modernizing units that were "inefficiently designed."

Ponce and College Hill were built in the 1940s and 1950s. Most of the attached
concrete units lack air conditioning, and many don't even have screens.

But the problem is more than physical. "You can put up a fence, you can paint
the building, but the problem still exists," Noriega said. "The density is so
high you create that feeling that you are inside public housing."

You also create a stigma - and it's palpable.

"Just because the projects are dirty, they think you are dirty," said Shankishia
Davis, 16, as she got off the school bus near Ponce. "But I'm not dirty and my
house isn't dirty. It's just the outside."

The proposal has its skeptics. They include residents who've heard for years
that millions were being poured into the agency for renovations. Yet they are
still dealing with peeling paint. An ongoing federal audit, now in its sixth
month, is focusing on the agency's spending under the former administration of
Audley Evans, who resigned last year.

His successor, Milligan, said the scrutiny from the Inspector General's Office
and the partners involved in HOPE VI "is going to put us in a mode where we are
going to have to deliver what we preach."

"There are a lot of people who can be called if we don't deliver," Milligan
said.

The authority will also get tougher on potential residents. Milligan has begun
looking at ways to do nationwide criminal checks on new public housing residents
in line with the federal "One Strike, You're Out" eviction policy.

He credits the local agency's success Friday to a collaborative effort that
included residents. He called them from his office Friday, greeting them with a
hearty "Congratulations - we've won the $ 32.5 million."

Milligan said the project would develop over three to five years, with
construction beginning no sooner than a year from now.

Ike Tribble, who chairs the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce and who is a
former chairman of the Tampa Housing Authority board, is ready to see the dust
fly.

"When you talk about economic development in a community like Tampa, you must
talk about economic revitalization at the same time."

"It's one thing to bring in new business, but if you don't pay attention to the
distressed areas in a community, you can see a good economic climate go out the
window with the drop of a match, literally. St. Petersburg taught us that,"
Tribble said.

Beyond the involvement of public and the private sector, the fruition of the
dream that is HOPE VI will depend on residents - people determined to make a
change. Like Lovett and Alvena Land.

Separated from her husband and her suburban Chicago home, Land, 46, and her two
children moved to College Hill five months ago.

Thursday, she waited to pick up bus passes so she can get to her new job as a
telemarketer. "I need to be working because welfare doesn't cut the cake for me
and my two kids," she said. "We're trying to start all over."  Staffers George
Coryell and Cheryl Schmidt contributed to this story.  Michele Drayton works out
of the south Tampa office and can be reached at (813) 251-8829.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C); MAP (C),
 (C) (Map) College HIll and Ponce De Leon

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 27, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Business tax cuts pushed

BYLINE: GADY A. EPSTEIN; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words


SUMMARY: With a Legislature controlled by pro-business lawmakers, Florida
businesses could reap the ultimate rewards of welfare reform.

TALLAHASSEE - It's early yet, but there appear to be some potentially big
winners in welfare reform in Florida: businesses looking for tax breaks.

Leading Republicans in the Legislature are hellbent on lowering taxes, not just
stomping out new taxes, and they argue welfare reform gives them the political
imperative to do it.

As the government pushes roughly 120,000 unemployed welfare recipients into the
job market - along with hundreds of thousands of welfare applicants - lawmakers
say they need to act quickly to create jobs.

"We have a short time to accomplish a lot," said Katherine Harris, R-Sarasota,
chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Commerce and Economic Opportunities.

The timing is rich and sweet for businesses - in Florida and nationwide. Welfare
changes have created a pressing need for new jobs at a time when more and more
politicians, Democrat and Republican, are proudly calling themselves
"pro-business."

The resulting agenda is clear: The No. 1 priority for both the House and Senate
tax committees is giving businesses tax breaks.

"The bottom line, before we vote on anything, is how many jobs will this
create," said Sen. John Ostalkiewicz, chairman of the Senate Ways and Means
subcommittee on taxes. "When states do lower taxes, they end up with a stronger
economy and better jobs."

The Orlando Republican wants to get rid of the state's nearly $ 1 billion tax on
wealth, such as stocks and bonds, a controversial plan that may be diluted into
a more narrowly targeted, less ambitious tax cut.

Other proposals this year will include such things as new tax exemptions, tax
breaks for companies that hire welfare recipients, and mini-incentives for small
businesses.

It's certainly an exciting time for Florida's businesses, which received $ 60
million in tax cuts last year and already seem assured of at least one $ 150
million tax break next year: Both Gov. Lawton Chiles and Republican lawmakers
want to give employers a one-year cut in the unemployment compensation tax.

Skeptics, though, wonder at the economic payoff of such tax breaks. At a time
when the nation is forcing the poor off the dole, liberal economists say,
"corporate welfare" is stronger than ever. Florida, for instance, has hundreds
of sales tax exemptions totaling $ 15 billion, more than the state collects from
the tax.

Chiles doesn't share the GOP's vision on lower taxes, said his budget director,
Bob Bradley. Chiles is proposing $ 10 million more in tax breaks in this year's
budget, but he also is proposing more than $ 150 million in tax and fee
increases.

"The tax burden has been coming down for a couple of years," Bradley said. "He's
more concerned about what's taxed and what's not taxed and the fairness of it
all, not just lowering it or not lowering it."

Some Democrats and many economists say Florida is already a low-tax, low-wage
state, making it one of the cheapest states in the nation to do business. They
point out that other factors - schools, roads and labor costs - often are more
important than tax breaks in promoting economic growth.

Even the Senate's top jobs booster, President Toni Jennings, R-Orlando, has been
careful to say she won't forget the state's cash needs as she looks at tax cuts.

Undaunted, Ostalkiewicz held hearings in the Senate this month asking for
suggestions on how to change tax policy to encourage economic growth.  Major
business interests lined up with suggestions:  - Phase out the state's nearly $
1 billion "intangibles" tax on stocks, bonds and other financial holdings, which
Ostalkiewicz touts.  - Expand exemptions for, or make it easier to avoid, the
documentary stamp tax, an $ 800-million-a-year levy on mortgages and other debt
notes.  - Reduce fines and penalties for delinquent taxpayers, another idea
Ostalkiewicz supports.  - Don't even talk about imposing new taxes, such as for
the Internet or computer software.

The display by business leaders and lobbyists, warmly welcomed by Ostalkiewicz,
symbolized the climate in the GOP-controlled Legislature. It also disturbed a
couple of members of the panel, including Sen. Jack Latvala, R-Palm Harbor.

"We have all the businesses of this state lining up one after another with
requests for exemptions," Latvala said. "Everybody has their list of what tax
they want to do away with, but what are we going to fill the gap with?"

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 1, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CarMax cranks up for opening Monday

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words


SUMMARY: With a new approach toward used car sales, Circuit City's mammoth
CarMax lot opens its doors Monday in Tampa.

TAMPA - The kiddie playground is nearly assembled, bugs are being worked out of
touch-screen computer kiosks and blindfolded employees are staggering around the
sales center led by newly trusted colleagues.

They're not traditional last-minute preparations under way at the new CarMax
superstore, but it's not a traditional used-car lot that will open at 10 a.m.
Monday at Interstate 275 and Bearss Avenue north of Tampa.

CarMax officials vow to turn the used-car buying experience upside-down, with
no-haggle pricing, massive inventory, and a focus on openness and honesty with
customers.

"We want you to buy cars, but we don't want to pressure you," said Dugald Yska,
location general manager in Tampa. "We don't care what you buy. We want to
satisfy your needs."

As some of his 100 employees applied a final spit-and-polish this week to about
400 late-model vehicles while others wandered about the 20-acre lot in a
team-building exercise, Yska described a new car-buying climate.

Fading is the vision of the male head-of-household spending days combing lots
and squaring off in often-bitter negotiations to buy a used car.

New buyers demand honesty and efficiency from sellers. They are family-oriented.
And Yska points out that studies suggest women now make up to 80 percent of all
buying decisions.

"There is a sense that the industry needs to change to recognize that," Yska
said. "The CarMax way of doing business seems to fit very well with that change
in buying patterns."

Electronics giant Circuit City Stores Inc. recognized that and began
contemplating the automobile business in the late 1980s.

It formed CarMax and opened its first lot in 1993; it now has seven and plans
for 80 to 90 by 2001.

At the Tampa CarMax, 1,000 applicants were interviewed for 100 positions. Those
who were judged to "fit into the CarMax culture," as Yska put it, underwent a
two-week training program.

Sales staffers are "consultants." Road tests are "confirmation drives." Vehicles
that are sold are "staged" for the new buyer.  If those concepts sound familiar,
consider that Yska spent seven years with General Motors' then-radical Saturn
experiment in Wilmington, Del.

At CarMax, shoppers' preferences, general or specific, are entered into the
store's AutoMation computer system. Such criteria as manufacturer, price range,
size and options are filtered through the lot's inventory, and the vehicles that
fit the bill are displayed on the screen. Fact sheets can be printed out on each
vehicle, including the price tag - a "rock solid" figure, according to Yska -
and even a map of where to find the car on the massive lot.

The customer-friendly approach is spreading, with a handful of local dealerships
testing no-haggle strategies and another national giant looming: AutoNation USA,
a division of Wayne Huizenga's Republic Industries.

AutoNation also has seven lots nationwide, with local sites in Brandon and St.
Petersburg expected to open this year. AutoNation plans 80 sites nationwide by
2000.

Critics question whether there are enough quality used cars to fulfill such
ambitious plans by the competing giants.

Circuit City is confident enough it is creating a separate stock to track the
CarMax operation, which was OK'd by shareholders Jan. 24.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); MAP (C),
 (C) (Map) CARMAX VAUGHN HUGHES, Tribune map

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     March 11, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Kruger's through hustling

BYLINE: JOEY JOHNSTON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2252 words


SUMMARY: Former Florida coach Lon Kruger now thrives at Illinois, where his NCAA
Tournament-bound team enjoys booming fan interest.

CHAMPAIGN, Ill. - Lon Kruger hustled across the University of Illinois campus
earlier this winter, walking double-time to keep an appointment. The wind was a
cruel whip, making sub-freezing temperature seem sub-tolerable.

"Not so bad, wait until it really gets cold," said Kruger, teasing a bundled-up
visitor from Florida. "We're not in the Sunshine State. The weather here, it's
different."

As different, some argue, as the basketball climate between Champaign and
Gainesville.

For the hoops purist, Champaign is sweet. It goes down smooth. While the snow
falls, life at Assembly Hall remains warm and inviting.

Kruger, the first-year Illini coach, doesn't campaign for attention. His season
wasn't overshadowed by football recruiting. Coaches coach, players play and fans
arrive, even by icy roads from Chicago, Springfield, Peoria and St. Louis.

A sincerity of interest, Kruger calls it.

Similar to what he witnessed during the University of Florida's magical run to
the 1994 Final Four. But, still basking in that memory, Kruger's struggling
Gators last season drew an average of 7,896 fans to the 12,000-seat O'Connell
Center.

The breakthrough was gone. Even for big Southeastern Conference games, there
were rows of empty seats. Five minutes before tip-off, you could buy a good
seat. Some nights, quiet filled the place. It was more Chapel than Hill.

Perhaps that explains why Kruger, with six years remaining on his UF contract,
bolted for Illinois last March. He moved to a program steeped in tradition, and
closer to family in Kansas. He left without apology, treasuring good times and
predicting that UF will rise again.

But during an average season - let alone a bad one - Gainesville can be a lonely
outpost, particularly for a man whose Midwestern roots tell him blind loyalty
helps a team.

"I have been asked if my decision - from Florida to Illinois - was a lateral
move," Kruger said. "Both are major schools in major conferences. But in terms
of basketball significance, in terms of people's interest in our program, it was
not a lateral move. Not at all."

Kruger's No. 24-ranked Illini (21-9) have beaten UCLA, Minnesota, Michigan and
Iowa. They added their first win at Indiana since 1990. Friday, No. 6-seeded
Illinois will meet No. 11 Southern California (17-10) in an NCAA Southeast
Region first-rounder at Charlotte, N.C.

The Illini players, initially bitter because longtime assistant Jimmy Collins
was passed over for Kruger, have accepted their new coach. "He's our father
figure," Illini guard Kiwane Garris said.

Kruger is competing with the same team that finished ninth in the Big Ten under
Coach Lou Henson, who retired after 21 seasons. He's even without forward Jerry
Hester, the second-leading scorer, who had season-ending back surgery in
December. As any coach will attest, victories can boost popularity.

"The adjustment was quick and relatively easy to make," Kruger said. "It just
feels like home here."

How ironic. Gainesville was once his home, his refuge. It seemed perfect,
particularly when UF Athletic Director Jeremy Foley rewarded him with a rollover
contract extension through 2001.

"The University of Florida had done everything possible to indicate its
commitment," Foley said. "You'd like to think all our coaches would stay
forever, but it doesn't work that way, I guess. Still, when I heard what might
be happening with Lon, I was surprised."

These were a frantic 48 hours: Rumors and reports, an up-front briefing with
Foley, a flight to Champaign, a late-night farewell to UF players, the news
conference in Illinois. All remarkably decisive.

"We never really intended to start over again," said Kruger's wife, Barbara, her
eyes watering at the memory of leaving Gainesville. "We'll always have some
Gator in us. There's excitement with a new challenge. It's not that you don't
want to go, just that you don't want to leave where you are.

"We had to make a decision, then stick with it. Dragging it out is not good for
anyone. It was a scramble to contact all our friends before the news broke. But
it was the best way. It had to happen quickly."

Kruger's quick decision was two years in the making. Illinois Athletic Director
Ron Guenther sat six rows behind the UF bench in '94 when Kruger's Gators met
Duke in Charlotte's national semifinals.

Guenther took mental notes: sharp demeanor, clean program, well-respected,
Midwestern roots. When Henson retired last March, media speculators trotted out
Duke's Mike Krzyzewski and Utah's Rick Majerus. Guenther quietly procured the
coach he wanted.

"In our opinion, for the Illinois program, Lon was the most attractive candidate
in the United States," Guenther said. "Basketball is the attraction here. I got
the sense from Lon that he wanted to go to a place where basketball was
important."

Kruger, who was earning $ 500,000 a season at UF, received a five-year contract
worth nearly $ 3.2 million.

Left behind in Gainesville? A program "bankrupt of talent" according to
Kentucky's Rick Pitino and a rebuilding project for Billy Donovan, the new
coach, whose Gators finished 13-17. Plus, a lingering suggestion that UF's Final
Four appearance was a fluke, that Gainesville was strictly about football.

Don't tell Foley that.

"Every reason our football program is successful - great fans, facilities,
recruiting base, academics, administrative commitment, coaching - all those
things are in place for basketball," Foley said.

"Now our basketball team has to duplicate achievement over a period of time,
just like football. Norm Sloan had three years in the NCAA Tournament and Lon
had two. That's five times in the history of our program. That is not
duplicating achievement over a period of time.

"We need consistency. Not two years good, two years down. At the University of
Florida, the question shouldn't be, "Will we get an NCAA bid?' It should be,
"What seed are we getting and where are they sending us for the first round?' We
must build to that point."

Building the Gatorsis a subject Kruger knows well. When hired by then-Athletic
Director Bill Arnsparger in 1990, UF basketball was scandal-ridden and
downtrodden.

The Gators were retooled in Kruger's image, feisty and smart. He was labeled
great coach, average recruiter. There were no McDonald's All-Americans on UF's
roster. But in '94, that didn't matter.

What a scene. Old-time Bull Gators wept at courtside as Kruger and his players
cut down nets after beating Boston College in the East Region final. A
basketball epiphany in a football state.

Even after surrendering a 13-point second-half lead and losing to Duke, Gator
basketball had a feel-good future. Four starters were returning. Daytona Beach's
Vince Carter, the eventual Mr. Basketball, was said to be infatuated with UF.
ESPN visited Gainesville for Midnight Madness. Life was good.

"When we were recruiting that high-profile player and somebody said, "Why do you
want to go to Florida? They'll never go to the Final Four,' we had the
comeback," Foley said. "We had just been to the Final Four."

Still, to use Foley's words, Kruger's Gators couldn't duplicate achievement over
time. They labored through the 1994-95 season, barely reaching the NCAA
Tournament before losing a first-rounder to Iowa State. UF's recruiting
priorities fled - Carter to North Carolina and Louis Bullock to Michigan.

"If they come to Florida, maybe that brings a different attitude about the
program," Kruger said. "Getting those players would've created great interest.
But it's hard to predict when you're talking about things that didn't happen."

The Gators stumbled to 12-16 last season. Kruger often bit his tongue while
playing before unfilled arenas. Privately, he wrestled with the sliding support.

Kruger said basketball commitment from UF's administration improved during his
six seasons. But Illinois, he said, offered more.

"Here at Illinois, it's assumed you're going to an exempt contest (a tournament
in Hawaii, Alaska or Puerto Rico, for example) every season," Kruger said. "At
Florida, it's not going to happen every year. That bothered me. Was it the
budget? It shouldn't be. I mean, the budget at the University of Florida?

"Maybe it's just a slight indicator of the pecking order. Maybe I ruffled some
feathers at times, but they needed to be ruffled. When you're a basketball
coach, you fight for basketball.

"Basketball interest has improved at Florida. But the basketball coach there has
to constantly fight for the program. Maybe that's what volleyball coaches have
to do. Maybe outside of the Southeast, a football coach has to fight for his
program. Here at Illinois, I don't have to fight so much for this program. My
main objective is coaching."

Foley said the exempt-contest argument is not accurate. Donovan's Gators played
in Puerto Rico last December. They will play in Hawaii next season.

"It's unfortunate if Lon feels he had to "fight' for his program," Foley said.
"I try to be as personally committed as possible to get each of our coaches all
the resources they need. When Lon left, he said Illinois was an opportunity he
had to take for him and his family. If there were other reasons, he didn't share
them with me. He never said, "I'm leaving because there's no commitment here,'
nor could he feel that.

"All the credit in the world goes to Lon Kruger for putting that Final Four team
together. Yet, he did it with the resources available to him at the University
of Florida. Billy Donovan obviously will have similar resources. From that
point, as all great coaches will say, you have to go out and get great players.
Beat those recruiting trails."

Kruger landed in Illinois just as the state's talent was being compared to the
1978-79 class (Isiah Thomas, Mark Aguirre, Terry Cummings). He already has
landed a top-10 nationally rated group for next season, led by Peoria Manual's
Sergio McClain and Marcus Griffin.

That coup followed significant statewide tension when Kruger got the job over
Collins, the Illinois assistant who recruited Chicago and was friendly with many
of the city's Public League coaches. Some said Illinois would never sign another
player from the city.

Said Chicago Simeon coach Bob Hambric last winter, "I hope the program falls on
its face. There was a famous quote a long time ago that said, "Remember the
Alamo.' We'll modify that a little and say, "Remember DePaul.' "

Such emotion was expected.

"It wasn't negative toward me," Kruger said. "They were sticking up for Jimmy
Collins (now the head coach at Illinois-Chicago). I understand that. Those
feelings lasted about a month, then died out."

Kruger hired fence-mender Rob Judson, the former Illinois player and Bradley
assistant, who solidified the state's recruiting efforts. And the current Illini
players, the Henson/Collins recruits, became allies.

Including junior swingman Bryant Notree, the most vocal critic of Collins'
non-hiring.

"I just stood there at Coach Kruger's press conference with his statements going
in one ear and out the other," Notree said. "I was pretty hysterical about the
university not giving Coach Collins a chance. But I just told myself this was a
business, like the NBA, where they change coaches all the time."

By summer, Notree discovered something else. He not only accepted Kruger, he
liked him.

"He calls me by my nickname, "B Note,' not Bryant," Notree said. "Coaches
sometimes tell you what you want to hear. Coach Kruger listens to us and trusts
in us. He made believers of us. He took Florida to the Final Four. We want that,
too."

Kruger just smiles when reminded of '94, the Final Four run, the groundswell of
support. Nothing will ever temper that happy memory.

Now he's headed back to Charlotte, the site of his defining moment at UF. He's
still coaching the orange and blue - but at Illinois, not Florida.

"I still look at the Florida box scores, still pull for the kids," Kruger said.
"And I wish the best always for that program. I'll always be grateful to the
core group of fans - the 6,000 or so - who were always there. They deserve the
best.

"Change can be good for both parties. Jeremy has hired a coach, his own guy, and
Billy will do great. I have a new challenge and that's healthy. So if both sides
come out with positives, it's all the better."     (CHART) Achieving the hat
trick   Illinois coach Lon Kruger is the 15th coach to take three different
teams to the NCAA Tournament. Kruger also earned bids with Kansas State
(1987-90) and Florida (1994-95).   Coach NCAA Tournament teams   Gene Bartow
Memphis, UCLA, UAB   Dave Bliss Oklahoma, SMU, New Mexico   Don DeVoe Virginia
Tech, Tennessee, Navy   Lefty Driesell Davidson, Maryland, James Madison   Eddie
Fogler Wichita State, Vanderbilt, South Carolina   Eddie Hickey Creighton, St.
Louis, Marquette   Lon Kruger Kansas State, Florida, Illinois   Frank McGuire
St. John's, N. Carolina, S. Carolina   Eldon Miller Western Michigan, Ohio
State, Northern Iowa   Ralph Miller Wichita State, Iowa, Oregon State   Stan
Morrison Pacific, Southern Cal, San Jose State   Rick Pitino Boston, Providence,
Kentucky   George Raveling Washington State, Iowa, Southern Cal   Gary Williams
Boston College, Ohio State, Maryland   Joe Williams Jacksonville, Furman,
Florida State   Brett McMurphy

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C); CHART,
 (C) Lon Kruger gets his point across to an official at his new home at Assembly
Hall in Champaign. ROBERT K. O'DANIELL, University of Illinois photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    March 27, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Gasparino feeling peachy in Oklahoma

BYLINE: Joey Knight

SECTION: PLANT CITY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 494 words


Unlike most, Billy Gasparino had to leave the state of Georgia for things to get
peachy.

Now, the fruits of his labor are appearing in peach basket proportions.

A 1995 Jesuit graduate, Gasparino transferred to Oklahoma State last summer
after a miserable freshman baseball season at the University of Georgia, which
ended with the firing of veteran coach Steve Webber. In 51 games, Gasparino hit
.223 with four home runs and 26 RBIs.

When Webber was replaced by junior college coaching legend Robert Sapp,
Gasparino got a release from his scholarship - and a new lease on his baseball
life. The Cowboys have given him a fresh start, and Gasparino has reciprocated
with a fast one.

In only 27 games, the Cowboys' everyday second baseman has hit a team-leading 13
homers for his new team, which entered the week 20-7 and 8-3 in the Big 12
Conference.

"When he turns on the ball it goes," Cowboys first-year coach Tom Holliday said.
"He's not an aluminum-bat, hit-the-gap kind of guy. When he hits home runs, he
hits them to left field. I don't think he's had one opposite-field home run yet.
He's been a delight."

An all-state infielder at Jesuit, Gasparino also has six stolen bases in eight
attempts and 10 doubles. His .852 slugging percentage is second-highest among
everyday players.

"The overall attitude here is a lot different," said Gasparino (6-foot, 180
pounds), a right-handed hitter who has added about 20 pounds since high school.
"It's a winning program with a winning attitude and that has been a big help to
me."

Such a change in atmosphere - and attitude - was exactly what he sought when
Georgia sent him riding off into the sunset. Gasparino said when Sapp was hired,
the new coach cut his scholarship by about $ 1,000 without seeing him play.

"I really didn't get along with (Sapp) and things didn't look good for me the
next couple of years, so that's when I decided to weigh my options," Gasparino
said.

The Oklahoma option became most attractive when Gasparino discovered the Cowboys
were seeking a second baseman and he wouldn't have to sit out a year. Unlike
football and basketball, Division I baseball players who transfer can play
immediately at their new school.

Gasparino beat out two other players for the job, and eventually moved from last
in the batting order to leadoff.

"I hate the release rule, but it really benefited him," Holliday said. "He
started fresh and relaxed. They say a change of scenery can work wonders and it
did for him.

"I'll take every kid in Tampa like him."

Around campus:Xavier sophomore Leo Murray (King) likely will seek greener - and
warmer - pastures next season.

Murray's father, Leo Sr., said his son probably will leave the Musketeers men's
basketball team, which advanced to the second round of the NCAA Tournament.
Seems Leo Jr. has been disgruntled with Cincinnati's cold climate and a lack of
playing time. He appeared in only six games this past season.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COLLEGIANS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 12, 1997, Saturday, METRO EDITION

Lakewood part of U.S. soil project

BYLINE: KATHLEEN BEEMAN; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PINELLAS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words


SUMMARY: Lakewood High School is among five schools selected worldwide to gather
soil data for use by a NASA researcher.

ST. PETERSBURG - Demetrice Warren likes knowing her class assignment to dig and
measure soil samples is more than a learning exercise.

The data Warren gathers, with about 100 other Lakewood High School ecology
students, is being used by a soil scientist at the NASA Goddard Space Flight
Center. Lakewood is among five schools worldwide selected to help out with the
sampling.

Elissa Levine, a researcher with the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, plans to compare the data gathered by the schools with satellite
images showing temperature and moisture. Levine is examining how global warming
effects soil.

"It makes it exciting," said Warren, 17, a junior. "And it's a hands-on thing,
so it's fun."

Once a month, students in science teacher Lita Weingart's ecology classes and
ecology club dig soil from a 30-meter-by-30-meter area in the school's Outdoor
Classroom, a sand pine scrub habitat on the school's property.

The ecology students use soil-gathering trays made from sheet metal by Lakewood
High industrial arts students. They carefully bag and label the samples,
recording the temperature and conditions of the day.

Then they measure the samples and weigh them. To figure out how much moisture
each has, they bake them and subtract the baked weight from the raw weight.

Two sophomores from the school's Center for Advanced Technology assist the
ecology students by using highly sensitive digital equipment to get accurate
measurements. Finally, students in the group who specialize in computers record
the data on the Internet.

"The wonderful thing about this is that not only are they learning different
concepts, but the kids are seeing real-world applications of them," Weingart
said.

Lakewood was selected to collect the soil data because of its reputation for
consistent participation in an Internet program where schools record daily
climate conditions, Weingart said. Her classes faithfully have posted their
readings for the past two years as part of the GLOBE program.

The GLOBE program is an effort to create the largest database of climatic
information. The data is gathered by students around the world, and researchers
such as Levine use it to monitor weather changes.

In a letter to schools helping with the climate data and soil sampling, Levine
explained that student research can be of tremendous value.

"GLOBE students represent a vast network of soil moisture and related
observations that eclipses any past effort," she wrote.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2(1C),
 Jason Albritton, left, Shauntae Davis and Jessica Tonzola check the pH level of
a soil sample.  NEIL McGAHEE, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 22, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

A beachless Florida?

BYLINE: (Philip Morgan)

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 334 words


Florida could lose much of its appeal - along with its beaches - if some
predictions about unchecked global warming come true.

Devastating hurricanes and deadly tropical diseases could plague the state, and
its barrier islands could be consumed by the sea if global warming continues.

Tim Wirth, the U.S. undersecretary of state for global affairs, warned of those
consequences in a speech last summer in Miami.

"The international scientific community is saying, "This is happening. Hey, pay
attention. This could have disastrous consequences,' " Wirth said in an
Associated Press report.

The buildup of carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels is trapping more
of the sun's heat and increasing the Earth's greenhouse effect, scientists say.

The greenhouse effect results from a thin layer of gases in the atmosphere
acting as a thermostat. Too little effect and the sun's heat bounces off the
planet, leaving it cold; too much, and the opposite happens.

Eventually, it could raise temperatures around the globe, which in turn could
melt some of the polar ice caps and raise the level of the seas.

The United Nations International Panel on Climate Change stated in a report last
year that if fossil-fuel emissions continue the way they are, temperatures could
rise as much as 6 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the next century. Anthony Del
Genio, a NASA research climatologist, says he thinks 3 degrees is more probable.

That's still enough to bring noticeable changes, he says - more heat waves,
droughts and flooding, more erosion of beaches and possibly more severe
hurricanes.

It also could make Florida a more tolerable environment for tropical diseases -
yellow fever, dengue fever and malaria.

Though scientists agree the Earth is warming, not all agree it's because of
fossil-fuel emissions increasing the greenhouse effect.

Del Genio says he believes it is the most likely explanation we have.  Tribune
files and wire services were used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 (Smoke belching from a smokestack.)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 5, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Florida wineries;
thank you for your support;
Florida's winemaking history goes way back, all the way back to the mid-1500s.
Over the years the industry has dripped along at a slow pace, but with any luck
that could be changing for the better.

BYLINE: JIM TUNSTALL; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 880 words


Hey, wine lovers. Want something to crow about?

Floridians are two-goblet drinkers.

Only folks in California and New York guzzle more vino than you do.

And here's something else to toast:

Winemaking and grape-growing have planted deeper roots here than virtually
anywhere else in the New World. They date to the mid-1500s, almost to the days
when Ponce de Leon was blowing King Ferdinand's fortune on a futile search for
the fountain of youth.

Now the bad news:

Those ventures are anemic in Florida. In a comparative sense, growth, where it
does exist, often is measured in sips.

Lakeridge Winery & Vineyards boasts $ 1.3 million in annual revenues - which
translates into 60,000 gallons of the good life or 25,200 cases. That makes it
Florida's biggest little winery in bottle volume.

Yet that's small change by industry standards.

Consider that the nation's largest winemaker - E.J. Gallo - stomped grapes to
the tune of 65 million cases (around $ 1.2 billion in revenues) last year.

And the duo of Robert Mondavi and Baron Phillipe de Rothschild make enough in
their separate ventures that they coughed up $ 27 million to build a winery in
California that makes just  one pricey product - Opus One.  Why can't it happen
in Florida?

Over time, maybe it could. Though if the past 400 years are an indication, it
won't happen fast. Blame our soil and climate to some degree. We're pretty much
limited to muscadine grapes and various hybrids.

But disease and fickle palates are the big problems.

"There are folks who will drink a wine only if it got 89 points from The Tampa
Tribune's critic," says Keith Mullins, general manager of Lakeridge.

"There are some snobs with a closed mind. But we have 14 products from dry to
sweet and we target the everyday person who is a little bit adventurous."

Florida's grape growers have limited options. Varieties that are native to
France, California, or the northern United States just can't make it here. So
the choices include Stover, Suwannee, black Spanish and bunch grapes.

"We're bullish on muscadine," says George Cowie, winemaker at Chautaugua
Vineyards & Winery in Defuniak Springs. "They do make nice wines and they're the
most disease resistant we have."

Chautaugua bottles 4,500 cases a year in Florida under its label, corks a
variety of other labels, sells a small amount of bulk wine and has an
out-of-state operation.

Still, adds Cowie: "Our biggest problem is sales and getting big distributors
and retailers to carry us."

Pierce's Disease is another villain.

"It's the AIDS of grape vines," says Byron Biddle, president of the Florida
Grape Growers Association and owner of Three Oaks Winery in Vernon. "It's a
fungus that kills."

While a few grapes are resistant and researchers are trying to find a way to
wipe out the blight, it still can turn lush vineyards into rows of sticks within
a season or two.

Soil (sometimes infertile or pest-ridden) and climate (in places it's just too
hot) also limit statewide production to an estimated 45,000 cases a year ranging
from sparkling wines to blushes, chardonnays, sauvignon blancs and others.

Combined, the negatives account for growers' inability to satisfy thirsts in
Florida - where wine drinkers swallow something like 30 million gallons a year,
third behind California (80 million) and New York (about 40 million).

Historically, the story has stayed pretty much the same since Spanish and French
settlers planted the first vineyards here more than 400 years ago. It peaked at
about 12,000 acres of grapes around the turn of the century.

"By Prohibition it was probably down to 3,500 acres because of disease," says
Biddle, whose 11 acres are planted in Conquistador grapes, a strain that is
resistant to Pierce's. He hopes his newly started winery will grow to some 900
cases next year.

Today, the state's crop amounts to only a few hundred acres.

"You've got to be stretching things to call it an industry" in Florida, says
Earl Kiser, whose 17.5-acre Eden Vineyards in Alva produce about 7,000 bottles
annually. "The lack of acceptance is the biggest reason we're not much into the
business."

Large retailers sometimes won't stock Florida brands because of contracts with
high-reputation wineries in California or elsewhere. The trendier shops
sometimes won't stock them because of the snob factor.

Still, there is some optimism.

First, consumption proves Floridians love grape juice with a punch.

Second, more Pierce's-resistant species are being developed.

And third: "Pierce's has entered the Napa Valley," Kiser said.     (CHART) For
information   Here's a list of Florida's commercial wineries. Most have free
tastings and tours and are open seven days a week:   Lakeridge Winery &
Vineyards, Clermont, 1-800-768-9463.   Chautaugua Vineyards & Winery, Defuniak
Springs, (904) 892-5887.   San Sebastian, St. Augustine, (904) 826-1594.   Three
Oaks Winery, Vernon, (904) 535-9463.   Eden Vineyards, Alva, (941) 728-9463.
Florida Grape Growers Association, Lake Wales.  Jim Tunstall reports on the
northern reaches of West Central Florida for The Tampa Tribune. Call him at
1-800-726-1748 or (352) 726-5936 or write him at The Tampa Tribune, 215 N.
Apopka Ave., Inverness 34450.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (6C); MAP (C),
 (C) (Map) Florida wineries ANDY DORSETT, Tribune map

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 17, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Companies should act on pensions

BYLINE: Mickie Valente

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 541 words


Guess what? The government is coming to your rescue.

But it can't save you.

It seems Uncle Sam was playing with his calculator recently and discovered
millions of Americans, almost 14 percent, are coming up short when they settle
up with their employers.

The government is confirming what many people suspected - that some corporate
pension plans aren't paying out what they're supposed to for many folks.

However, this time the story isn't about the company stealing from the plan or
even making unwise investments. It's much simpler, and more complicated, than
that.

Much of the money is missing because of simple human error. And those looking
into the matter say that's often attributable to complex laws and cuts in
administrative staff.  We might have guessed

To be a little more clear, the errors could be predicted at some of these
companies.

Corporate downsizing, while increasing the number of workers leaving long before
retirement age, also is felt in administrative offices. That often means fewer
people to process the hefty paperwork required to turn over lump sum pension
payments demanded by many who leave.

Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, has said he wants to do something about this
injustice, by requiring employers to give workers with pension benefits
statements that explain how the benefits were calculated, at least once every
three years.

Grassley might get enough of his congressional colleagues to sign on to his
plan, but you can bet that fight would be hard won in a climate in which
companies cry constantly about too much government intervention.

One suggestion from Grassley, however, is a change that could be implemented
immediately, without the pen ever being lifted on proposed legislation:

In the popular phrase of the 1990s, employees could be "empowered."  We could
take action

Workers actually could decide to quit complaining to each other, expecting to
change the corporate culture over a few chosen remarks at the coffee machine,
and take a stand.

Calm down, chief executives. This isn't to suggest organizing unions. Employees
simply could get together to speak their minds to the people who count.

It would seem workers who are concerned about the way their benefits plans are
managed - and, by the evidence, they have some cause to be - might think to ask
for meetings on the matter to question management about pertinent issues, such
as keeping up with company calculations of individual retirement benefits.

Sure, human resources directors might not be thrilled by such requests, but when
many workers, rather than one, inquire about the same issue, it can be much
simpler for a company to address it all at once.

And any smart employer knows that on matters such as employee pension plans,
which involve some oversight from the federal government, it's better in the end
to deal with the employees today than with their attorneys tomorrow.

Government intervention is always less palatable when it's done in a court of
law.  You can reach Mickie Valente through e-mail at mvalente@prodigy.

com or write her at The Tampa Tribune, P.O. Box 191, Tampa, Fla. 33601.  You can
read her columns on the Internet at http://www.tampatrib.com/news/valcindx.htm

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: THE BOTTOM LINE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 29, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

An offensive headline

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1386 words


The Tampa Tribune has always been my favorite newspaper. I always read it first
before the St. Petersburg Times. The headline "State kicks butt" made me change
my mind. I tossed it aside and did not read the front page. I am appalled to
think you would allow such a distasteful headline on the front page of your fine
newspaper.  MARIE E. CODOL  St. Petersburg  Hold the applause

You had an Associated Press report in the paper Aug. 27 with news about the
Scholastic Assessment Test results, "SAT results offer good news with bad." The
good news was the rise in math scores by high school seniors. The bad news was
the unchanged scores in reading vocabulary.

The article stated that adjustments had been made to the older scores to
compensate for the recent tinkering with current scoring to return the average
back to 1,000 as it was originally designed to be. These adjustments are only
estimates, so the current scores really can't be compared, at least not with an
accuracy of within three or four points.

More important is the fact that test takers are now allowed to use calculators
in the math sections of the text and the lengths of time for the sections have
been increased. In other words, the math section is no longer the same test it
was. This means that the scores are not comparable.

I wouldn't be in too much of a rush to pat the school system or the students on
their collective backs for this change in the math scores.  ROBERT M. RUBIN
Tampa  Business in Ybor

This letter is in regard to the article by Janis Froelich on Ybor City in the
Aug. 18 edition of The Tampa Tribune. As president of the Ybor City Merchants
Association and a board member of the Ybor City Chamber of Commerce and the Ybor
City Development Corp., I was dismayed by the negativity and inaccuracy of the
article.

An example is the statement that the "Yeaa!" directory is outdated and useless.
We at Ybor Entertainment and Arts Association pride ourselves on the benefits to
our members that the directory provides and are currently going to print a
revised edition, as we try to do semi-annually. I am also disappointed that
neither I nor the executive director of the Ybor City Chamber of Commerce was
given an opportunity to discuss the many positive projects being undertaken by
each organization in cooperation with the Ybor City Development Corp.

Being a fourth-generation Ybor City businessman, I am well aware of the fact
that the "rebirth" of Ybor City owes itself in no small part to the popularity
of its clubs and restaurants. However, to say that Ybor's growth has come at the
expense of other businesses is both unfair and inaccurate. As with any business
cycle, supply and demand will dictate the types of businesses and specifically
the particular operations that survive. I believe we are even now experiencing a
shakeout of entertainment establishments and a growth of retail and professional
establishments. Documents propagated by the Ybor City Development Corp. show
that today, wet-zoned clubs comprise only 18 percent of Ybor City's businesses,
not an unusually high number for this period of a growth cycle.

As a member of the aforementioned organizations, I am proud of and excited about
the effort each is making to ensure that the renewed popularity of Ybor City
will carry over into a well-conceived plan of growth for all businesses. I would
encourage those who profess a love for Ybor City to help ease the temporary
growing pains we are experiencing by becoming members of the chamber and the
merchants association and making positive contributions. It benefits no one for
individuals to sit aside flinging arrows of criticism. More is to be gained by
all pulling together toward common goals.  A.J. GRIMALDI II  Tampa  The writer
is vice president of Columbia Bank.  Supplies not included

Am I having a bad day, or do I correctly understand the implications of the
article and picture in the Tribune on Aug. 20, titled "Getting ready," to mean
that, rich or poor, schoolchildren in Hillsborough County are required to
furnish many of their school supplies? (I have since learned that this is indeed
the case.)

But what makes this really difficult for me to accept is that in the Tribune on
the same day was the story of two Hillsborough County "educators" who have been
accused of using school funds. From what I understand, whether or not this is
resolved to the satisfaction of the school board, former Hillsborough High
Principal Coleman Bell is still eligible to receive more than $ 80,000 for
unused sick days and vacation time "after the deduction."

Now tell me, am I wrong to think something is not quite right with this picture?
I'm glad I grew up in a part of this country where all my school supplies were
provided until I went to college.  M.W. REARDON  Valrico  The tobacco scapegoat

The hazards of smoking and secondhand smoke have been widely publicized. The
media, however, mention nothing about the possibility of the multitude of
dangerous substances we are exposed to that could be the cause of or be partly
responsible for many of the numerous illnesses attributed wholly to tobacco
products.

Although smoking is unhealthy, it does not seem to be so bad for everyone. Juan
Ramos, 117, who claims to be the oldest man in the world, did not quit smoking
until he was 97 years old. In France the oldest woman in the world, who died
recently at the age of 122, said she loved her cigarettes. In Florida many of
the elderly, who were exposed to secondhand smoke most of their lives, are
living quite active, long lives without any of the sicknesses attributed to
secondhand smoke. This makes me wonder whether the hazards of secondhand smoke
are as dire as the anti-tobacco crusaders would have us believe.

With the help of the media, the fanatical crusaders have succeeded in
frightening the general public and getting restrictive laws enacted against
smokers and secondhand smoke. The plethora of American lawyers, ever on the
lookout for any large company with deep pockets they can hit with lucrative
lawsuits, were quick to take advantage of the anti-tobacco climate. Nonsmokers
were encouraged to blame secondhand smoke for any disorder they had. Gov. Chiles
and other greedy governors eagerly joined the horde of money-hungry lawyers to
see how many billions they also could extract from tobacco companies by blaming
them for Medicaid costs.

In view of the numerous harmful pollutants in the air we breathe and water we
drink that could cause the same illnesses blamed on tobacco products, I wonder
how strong a case they really have against tobacco companies.  JOHN J. GERALDE
Citrus Springs  The right to bear arms

I continue to be amused and amazed by the efforts of the liberal anti-gun cults
(see Arthur Hayhoe's letter in your Aug. 16 edition) to deprive our honest
citizens of their rights under the Constitution, and by the media, which readily
go along with their deceit, distortion and misrepresentation. But it's really
stretching to blame the National Rifle Association for the fact that our
brilliant Congress and president passed a seriously flawed law and to call the
successful constitutional challenge of such a law "mean-spirited." Besides, this
was not a Second Amendment issue; it was an issue of states' rights vs. unfunded
federal mandates.

Regarding pursuit of a Second Amendment case: In the purported words of the
senior senator from Massachusetts, the sultan of sobriety, the champion of gun
control and Chappaquiddick, who evidently feels automobiles are far superior to
automatics, "We'll cross that bridge when we come to it."

It is truly a shame that many people (including judges) appear able to read and
write but are unable to comprehend basic English. The Second Amendment is clear;
the operative clause (the rest is preamble) states that "the right of people to
keep and bear arms shall not be infringed."

Finally, despite Hayhoe's lament to the contrary, the people do have the right -
through elected representatives (called state legislators) - to control how
firearms are bought and sold. If Clinton's home state (or any state) desires to
conduct background checks, nothing in federal law or the Constitution precludes
such action.  WALTER H. SCHMIDT  Beverly Hills

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 13, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

Canada, U.S. at loggerheads over timber-cutting limits

SOURCE: ROBERT H. REID; of the Associated Press

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 519 words


SUMMARY: Canada and other nations plan to support legal limits on logging when
an environmental summit convenes in June.

UNITED NATIONS - Despite opposition from the United States and
environmentalists, Canada and the European Union are pushing for a legally
binding agreement to put limits on logging worldwide.

Supporters said such a convention should be a priority of an environmental
summit set for June. World leaders will gather in New York to review the status
of projects undertaken in 1992 at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Canadian Natural Resources Minister Anne McLellan said the world is losing its
forests at an alarming rate.

"This indicates to me that our efforts to date have not been sufficient," she
said. "To achieve sustainable forest management worldwide, we need effective,
immediate and continued action. ... A convention would give us legally binding
commitments to action."

Dutch Environment Minister Margaretha de Boer said the European Union supports
such a convention, saying it should be approved by the year 2000.

But U.S. officials said the measure isn't needed. The American Forest and Paper
Association, which represents the timber industry, also fears a convention would
result in audits by U.N. agencies and put them at a disadvantage against
competitors from countries which do not enforce the treaty.

In a major policy reversal, 15 major environmental organizations, including the
World Wildlife Federation, Greenpeace, and the Green Earth Organization have
announced they are opposed to such a convention at this time.

The environmentalists say the current political mood in the West was such that
any convention negotiated now would establish ineffectual controls and limit the
role of grass-roots conservation organizations in forest management.

The environmentalists held a news conference Thursday to outline their
priorities for the upcoming summit: commitments on reducing pollution,
protecting forests, fish stocks, and fresh water supplies, and reducing
greenhouse gases believed to cause climate changes.

Frustrated by governments' failure to follow through on high-minded plans at the
1992 gathering, the groups said they want to see money committed to get the job
done when the follow-up summit convenes.

"The main issue of whether or not the special session is a success is the issue
of finance," said Felix Dodds of the British-based U.N. Environmental and
Development committee. "Everything depends on whether there's money on the
table."

The Rio summit ended with promises to tackle tough environmental problems, but
environmentalists say they see little progress.

There was hope that free trade would lead to greater foreign aid and technology
transfers to poorer countries, said Martin Khor of the Third World Network in
Malaysia.

But that hasn't materialized. Instead, free trade has prompted governments to
cut taxes and reduce regulations to make their industries more competitive in
the global marketplace, Khor said.

"The climate is right for the companies to keep on destroying the world's
resources."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                       May 9, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Squash seeds, rind push back history

SOURCE: A Los Angeles Times report

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words


SUMMARY: Mexican squash seeds and rind suggest farming and farm societies began
far earlier than scientists have thought.

A handful of squash seeds and a bit of rind from a Mexican cave are rewriting
the saga of one of the most important turning points in the history of humans in
the Americas - the development of farming.

Dating of the seeds indicates that domestic cultivation of plants in this
hemisphere began about 10,000 years ago - more than 4,000 years earlier than
scientists had previously believed.

That would make the development of farming contemporaneous with the earliest
agriculture in China and the Middle East, according to a report in today's
edition of the journal Science.

The finding suggests that most primitive societies developed this important
concept at the same time - that agriculture was simply "an idea whose time had
come," said archaeologist Bruce Smith of the Smithsonian Institution, the
report's author.

"There is a philosophical argument about whether there were only a few smart
humans, who passed their ideas along, or whether humans in many different areas
came up with the same ideas, like agriculture and fire," said archaeobotanist
Dina Decker-Walters of the Fairchild Tropical Gardens in Miami.

"What we are finding out more and more is that human species seemed to evolve
along similar lines wherever they were located."

"We have to ask why (agriculture suddenly sprang up)" said archaeologist Kent
Flannery of the University of Michigan. "Humans have lived on this Earth for 2.5
million years and had lived for hundreds of thousands of years as
hunter-gatherers. Why, in the space of 5,000 years, did agriculture appear
independently in seven areas of the world?"

Flannery believes that changes in the environment, particularly changes in
climate at the end of the ice age, "challenged humans to come up with more
complex strategies for earning a living." But the bottom line, he added, is that
nobody yet knows why humans everywhere suddenly began planting crops.

But the discovery also poses a new dilemma for researchers. Although it has been
widely accepted that hunter-gatherer societies quickly convert to agricultural
ones once the first crop is planted, that transition apparently took an
unprecedented 6,000 years in North America. One possible explanation is that
settlements capable of sustaining agriculture occurred much later in the Western
Hemisphere.

"In the rest of the world, villages predated agriculture," said Flannery. "On
this continent, agriculture preceded villages" - perhaps by as much as 8,500
years.

In other parts of the world, wild crops such as barley or rice could support
large numbers of people. In the Middle East, villages sprang up near barley
patches long before humans began planting the crop on their own - perhaps 12,000
years ago or more.

The squash seeds that Smith studied have actually been stored in a museum for
more than three decades. Flannery, who was then at the Smithsonian, discovered
them in 1964 in a cave called Guila Naquitz, or White Cliff, in Oaxaca, Mexico.
He and other researchers also found corncobs and beans in four other caves in
the same general area.

Dating of the seeds by relatively crude methods available then showed them to be
about 9,000 years old.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Hubble sees a different Mars: cold, clear under a dark blue sky

BYLINE: A Knight-Ridder Newspapers report

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 383 words


SUMMARY: The Hubble Space Telescope says the latest U.S. probes will find Mars
cold and clear, not the warmer, dusty environment encountered in the 1970s.

WASHINGTON - The Hubble Space Telescope has delivered a new weather forecast for
the two U.S. spaceships now streaking toward Mars: bitterly cold and clear, with
wispy ice clouds veiling a dark blue sky.

That's a far different outlook than the relatively warm, dusty planet covered by
a pinkish haze that the last successful Mars missions encountered back in the
1970s.

"Hubble is rapidly changing our view of Mars' environment," said Todd Clancy, an
astronomer at the Space Science Institute in Boulder, Colo.

"It's not the dusty Mars of the Project Viking days or the habitable oasis of
science fiction stories," he said. "We're finding a Mars that's colder, clearer,
cloudier ... more beautiful and more Earth-like."

According to NASA scientists who revealed a series of striking Hubble photos
Tuesday, Mars may enjoy colorful sunrises and sunsets, even rainbows - a far cry
from the smoglike atmosphere the Viking spacecraft found.

They said its climate will be more like Antarctica than Los Angeles.

The most recent images, showing Martian details as small as 25 miles across,
were taken last month. Another set will be collected late next month, one week
before the first of the new spacecraft, the Mars Pathfinder, is scheduled to
land on July 4 at 3 a.m. local Mars time (1 p.m. EDT on Earth).

The second spaceship, the Mars Global Surveyor, will arrive in mid-September. It
is not supposed to land, but will orbit the planet for a year, taking detailed
pictures and scientific measurements.

It is now clear, as it was not before, that Mars has two distinct climates
depending on how close it is to the sun.

When it swings closest to the sun, the surface of the planet gets as warm as 32
degrees Fahrenheit, the sky turns pink, and windblown dust fills the atmosphere.

Accurate weather forecasts will be important for the Mars missions, this year
and in the future, NASA scientists said.

A heavy cloud cover could reduce the effectiveness of the solar panels that the
Mars Pathfinder depends on for power. Extreme dust storms could interfere with
Global Surveyor's ability to settle into a safe orbit.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 26, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Technology could jolt cars, wallets

BYLINE: GIL KLEIN; of Media General News Service

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fuel cells are the key to making President Clinton's plan to reduce global
warming more painless.

Much of President Clinton's hope for a painless fight against global warming
rests on a new technology that the Energy Department says will produce
automobiles with more than double the fuel efficiency.

This technology is the fuel cell. The way the Energy Department and some of its
developers talked about it last week, fuel-cell technology will reduce pollution
drastically and curtail U.S. dependence on foreign oil.

And beyond automobiles, the department touted fuel cells as an innovative way to
power homes and businesses. Roll in a fuel cell power pack the size of a
dishwasher, said one developer, and a home would not need to be connected to an
electric utility.

Energy Secretary Federico Pena said fuel-cell powered autos could be ready for
production by the year 2010. The department projected that by 2030, nearly a
quarter of the cars produced would be powered by fuel cells.

One company, Plug Power of Latham, N.Y., plans to have the technology ready to
sell to homeowners in two years.

That would help meet the deadline Clinton wants to impose on the United States
to decrease emissions of carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gases" that cause
global warming by 2012. Automobiles contribute about a third of greenhouse gas
emissions.

Clinton last week described the new technology as "a dramatic breakthrough ...
that will clear the way toward developing cars that are twice as efficient as
today's models and reduce pollution by 90 percent."

A fuel cell operates like a battery. It supplies electricity by combining
hydrogen and oxygen electrochemically without combustion. A fuel cell consists
of two electrodes sandwiched around an electrolyte. Oxygen passes over one
electrode and hydrogen over the other, generating electricity, water and heat.

Unlike a battery, a fuel cell does not run down or require recharging. It will
produce energy as long as fuel is supplied. The only waste product is pure,
drinkable water, and a little carbon dioxide.

What had stymied its development in the past was finding a way to provide the
hydrogen fuel. Storing compressed hydrogen fuel in automobiles was impractical
because not enough could be held to provide the range of a standard
gasoline-powered car. And developing a system for distributing hydrogen fuel
seemed daunting.

That's why the breakthrough Pena announced Tuesday was important.

Hydrogen now can be produced from gasoline. Working with a $ 15 million Energy
Department grant, Arthur D. Little Inc., a Massachusetts research and consulting
firm, developed the process that would separate hydrogen from gasoline and use
the hydrogen to power the fuel cell.

Since fuel cells transform far more gas into energy than does a standard
combustion engine, a fuel-cell powered car can travel more than twice as far on
the same amount of gas while emitting about 5 percent of the pollution.

That means full-sized automobiles should be able to drive 80 miles on a gallon
of gasoline.

A gasoline powered fuel-cell car can fill up anywhere that a regular car can,
enabling the new technology to be integrated into the existing automobile
infrastructure. And this technology can run on a range of fuels - gasoline,
methane, ethanol or natural gas.

Chrysler has taken the lead in developing gasoline-powered fuel cells. Company
spokesman Scott Fosgard said Chrysler, which also had worked with Arthur D.
Little, had announced its own breakthrough last January, 10 months before Pena.

Other companies like Toyota and Mercedes have their own fuel-cell programs in
development, but they are relying on methane fuel, which would be harder to
supply.

"People don't want to change their driving habits," Fosgard said. "We think if
all the research dollars can rally around this idea, we can implement it
faster."

Two obstacles, he said, are cost and start-up time.

Right now a fuel-cell automobile would cost $ 30,000 more than a standard car,
mostly because the technology requires the use of platinum, a metal that costs
more than $ 400 an ounce.

"The key to reducing the cost will be finding a replacement for the platinum or
finding a way to use a lot less of it," Fosgard said.

Fuel cells also take about five minutes to warm up, which may be unacceptable to
most drivers, he said. Solving that problem will require development of some
sort of battery that can operate the car while the fuel cell is warming up.

Chrysler promises to hav a demonstration model of its fuel-cell car ready in
January 1999.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Arthur D. Little Inc.'s Charles LaMantia, right, and Jeffrey Bentley show a
gasoline-powered fuel cell that can give cars 80 mpg. Business Wire photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   February 20, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Cornucopia of music styles pours from Sweet Honey

BYLINE: JOHN FERRI; Tribune correspondent

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Sweet Honey in the Rock members move people with their rich sound and strong
messages. Still, the a cappella group finds inspiration in the music of others.

"We had a chance to go to New Zealand at the end of our Australian tour last
August," says group member Aisha Kahlil. "One of the Maori groups opened for
us."

Maoris are indigenous New Zealanders of Polynesian descent who preceded white
settlers. Sweet Honey got a chance to play music with the Maori group and attend
a reception. Kahlil says the music involved a lot of chanting, with eye and body
movements to express and accentuate the chants.

"All of the songs had that quality," she says. "We interacted socially and
musically with them. It was a very rich and rewarding experience on all levels
in terms of the exchange we had with them. It was inspiring, something we'll
never forget."

Some of that inspiration may sneak into her songwriting, Kahlil says. But it
hasn't filtered into songs she has prepared for Sweet Honey's next album, its
25th anniversary release.

The group, which focuses on sociopolitical lyrics, will unveil some of its new
tunes in a concert Saturday at the Tampa Theatre. But Kahlil isn't giving
anything away.

"On the new songs, they'll just have to wait and see," she says. "We have been
bringing in a lot of different material. We've been performing it and getting it
ready for recording, because we're going into the studio soon."

Their music - which incorporates elements of spirituals, hymns, gospel, jazz and
blues - has always celebrated the cultural history and character of blacks and
women. But since members take turns "programming" the shows, Kahlil couldn't say
whether material would be geared more strongly in that vein for the Tampa show
during Black History Month.

Examples could come from their latest release, "Sacred Ground," which includes
the group's takes on historical spiritual songs such as "No More Auction Block"
and "Jordan River." The album also includes striking new originals such as
"Mystic Oceans" and "Would You Harbor Me" that take a modern stance.

Along with Kahlil, who has been with the group since 1981, the Sweet Honey
lineup is: Carol Maillard, Nitanju Bolade Casel, Ysaye M. Barnwell, Bernice
Johnson Reagon and Shirley Childress Johnson, who interprets the performances in
American Sign Language.

Reagon formed the group in 1973 when she was vocal director of the D.C. Black
Repertory Company in Washington. A professor, author, composer and curator
emeritus at the Smithsonian Institution, Reagon was awarded a MacArthur "genius
grant" in 1989.

More than 22 women have rotated through the group in its 25-year history. Its
name comes from the title of a spiritual about a land so rich that when stones
were cracked, honey flowed from them.

Sweet Honey has performed several times in Tampa.

"I'm looking forward to getting down to the warm weather," Kahlil says from her
home in Silver Springs, Md. "And I remember the audience there being very warm,
as far as interaction during the concert and their reception of us.

"Each audience has a different style of relating to us. For example, in New
York, where they know us really well, you can feel the electricity. Some
audiences we have to go in and wake them up a little bit." The Tampa concert is
a benefit for Crescendo, the Tampa Bay Womyn's Chorus and Building Bridges:
Creating a Tribe of Global Sisters.     (CHART) SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK  - WHAT:
The Grammy Award-winning, six-woman a capella group  - WHEN: Saturday at 8 p.m.

 - WHERE: Tampa Theatre, 711 N. Franklin St.  - TICKETS: $ 20 (plus service
charge), available at theater box office and at Ticketmaster outlets; (813)
274-8982 or (813) 287-8844

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART,
 (C) Sweet Honey in the Rock members are, top row, from left, Aisha Kahlil,
Shirley Childress Johnson and Carol Maillard. Bottom row are Ysaye M.  Barnwell,
Benice Johnson Reagon and Nitanju Bolade Casel. Photo from Tampa Theatre

NOTES: MUSIC PREVIEW

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 13, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

The South still holds itself back

BYLINE: MARSHA MERCER; of Media General News Service

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1277 words


SUMMARY: The South appears to be headed for a bright, progressive future, but
the region is still bothered by some old problems.

NASHVILLE - Early on a summer morning, a guest at one of the downtown, high-rise
hotels heads out for a jog.

In the quiet before the work day begins, the traveler on business from Omaha,
San Francisco or New York shakes off the cool, canned air of the hotel and
inhales the warm, spoiled-sweet, Southern morning.

Feet settling into their routine, the tourist scans a city at rest.

Mirrored office towers next to a dying downtown shopping district. Defunct
department stores. Cars streaming from the interstate. Commuters sipping coffee,
happy chat on the radio. A train whistle.

Nashville could be Des Moines - Anywhere USA.

But look closer.

The man sleeping in the doorway of the record store has his guitar propped
against the wall. He's dreaming of his big break into the country music
business.

A dry cleaner offers while-you-wait, ultrasonic golf club cleaning. A
convenience store sign reads, "Beer - It's Not Just For Breakfast Anymore."

These are the small clues of a sensibility that can't be found in Minneapolis or
Albany, N.Y.

In the South of 1997, two young black women power-walk around the Parthenon,
that improbable, big-as-life tribute to classical Greece.

And the good ole boy in the pickup truck with the Confederate flag decal is
talking on a cell phone.


So, what is the South, and where is it going?

Those are questions Southerners have been asking themselves for decades at
earnest events like the annual Future of the South conference of the Southern
Growth Policies Board, held this year in Nashville.

The picture that emerges from discussions with educators, former governors,
business people and other Southern thinkers is of a region that has made
enormous progress but is still playing catch-up with the rest of the country.

"Warm weather, cheap land and labor, good barbecue."

That was the old formula for drawing business to the South, said Richard Riley,
the education secretary. But, he warned, what worked in the early 1900s doesn't
any longer.

In the last 25 years, 14 million new jobs have been created in the South. Ten or
20 years ago, jobs were hard to find in places like Greenville, S.C., but today
the problem is a shortage of skilled workers.

Thousands of high-tech jobs go begging in Northern Virginia and North Carolina's
Research Triangle Park.

To meet the future, the South's policy-makers need to rethink the region's role
in the world market. First and foremost, the South needs a work force with a
"world class education."

And yet, Riley said, most Southern states are spending a smaller proportion on
education now than they were a decade ago.

He cited "vestiges of the Old South," which also impede the South's economic
progress:

Poverty in the South remains higher than the rest of the country.

One in four Southern children is growing up poor.

About 1.5 million Southerners are doomed by less than a high school education to
a subsistence living.

In most Southern states, the out-of-wedlock birthrate exceeds the national
average.

Riley made his case so gently that it didn't hurt a bit, and the audience
applauded him warmly. You'd never know they have heard it all dozens of times.

As governor of South Carolina, Riley was chairman of the group in 1979-80.
Besides putting on the annual conferences, the Southern Growth group appoints a
commission every six years to produce a report on the Future of the South.

Every report challenges the region, in essence, to tackle the oldest problem in
the South: Find new ways to bring the poor and disadvantaged into the
mainstream.

In 1986, then-Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas was the group's chairman. Clinton
described the South as being "Halfway Home and a Long Way to Go." That phrase
captured the crux of the South's progress and problems, and it became the title
of the '86 report.

The report, written by North Carolina novelist Doris Betts, cited 10 objectives
for the region - including improving education and literacy, strengthening
families and developing leaders with a global vision.

Underlying the objectives was the belief that, "Unless we all move forward,
nobody's going very far; unless we all work for the common good, there won't be
any."


Many of these Southerners see two Souths that are interdependent.

Former Gov. William Winter of Mississippi talks of a "fault line across the
heart of the South."

On one side, people have a good education and a promising future, and on the
other, people lack necessary skills and are consigned to poverty.

In the era of Great Society programs in the 1960s, "we had the illusion that all
the problems could be solved," Winter said.

Then, about 25 years ago, some in the South recognized the need to rejuvenate
action on the state level to tackle the problems of race, education, the
economy, inequity.

The Southern Growth board and other groups were formed, but the old challenges
still remain a quarter century later.

Mississippi attorney Reuben Anderson presented a concrete, 1990s problem that's
not being addressed.

"Crack cocaine is devastating to communities," said Anderson, who is black and a
former justice of the Mississippi Supreme Court. "Prisons are not the answer."

Next to education, perhaps the biggest problem facing the Southern economy is
that Southerners are profoundly disinterested in world trade - and in the rest
of the world generally.

The South lags other regions in exports. With 25 percent of the nation's
population and capacity, the South provides only 20 percent of the nation's
exports.

Southerners turn out in surveys to be the least positive toward world trade of
people in any region, said former Gov. Gerald Baliles of Virginia.

Fewer children in the South learn foreign languages than elsewhere, and cities
in the South are far less likely than cities in other parts of the country to
have foreign sister cities, Baliles said.

More information may not be enough to change attitudes. When Southerners were
given information about the role of international trade in the economy and then
questioned again, they still were not as positive as people in other parts of
the country.


One demographer looks at the South by the numbers and sees: Baptists and
strokes. The region has more of both than anywhere else.

Later, at a reception at the governor's mansion, a lobbyist from Kentucky said a
sense of place and company loyalty are what distinguish the South.

Someone jokingly added: And a reverence for one's ancestors.

There's something to that. Pick up a local paper, and you'll find a column
devoted to people asking for help tracing their family trees. Someone writes for
information on her great-great-grandmother, Earlene Tilley, who lived in
Houston. ...

In a sign of the changing South, the governor's reception featured bluegrass on
the patio and chamber music in the parlor.

It was hot and amazingly humid, and even the denizens of the deep South looked
like they've gotten caught in a downpour as they nibbled roast beef and
artichoke dip. Several people commented on the wide expanse of manicured lawn,
as if hoping that all that green would cool them off.

Two old friends mopped their faces and swapped stories about one fine fall day
in 1959 when Ole Miss was playing LSU, and the greatest play in college football
history went down. Each remembered where he was at the crucial instant when the
pass was thrown.

For a moment of golden memory, decades fell away, and it was a cool autumn day
in the South.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POINT SOUTH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 1, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Prosit!;
In any language, this firm means busines

BYLINE: JEROME R. STOCKFISCH; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


Tech Data goes German in an effort to give workers a taste of the global market
they serve.

Going global can present more than just financial and logistical challenges.

What's with that kiss-on-the-cheek thing? Where are Dornach and Alphaville,
anyway? And why should anybody outside the executive offices care?

Those questions and a slew of cultural and geographical topics are being
addressed at Clearwater's Tech Data, a fast-growing distributor of computer
products that has spread beyond the United States to Canada, South America and
Europe.

The company celebrated "Oktoberfest" on Friday, marking this summer's
acquisition of Macrotron AG of Germany with a dose of that nation's culture.
Bavarian music from a lederhosen-clad accordion player filled a Tech Data atrium
as employees dined on sauerbraten and knockwurst.

An information booth featured games and German trinkets, and informational signs
were posted throughout the three-building campus. "In business, Germans do not
address each other by first names," said one. "Steve Raymund (Tech Data's
chairman and chief executive) would be Herr Raymund."

"Oktoberfest" was part of an ongoing program designed to enlighten Tech Data
employees on the markets they serve. Earlier theme days honored Canada and
Brazil. France is next, and with Tech Data eyeing other European sites and the
Pacific Rim for expansion, more are likely.

"One of the things that globalization means is that you take into account there
is a totally different set of rules in terms of business operation, business
etiquette, and the way business is conducted in different countries around the
world," said Lawrence Hamilton, the company's senior vice president for human
resources. "It is almost impossible for a U.S. company to assume they're going
to be able to do business across the world in the same way they do business in
the United States."

Michael A. Kaack, Macrotron's president and CEO, addressed employees in a series
of meetings on commercial and cultural aspects of his country. Macrotron, with
760 employees, had sales of $ 905 million last fiscal year.

It is among the foreign operations that now contribute 20 percent to 30 percent
of Tech Data's sales, which hit $ 4.6 billion in the fiscal year ending Jan. 31.

Of the company's 4,350 employees, about 1,200 are foreign. That makes programs
such as Oktoberfest critical, said Mary Murray Bosrock, a St. Paul, Minn.,
consultant and author of the "Put Your Best Foot Forward" series of books on
international communication.

"If you're going to work with people, if they're going to be your customers or
your clients or your distributors, you're going to have to understand them,"
said Bosrock, who speaks from experience.

She recalls a trip to Ireland during which she was told her book was "a bomb,";
she was invited to "the corner pub for some crack"; and her escort wanted to
know "when I can knock you up."

Bosrock later learned her book was a hit, she had been invited for sing-alongs
and witty conversation, and her escort was offering a morning wake-up call.

She salutes Tech Data's efforts. "Anything that a company does to help people
understand people from other cultures is wonderful," Bosrock said.

Tech Data staffers haven't encountered any "major" cultural roadblocks, Hamilton
said. But they have learned they can expect a kiss on both cheeks as a "warm
greeting of a business colleague" in Latin America; that they have colleagues in
Dornach, outside of Munich in southern Germany, and Alphaville, near Sao Paulo,
Brazil; and that everyone benefits from a little culture.

From the lowest levels of the organization, said Hamilton, "we think it's very,
very important that people get connected with the larger Tech Data."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2C),
 (C) Tech Data executives Lawrence Hamilton, standing, from left, and Michael
Kaack talk to employees. Hamilton says it's unlikely a U.S.  company can do
business across the globe in the same way it does business in the United States.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 2, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Castro's shadow extends to Miami

BYLINE: A Tribune Wire Service report

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words


SUMMARY: Cuban exiles living in Miami live, breathe and pass on to the next
generation an undying hatred for the leader they say stole their country.

MIAMI - He is the most influential man in the history of this city - and the
most despised. Everywhere, every day, talk of Fidel Castro swirls through the
air like smoke from a hand-rolled cigar.

"He is a dictator who brought pain, suffering and killing to Cuba. There is
nothing, not one positive thing about Fidel Castro," says fiery radio
commentator Ninoska Perez, barely lifting the lid on the reserves of passion and
vitriol that the bearded Cuban leader endlessly evokes here.

More than four decades have passed since Castro last set foot in Miami, and even
then he was here only briefly. Yet no one is more responsible for shaping this
ethnically complex metropolis, the city with the third largest Latino population
in the United States.

And no one casts a larger shadow over Miami's future.

For years, local and state officials have been tuning up an emergency plan to
deal with the inevitable explosion of emotion and movement across the Florida
Straits if Castro were to die, be driven from power or go into exile. Chaos may
not describe it.

But, despite the fervent prayers of Cuban exiles and the unrelenting hostility
of eight U.S. presidents, no drastic change seems imminent. On Wednesday, Castro
marked the 38th anniversary of his rise to power in Cuba, while in Miami tens of
thousands of people who fled his rule celebrated another bittersweet New Year in
exile.

Although proud of the cosmopolitan, international city that they have helped to
build in South Florida, many Cuban Americans remain fixated on their homeland,
just 220 miles south of here but politically out of reach. And they remain
consumed with hatred for the man they believe stole their country from them.

"I remember when the plane took off and I was looking down at the land
disappearing behind me," says Spanish-language radio personality Tomas Garcia
Fuste, recalling his departure in December 1960, almost two years after Castro's
triumph. "I thought it would be a long time before I saw Cuba again. But all
these years? No, I could not have imagined that."

Cuba is now the only country in the Western Hemisphere that is not a democracy.
Officially, Castro is the commander in chief of the armed forces, first
secretary of the Communist Party and president of the Council of State and the
Council of Ministers.

But among the domino players on Calle Ocho in Little Havana, to the men sipping
coffee at any of a thousand street-side cafeteria windows, to the women in the
grocery store and the beauty shop, he is known as "el tirano, el diablo, bola de
churre" - the tyrant, the devil, the dirt ball - or by several other terms that
newspapers do not repeat in English or Spanish.

The Cuban community's sentiments are spelled out in car bumper stickers: "No
Castro, no problem," and "The only dialogue with Castro: Blindfold, yes or no?"

"It is not like Cuban Americans are planning ways to overthrow Castro every
minute of the day," says historian Maria Cristina Garcia. "However, the
community's raison d'etre is the Cuban revolution and so every aspect of exile
life in some way is a response to this man."

Indeed, although the majority of the nearly 1 million Cuban Americans in greater
Miami were either born in the United States or are too young to have much
personal experience of life under Castro, hating him is a part of exile culture,
passed on to succeeding generations like a taste for "frijoles negros" and fried
ripe bananas.

There are several Spanish-language radio stations in Miami that offer a daylong
menu of Castro-bashing. The most avid listeners are primarily older exiles -
those who had the most to lose as the island became a socialist state.

No one is immune from at least overhearing the news of Cuba and the rumors and
gossip about Castro - the state of his health, where he has gone, his libido -
that whirl through Miami like the Caribbean breeze.

Notwithstanding the fervent hopes of Cuban exiles, a punishing U.S. trade
embargo, a faltering Cuban economy and periodic U.N. resolutions condemning the
Cuban regime for human-rights abuses, Castro remains firmly in charge - a
dedicated Marxist, resistant to meaningful democratic reforms and still a player
on the world stage.

The community's preoccupation with Castro also leads to a litmus test of
political correctness that over the years has produced an ugly history of
assassinations, fire bombings and intimidation.

Two years ago, Human Rights Watch concluded that "the overall climate for free
expression remains essentially unchanged in Miami: only a narrow range of speech
is acceptable and views that go beyond these boundaries may be dangerous to the
speaker."

Travel agency owner Francisco Aruca, a controversial figure who does business
with the Cuban government, speaks of the irony.

"In Cuban Miami we ended up denying the democratic values that exiles supposedly
came here to find."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 More than 10,000 anti-Fidel Castro protesters in New York City, many of whom
traveled from Florida, chant in opposition to a celebrity-sponsored rally in
January 1992 favoring the end of U.S. sanctions against Cuba. The activists
demand that restrictions continue until Castro is ousted. Tribune file photo

NOTES: FOCUS ON FLORIDA

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 9, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Tampa General chief defends health plan

BYLINE: DANIEL BERGER; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words


SUMMARY: Bruce Siegel talks about extending the half-cent health care tax as
well as other changes in store for the hospital.

TAMPA - Arguing Hillsborough County should extend its half-cent health care
sales tax, Tampa General President Bruce Siegel defended the performance of the
health plan, which the sales tax funds.

Tampa General, which delivers $ 50 million in free care annually, sees some of
that cost defrayed by the plan and is one of its major beneficiaries.

Tampa General is virtually the only public hospital in the country with no
grants from local government to cover its charity care. The plan helps ease the
burden, Siegel told members of the downtown Kiwanis Club.

Siegel has been stumping for the plan in his appearances before civic groups
such as the Kiwanis and Tiger Bay Club.

The health plan uses the sales tax and some general tax revenues to fund an HMO
for poor people who don't qualify for any other health insurance such as
Medicaid. It has won accolades nationally as a local model for solving the
health insurance crisis.

But the plan has been under attack following disclosures that its contract with
Kash n' Karry overpaid for drugs and that two mental health therapists defrauded
it.

"If there's a problem, let's fix it now," said Siegel, who recently said the
plan should be audited, but "if there's a problem with one of 75 contracts with
the health plan, that's not a bad track record."

Siegel acknowledged Tampa General has also made mistakes when compared with a
local competitor just across Tampa Bay.

One club member asked Siegel why Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg,
which does much of Pinellas County's charity care, makes a profit while Tampa
General has lost around $ 10 million the last two years.

"I've been trying to figure that out," Siegel said, noting Bayfront had a
5.8-percent profit margin last year.

He attributed Bayfront's success to stable management. Siegel last year became
the fourth Tampa General president in five years.

And he said Bayfront five years ago addressed shifts in the business climate
that Tampa General failed to cope with until now.

But, Siegel said, Tampa General is making progress.

He paid tribute to predecessor Fred Karl's innovative decision that allows
mothers to stay two days for free after delivery despite managed care's tendency
to push them and their newborns out the door hours after birth.

That program, Siegel said, has paid off. Last month, Tampa General delivered
over 320 babies, one of its best performances since 1989.

Siegel noted what Tampa General has done to cut costs and staff since his July
arrival. That includes its long-sought withdrawal from the state retirement
system, effective Jan. 1. That should save the hospital about $ 12 million a
year.

Seeking to improve the public image damaged by years of controversy, Tampa
General will soon pick an agency to handle about $ 4 million worth of
advertising annually, which will make the hospital the second-biggest advertiser
locally after McDonald's, Siegel said.

And Tampa General, with the help of a pharmaceutical company, will soon put a
computer in each staff doctor's office that will access not only hospital
patient records but also the output of monitors showing the heartbeat and
breathing of patients in critical care, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 13, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

Residents take lead in setting agenda

BYLINE: JIM SLOAN; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 880 words


SUMMARY: A three-day conference moves Hillsborough Tomorrow closer to its goal
of a policy document for the county's future.

TAMPA - Jim Perry wanted to steer Hillsborough County's focus back to education.
His wife, Roberta Schofield, was tired of seeing the arts ignored.

Like the other 200 or so residents who spent three days at USF's Sun Dome last
week, each had individual reasons for enlisting in Hillsborough Tomorrow, a
3-year-old grass-roots movement that aims to shape the county's future.

Perry, a philosophy professor at Hillsborough Community College, and Schofield,
a painter and avid arts booster, signed on with the group in December, meeting
weekly in small work groups to hash out a blueprint for the county's
governmental leaders.

"I see the output of the public schools," said Perry, who serves on the
Education work group. "I am charmed. These kids are really beautiful. But they
are not ready for college level work."

Schofield said when no one from the arts was contacted by the group, she made up
her mind to crash the party.

"I decided I would foist myself upon them and see if I could get some kind of
place for the arts," she said. "I didn't want them to do what we've always done
in the past - leave out the arts entirely."

Circuit Judge James S. Moody, Hillsborough Tomorrow's co-founder along with
Tampa lawyer Bill McBride, describes the group as "the citizens of Hillsborough
County deciding for themselves what they want for Hillsborough County and then
getting the leaders, working shoulder to shoulder, to help us get there."

In a similar conference last December, the group hashed out the county's
strengths - including a balmy climate and top-flight universities - and its
weaknesses, from a high crime rate and weak political leadership to
less-than-shining elementary and secondary education systems.

For three days concluding Saturday, the group came together for its 1997 spring
conference to further hone its policy document into a final product.

The first order of business at Saturday's town meeting was a wording change.
Instead of "strengths" and "weaknesses," the document will now identify the
county's "benefits" and "challenges." The former wording, group members said,
was too negative.

There was no softening of the group's stinging criticism of elementary and
secondary education, which cites overcrowded schools, overwhelmed teachers and
administrators and children treated differently based on their race.

Other issues ranged from the politically sensitive - proposals to "revisit" the
wisdom of busing and another calling for all teens to have access to family
planning and birth control counseling - to a proposal to use vacant lots for
community gardens.

There was also some frustration with city and county politics.

"If we're going to build stadiums, we'd like to get some money out of that for
recreational activities for kids," one member said, referring to Tampa's
lawsuit-plagued effort to build a football stadium.

When the conference was over, Perry and Schofield said they felt they'd
contributed a piece or two to the group's policy goals.

"I wanted the same chance for everybody" in education, Perry said. "We've always
decided that 10 to 15 percent get a good education, 30 percent go to community
college and the other 50 percent or so can drop out."

Schofield, meanwhile, said she felt "like I'm batting about .500."

"I'm very happy with this process - I feel like I'm being listened to."

In October, the group will hold another conference, and hopes to settle on a
"benchmarks report" of community goals and strategies on how to achieve them.

Between now and then, McBride said, the group must work to spread the word of
what it's doing.

"We've got to get out of the Sun Dome and into the rec centers, the high schools
and the neighborhoods," he said. "We can't expect people in College Hills
(housing project) to come here if they don't have cars."     (CHART) Vision for
Tomorrow   Hillsborough Tomorrow officials are looking for people who want a
role in shaping their county's future.   Participants will take part in one of
eight work groups that meet weekly or biweekly. The groups are compiling goals
and objectives - along with ways to achieve them - to overcome the county's
weaknesses and enhance its strengths.   The groups are:  - Community Spirit of
Caring  - Education  - Environment  - Families and Children  - Government  -
Growth Management and Economic Development  - Public Safety  - Health Care
Ruth Bentley, executive director, said participants can expect to spend four to
eight hours a month meeting with their work group. They will be expected to
attend a Summit Conference scheduled Oct. 22, 23 and 25 tentatively at Blake
High School, and another conference in April 1998.   Bentley said she'll send
volunteers a packet of materials on the group and what it has accomplished since
it was formed in 1994.   "If they are definitely interested in a certain work
group, then I can send them that information and the (work group) coordinator's
name," she said.   Bentley can be contacted by telephone at 227-6440, by fax at
228-6850, by mail at P.O. Box 1288, Tampa, Fla. 33601, or by e-mail at
rbentley@hklaw.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART,
 (C) Roberta Schofield, accompanied by her husband, Jim Perry, speaks out at
Saturday's meeting of Hillsborough Tomorrow, a group trying to shape the
county's future.  DAVID KADLUBOWSKI, Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 15, 1997, Tuesday, METRO EDITION

Port Richey's mayor takes office

BYLINE: SARAH HUNTLEY; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PASCO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words


SUMMARY: The first elected female mayor is sworn in Monday. Eileen Ferdinand
says politics is about people.

PORT RICHEY - As a teenager, Eileen Ferdinand dreamed of making movies.

Fascinated by the film stills her father brought home from his job at 20th
Century Fox, she took classes on theatrical makeup and hair.

Her Hollywood career never took off, but now, miles from her Cresskill, N.J.,
hometown, Ferdinand has found a different limelight.

The Port Richey resident was sworn in Monday as the first female mayor elected
in the city's 72-year history.

Ferdinand isn't likely to dwell on the distinction. The new mayor says she
hasn't given it much thought.

"It's an honor to be noted for that, but I honestly believe public service
doesn't have any gender," she said, sipping coffee at a restaurant a few days
after her victory.

"My focus is on the people, and the people are men and women."

More than 360 people chose Ferdinand to lead the city last Tuesday, when she
beat out incumbent James Carter and former city councilman Michael Winton.

Although she took over the gavel for the first time Monday, Ferdinand, 46, is no
stranger to Port Richey politics.

For the past two years, she has been on the city council. Her fellow council
members say Ferdinand was always well-prepared.

"She's very thorough about looking up the facts on an issue," Councilwoman Pat
Guttman said.

Before her first term, Ferdinand was active on the Board of Adjustment, the
Planning and Zoning Board and the committee that studied water and sewer rates.

It was indignation over glitches with the city's new sewer system that pulled
Ferdinand, the mother of two grown sons, into government.

"I basically stayed kind of issue-oriented at first," she said. "But then people
started asking me to run for city council. It kind of hit me out of the blue."

The city's switch to a city manager-council form of government persuaded her to
give politics a try.

In both her campaigns, Ferdinand has stressed professionalism, drawing on her
management background.

Fresh out of high school, Ferdinand went to work managing her then-boyfriend,
now-husband's construction business.

Since then, she has held leadership positions in an environmental firm, with
real estate offices and in the food services industry.

She also has raised a family.

The Ferdinands moved to Port Richey in 1985, hoping to relieve their older son's
asthma.

If the climate drew them here, the community made them stay.

"I love this city," Ferdinand said. "Port Richey had a downswing, but the
potential is here. It's a little community that's Gulf-front. It has a major
highway that runs right through it . . . and you can get almost anywhere in the
state within six hours."

Ferdinand's critics say she's too eager to put a positive spin on the city's
tarnished past and too unwilling to point out ongoing problems at city hall.

But the mayor said she believes the city is moving in the right direction.

"You can never change the past, but you should learn from it so you don't repeat
the same mistakes," Ferdinand said.

With the defeat of the proposed Port Richey-New Port Richey merger, Ferdinand
said government needs to seize the opportunity "to reconnect" with its citizens.

"The merger issue has united the people and sparked a renewed interest," she
said. "In some sense, this has been a blessing in disguise."

Carole Lott, who has served on some of the same committees and attends Our Lady
Queen of Peace Catholic Church with Ferdinand, believes the mayor will promote
dialogue.

"I pattern her . . . as a peacemaker," Lott said. "I can see Eileen bringing
together the members of council and the two factions that formed over the
merger.

"She's going to de good, just you wait and see."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Eileen Ferdinand, who has lived in Port Richey since 1985, was sworn in
Monday as the city's first elected female mayor.  SCOTT MARTIN, for the Tribune

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 20, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

If you don't have your own story to tell, just make up a memoir

BYLINE: ELLEN GOODMAN

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


So much for Wanda Koolmatrie. The byline on a prize-winning memoir has been
relegated to a footnote in the annals of literary hoaxes.

It turns out that the book hailed in Australia as the "lively gutsy story of an
urban Aboriginal girl" was the work of a 47-year-old white man. Wanda
Koolmatrie's "My Own Sweet Time" was in fact Leon Carmen's own sweet revenge on
his country's literary establishment.

Carving his self-defense, Carmen insisted that he was forced into literary
cross-dressing by the publishers and awards juries who discriminate against
white men. "I can't get published," he pouted to the press, "but Wanda can."

When I first heard this story, I had trouble believing that Australia had become
a hotbed of reverse discrimination. I still do. But as the news crept from Down
Under to Up Over, it lodged in my memory as something other than an Aussie whine
about political correctness.

My bet is that Carmen hit the literary jackpot because he switched genres, not
genders. Today, the memoir's the thing. In this country too, the first person
trumps the third person in publishing. The memoir is taking over from the novel.

In recent weeks, two of the top three bestsellers in New York City were Frank
McCourt's memoir of his Irish childhood, "Angela's Ashes," and Kathryn
Harrison's memoir of incest, "The Kiss." Before that it was Mary Karr's "The
Liars' Club" and the Delany sisters' "Having Our Say."

Across the country, the hottest writing workshops are now called "Memoirs." Many
of our most accomplished novelists, from William Styron to my friend James
Carroll, are finding wider audiences for the stories of their real lives.
Indeed, the $ 1 million sensation of the literary season is the memoir by
unknown 98-year-old Jessie Lee Brown.

What has tripped this sudden craving for memoirs?

Not that long ago, after all, anyone who wanted to walk a mile in someone else's
mind turned to novels. People sought to understand real life through the
imagined life.

Now memoirists have taken over the cultural role of storyteller, secret sharer.
Once these books chronicled exterior trips - to the North Pole or the Congo -
leaving the interior trips to fiction writers. Now memoirs are less about
surviving nature, war and politics. They are more about surviving abuse,
alcohol, madness, family.

This success of memoirs is most often chalked up to the great sales machine.
It's easier to put an author on tour than a main character. Indeed, Kathryn
Harrison's book on her adult affair with her father has been savaged or praised
by reviewers for exploitation or revelation.

But their popularity is also and most deeply connected to our search for
authenticity.

The Australian cross-writer Leon Carmen is no victim of political correctness.
But in the multicultural clashes, how many men have been told that they can't
really write about being a woman? How many white writers are told they cannot
describe black/Asian/Hispanic lives without living them?

At the logical end of this reasoning lies the terrible idea that we cannot trust
anyone to understand or speak for anyone else. In this climate a writer may be
left tilling his and her own home ground.

At their best, of course, memoirists also shape their narratives, carve stories
and choose truths out of the flow of memory. They may rewrite events and
conversations that took place in a distant past.

But fiction, by its very nature, requires that a writer crawl around in other
heads with no tool but an imagination. If serious novels are giving way to
memoirs, is it a failure of the culture's imagination?

A white man made up Wanda. He made it all up. Now, perversely, he uses that as
his defense.

"I created a character and I breathed life into her," he protests in the face of
uproar.

But a lie is a lie, even when it is a white lie.

Nevertheless, I can't help wondering how those who loved the memoir will judge
the novel. If we change the byline and the genre - not the gender - do we lose
Wanda? Or rescue her?

One thing we can be sure of. Leon Carmen can now get published. The publishers
wanted a sequel from the Aborigine woman. They will get a sequel from the white
man. "My Life as Wanda Koolmatrie" by Leon Carmen. It will be a memoir.  Ellen
Goodman is a columnist for The Boston Globe.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     June 19, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Expansive government ineptly deals with race

BYLINE: GEORGE F. WILL

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton's latest speech on race, delivered in San Diego, called for
yet more "conversation" on the subject. It was valuable, if only as an
illustration of the liberal mind at century's end.

There was something surreal in the setting, a university campus. Most campuses
are awash with talk about things racial (and sexual, and other categories
indispensable for the practice of identity politics, more about which anon). So
Clinton's speech was, in a sense, an exercise in carrying coal to Newcastle.

As Clinton said, the armed forces have an exemplary record of racial
integration. He did not have the indelicacy to note that America's institutions
with the worst racial climates are colleges and universities. There racial
conversations grind grimly on, driven by the idea that "consciousness-raising"
in the name of racial "awareness" is "progressive."

Clinton offered the obligatory genuflection to diversity by which speakers on
such occasions advertise their transcendence of Eurocentrism. He said his life
has been "immeasurably enriched by ... the beauty of the Koran." His speech also
featured the mandatory flagellation section, in which he ranged morosely over
America's historic injustices, extending from slavery, abuse of Native
Americans, discrimination against immigrants, internment of Japanese-Americans
during World War II, church burnings and even "demeaning talk in corporate
suites."

He reportedly is considering a national apology for slavery, but his litany of
America's sins should give him pause. In American history as liberals read and
write it, the sinned-against are so numerous that, once the apologizing begins,
it will consume most evenings and weekends.

By defining "the problem of race" in 1950s terms, as one of "discrimination and
prejudice," Clinton avoided language jarring to American sensibilities but
accurate. The problem is actually one of class. That is what Glenn Loury, an
African-American scholar at Boston University, illuminates when he says that
were the skin color of every African-American in America's ghettoes magically
changed, that would not markedly change his life chances. Those chances are
stunted primarily by deficits of intangible social capital, including skills,
habits and mores.

In an interview, Clinton said curtailing affirmative action will have a
"devastating" effect on minority enrollment in graduate schools. But if that is
so, what does that reveal about how affirmative action depends on debasing
academic standards? In reaffirming his support for affirmative action, he
further vindicated opponents of it who argue that it inevitably stigmatizes the
achievements of minorities. He said: "It has given us a whole generation of
professionals in fields that used to be exclusive clubs." That blanket
ascription of minority progress to minority preferences is condescending and
false.

However, affirmative action is crucial to the new rationale for expansive
government. That rationale has two strands.

One is identity politics: You are whatever your racial, ethnic or sexual
identity is. Hence the doctrine of categorical representation: Real sympathy
with, and proper representation of, members of a group are only possible by
members of that group.

The second strand is the theory that social forces (such as "discrimination and
prejudice") determine the destinies of helpless individuals. Therefore, because
government frames society, government is responsible for all social outcomes and
must fine-tune them.

Better for America than more speeches like Clinton's, and more commissions and
conversations about race, is J. Harvie Wilkinson III's new book, "One Nation
Indivisible: How Ethnic Separatism Threatens America." Wilkinson, chief judge of
the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, argues that affirmative
action would be problematic in an America that were merely biracial, but it is
toxic in a multiethnic society such as ours:

"The more one fine-tunes a multicultural affirmative action program, the more
resentments one creates. It will always be possible to construct a plausible
case for the inclusion of this or that particular ethnic group. But what of the
whole of America? The theories of inclusion will always seem underinclusive to
those left out. And the theories will always be based on slippery, treacherous
generalizations about someone's ethnicity or race."

This week Rep. Charles Canady, R-Fla., and Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.,
introduced a bill that would do for the nation what California voters did for
their state government last year with the California Civil Rights Initiative.
The bill would ban racial and sexual preferences by the federal government.

In January, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, asked if he would support such
legislation, said: "California seems to set the agenda and then everything moves
east, so we'll see. Once it crosses the Mississippi River, I'll get real
interested." It is on the Potomac.  George F. Will's column is syndicated by The
Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      June 20, 1997, Friday, METRO EDITION

School system review suggests mergers

BYLINE: BETH FOUSHEE; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: POLK, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words


SUMMARY: Several top managers in the school district would lose their lead
ranking if recommendations by a study group to merge some departments are
approved.

LAKELAND - Polk County's public school district could be managed better by
merging several departments and with better coordination between the district
and individual schools, a group of state educators and business leaders have
suggested.

The suggestions were made public Thursday by the Florida Association of District
School Superintendents, a state group that offers organization and management
studies to the state's 67 school districts.

Polk Schools Superintendent Glenn Reynolds asked for the review.

The study team visited the district April 13 through the 18th, interviewing
administrators and principals and observing operations. They reviewed school
board policy, the board's mission and vision statements, the district's
strategic plan and Reynold's agenda for improvements.

The FADSS study doesn't recommend any job cuts - or additions. However the
proposal, if approved, would take several assistant superintendents out of their
top positions.

The study group recommends dropping from 10 main departments to four -
Curriculum and Instruction, Human Resources, Business Services and Facilities
and Operations Services.

The study group also recommends the development of an executive director for
Planning, Evaluation & Technological services, suggesting that technology be
given a higher priority in the district.

"The office should be the planning and development unit for the superintendent
and the Superintendent's Executive Leadership Team," the study group
recommended. "It should provide leadership in systemic planning and data-driven
decision making."

The Superintendent's Executive Leadership Team, as suggested by the study, would
be comprised of the superintendent and department heads.

The study group recommends merging vocational and adult education under
Curriculum and Instruction; accountability under Planning; Personnel under Human
Relations; Disaster Preparedness and Transportation under Facilities.

The study recommends the Office of Student Discipline be eliminated "and the
functions be assumed in other areas of the organization."

It also recommends keeping the five area assistant superintendents who work
closely with schools.

The FADSS group also assessed the "climate" of school district personnel, citing
low morale among administrators and a feeling among principals that they are
overly pressured.

"There are inequities in the facilities, technology and equipment provided to
the schools," the FADSS study states. "Principals expressed a commitment to
educational progress in Polk County Schools. There is, however, an attitude of
competition rather than cooperation among principals."

The study found administrators to be extremely committed.

"The district's high level of commitment will make further improvements much
easier because people are so willing and concerned about having the best school
district possible."

Reynolds met with department heads Thursday afternoon, asking them to review the
study and come back to him with a written response by Friday.  "School district
reform and restructuring efforts are not easy and are often painful as there is
always the presence of anxiety when roles and responsibilities change," Reynolds
wrote in a memorandum handed out before the meeting.

"I think he's very interested in what we feel about it," Fred Murphy, assistant
superintendent of transportation, said Thursday.

"I think it would be premature to say whether it's good or bad," Murphy said of
the reorganization suggestions. "I want to take the time to study it."

"I think the idea is to come up with the most effective ways to get the job
done," Bob Williams said Thursday about the FADSS study. "It's also one group's
opinion."

Reynolds couldn't be reached for comment Thursday.

He has said he would have to consider the FADSS study; an organizational study
done three years ago and how his administrators feel to come up with final
recommendations about how to make the district run more efficiently.

Reynolds has recommended that a salary study be done by FADSS. The study, if
approved by board members, would cost $ 42 to $ 84,000, depending on whether the
state picks up half the tab.

It would take three to six months to complete.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      July 7, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Pooling your resources;
Building a swimming pool is a major investment in time and money without a
guarantee of a dollar-for-dollar return. But the pleasure of a cool pool on a
hot summer day is undeniable.

BYLINE: JEAN GRUSS; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1276 words


It's hot out there.

As the heat and humidity tighten their summer-long grip on the Tampa Bay area,
many people wish they could cool down in their own backyard pool.

While the thought of floating in a pool with a drink in hand sounds appealing
now, the length of time it takes to select and build a pool may mean waiting
until at least this fall to dive in.

"Most people make the mistake of starting when it's hot," said Michael Green,
vice president of Natural Springs Pools in Tampa.

That's because it can take one to two months to select and build a swimming pool
during the summer months, the peak time for pool builders.

They suggest a better time to start shopping for a pool is in the winter.
There's less rush and the pool will be finished by the time the weather warms up
again.

Jumping into a new swimming pool also means being prepared to take a plunge into
your savings.

An in-ground swimming pool isn't cheap - the average pool costs between $ 15,000
and $ 25,000 - and it typically retains only about half its value when the house
is for sale.

If retaining the maximum resale value is a top concern, some builders suggest a
good rule of thumb is not to spend more than 15 percent of the value of the home
on the swimming pool.

Despite the prohibitive cost, swimming pools are popular with home owners in the
Tampa Bay area and their desirability can improve a home's resale, experts say.

Between 65 to 70 percent of new homes built in the Tampa Bay area today include
a swimming pool, estimates Marvin Rose, a Tarpon Springs-based residential real
estate consultant.

It's even higher for new homes that cost more than $ 200,000, where Rose
estimates about 90 percent have a swimming pool.

Florida ranks second only to California in the number of in-ground residential
swimming pools with 640,000, according to the most recent figures compiled in
1993 by the National Spa & Pool Institute, an industry trade group in
Alexandria, Va.

It's easy to understand why: Florida's mild weather lets people swim in their
pools for a good portion of the year.

"It's on top of buyers' minds," said Jim Schmidt, general manager of the Tampa
offices of Prudential Florida Realty.

In particular, most people moving to Tampa from colder climates "expect a pool
to be there," Schmidt said.

While he estimates only 50 percent of the cost of building a pool is recouped
when a home is sold, Schmidt said the lack of a swimming hole in pool-rich
Florida can be a drawback when it comes to selling.

"I still do think it's a good investment," he said.

Residential real estate appraisers agree.

"I think it's universally understood that a pool makes a positive contribution
to the overall property value," said Steven Boldt, president of The Appraisal
Co. in St. Petersburg.

"If you were in Alaska, it would be a different story," Boldt added.

In fact, Boldt said home owners typically can recoup 70 percent of the cost of
building a pool. That's an increase of about 20 percent over the last 10 years.

"It's becoming a standard expectation in homes above $ 150,000," Boldt added.

Pools these days are used for more than just cooling off or swimming a few laps.

"What's really becoming more popular is this backyard vacation idea," said
Charles Foster, president of Patio Pools in Tampa.

Today's swimming pools come in all sorts of shapes, the materials used to build
them come in an array of different colors and textures and they can be
landscaped to look like they're part of a jungle of flowers and shrubs.

Fake gurgling waterfalls and rock formations give the impression of stepping
into another world without leaving the house.

Built-in Jacuzzis, spas, wet bars with built-in stools and games like volleyball
and basketball are toys that provide more variety of activities to home owners.

These screened-in tropical gardens with swimming pools also are popular for
receptions and dinners.

"It becomes a place of entertainment," said Foster.

But a pool also can mean the backyard has to be sacrificed.

The growing trend of building huge homes on tiny lots restricts the choice of a
swimming pool and it may mean forsaking the desired shape.

"It's more challenging now," acknowledged Foster, a veteran pool builder.

Once you decide to build a pool, finding a reputable pool builder is a challenge
in a highly competitive market.

"If you don't do your homework, you take a big chance," said Dennis Peyton, a
17-year pool builder and the general manager of the swimming pool division of
Florida Design Communities in Plant City.

The best way to find a reputable builder is to check references and get three
reputable builders to bid on a project with the same specifications.

Watch out for deals, Peyton said. A good builder won't skimp on labor and
materials.

"If there's a deal, there's a reason," Peyton warned.     (CHART) Taking the
plunge   Here are some helpful tips if you're thinking about tearing up the
backyard lawn and taking the plunge:   Ask your builder: How long has the
company been in business? How many pools has it built? Is it licensed and
insured? How long does its warranty last and what does it cover? Get price
quotes from at least three builders specifying materials to be used. Get
everything in writing and read the contract carefully. Make sure the builder
pulls the proper government permit.   Check references: Always check a builder's
references. Talk to people who have had a pool installed by the company you're
considering. Was the work completed on time and on budget? Were there any
unexpected surprises? Have there been problems since? Can you look at their
pools?   Now or later: It's usually less expensive to build a pool while a home
is still under construction because the builder can pass along savings in labor
and materials and include the pool in your mortgage payments.   Your neighbors:
If you're building in your backyard, make sure to warn your neighbors. They may
not appreciate being awakened by earth movers and construction workers without
warning. More than likely, the builder will need their permission to cross their
property with heavy equipment.   How big: Pools come in all shapes and sizes.
Decide if you want it for swimming laps, playing volleyball or just floating
around. It may be too late to change your mind when the work is finished.
Remember also that because a pool is considered an "attractive nuisance," you
are required by code to fence or screen it.   What materials: Ask your builder
what materials will be used to build your pool and how much they cost. An
in-ground pool can be lined with concrete, fiberglass or vinyl. The deck can be
built with different materials and colors.   How much money: For best resale
value, builders say the pool should cost about 15 percent of the price of a
home. The average pool costs between $ 15,000 and $ 25,000. You may be able to
get a small discount during the slow winter months, but don't count on it. The
cost of labor and materials generally stay constant through the year. Check
alternate sources of financing and don't forget other costs. A screen overhead
is another $ 2,000 to $ 3,000. Budget money for landscaping.   For more
information: The National Spa & Pool Institute has helpful information for pool
buyers, including a list of member businesses. Call 1-800-323-3996. The local
Better Business Bureau also can help.  Jean Gruss reports on real estate and
economic development for The Tampa Tribune. Call him at (813) 259-7762 or write
him at Business News, The Tampa Tribune, P.O. Box 191, Tampa 33601. His fax
number is (813) 258-8504.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (5C); SIGNATURE (C),
 (C) (Hot tub, swimming pool) ROBERT BURKE/Tribune photo

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 2, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Global warming "supporters' not what they seem

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 249 words


The famous, oft quoted "2,500 scientists" supporting the environmental
extremists' chants of "global warming, global warming, global warming" have been
unmasked in an article in the Wall Street Journal on July 25 by S. Fred Singer,
professor emeritus of environmental science at the University of Virginia and
president of the Science & Environmental Policy Project in Fairfax, Va.

He points out that the 2,500 scientists who supposedly support the United
Nations' 1996 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and thus a forecast of
catastrophic global warming is at most 2,100 contributors and reviewers listed
in the three IPCC reports. The great majority of these are not conversant with
atmospheric physics and are in fact mostly social scientists or policy experts
and government functionaries from every country from Albania to Zimbabwe. The
list even includes known skeptics of global warming who would be chagrined to
find their names associated with such a view. Yet we have the politicians of
division citing these "2,500 scientists" unchallenged.

And we in the United States must wallow in this nonsense with a vice president
intent on riding this big lie to the White House, secure in the knowledge that
the press will not call him or anyone else on it - like this week's wailing by
Green Peace that "the glaciers are melting, the glaciers are melting."

Beam me up before my index finger becomes permanently grafted to my tonsils.

- FLOYD VANSCOY

New Port Richey

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 10, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

MIAMI CRASH

BYLINE: Compiled from Tribune wires

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words


Cargo latches suspect

MIAMI - The latching systems that secured 80,000 pounds of fabric aboard a cargo
plane that crashed into a busy com- mercial area in Miami had "some
inconsistencies," a federal investigator said Saturday.

But Robert Benzon, the National Transportation Safety Board member leading the
investigation into the Fine Air DC-8 crash that killed five, would not say
whether the latches caused the jet to plummet shortly after takeoff Thursday.

"There were some inconsistencies of the latching systems that hold down cargo in
the aircraft," said Benzon, adding the plane was 27,000 pounds below its
allowable weight.

Benzon said the in-flight data recorders gave investigators the plane's speed,
but didn't record such information as the pitch and heading.  GREENPEACE
Activists cut budget, staff

WASHINGTON - Greenpeace, the 25-year-old environmental protest group, will
reduce its U.S. staff from 400 to 65 employees, cut its $ 29 million budget to $
21 million, and focus on only a few issues in the United States - primarily
global climate change and logging.

The organization, which is separate from Greenpeace International, disclosed
intentions to make cuts in a little-noticed statement issued several days ago.
Details were first reported in Saturday editions of The Seattle Times.

U.S. membership has tumbled from nearly 1.2 million in 1991 to 400,000,
Greenpeace officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF NEWS OF THE NATION NATION WORLD WATCH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     August 24, 1997, Sunday, METRO EDITION

A daunting addition to school life

BYLINE: JOSEPH H. BROWN

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 622 words


It has been 30 years since I graduated from high school. When I run into
classmates, we almost always remind ourselves how fortunate we were to have gone
to a school where excellence was expected, and we comment on our expanded
waistlines, our receding hairlines and the encroaching grayness in what remains.
We also spend a lot of time talking about the high school students of today.

I recall one conversation I had about 15 years ago with a very successful
classmate. He had opened a sporting goods store to go along with his insurance
business. We talked about other possible entrepreneurial ventures and, after
assessing the current moral climate, he came up with a doozy: a maternity prom
dress shop.

He was being facetious, but you had to grin and bear it. During the entire time
we were in high school, I knew of only four girls who got pregnant. Yes, it was
such a rare occurrence that you could count the number on one hand. Needless to
say, that has changed dramatically.

I realize a lot of things should have changed in the Chicago public school
system since I left. However, I was not prepared for one innovation that was
already in operation at one school and will be expanded this coming school year:
on-site day care at high schools for kids 3 and under.

After recovering from the shock, I found out that schools all over the country
have day-care centers, including some here in the Tampa Bay area. Wow!

The Chicago program has all the markings of failed social experiments of the
past. It's called the "Cradle to Classroom" initiative and it starts with
"family advocates" who visit girls at home before and after they give birth.
Then comes day care for students' children at a number of high schools.

I know unwed, teenage pregnancy has become mainstream, but I didn't realize how
much.  Dropout risks

So is accommodating a reality the same as condoning it?

The current reality is that a significant number of high school-age girls in
Chicago and elsewhere are pregnant or already mothers. This situation drives
many of them to drop out before graduating, virtually ensuring that they won't
find decent jobs to support themselves and their children.

Supporters of high school day care say it is not the same as condoning teen
pregnancy and that it beats the alternative, which is to do nothing. As much as
I have a hard time saying it, I have to agree with them.

If you had told me 30 years ago that someday we would need day-care centers at
high schools, I would have told you that you were crazy. But I would have said
the same thing about illegal drug use, crime and other modern-day epidemics.
Clarify the message

But will high school day-care centers encourage students to become unwed teenage
parents? And does their presence mean it's OK for high school kids to have
babies?

So far there's no evidence that the teen pregnancy rate is higher at those
schools because of on-site day care. And with welfare reform sending the message
that a life on the dole is no longer an option, attitudes about unwed parenthood
are likely to change.

Having a child out of wedlock should not be the end of the world for a teenager,
even though she can get a good view of it from the maternity ward. But the
message must be made clear once again that this is not the way to go. An entire
generation seems to have grown up in a world devoid of moral messages, with only
dubious guideposts to depend upon.

I'll support the concept of high school day care if it's meant to be temporary.
I'm hoping that this is only temporary and that we won't need them by the next
generation.

If we do, I'll invest in that maternity prom dress shop.  Joseph H. Brown is a
Tribune editorial writer.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: JOSEPH H. BROWN COMMENTARY

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    August 28, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Suite success?;
Tampa Bay Buccaneers owners hope state-of-the-art fan pampering will be the
hallmark of their team's new home in Tampa.

BYLINE: TOM JACKSON; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS & FINANCE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Having ordered every extra and approved every upgrade, the brothers Joel and
Bryan Glazer unveiled intriguing luxury box, club seating and festival end zone
plans for the new 65,000-seat stadium Wednesday.

Now, if the franchise can only field a team the equal of its surroundings.

"On opening day (1998), it'll be the best football stadium in the world -
something the community can really be proud of," said Buccaneers Vice President
Joel Glazer. "They'll be happy they came forward and built it."

On an afternoon ripe with giddy hyperbole, Bucs officials waxed rhapsodic about
the imported marble floors, polished granite counters, soaring atrium ceilings,
satellite feeds, pregame brunches, escalators and concourses wide enough to land
small aircraft as the media toured the team's new million-dollar sales center.

About the only option the Glazers declined was the heart-shaped Jacuzzi. But
don't sell them short, says Glazer: "We have taken the best of everything (from
other stadiums) ... and we've left the flexibility to make it better in the
future."

Seventy-five ritzy luxury suites represent the top of the football fan food
chain.

Located at the middle level of the stadium, the boxes feature 16 wide,
theater-style leather seats; polished granite buffet counters and bar; a living
room with four leather chairs; satellite feeds to five televisions with access
to all the day's National Football League games ("So you can keep up with other
teams when we're in the middle of a playoff race," Glazer said, straight-faced)
or other sporting events; air conditioning with private climate control;
available catering services; and glass panels that can slide into pockets in the
side walls, completely out of sight.

The sliding panels "were a top priority," Glazer said. "We want fans in the
suites to feel like they're at the game; we want them to be able to hear the
roar of the crowd."

All but 20 of the suites, which lease for $ 55,000, $ 70,000 and $ 85,000
annually, depending upon location, are under contract. All the most expensive
boxes have been signed to 10-year leases.

Each of the suites is identically appointed, Glazer said, and for good reason.
While touring some 40 ballparks and arenas, Bucs officials learned that a
persistent headache stadium managers suffer is the competition among box holders
where individual design and decoration are permitted.

"You pay a lot for a box, and then it becomes a (decorating) contest," he said.
"We didn't want that."

An additional six boxes - "party suites" - will be leased on a game-by-game
basis.

If the luxury suites are first class, club seats represent business class.

Club seats number 7,500 and stretch from goal line to goal line just below the
boxes along each side of the stadium. For $ 950, $ 1,750 or $ 2,450 annually,
club seat owners get roomy spaces for their bottoms and armchair holders for
their drink cups; exclusive access to expansive, fully air-conditioned
concourses that could be mistaken for five-star hotel lobbies, or exotic airport
gate areas; menus with in-seat wait service; four sports bars; video walls and
large-screen TVs showing all NFL games being played; pregame brunches (at an
additional charge) and posh restrooms.

"The club seats are the centerpiece of the stadium," Glazer said. And half of
them are already sold.

In coming weeks, a Hollywood-produced videotape in which ABC sports announcer Al
Michaels extols the virtues of club seat ownership in the home of one of the
NFL's "most electrifying teams" will be delivered to 20,000 prime candidates
identified by Bucs researchers.

On game days, club seat and luxury box owners will enter the stadium on its east
and west sides, through an atrium with twin, towering, 87-foot ceilings. Fans in
the other 57-odd-thousand seats will enter through landscaped plazas beyond the
north and south end zones. But this separation should not be mistaken for
forsaking, the Glazers said.

"We went out of our way to make sure that, for the general fan, this stadium
will be better than any other," Joel Glazer said.

Individual, chair-back seats represent a clear improvement over the benches at
Houlihan's Stadium. The Glazers also promise larger and more plentiful
concession stands, accompanied by larger and more plentiful restrooms. Access to
the upper decks will be by ramps or escalators located at the stadium's four
corners. Wheelchair seating will be available in every section, in contrast to
the 60 spots at Houlihan's Stadium.

But the biggest change will be on the 70-foot-wide plazas above the end zone
seats. The Glazers imagine these broad thoroughfares sprouting tents where fans
could browse for food, activities and souvenirs among swaying potted palm trees.

"That's where people are going to want to be," said brother Bryan Glazer. "It's
going to be very festive. People will gather there to have a drink or play a
game. When our games are televised around the country in December, and they see
people dressed in shorts and T-shirts partying (on the plazas), they're
definitely going to envy us."

For Tampa's Super Bowls, each plaza will support 5,000 temporary seats, bringing
the stadium capacity to 75,000. Regular-season demand does not yet warrant
consideration of making those additional seats permanent.

"That would be a nice problem to have," Joel Glazer said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3C),
 (C) Above right is an artist's rendering of part of the east and west entrances
that luxury and club seat holders will use to get to their ritzy digs.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    September 8, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

To orbit and back;
Much of the price tag for getting a satellite into orbit is the cost of the
rocket, which is used once and then discarded. Now a U.S. company plans to
introduce the first completely reusable space vehicle by 1999 in the hope of
creating an affordable delivery service to orbit.

BYLINE: KURT LOFT; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Every time someone blasts a satellite into orbit, the rocket that got it there
either floats uselessly in space or burns up as it falls through the atmosphere.
That's a lot of expensive hardware - often $ 100 million or more - going to
waste.

So why not design rockets that can zip valuable cargo into orbit, then return
home to be used over and over again? Engineers are, and within two years a new
privately run program could boost an era of low-cost, commercial business in
space - just in time to meet the needs of a booming telecommunications industry.

Kistler Aerospace Corp. of Kirkland, Wash., has designed a reusable, two-stage
rocket using engines mothballed by the Russians nearly 25 years ago. The new
vehicle will ride on a future wave of satellites connecting cellular telephones
and wireless Internet access.

Within a decade, more than 1,700 of these satellites are expected to "wire" the
entire planet and eliminate telephone lines in many areas of the world. Some of
these systems will operate in network constellations of 60 or more satellites.

Problem is, companies fear a shortage of affordable rockets to get their
products into space. If reusable rockets make the job cheap and dependable, the
orbital business could one day mirror the commercial airline industry, says
Kistler chairman Robert Wang.

"The market for these kinds of rockets is there, and it will be a very viable
business if you have right technology and capital," he says by telephone. "It's
a meaningful project. It's rare that in one's life you run into a project like
this that can really change the world."

Kistler's K-1 rocket will fire its first stage to an altitude of 135,000 feet,
pitch and return to the launch site on a ballistic trajectory. Parachutes and
air bags similar to those used on the Mars Pathfinder mission provide a soft
landing.

The second stage travels higher, deploys the payload in low-Earth orbit at about
500 miles, and re-enters the atmosphere. Ablative material keeps the rocket from
burning up. It also returns to the launch area using chutes and air bags.

Kistler engineers expect the rockets to last between 25 and 100 flights. Cost
per pound of payload is $ 4,800, about half that of conventional rockets of
similar size. The system is attractive because satellites last only about five
years and continually must be replaced to keep up with demand.

Engines were Kistler's biggest expense. The solution came from Russia, which had
a large supply of powerful, dependable NK-series engines for their aborted 1970s
lunar program. Rather than destroy the hardware, technicians who built the
engines moved them to an isolated, climate-controlled warehouse, where they
stayed in secret for years.

When the Cold War ended, an American aerospace firm bought the engines and later
sold them to Kistler for the bargain price of $ 4 million apiece. Each packs the
power of three Boeing 747s at takeoff. Last week, 34 of the engines arrived in
the United States, and test flights could begin as early as next summer.

The K-1 rocket won't compete with NASA's space shuttle, which (contrary to its
billing) isn't entirely reusable. With each mission, the shuttle sheds its giant
external fuel tank that contains 530,000 gallons of super-cold liquid hydrogen
and oxygen. Each tank costs $ 50 million to build - a considerable expense in
the commercial space business.

The new rocket is set to make its maiden launch in 1999, and Kistler Aerospace
already has signed a contract with a private American company for 10 launches
worth $ 100 million. Construction of a launch facility also has begun on an
isolated stretch of the Nevada Test Site, about 100 miles northwest of Las
Vegas. It will be the first commercial tenant in a historic compound that for 46
years has been restricted to the testing of atomic bombs.     (CHART) (C) K-1
flight profile   Images from Kistler Aerospace Corp.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C); CHART (C),
 (C) Using Russian- built NK-series engines, the K-1 will be the world's first
completely reusable rocket. Kistler Aerospace engineers expect the rockets to
last between 25 and 100 flights and bring down the cost per pound of payload to
$ 4,800, about half that of conven- tional rockets of similar size.  Images from
Kistler Aerospace Corp.

NOTES: SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 4, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Growers hope Mother Nature treats them well

BYLINE: By SEAN C. LEDIG; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: PLANT CITY, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 513 words


SUMMARY: Farmers return to the fields, wondering if last week's rains were a
freak happening or a bad omen for the growing season.

PLANT CITY - Less than a week after torrential rains flooded area farms,
strawberry growers are putting their crops in the ground and keeping a watchful
eye on the weather for the 1997-98 growing season.

With most strawberry planting taking place during the first two weeks in
October, farmers such as Tommy Brock hope there won't be any repeats of last
week's storms. More than 10 inches of rain was dumped on the area in two days.

"As much rain as we had, it could have been a lot worse," said Brock, whose farm
is on Trapnell Road, east of State Road 39. "It could have happened next week."

Strawberries are a $ 100 million per year crop in Florida, with most strawberry
farms in the Plant City area.

Though he lost an acre of cherry tomatoes, Brock said he did much better than
those who farm on Trapnell Road west of State Road 39.

Despite last week's rains, Mike Lott, president of the Florida Strawberry
Growers Association, said he's optimistic about the coming year.

"There'll be plenty of strawberries in December," Lott said.

Since most farmers don't plant their crops until October, Lott believes that the
worst is probably behind them.

"Normally, I don't plant quite as early as some of the other farms," Lott said.
"But we had us a hard week of work cleaning up after the rain."

Brock said he is keeping an eye on the El Nino, a warming in the Pacific waters
off equatorial South America.

The El Nino is a phenomenon that recurs about every three to five years and
produces climate abnormalities around the world, ranging from droughts to
floods, severe storms and hurricanes.

Experts predict the El Nino developing now, labeled the weather event of the
century, likely will last into late next spring or early summer.

It is expected to surpass the one in 1982-83, which claimed nearly 2,000 lives
and caused about $ 13 billion in damage worldwide, said the World Meteorological
Organization, the United Nation's weather agency.

During that same El Nino, Florida farmers were hit with one of the worst freezes
ever, said Brock.

But Walt Zaleski, a meteorologist with the U.S. Weather Service, cautioned
against panic.

"In general, and I'm speaking in broad generalizations, we have concluded that a
strong El Nino would bring above average rainfall and normal to above average
temperatures," said Zaleski. "But we're not certain what the effects will be
every time.

"Still, we only know what has happened within the last 50 years," said Zaleski.
"So we only know the tip-of-the-iceberg of how climactic changes in one part of
the world affect the global weather."

However, it is just the nature of farmers to be constantly concerned about their
crops, said strawberry grower Lee Hutto, owner of H & H Farms.

"Everything worries me, whether or not I'm having good or bad days," Hutto said.

 Sean C. Ledig covers news out of the Plant City office and can be reached at
(813) 754-3763.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 7, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

LINE-ITEM VETO

BYLINE: Compiled from Tribune wires

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 398 words


38 projects cut

WASHINGTON - President Clinton made vigorous use of his new line-item veto power
Monday, deleting 38 military construction projects and trimming $ 287 million
from a $ 9.2 billion bill he signed into law last week.

Clinton's targets include mostly small projects promoted by individual
lawmakers, Democratic and Republican, but were low on the Pentagon's priority
list.  CAMPAIGN REFORM  Bill likely will die

WASHINGTON - Republican opponents of campaign finance reform appear on the verge
of killing legislation aimed at overhauling the system.

The Senate was scheduled to hold its first vote Tuesday on a bill that would ban
soft money, unlimited contributions to political parties by special interest
groups and wealthy individuals.

A direct vote on the measure seems unlikely unless its proponents can defeat an
amendment by Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss. The amendment would require
unions to get the written approval of their members before using their dues for
political purposes.

The amendment, which is scheduled to be voted on first, is opposed by all 45
Senate Democrats, who have criticized Lott's proposal for not including the
National Rifle Association and other special interest groups that use members'
dues to support political candidates and causes.  GLOBAL WARMING  Energy tax
unlikely

WASHINGTON - President Clinton, embracing the scientific evidence of global
warming, on Monday discounted employing an energy tax to reduce fossil fuel use
but warned it would be a "grave mistake" to ignore climate changes.

Clinton heard scientists detail the catastrophic effects of global warming. The
effort is a prelude to an international treaty session in Japan in December
where 160 nations will attempt to agree on a plan to reduce polluting emissions.

 ARMORED HEIST  $ 15 million missing

KINGS MOUNTAIN, N.C. - FBI agents launched a nationwide manhunt Monday for an
armored car driver accused of taking off in a company van with up to $ 15
million.

The same company, Loomis Fargo & Co., was stung in March by an $ 18 million
heist, the largest armored car robbery in U.S. history. Nearly all of that money
was recovered.

David Scott Ghantt disappeared Saturday after arriving at the Loomis Fargo
warehouse in Charlotte, N.C. He was indicted on federal bank larceny charges and
is considered armed and dangerous.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF NEWS OF THE NATION NATION WORLD WATCH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 5, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Devising a better Florida by design

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 907 words


At 4 p.m. today the Hillsborough County Commission will discuss how it goes
about the fundamental business of deciding who can build what and where. The
board is reconsidering the way it handles planning and zoning.

This is a topic well worth exploring. It may be impossible to devise a system
that regulates growth and development to the satisfaction of everyone. There
always will be clashes between those who want their rural surroundings left
alone and those who want to convert the pasture next door into a subdivision.
Change is disruptive by nature.

But it may be possible to make the process less contentious. After all, we
Floridians are not so far apart in the things we value most. If we could build
on that common ground more effectively, then we might end up with better
developments, better neighborhoods and better communities.

What are those common values? Look at the most popular areas to live and you
will find them. Here are a few: Parks and greenery. Being able to walk instead
of drive as much as possible. Recreation. Neighborliness. Convenience. Peace and
quiet. Security.

Developers generally manage to provide some of those amenities, but very few
provide them all.

Consider, for instance, quiet and security. Usually this is achieved by building
cul-de-sacs and walled and gated developments. There's no heavy traffic on a
dead-end street. And although the situation may not be ideal, walls and guards
provide an added sense of safety. No doubt about it.

But this solution sacrifices some of the other goals, like convenience. A walled
subdivision's streets don't connect to the next walled subdivision, or to the
rest of the town, or to the nearby school, church or shopping district. So
residents can forget about walking to those frequent destinations.

Suffice it to say that there is room for improvement in the way Florida is
developing.

Commissioner Ed Turanchik is bringing before his colleagues today an alternative
called community-based planning. The idea is to try for a consensus among
developers, landowners and residents in a broader context, not going one parcel
at a time, but looking at the community as a whole and getting everyone to
decide what its future should be, what it needs and what it doesn't want.

It may sound impossible to those who have witnessed the fire-spitting battles
that occur when a major developer wants to put something huge in a long-settled,
comfortable community. The two sides are not likely to come to any consensus at
that point. And there always will be disputes that only a judge can settle.

It may be possible, though, to prevent some of these dustups by planning ahead.
That's what community design planning is supposed to accomplish.

"We don't have planning," says Turanchik. "We have regulation and subdivisions.
... We've stopped building neighborhoods."

He argues that the county's rules are too rigid, resulting in piecemeal
development and an unnecessarily adversarial process. The county often requires
that developers preserve wetlands, for example, but when they deal with one
parcel at a time, they fail to connect all the green areas together, which would
make them all more beneficial to wildlife and to the people who live near them.

Children sometimes end up living a few blocks from a school but separated from
it by a wall surrounding the complex. So instead of walking to school, they must
be chauffeured.

Turanchik is proposing that the county try broader planning, well ahead of the
crisis that comes with the surprise announcement of a mall going up where the
orange grove now stands. The idea is to get people in the area together and make
some choices about what the neighborhood should be like in the future, using
surveys and images of what is possible.

This is likely to generate support for a greater variety of construction than if
the government deals with one parcel at a time, each expanding on the
neighboring subdivision. Given the choice, people may well want to have a
shopping area, park, corner store or movie theater within walking distance
instead of being ringed by more and more homes and strip malls.

The government, too, has to be flexible, allowing different standards for
different communities, allowing some creativity in the setbacks, sidewalks and
mix of development.

Florida's climate makes it an inevitable magnet for newcomers. Growth will be a
challenge here for decades to come.

For years the government has done little more than accommodate sprawl, expanding
services as rapidly as possible, trying to keep pace with relentless
development. Only recently have state and local governments faced up to the fact
that this pattern could ultimately kill the very quality of life that attracts
people here in the first place.

The strategy has been to buy with tax dollars what absolutely must be preserved,
charge impact fees to help offset the cost of new development, and regulate with
fixed rules what can and cannot be done, bargaining for lower densities when the
public complains. The result has been better than the old days of anything goes,
but the process is still far from satisfactory.

So we welcome today's discussion by the county commission. A more comprehensive,
long-range view of the future is what has been lacking. If Ed Turanchik's
initiative moves our community a little closer to that wider and wiser
perspective, all of us will be in his debt.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 10, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Patients slip into new skin

BYLINE: Compiled by Kurt Loft

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words


Hospital patients with serious wounds that won't heal soon could benefit from
new developments in tissue engineering, according to the American Medical
Association. Two types of tissue that contain living cells are being tested and
await approval by the Food and Drug Administration.

One starts as a mesh of absorbable surgical suture grafted with live dermis
skin, and the bioengineered tissue stimulates growth of the host skin. The
second therapy involves connective tissue such as a tendon from a cow, rendered
into a gel and mixed with dermis skin cells from a neonatal foreskin. After the
two bond, a top layer of epidermal cells is added.

Both methods benefit from low rejection rates during tests, says William H.
Eaglstein, chairman of the department of dermatology at the University of Miami
School of Medicine. The therapies will mean less hospital time for the patient,
fewer amputations, dressing changes and potential infections.

El Nino and Florida: Strong El Nino conditions and normal seasonal warming of
the tropical Pacific Ocean will create a strong impact on global weather
patterns through late winter and early spring, according to the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration. It also will affect Florida.

El Nino is an abnormal warming of the ocean temperatures across the eastern
tropical Pacific that affects weather around the world. The influence of El Nino
earlier this year is one of the strongest on record. The Pacific waters where El
Nino is born have averaged 82 degrees Fahrenheit since April, about 8 degrees
above normal.

Florida is likely to see "significant" rain in the next three months, says Ants
Leetmaa, director of NOAA's Climate Prediction Center in Maryland. "While we
tend to view the increased precipitation as a threat, in some instances there
are benefits, such as decreasing the chance for wildfire danger in Florida."

Global warming: Regardless of the Clinton administration's stance on global
warming, most atmospheric scientists say it will take at least another decade to
make conclusions on its worldwide effects. However, those scientists already
offer some specific examples of climatic variations. Here are four, compiled by
Environmental Media Services in Washington, D.C.:

At least 20 species of birds in Britain are laying eggs earlier than normal,
which scientists consider a significant trend.

Researchers at Boston University report how the growing season in the Northern
Hemisphere has moved forward about one week earlier in the year.

University of Colorado scientists say tree lines in Canada and Siberia have been
advancing north over the last quarter century, and that a 2 degree Fahrenheit
rise causes the line to advance about 60 miles.

Warmer air over Antarctica is killing off krill, a crustacean, causing a decline
in the Adelie penguin population.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C); PHOTO (C),
 (C) Researchers at the University of Miami School of Medicine are fabricating a
new type of skin.  Tribune file photo (1995)

NOTES: FAST FORWARD SCI TECH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 14, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Museum again life of party

BYLINE: KURT LOFT; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


It was the social event in town, a white tie, sequined gown affair where
champagne and old money flowed for the sake of art.

Patrons paid $ 1,000 a couple to be pampered and to mingle with Tampa's elite.
They bid at auction on $ 10,000 wristwatches, a BMW convertible, Super Bowl
tickets and a 10-day trip to Europe.

It became a financial buttress for the Tampa Museum of Art, raising more than $
2 million and setting the tone by which philanthropic galas in the Bay area
would be judged.

It was a brilliant success story. And then, suddenly, it failed.

After a dozen years of elegance - some call it indulgence - the high-powered
party known as Pavilion bombed. A financial triumph through the 1980s, Pavilion
turned into an expensive party that gobbled up its own proceeds.

By 1992, the last year the extravaganza was staged, museum officials were stuck
holding a bill for $ 25,338.

Eventually, Pavilion turned into a private party, a former museum director says,
and by the early 1990s, it was all show and little dough.

"In the last year, it actually cost the museum money," says Andy Maass, museum
director from 1984 to 1995. "It was just a great party. But the idea of Pavilion
has changed now. It had to."

Saturday night, the event returns, as museum officials rejuvenate their cause
with a finely tuned, budget-conscious Pavilion XIII. The new party will be
lavish and expensive - with an art deco theme, silent auction, orchestra and
sneak preview of the Princess Diana dress exhibit.

But the gala's organizers built in an insurance plan that didn't exist five
years ago. The museum board now has control over costs, brought in a financial
management team and will funnel profits into the museum's endowment for
long-term stability.

"I can assure you we are looking at expenses well below what any profit would
be," says Emily Kass, the museum's current director.

Still, the museum suffered from five years without Pavilion, and had to recoup
its losses by charging admission - an effect on those who never attended the
event. And critics say the museum could be setting itself up for another fall by
bucking the national trend against staging such expensive one-night events.

The last Pavilion, after all, lost money. The year before, in 1991, the event
raised just $ 76,000, a big decline from the $ 207,000 in 1990 and the string of
annual profits in excess of $ 100,000 since Pavilion's inception in 1981.

The goal this year - and a comparatively modest one - is to raise a minimum of $
100,000 after expenses. About 500 people will attend Saturday's sold-out event
on the museum grounds across from Curtis Hixon Park. Half are patron couples,
whose $ 1,000 contribution entitles them to a special Pavilion medal and private
party. Guest tickets are $ 250.

Although marred by one abysmal event, the history of Pavilion shines through the
museum's 18 years in Tampa.

The first Pavilion was held three years after the public museum opened in a
15,000-square-foot facility along the Hillsborough River. The event was designed
to mirror the stature of Nashville's Swan Ball, a formal charity event known for
its Old South grandeur.

The success was immediate, recalls Franci Rudolph, a 1981 Pavilion committee
member.

"It was truly at the time the premiere social event in Tampa, and when the idea
was founded, it was to bring Tampa to a new level socially," says Rudolph,
director of the Tampa Bay Business Committee for the Arts. "It was amazing what
they did. It was Tampa's first real white tie event."

Subsequent Pavilions quickly attracted Tampa's movers and shakers. Patrons
included members of the Lykes family, prominent politicians and the Ferman
automotive magnates.

In its '80s heyday, Pavilion staged a spectacle unmatched in Tampa charity
circles. Elaborate decorations would transform Curtis Hixon Hall to match the
year's theme. "Under the Big Top," the circus motif of 1988, included a
full-size carousel for guests to ride and a baby elephant for them to pet. A
trapeze artist modeled a mink coat while swinging from table to table, hanging
by her hair.

Pavilion supporters say the gala helped put the young art museum on the map.

"We're bringing it back because it was a signature event for the museum," says
Joan Jennewein, a prominent Tampa arts patron who co-chairs the new Pavilion
with her daughters-in-law, Leslie and Allison.

Those pennies added up quickly. Pavilion XIII will cost in excess of $ 150,000.
About $ 60,000 will go to entertainment, decorations and food, including $ 50 a
person for catering by Mise en Place restaurant. Other expenses are liquor,
gifts, a private patrons party, complimentary tickets to community events,
postage, equipment rental and security.

Pavilion patrons, many long-time museum members, decided early on to invest in
its success. In July, a hundred members committed $ 1,000 each toward the event,
so the museum had at least $ 100,000 in the bank at the onset, according to
Pavilion's treasurer, Paul Flynn, an audit partner with Ernst & Young Limited
Liability Partnership in Tampa.

"It's a big undertaking and you can't do one of these things inexpensively," he
says. " Where Pavilion didn't measure up in the past was in scrutinizing the
costs."

Those lines were blurred in the past, says Maass, now director of the
Mississippi Museum of Art. He praises the successes of Pavilion, but criticizes
it for having been too exclusive and casual in its bookkeeping.

No one points fingers at those responsible for the failure of the 1992 event,
but many agree on two problems: a lack of professional organization and a
depressed financial climate. Making matters worse, promises for cash fell
through and profits from the event's auction weren't as high as hoped.

Jim and Bonnie Judy were co-chairs of Pavilion in 1992. Jim, retired after a
career with a Tampa truck dealership, says the failure to break even was in part
a symptom of the economy.

"The 1990s weren't the 1980s," he says. "People didn't spend what we assumed
they would. It just didn't happen, and so we decided to give it a rest. But I'm
going this year with bells on."

Some fundraisers say the Tampa Museum is taking a big risk with a 1980s gala in
the 1990s. Pavilion-style parties are a two-edged sword, argues Harry Freedman,
a national fundraising consultant in Philadelphia. He says such events typically
have costs of up to 80 percent and net incomes of 20 percent or less.

They often absorb contributions from donors instead of going directly to the
charity itself. Freedman calls this kind of event "the vendor foundation"
because it consists of caterers, florists, decorators and entertainers.

"There's a trend against them," Freedman says. "You have all this sponsorship
money and you're spending it on food, entertainment and stamps when it should go
to the cause. You'd be better off calling 20 people and get direct donations
from them and not have a party."

The five years without Pavilion has seen at least one big change in the way the
museum operates: admission fees. Instituted in 1992, admission is $ 5 for adults
and $ 3 for students and children under age 6. About 75,000 people visited the
museum last year, generating $ 40,000 in revenue.

One Tampa fundraiser sees a different side to Pavilion. Even if it breaks even,
much good can come from it if the event creates more interest in the museum. In
this way, fundraisers become "friendraisers," says Elizabeth Reynolds Hult,
director of development at the University Community Hospital Foundation, which
this year raised $ 120,000 from its Starlight Ball gala.     (CHART) (C)
Pavilion income   Money raised by the Tampa museum of Art gala from 1981 through
1992.   Source: Tampa Museum of Art CAITLIN HOPE WRIGHT/Tribune graphic

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 3(2C); CHART (C),
 Andy Maass

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   November 15, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Citrus Commission may limit grapefruit harvest

BYLINE: PAUL POWER JR.; of The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: LAKELAND


The state's Citrus Commission is considering production quotas to drive
grapefruit prices up.

Florida's Citrus Commission is considering production quotas that would cut the
world's biggest grapefruit harvest by 15 percent and likely raise retail prices.

The commission has set a public hearing for 9 a.m. Tuesday on the plan, proposed
by citrus growers who say they're failing because of low prices. Farmers have
grown so much grapefruit in recent years that there is an eight-month supply in
storage.

Critics say it smacks of socialism, rewards mediocre business practices and may
stop some people from trying to make a living with the tart fruit.

"We created the problem because we planted grapefruit whenever we got the urge,"
said Marvin Kahn, a Sebring grower, who reluctantly favors a quota system.

"But morally, I don't think we should watch people go bankrupt when there are
tools available to stop it."

Farmers planted too many grapefruit trees in the 1980s in response to rosy farm
prices. The state's grapefruit acreage has ballooned 33 percent in the last five
years alone.

Under the tentative five-year plan, a six-member grapefruit council each summer
would approve individual farmers' allotments based on a complicated formula that
considers sales history, acreage, expected harvests and the economic climate
that grapefruit faces.

To administer the program, farmers would pay between a penny and 10 cents per
box of fruit they harvest. Farmers could sell their quotas, but quotas couldn't
be banked for the following year.

Though there's debate over how the plan would affect consumer prices, some
economists said that putting a floor under farm prices keeps retail prices from
falling below a certain level.

"Marketing orders are usually harmful to consumers by raising prices," said John
Schnittker, an economist with Public Voice for Food and Health Policy in
Washington.

Farmers' returns in 1996-97 were $ 1.23 per box of grapefruit, according to the
Citrus Commission. Estimates under different quota scenarios forecast the price
would more than double, to between $ 2.50 and $ 4 a box.

New production quotas would run counter to the national trend of ending
Depression-era farm price supports.

Last year, Congress decided to phase out government-guaranteed prices for grains
and other crops and immediately end most planting controls - exactly the sort of
limits that some in Florida want to see.

No citrus crops in Florida currently are covered by price support programs,
though such provisions exist for other homegrown commodities - notably tobacco,
sugar, milk and cotton.

"A number of people wanted to have a hearing, and we should hear what the
growers have to say," said Dan Santangelo, executive director of the Citrus
Department, a branch of state government.

Farmers would have to approve a quota system.

Schnittker said quotas can stop people from farming, a circumstance he called an
"unintended but real consequence when you have economic distortions."

But some growers say the problem needs urgent attention and the industry's
instability doesn't help consumers.

"If we have to wait until nature takes its course, it's going to be a long,
tough time," said industry veteran Jim Griffiths of Lakeland, who has been
pushing for changes.

Many Florida farmers are now selling fruit for less than their growing costs,
Griffiths said.

But while Griffiths and some growers in the bountiful Indian River region lobby
for industry cohesiveness and government control, opponents say supply and
demand should be allowed to work.

A spokesman for agribusiness giant A. Duda & Sons, a major grower and processor,
said "supply and demand is one of the basic economic theories upon which our
American system of capitalism is built."

Some of the harshest criticism came from the La Belle-based Gulf Coast Citrus
Growers Association, which said "the proposed action would not be a valid
exercise of police power and implementation could be construed as a taking of
property by the Florida Citrus Commission."

The group contends that only the Florida Department of Agriculture, not the
citrus agency, has the authority to restrict supply.

Florida already regulates the size and quality of citrus fruits and tomatoes. As
of January 1995, there were 32 so-called marketing orders covering 29 crops in
20 states, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.     (Chart) Too much
grapefruit   After farmers planted more trees in the 1980s, the value of the
crop has shrunk because they're growing much more than consumers want.   Tribune
graphic  Power Jr. covers agriculture from the Lakeland office and can be
reached at (941) 683-6531.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 145 DOCUMENTS

                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   December 11, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

El Nino smaller but still packs punch

SOURCE: An Associated Press report

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Even at 10 percent to 20 percent less, the weather phenomenon is still a force
to be reckoned with, experts say.

Although satellite observations show that El Nino - the vast pool of warm water
in the Pacific Ocean - has gotten smaller, scientists say its potential to
disrupt weather won't disappear any time soon.

"Reports of El Nino's death are definitely exaggerated," said Bill Patzert, an
oceanographer at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, where scientists
monitor the phenomenon with the Topex/Poseidon satellite.

The volume of warm water on Dec. 1 was 10 percent to 20 percent less than at a
peak in the fall, said Lee-Lueng Fu, the Topex/Poseidon project scientist.

Even the current size is significant, however, and forecasters were not ready to
change their outlook on the impact of this El Nino because of the recent
decrease.

"I think our folks would still agree we expect the effects of the El Nino to be
as strong," said Jim Laver, deputy director of the National Weather Service's
Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs, Md.

"We expect the winter to still present heavy rainfalls across the southern third
of the United States," he said. "It's not going to go away quickly."

El Nino's current size is similar to that measured in early September, when the
area of the water mass was estimated at 1+ times the size of the continental
United States.

"It's still a huge feature on the surface of the planet," JPL spokeswoman Mary
Hardin said from the American Geophysical Union meeting in San Francisco.

El Nino affects weather through the transfer of heat from the ocean to the
atmosphere. Volume is important because that indicates how much energy is
stored, even at depths of hundreds of meters. Area is important because that's
where the energy transfer occurs.

Topex/Poseidon, a U.S./French spacecraft, uses radar signals to measure sea
surface height, which is markedly higher where the El Nino water mass is pressed
against the west coast of the Americas than in other areas of the Pacific.

This El Nino has completed what oceanographers describe as a classic "double
peak" pattern in the Eastern Pacific. The first peak in sea level occurred in
July, followed by a peak in October-November.

The devastating El Nino of 1982-83 had a similar pattern, although the peaks
occurred in January and April 1983, according to JPL.

Whether the current El Nino will continue to decline or peak again is unknown.
Fu said that even the double-peak pattern is poorly understood.

Patzert likens the current phenomenon to a marathoner.

"This El Nino has legs," he said. "I don't think El Nino is going to hit the
wall."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
