
                               1 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WARMING SIGNS

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H01

LENGTH: 2698 words


Camille Parmesan is a biologist, an expert on butterflies - and she has the
gentle, unhurried disposition that comes from living in a tent for weeks at a
time, studying insects and animals in their native habitats. Yet there is a
hardness in her voice, a sense of urgency, whenever she talks about global
warming and its effect on the planet.

"We're definitely seeing species going extinct because of climate change," says
Parmesan, sitting in her second-floor biology office at the University of Texas,
which overlooks the turtle ponds north of the UT Tower. "We're going to lose the
penguins. We're going to lose the polar bears, no question. . . . I'm seeing
high mountain butterflies literally being pushed off the mountains. This is
happening. It is not theory. It is not people saying, 'Oh, we think it might
happen.' It is happening, and it is incredibly depressing."

Parmesan has been talking this way for almost a decade now - on ABC's
"Nightline," in magazines such as Nature and National Geographic, in scientific
papers and in public lectures, long before the recent surge of global warming
stories in American media. Her message: Fifty percent of all species have
already been affected by climate change. Animals and insects are moving
northward, or to higher elevations, in response to established climate shifts
that have altered the growing seasons of the foods that sustain them. Sooner or
later, there is no place for these creatures to go . . . as climate warms, ice
melts and humans sprawl.

Parmesan's study of butterflies (most notably the Edith's checkerspot butterfly
native to California and Mexico) shows that species are dying out at the
southern and lower-elevation areas of their habitat range. Like many of her
peers, Parmesan worries that severe weather events - new extremes in snowfall or
frost or severely warm weather, attributable to climate change - place more
stress on a species or a habitat than a mean rise of annual temperature. It is
no comfort to her that scholars are now publishing more than 100 papers a year
on the impact of global warming.

"This is bad news," she says, pointing to a bar graph on her computer that shows
the dramatic rise of these published papers. "Each one of these means at least
one species - and maybe as many as 60 - are in trouble. It covers every
geographic range, every taxonomic group. Zooplankton. Phytoplankton. Birds,
frogs, butterflies. Mammals. Fruit flies. It's overwhelming."

For all her command of science, Parmesan has a bit of Henry David Thoreau in
her, too. She talks about global warming not only in a biological sense, but in
a voice that respects sociology, philosophy, even spirituality. A native Texan,
a tenured professor, Parmesan has lived in Austin for most of the past 25 years.
She's currently on leave from UT, writing a general interest book on global
warming for the Princeton University press.

Austin American-Statesman: The news of the day is all about climate change. The
glaciers are melting. There's drought in the Southwest. There's 30 percent more
carbon dioxide - and 130 percent more methane - in our atmosphere than at any
time in the last 650,000 years. Is there any doubt in your mind that human
activity is causing the climate change that's creating these circumstances?

Camille Parmesan: No. Absolutely no doubt at all. Certainly not in respect to
the glaciers melting. Definitely not with respect to the average rise in global
temperature, or the average rise in ocean temperature. Thousands of species are
showing responses to temperature and precipitation changes.

Humans started it. We put out the CO2 and the methane and the nitrous oxide -
greenhouse gasses - and this speeds the hydrological cycle and prompts natural
feedback responses that make the warming go faster. (For example), warm air
holds more water. Warm soil releases more water. When trees are warm, they
transpire more. There's more water vapor in the air, and since that's a
greenhouse gas, that speeds the warming, too.

What about these recent hurricanes? Are they attributable to global warming?

You can't say one event (like Hurricane Katrina) is definitely due to greenhouse
gasses or global warming, but in general, yes, we can expect that kind of thing
to happen more frequently. Hurricanes are driven by warm water. That's physics.
We know that. We've warmed the oceans up by a little over one degree, globally,
over the last century. In the Gulf of Mexico, it's been an average of two
degrees. And last summer, it was four degrees warmer. . . . But hurricanes are
variable and erratic. A lot depends on the way the winds are flowing.

I guess you get that question a lot lately: People asking you about hurricanes.

The hurricanes have raised people's interest. And they've brought up one of the
big problems related to global warming: that it's the poor people who get hurt.
Rich nations do better than poor nations. And within a nation, rich people do
better than poor people.

Within the U.S., the poor people got hurt (during Katrina) partly because they
didn't have cars - or even if they did, they couldn't afford hotels or gas. It's
not cheap to move yourself, suddenly, without money. A lot of those
neighborhoods that took the worst hits are the ex-swamplands. The poor people
were put in swamplands. Rich people had houses on the hills.

You've said we're destined to lose a lot due to climate change. "No more
penguins, no more polar bears. . . . " And that it's very depressing.

We're going to lose a heck of a lot of what we know now. Humans, I honestly
don't think are going to make it. But in 3, 4 million years, some cool new forms
of life are going to evolve. We've had mass extinction events before - where
everything changes. You go from almost all life on earth is tiny marine animals,
to almost all life on earth is trees. Massive changes. But cool new life does
evolve.

I'm basically a happy person. I really enjoy life. And my way of dealing with
this is thinking in terms of "Three million years from now, it's all going to be
OK. But 50 or 100 years? No."

Edward O. Wilson, the renowned entomologist from Harvard, takes this straight to
a moral dimension: Do we care enough to save our own planet?

I think it is our responsibility, as the dominant species, to take care of those
who are dependent on you. And I'm very pleased to see a lot of religious
organizations, evangelicals, and the reformed Jewish movement pulling together,
getting the word out that this is actually a spiritual question - as well as a
purely biological one.

Do you worry that human beings have become so accustomed to urban life and our
technological fascinations- and so distant from nature - that we can't conceive
what it means when a species of butterflies or ducks disappear? Or when glaciers
disappear?

People don't realize that humans evolved right smack dab in the middle of nature
- that we're really not adapted to urban life. We have these millions of years
of evolution that have trained our psyche to need green grass and trees and
interactions. We need nature, psychologically. When you go out into nature, the
first thing that happens is it slows you down. . . . The level of people on
Prevacid and Prozac in urban areas is a testament, I think, to the fact that
we're fooling ourselves into thinking we can live in a high-stress, high-paced
environment and be OK. We can't.

Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma has long said global warming is the greatest hoax
ever perpetrated on America. How do you respond to this, as a scientist?

Anyone who says this is a hoax is really, really stupid - or a flat liar or a
con artist. At the end of every seminar, I give people a list of science-based
Web sites - not blogs. They back up everything I say.

I've heard you say that it isn't your aim, as someone in the scientific
community, to scold or chastise, but to explain to a certain culture - the
banker, the businessman, the person with the profit motive - the importance of
what you've learned.

They get it, too. I'll give an hour lecture, and at the end, they're really
angry. They are (mad)! They'll say, "How come we haven't been told this?"
Usually, they don't realize that the data is so solid, that greenhouse gasses
really are changing the climate. They're absolutely astounded that what sounds
like a tiny level of warming, one degree - "Yeah, what's one degree when you can
have 40 degrees of temperature change in one day in Texas" - can have an
enormous impact. . . .

The coral reefs are the most depressing story of all of them. The frogs dying
out in the cloud forest is pretty sad, too. I don't know if you've seen these
harlequin frogs, but they're just spectacular. They look like Faberge jewel
stones. And 75 percent of them have gone extinct because of climate change. But
the coral reefs: A quarter of the coral reefs in the world are gone - gone,
gone, gone, gone, gone - because of the high sea surface temperatures we've been
having.

I love snorkeling. And I go back to places where corals were purple and green
and blue - where there had been all this life, shrimp and sea urchins all over
the place - and now the corals are dead. They've been covered with brown algae.
You don't have any of the little sea urchins, or the little invertebrates. You
still have some fish, but I know it's extinction waiting to happen because once
the coral breaks down there's no habitat. I've seen it in the Caribbean. I've
seen it in the Great Barrier Reef. I've seen the most beautiful, delicate
ecosystem that ever existed in the world reduced to a moonscape in just a few
years.

The C02 itself is actually acidifying the ocean. So by 2050, it's questionable
whether corals will actually be able to harden, because the ocean will be so
acidic.

What were your thoughts on the international environmental talks in Montreal in
December - and the posture of the United States delegation?

I was very disappointed by the American delegation's response. I mean, they were
bludgeoning the other delegates - basically walking out like little school kids.
It's like, "We don't like what you're saying, so we're going to storm out." It's
so childish, so unprofessional, incredibly embarrassing for the United States.

A year and a half ago, at the same time you warned about the effects of climate
change in a report for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, Frank Maisano -
a lobbyist for power companies - said the biggest thing the U.S. could do to
help the global warming situation was to export smart technological alternatives
to the world. What's your response to his response?

The techno-fix is such a dream. We're going to have to do absolutely everything
we can, in every way we can, to get anywhere near preventing disaster. There is
no one fix.

Sure, better (solar) cells are going to help. So will wind power, once we figure
out how to do it without killing off all the ground birds. But these ideas I
hear about shooting all the CO2 into the ground and storing it there?
Technically, we could do that. But the ground is not a sealed chamber. A few
salt domes are sealed, but that's it. The rest of the ground is real leaky. All
we'd be doing is delaying things 100 years.

We can do a tremendous amount to reduce our CO2 output by making cars get 40
miles per gallon or more - which we can do now. Or having solar panels on every
single house - and we can do that now. I mean, why should I trust anyone to have
some magical fix 50 years from now, when we're not utilizing the technology we
have right now?

Is our culture allergic to conservation?

When I give lectures, housewives and bankers and businessmen say to me, "This is
incredible. I had no idea. What can we do?" The first thing is, "Please think
about that when you vote next time." The second thing is, "Look. There's no
need, ever, to have a Suburban or a big SUV. Get rid of it. Buy something
smaller." And I'll get a response of, "Uh? Oh? But . . . I take my kids to
soccer."

I'll say, "How many kids are you taking?" They'll say, "Three or four." Excuse
me, but I can fit four in my Honda Civic. I need a Suburban for this? People
will go, "Oh. Oh. Me? I have to change?" And the point is yeah. You have to
change.

But to play devil's advocate: What about China and India? As those countries
continue to industrialize, and consume more fossil fuels . . . It's a huge
problem. You can change every American, and it won't do any good if we don't
change India and China.

So what's wrong with the Bush administration's point of view that says, "We're
not going to sign the Kyoto accord because these two nations are going to burn
fossil fuels and put out greenhouse gasses like you've never seen before,
anyway"?

(Laughing) Gee. That's kind of like saying, "Billy got away from it, so why
can't I?" I mean, I hate to keep going back to the junior high analogy. But it
just works so well.

So the U.S., in its sheer willingness to lead in this issue, could effect an
enormous amount of change?

We are the sole superpower at this point. And to say that we have the power to
change everyone else's governmental structure but not have the power to effect
their energy consumption rates? Oh, excuse me.

In the modern dynamic we live in, you believe it's important not just to think
about the effects of climate change on growing seasons and food sources related
to endangered species. But also: Our own developments complicate everything.

Hugely. The world has basically been a cold world for the last 1.5 or 2 million
years. It was like it is now, or covered with glaciers. So you might expect that
if we're going to make it hotter - into a warm regime we haven't seen in
millions of years - our species just aren't adapted to handle that. We're just
beginning to see this in the tropics. Some work on tropical canopy forest trees
is showing that they're starting to shut down photosynthesis in the heat of the
day during their dry period, when they didn't do that before. The ecologists
working on this are starting to realize that maybe tropical trees are at their
absolute peak of tolerance.

So if we'd erred on the side of making the planet colder, we'd have fared
better?

Humans wouldn't have liked it. But actually, I think the plants animals would be
a lot happier.

We're often told by scientists that even if we stop greenhouse emissions
completely, tomorrow, temperatures will continue to climb, glaciers will
continue to melt.

Because of the lag time, it's going to get another two degrees warmer. This is a
train that's already moving. This is not something in the future.

Do you have children?

No. Lots of nieces and nephews. They're all in high school now.

Should we be afraid for them, for the world they'll see after we're gone -
knowing we can't stop this?

I talk to them about it. I say things like, "Travel now. Go to the coral reefs
now. Because if you wait, they might be completely gone." I actually offered to
pay for any of them to go on an "abroad" program and see some of these things.
Do it while you can, while you're young. Don't think, "I'm going to wait till
I'm retired." Because it ain't going to be there any more.

bbuchholz@statesman.com; 912-2967

Under pressure
POLAR BEARS
 Polar bears live most of their lives on Arctic sea ice, hunting seals and
other prey. Scientists expect a 30 percent drop in the number of polar bears
over the next 35 to 50 years as melting sea ice affects the bears' ability to
find food and reproduce. The federal government is reviewing whether polar
bears should be considered a threatened species.

CORAL REEFS
 Oceans are getting warmer and more acidic, changing the delicate chemical
balance that enables coral, shellfish and some plankton to build their shells.
Reefs shelter and provide food for larger creatures. About one-third of the
Caribbean corals being monitored have recently died; mortality rates in the
Indian and Pacific oceans are even higher.

EDITH'S CHECKERSPOT BUTTERFLY
 Many species, such as the Edith's checkerspot butterfly, are disappearing from
 the southern edges and lower elevations of their historic ranges. Eighty
percent of Edith's checkerspot butterflies have vanished from the
Mexico-California border as the plants the butterflies lay their eggs on dry up
 before caterpillars can hatch.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 998 words


IMMIGRATION AND BORDER ISSUES

Capturing the humanity

The American-Statesman once again excels at photojournalism. The expression of
rapture depicted in Jay Janner's picture of runner Felipe Martinez casts a holy
light upon the need to change immigration laws.

The angelic face contrasted against a background of feathers and colorful
streamers appears like a stained-glass portraiture of a warrior of God.

With the click of his camera, Janner put a halo on this cause. It's as if the
archangels of the Old Testament have laid down their swords and put on their
running shoes.

MARY ALICE ALTORFER

Malice946@aol.com

New Braunfels

Mexico needs our help

Do we see millions of Canadians streaming over the U.S. border for an
opportunity to work and for a better life than they can have in Canada?

Can't we work with Mexico somehow, someway to help them make their own country
as attractive as the United States in terms of jobs and education?

Mexico is a beautiful country with abundant natural resources. Its people are
smart, capable and very hard working.

We should not spend our money and time trying to punish folks who cross our
southern borders, or to deport them (both very expensive processes). We should
be helping them stay home in Mexico with their families, where I believe they
would rather be.

MARY PATRICK

Austin

Ways to help the cause

As a volunteer teacher of English as a second language, I have an increased
appreciation of the problems immigrants face, especially those without papers.
There are no simple answers to all the related issues facing either the citizens
of this country or the immigrants.

But certain truths are clear. Whether they intend to stay here or to someday
return to their home countries, they will improve their lives by becoming fluent
in English. Also, they need to recognize that this is the United States. They
shouldn't wear clothing praising Mexico or wrap themselves in a Mexican flag
while protesting. Supposedly, most are here hoping to become Americans. They
should show that by their actions. They should speak English and wrap themselves
in the Stars and Stripes.

If they intend to remain foreigners, fine. Just don't overstay their welcome.

DAVID L. POINT

Lakeway

Hurting the environment

Where are the environmentalists in the immigration debate? Immigration, legal
and illegal, is driving America's exploding population growth. Every person who
comes to this country uses resources and produces waste. Every year, we are
paving over an area of farm and forest the size of Delaware. The Census Bureau
projects a U.S. population of close to 500 million by 2050 and one billion by
2100 with current immigration rates. Rapid population growth is the root cause
of our environmental problems.

The Sierra Club has decided that it's better to be politically correct than
protect the environment, so it does not oppose unlimited immigration. But where
are the rest of the environmentalists?

LAURENCE PARENT

Wimberley

Still have work to do

U.S. Rep. Tom DeLay's decision to quit is the best news out of Washington this
year. However, until legislation is passed that will ensure meaningful ethics
oversight and enforcement, the culture of corruption that permeates Congress
will persist.

JOSEPH J. HAZEWSKI

Kerens

GOP is rolling now

Boy howdy, you've got to hand it to the Republicans. They're just bound to walk
off with the upcoming election because they've done such a wonderful job.

Why there's President Bush's war in Iraq, where democracy is breaking out with a
vengeance just like he said it would, except for the odd detail here and there.

And then there's the former majority leader who resigned his dukedom and is
planning to resign from Congress and move out of his district one step behind
the plea-bargain of his former chief of staff, and one step ahead of Texas
prosecutors. I guess I'd move too if I were Tom DeLay.

And with the Republicans leading the way, it's now clear that global warming is
just a conspiracy of liberal left-wing enviro-crazies. Why if they'd just shut
up, it wouldn't get much warmer, and besides, we can build condos in Antarctica
once it really warms up. And beach-front property in Austin; such a deal!

And the economy is doing so well. We have the largest deficits in the history of
mankind and a crumbling infrastructure. But look, we made sure that those who
are truly rich can get even richer, as is their God-given right.

How can we go wrong?

ANDY ROGERS

Austin

Humans are a factor

Re: March 31 letter to the editor, "Global warming myths":

The letter writer states: "The hysteria of global warming emerges from
ideologically driven environmentalists, not from science and facts." He
rationalizes with selected physical sciences data.

Following that logic, I offer factors from the natural sciences, which relate to
human-caused climate change during this interglacial period of the Cenezoic era,
as we leave the Little Ice Age.

All life suffers from the burning of fossil fuels, the human ingredient in
global warming. Examples include mercury contamination of sea life which enters
the food chain, epidemic levels of childhood asthma, ground water contamination
and damaged DNA across all life. The list could go on for pages.

America is not only the largest source of global warming pollution, but also the
world's leading technology innovator. As the Earth warms, life will be better
when the Earth is cleaner.

PATRICE SCHEXNAYDER

Austin

Sing along, Austin

Standing in the huge crowd waiting to start the Statesman Capitol 10,000 run, I
was excited when they announced the singing of the National Anthem. I got about
as far as the " Oh, say c . . ." when my wife grabbed my arm and gave me that,
"Stop singing if you want to run this race as a man" look.

I stopped and realized that no one was singing. Here was a crowd of more than
13,000 people, and nobody sang with the girl whose rhythmic version was simple
enough to allow people to join in. The next time, I'm joining in, even if it
means running as a girl.

ROBERT L. SCHNEIDER

Briarcliff

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday

UT counting on another victory with Champion;
Center installing faster IBM supercomputer to help with work on global climate
change

BYLINE: Kirk Ladendorf, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 782 words


The University of Texas didn't have to look far for a name for its new
supercomputer.

The computer, primarily developed by IBM Corp. in Austin, was dubbed Champion
after the victorious Rose Bowl football team. And some Austin researchers are
betting the machine will score for them.

The IBM machine, which runs on 96 Power5 microprocessors in 12 separate boxes,
is expected to crunch 730 billion calculations per second at peak performance.
It fits into two computing cabinets, each about the size of a large
refrigerator, at UT's Texas Advanced Computing Center, which runs the school's
five supercomputers.

The new computer replaces an existing IBM machine named Longhorn.

Researchers such as Byron Tapley, a UT aerospace engineering professor, say the
new computer will aid the school's work on global climate change. UT already has
used satellite data to develop a "static gravity-field map" of Earth that is
important for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Gravity
Recovery and Climate Experiment.

The more accurate map is expected to help measure changes in Earth's major ocean
currents, polar ice masses and masses of water in large river basins and
underground aquifers.

The extra performance from the system will be important in handling the huge
computation requirements for the climate-change project, Tapley said.

The computer also will be used in a variety of science and engineering research,
including biomedicine, aerodynamics and electromagnetism, said Tinsley Oden,
director of UT's Institute for Computational Engineering and Science, a longtime
user of the Texas Advanced Computer Center.

IBM says the basic building block of the supercomputers, called the p5-575
server, is used in a variety of high-performance machines involved in gene
research, automobile crash testing, petroleum exploration and oceanographic,
atmospheric and energy studies.

IBM, which has close ties to UT, is the leading supercomputer maker, having
built 44 percent of the machines on the Top 500 Supercomputer List of the
world's most powerful machines. The computer maker began installing the machine
early this month, and the computing center's experts will begin testing it in
February.

"We are anxious to get on it," said Tommy Minyard, assistant director for
advanced computing systems at the computing center.

The computer will be available to UT researchers by the end of March. It
replaces a 4 1/2-year-old IBM Power4-based system that will be decommissioned
shortly after the new machine is brought up. The old machine probably will be
sold or donated to another Texas school.

"Four-and-a-half years is a very long life for a supercomputer," Minyard said,
adding that a large group of UT researchers has been asking for an upgraded IBM
machine for the past two years. Some researchers prefer the IBM system because
their software code is "tuned" to run better on that company's pSeries Unix
computers, Minyard said.

The old machine had more theoretical total performance than the new machine, but
it was less flexible and efficient. Typically, researchers at UT are given
access to a portion of a large computer, perhaps 8 or 16 microprocessors, at any
one time.

The performance per processor of the new computer is higher, which means
researchers will get their results back more quickly. The computer also is
smaller and more power efficient than the old one: It fits in two computer
racks, compared with the 10 racks that house the older computer.

UT did not disclose the sale price of the machine. IBM typically sells computers
the size of Champion for more than $1 million. But Big Blue and other computer
makers usually give price discounts on high-end computer sales to universities,
partly because they value the feedback they get from researchers.

"We have a collaborative environment and a longstanding partnership with TACC,"
said Karl Freund, IBM vice president for pSeries computers. "Having feedback
from local researchers is an extreme benefit to us."

The computing center says it ranks among the top 10 advanced computing centers
at American universities.

kladendorf@statesman.com; 445-3622

(box)

UT's supercomputers

IBM Power5 System

Nickname: Champion

Processors: 96

Peak performance: 730 billion operations per second

Cray-Dell Linux Cluster

Nickname: Lonestar

Processors: 1,024

Peak performance: 6.3 trillion operations per second

Apple Xserve G5 Cluster

Nickname: Stampede

Processors: 32

Peak performance: 256 billion operations per second

Dell Linux Cluster

Nickname: Wrangler

Processors: 756

Peak performance: 4.1 trillion operations per second

Sun E25k

Nickname: Maverick

Processors: 128

Peak performance: 268 billion operations per second

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tommy Minyard, assistant director at UT's Texas Advanced Computing
Center, works with the university's newest supercomputer, named Champion in
recognition of the football team's Rose Bowl win. The computer, which replaces
an existing IBM Corp. machine, will be available to researchers by the end of
March.
IBM's Champion will replace Longhorn, right, a Power4-based machine with 224
processors and peak performance of 1.16 trillion operations per second.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               7 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Austin as we know it fading

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 872 words


Within the next century, hotter weather in Central Texas will lead to longer
droughts, the amount of water making its way into the Edwards Aquifer will drop,
crops may wither, and the tree line that divides lush East Texas and bone-dry
West Texas - it now sits along Interstate 35 - might push east. Austin, in
short, could start looking a lot like San Angelo.

Those predictions are part of a report on global warming and Texas published
today by Environmental Defense, an advocacy group. The authors say they wrote
the report to urge lawmakers to make rules that cut down on emissions of
greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming.

Texas can expect "more heat waves, worse air quality, increased risk of disease,
droughts, wildfires and coastal erosion," warned the report, titled "Fair
Warning: Global Warming and the Lone Star State."

The report acknowledges that the scenarios it presents are "not a guaranteed
list of date-certain predictions," and, indeed, the report is peppered with
woulds, coulds, likelys and mays. But the authors say that global warming has
already begun and that climate change will not be stopped unless there is local
and international action to curtail emission of greenhouse gases.

"As the nation's leading carbon emitter," conclude the authors, "Texas has a
moral responsibility to its citizens and its neighbors to show leadership by
reducing our carbon footprint and doing what we can to slow the consequences of
global warming."

The report suggests that the Legislature assemble a task force to examine how
the state can lower greenhouse gas emissions and turn the fight against global
warming into a business opportunity, such as boosting state help for investment
in renewable energy; offering incentives to companies that offer cash rebates to
employees who forego a parking spot and take other forms of transportation to
work; encouraging auto insurance rates based on miles driven; and boosting
energy efficiency standards for new buildings.

The report paints a bleak picture of Texas' future, especially along its
coastline. The sea level will rise, threatening low-lying communities along
Texas' coast and destroying species that rely on coastal ecosystems. A 1-foot
increase in sea levels would cover about 400 square miles of Texas coast,
displacing many of the 1.6 million coastal county residents and flooding barrier
islands, according to the report.

But while there is wide consensus in the scientific community that the Earth is
undergoing significant climate change, and most scientists think humans are
partly responsible, many warn that climate models are not finely enough tuned to
predict global warming's effect on a state-by-state basis.

"Climate models are not capable of giving you useful information (about global
warming) on a state-size basis," said John Christy, the climatologist for
Alabama.

"The sea level has been rising since the last ice age, 18,000 years ago," said
Christy, who said the Gulf sea level is rising at the rate of 1 inch per decade,
"and it will continue to rise until next one."

"A lot of things we have done to the natural environment have had a bigger
impact than global warming," said John Nielsen-Gammon, the climatologist for
Texas. "We've had groundwater pumping, oil pumping and changing of the
coastline. They've had a much bigger effect than we would expect global warming
to this point would have."

But many environmental groups have made global warming their main issue, and
they claim major weather events - like Hurricane Katrina or a record-setting
100-degree day in April in Austin - are tied to global warming.

"Not every day is going to be warmer than every day in the past," said Colin
Rowan, one of the report's authors. "But it's going to be warmer and drier for
most of the state of Texas."

The higher temperatures would strain water resources and electric utilities,
many of which draw their power from plants that emit greenhouse gases in the
first place.

"More power from dirty plants is going to make it worse," he said.

Scientists warn that increasing temperatures will lead to higher water
evaporation rates around Central Texas, ultimately affecting even the tiniest of
species.

"Ponds and lakes and streams will have less water in them," said John Matthews,
a University of Texas graduate student who studies ecology and who spoke at a
recent conference sponsored by Environmental Defense. "You have some unusual
groups of organisms in these bodies of water that will be very seriously
stressed and some years may disappear from the region."

Dragonflies, for instance, are vulnerable to rapid decline. The insects sit near
the top of the food chain in aquatic systems and are instrumental in regulating
animals like mosquitoes, Matthews said.

Change may be visible for Austinites, as well, said Gerald North, a climate
scientist at Texas A&M University.

"West Texas will simply be drier than it is now, if that's possible," he said.
"The tree line will simply move to the east." College Station will look like
Austin, and Austin will look like cities to the west.

"Water will become increasingly expensive," he predicted. "But it doesn't mean
the end of Austin: A lot of people live in Phoenix."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Texas backs EPA in high court case

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 802 words


It's not much of a stretch to say global warming policy will be on trial at the
U.S. Supreme Court today.

Twelve states are squaring off against the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
which they say has failed to do its job by refusing to limit emissions of carbon
dioxide, a heat-trapping greenhouse gas.

But in Texas, where the state climatologist says global warming is a pressing
concern and scientists say the Gulf Coast could be flooded within the century,
the attorney general has joined a smaller coalition of states that sides with
the EPA, which says the gas is not a dangerous air pollutant.

The Texas attorney general's office did not even consult the state's
environmental agency before signing onto the legal brief submitted to the high
court, according to one of the agency's commissioners.

"The State of Texas' intervention in this case wasn't derived from any formal
request" from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, said Larry Soward,
one of three members of the commission. "This agency did not ask the attorney
general to intervene in the lawsuit on our behalf, nor have we been involved.

"It's routine or common course for the agency with regulatory authority to be
integrally involved. And that hasn't been the case."

The attorney general's office and the governor's office refused to comment on
the case.

Texas is the No. 1 emitter of carbon dioxide nationally, with roughly a third
coming from tailpipes, a third from industries and a third from utilities.

"The states signing up on different sides reflects realities in the states,"
said Jared Snyder, a lawyer with the New York attorney general's office who has
worked on the case. "We in the Northeast are trying to ratchet down carbon
dioxide."

The case, Massachusetts v. EPA, boils down to whether the agency should regulate
carbon dioxide emitted by new cars in an effort to curb global climate change.
In 2003, a band of 12 states, most of them from the Northeast and the West
Coast, asked the EPA to regulate the gases under the federal Clean Air Act.

The EPA refused, and the states, which claim they face real threats, including
the flooding of coastal areas, sued.

Carbon dioxide is a "major contributor to climate change globally and locally,"
said John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist for Texas and a professor of
meteorology at Texas A&M University. Emissions of carbon dioxide are "a
legitimate cause of concern."

Texas decided not to stay out of the case - as a bunch of others did - and
signed onto a brief circulated by the State of Michigan, the home of U.S.
automakers, which argues that the Clean Air Act should not address carbon
dioxide emissions because much of the gas is emitted by foreign nations.

The Clean Air Act, the nine states argue in the amicus brief, does not
"authorize EPA to set emission standards that will not meaningfully address an
air quality issue like global climate change," which is caused primarily by "CO2
and other greenhouse gas emissions from outside of the United States."

"Instead, the Act is designed to actually achieve air quality goals that will
effectively protect public health and welfare through U.S. emission reductions."

Regulation of carbon dioxide emissions would put industry - especially the auto
industry - at a competitive disadvantage, said Rusty Hills, a spokesman for the
Michigan attorney general's office.

"The developed world already has more pollution controls than the Second World
or Third World," Hills said. "If industry needed to do more to comply, it could
further adversely affect industries in competition."

The Bush administration is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, EPA
spokeswoman Jennifer Wood said.

But the White House prefers voluntary actions by industry rather than federal
regulation to curtail emissions.

Although the case is strictly about vehicle emissions, it could have
implications for other industries if carbon dioxide is found to be a chemical
the EPA should regulate.

Texas has gained national attention, for instance, for plans by utility
companies to build coal-fired power plants, which would add about 115 million
tons of carbon dioxide annually into the atmosphere. The carbon dioxide
emissions from 11 of the new plants, proposed by TXU Corp., would be the
equivalent of adding 10 million Cadillac Escalades on the road, according to the
nonprofit Environmental Defense.

Texas Gov. Rick Perry has supported the plant proposals and has been routinely
attacked by environmentalists because of it, despite the state's taking a lead
in renewable energy generation.

"Texas is one of the few places that refuses to be part of the discussion in how
to limit emissions," said Colin Rowan, a spokesman for Environmental Defense.
"We should hold ourselves accountable to how much we emit."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Global warming hits high court

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 580 words


WASHINGTON - A group of states joined environmentalists and two electric power
companies Wednesday in asking the Supreme Court to order the Environmental
Protection Agency to consider restricting emissions of carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases from motor vehicles.

Arguing on their behalf in the first global warming case to come before the
court, Massachusetts Assistant Attorney General James Milkey said that rising
levels of greenhouse gases are already causing erosion of his state's coastline.

Lawyers for the government, automobile manufacturers and several other states,
including Texas, counter that the EPA does not have authority to regulate
heat-trapping greenhouse gases, and that even if it did, it could simply refuse
to do so.

Deputy U.S. Solicitor General Gregory Garre told the justices that the problem
of global warming is so complicated that Massachusetts and other plaintiffs are
unable to show that they are being harmed by the EPA's refusal to address it.

This question of whether the states have ''standing'' to bring the case
dominated an hour of oral arguments.

Several of the justices hammered plaintiffs with questions about their right to
bring the suit.

Justice Antonin Scalia questioned whether plaintiffs were able to show they were
about to suffer ''imminent harm'' because of climate change.

''When? I mean, when is the predicted cataclysm?'' Scalia asked.

Milkey replied that rather than ''cataclysm,'' global warming poses a threat of
''ongoing harm.''

''Once these gases are emitted into the area, they stay a long time,'' he said.
''The laws of physics take over.''

Others questioned the government's argument that climate change is surrounded by
too much uncertainty to justify government regulation.

''Would you be up here saying the same thing if we're trying to regulate child
pornography, and it turns out that anyone with a computer can get pornography
elsewhere?'' asked Justice Stephen Breyer. ''I don't think so.''

Justices David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and John Paul Stevens joined Breyer
in challenging the government arguments, while Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justice Samuel Alito seemed to side with Scalia.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often pictured as the emerging ''swing vote'' on the
court, questioned both sides about the issue of legal standing.

Justice Clarence Thomas did not speak during the arguments.

The case developed out of a petition filed with the EPA in 1999 by the
International Center for Technology Assessment, a small and relatively obscure
nonprofit group founded in 1994.

The EPA turned down the petition and was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals.

Garre argued that the EPA carefully considered its regulatory authority and
concluded that Congress has not authorized regulation of greenhouse gas
emissions.

''And even if it has, now is not the time to exercise such authority, in light
of the substantial scientific uncertainty surrounding global climate change,''
Garre said.

Scalia declared that carbon dioxide is a pollutant but that it does not pollute
''what we normally call air.''

''Your assertion is that after the pollutant leaves the air and goes up into the
stratosphere, it is contributing to global warming,'' Scalia said.

Milkey said the problem was in the troposphere, the lowest layer of the Earth's
atmosphere.

''Troposphere, whatever,'' Scalia snapped. ''I told you before I am not a
scientist. That's why I don't want to have to deal with global warming, to tell
you the truth.''

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1055 words


American baseball is going global, and that's good

I am not certain that I understand the point of David Sarasohn's March 27
column, "U.S. squad far from being best in the 'Wa'," which was about the World
Baseball Classic, but it seems that he was really upset that the United States
did not field the winning team.

It appears that Major League Baseball's efforts to grow the game and fan base
internationally is working quite well.

Apparently Sarasohn doesn't embrace that idea. And if MLB continues to grow,
someday there will be international baseball leagues affiliated with MLB that
will compete for a more expanded World Series championship.

Sarasohn had better get used to the idea. Baseball fans all over the world were
able to watch some great baseball and get a look at some great baseball talent,
including Cuba.

The final game between Cuba and Japan was a thrill to watch. To the true sports
fan, protocol is to congratulate the winners and applaud the efforts of the
losers. I suspect that Sarasohn is not a fan. He's just a journalist who is
trying to stir the pot by giving us some unconstructive criticism. In closing,
nowhere else in the world is cultural and ethnic diversity encouraged and
embraced more than in the United States. Sarasohn had better get used to that
idea.

JAY K. SHIFFLER

Georgetown

Global warming myths

Re: March 26 editorial, "On global warming, waiting will only cost us":

The hysteria of global warming emerges from ideologically driven
environmentalists, not from science and facts. Their dubious science and
distortions of anthropogenic global warming were prevalent in the editorial.

Our human impact on global warming is only one of many factors, largely natural,
that drive climate change. A range of natural factors affect the Earth's climate
, including the changing orbits of the planets, fluctuations in the sun's
intensity and earth's volcanic activity.

Our stratospheric ozone is constantly created and destroyed by solar radiation
at a much greater rate than the small change caused by human activity. Even if
we stopped all human carbon dioxide-generating activity today, this would not
change what occurs naturally on a much larger scale. The eco-rhetoric of
man-caused global warming doom is pseudoscience.

MICHAEL FRIENDS

Round Rock

DINKS are the problem

Anyone walking the streets of central South Austin realizes the extent of its
recent gentrification. The collars of Travis Heights and Bouldin Creek are
whiter today than ever before. I would suggest that gentrification in itself is
not evil, it is merely a byproduct of economic prosperity. But with it comes a
highly mobile, highly transitional population that has little interest in
building communities.

This population is commonly referred to as DINKs (dual-income, no kids), and I
am one of them. We're the reason the Austin school district wants to shut down
Becker Elementary.

We want to raise our families here, but the current state of Zilker and Becker
elementaries makes us hesitant. And since we are mobile, with little interest in
building communities, the solution is clear - move to Westlake's district when
the kids turn 5.

Some may scoff at my claims, but how often do you see middle-school aged
children playing in these neighborhoods?

There are some willing to make the emotional and physical investments necessary
to rebuild these schools. They are the ones showing up at school board meetings
to protest school closures.

RAD TOLLETT

Austin

Give schools a chance

Thank you to the Austin school board trustees for the tie vote, which leaves the
fates of Becker and Oak Springs elementary schools open.

I have lived in the Bouldin Creek neighborhood 11 years and appreciate its
diversity. The spokespersons for Becker at Monday's board meeting spoke to that
diversity. Some of us are relative newcomers but can identify with the history
of the neighborhood and the school.

Becker spokespersons came out in force. Oak Springs didn't have wide
representation. But the children in these schools are meeting and overcoming
similar odds. Students in both schools have records of achievement.

Let's help our neighbors at Becker and Oak Springs. Mention is made of the
school district "serving 81,000 pupils." But helping one is helping all.

Both schools deserve time to regroup and meet larger expectations.

ANN KRISS

Austin

City is not helping out

I am an owner at the Villas on Town Lake in the Rainey Street Neighborhood,
which was rezoned to encourage high density development. For 24 years, the
Villas had fire/emergency vehicle access through the east and south gates. The
east gate will soon be shared with the Shore Condos and a 22-story hotel, both
developed by Trammell Crow.

The south gate is shared with the Mexican American Cultural Center. In spite of
a promise by the city to provide fire access, the cultural center's design
ignored this. Recently, the city removed a fire hydrant from the site instead of
moving it onto our property.

Also, no consideration has been given to traffic that will be entering and
leaving our shared front entrance. After supporting the city to rezone the
neighborhood, we deserve better.

MARCO SCHNEIDER

Austin

It's OK to be called 'ma'am'

Re: March 27 commentary by Helen Bryant Anders, "Don't you 'young lady' me":

Anders' commentary on being called a "young lady" makes me wonder how much fun
she is to be around.

For every one of her grumpy friends who hate being called "young lady," "sir,"
"hon" or "ma'am," I am sure there are many people who like the friendly spirit
that is intended. Maybe wearing a name tag would solve the problem. Anders must
have a pretty decent life (although negative) if this is all she has to complain
about. Smile. Life is good.

JANINE M. KOCH

Austin

Editor's note: Anders received several letters that missed that she was trying
to be humorous. She says she is fun to be around and she said, "Whatever. I've
long had a thick skin."

Lileks' foolishness

In his March 23 column, "Conveniently downplaying Saddam's crimes," James Lileks
makes the "hard left" out to be al Qaeda's fellow traveler, the modern
equivalent of Cold-War "pinko."

Honestly, reading some of the characterizations, I wonder whom he is talking
about? Among many foolish statements, this one stands out: "The hard left simply
wants to glue horns on Bush." Not horns - just a dunce's hat.

GERALD KAISER

Austin

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Billionaire to invest in global warming fight

BYLINE: David Ho NEW YORK BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 680 words


NEW YORK - British entrepreneur Richard Branson said Thursday that over the next
decade, he will invest $3 billion in expected profits from his airline and train
businesses into alternative fuel research to fight global warming.

It would be one of the biggest contributions ever to a specific cause and could
be the largest private donation to climate change research, experts said.

Branson, 56, a billionaire known for his Virgin brand of companies and
globe-hopping adventures, made the announcement during the second day of the
Clinton Global Initiative, a three-day summit founded by the former U.S.
president that brings together political, business and nonprofit group leaders
to combat global ills.

''Our generation has inherited an incredibly beautiful world from our parents
and they from their parents,'' Branson said. ''We must not be the generation
responsible for irreversibly damaging the environment.''

Branson's plan would funnel profits into creating alternatives to fuels such as
oil and coal, which produce carbon dioxide when burned. Scientists have linked
that heat-trapping gas to a warming climate.

Earlier this month, Branson launched Virgin Fuels to invest $400 million in
renewable energy over three years. Its first investment was in a California
company that plans to build and operate ethanol plants. Ethanol can be made from
corn and is used as an alternative to gasoline.

Branson said the idea for his $3 billion plan formed after former Vice President
Al Gore, who has long warned of the dangers of global warming, visited him in
England several months ago. Branson said Gore told him: ''You're in the position
where you can make a grand gesture, and maybe that can encourage other companies
to make grand gestures as well.''

''I've only woken up to the real potential catastrophe this world faces in the
last three years,'' Branson said later at the summit. ''We're in the airline
business and the train business and do our fair share of damage to the
environment.''

Airline industry experts questioned whether Branson will be able to follow
through on using all of his expected profits for the research.

''It's a very admirable idea, but does it mean he's not going to have a rainy
day fund?'' asked Tim Sieber, vice president of aviation consulting firm the
Boyd Group.

Sieber said that if there is another event like the Sept. 11 attacks, a disease
outbreak that affects travel or ''suddenly there is a real revenue hit and he
needs the cash flow to maintain the business, then all bets are off.''

Branson's plan is part of a trend of nontraditional giving, said Stacy Palmer,
editor of the Chronicle of Philanthropy. She said the ultrarich, particularly
people in technology industries, have turned toward investing in businesses to
do good rather than donating to charity.

She said Branson's private donation is also unusual for its focus on climate
change.

''While certainly there is interest in global warming, it has not received a lot
of money,'' she said. ''I can't think of anybody who has committed such a big
amount of money to that cause.''

On Thursday, Branson's pledge brought the commitment total at Clinton's annual
summit to $5.7 billion in funds and programs, more than double the $2.5 billion
promised last year.

The Clinton summit has also focused on fighting poverty, improving global health
and resolving religious conflicts.

''Richard's commitment is groundbreaking, not only because of the price tag -
which is phenomenal - but also because of the statement that he is making:
'Clean energy is good for the world, and it's good for business,' '' Clinton
said.

dho@coxnews.com

Other major gifts

announced this month

* The founders of Google will commit $1 billion to a for-profit philanthropic
operation that will fund startups, form partnerships with venture capitalists
and support the creation of a superefficient hybrid car engine.

* Microsoft founder Bill Gates' philanthropic foundation and the Rockefeller
Foundation are partners in an effort to fight hunger in Africa, with an initial
$150 million pledge to improve farming productivity.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. H02

LENGTH: 1032 words


Is development 'desirable'?

The May 26 article "Landmark Tex-Mex eatery might be replaced by high-rise"
about redevelopment of the Congress Avenue block that houses Las Manitas, quotes
city employee Michael Knox saying it is "inevitable and certainly desirable"
that the property be redeveloped. A May 27 correction suggests that Knox did not
mean to say that the displacement of businesses in that block was also
inevitable.

"Inevitable" is not the issue here, but his belief that redevelopment of that
block is "desirable" certainly is an issue.

I hardly think that it is the job of a city employee to promote the tearing down
of perfectly fine old buildings filled with viable and successful businesses.

His quote implies we are talking about some falling-down eyesore that demands
civic attention, which couldn't be further from the truth. Our downtown is a
delightful mix of old and new, and if Knox wants to get in the redevelopment
game, he should not do it on my dime as a taxpayer.

JACKSON WILLIAMS

Austin

Austin needs Las Manitas

Las Manitas is one of the few remaining Austin establishments that has helped
define this city as a place where diverse ideas and people have a comfortable
place to mingle. How many more losses can we sustain without losing our soul?

CAROL MOCZYGEMBA

Austin

Still looking for prosperity

The May 26 article "3 on City Council warm to proposal of tax rate bump"
described how three council members are supporting a tax increase because, as
Brewster McCracken said, "We want to take the prosperity we're experiencing and
put it to work for the community."

What about we retirees who are not experiencing prosperity?

It is admirable that the council members want to restore cuts, but everyone
might not be experiencing this supposed prosperity. And, being an former city
employee herself, Betty Dunkerley should know better than anyone. As a retired
state employee and also a city employee, I have not seen a pay increase in
several years. I have seen no prosperity.

Ms. Dunkerley, if you want to reinstate previous cuts, how about doing something
for the retired city employees first?

LEO O. MUELLER, JR.

Austin

He can tell the future

It is apparent to me after reading Jim Marston's global warming opinion piece
(May 29, "Texas has to confront global warming - now") that he is quite adept at
predicting the future for Texans.

In light of his extrordinary abilities, is it possible that he could send me the
winning lottery numbers for next week's drawings?

While we are seeking the advice of this mighty prognosticator, could he possibly
predict what our new effective tax rate will be after our local taxing entities
roll back the rates due to the increased property appraisals (like they raised
them when the evaluations fell)? These two predictions should be a piece of cake
for someone with Marston's foresight.

BART FRANKLIN

Austin

Bush admitted nothing

The news is all atwitter over President Bush and Tony Blair actually
acknowledging that they just possibly may have not done everything perfectly.
Journalists have pointed to this as a breakthrough in Bush's communication and
attitude.

Alas, regretting "Bring them on" or Abu Ghraib does not begin to acknowledge the
immense pyramid of error committed by our leader and his "poodle." No mention is
made of the lies and arrogance that brought us there.

Bush's speech was no admission of anything. It was a carefully spun attempt to
defuse some of the country's anger about his ghastly missteps while confining
his acknowledgement of error to a few inconsequential, relatively meaningless
matters; a feeble, disingenuous attempt at a public relations coup.

JOHN ROBEY

Austin

Help teachers teach

I'd like to say that while the challenges of teaching low-income students may be
great, the joys are greater. In addition, the school district could take some
simple steps to help teachers (and maybe lose fewer of them): eliminate
redundant paperwork; improve the quality of staff development; cut out useless
meetings; allow time for teachers to plan and craft quality lessons; and provide
greater access to quality materials.

Pat Forgione's hackneyed idea to add performance-based incentives is horrific.
The money would be better spent to lower class size or add more reading
specialists. I know we can begin to find real solutions to our problems when the
administration truly values and listens to teachers.

LYNNE LIVELY

Austin

Antone loved blues, kids

Clifford Antone, Austin's Ambassador to the Blues, was a giant of a man. He gave
budding musicians opportunity and support while simultaneously promoting the
"Great Ones." As any ambassador would, he frequented neighborhood restaurants
and clubs making downtown Austin "his neighborhood." When Clifford supported a
cause, businesses and fans did too. He helped anyone in need.

But it was his love for the kids that made me take notice of the man. Clifford
adopted American YouthWorks and raised funds for Odyssey School, opening his
club for a fundraiser and bringing in stars Marcia Ball, Ruthie Foster and Rob
Roy Parnell. When he worked with me on the auction, he always added, "Do it for
the kids." People couldn't say no to this gentle man with an easy smile.

CYNTHIA HIGH

Dripping Springs

c.high@zeecon.com

Just 17 millionaires?

It is hard to believe that you actually published an editorial (May 16,
"Millions of reasons to enjoy going to work") based on the highly inaccurate and
flawed New York Times story about the 17 Southwest Airlines millionaires. It
just shows what a smattering of knowledge can screw up. The quoted figure of 17
was not the number of Southwest employee millionaires, but rather that there are
still 17 hostesses (flight attendants to you) from the original 1971 class of 38
hostesses who are still flying and, of course, are all millionaires, along with
thousands of other current and retired Southwest employees. Actually I
understand that there is not a 20-year employee of the company who is not a
millionaire. A pilot friend of mine reached his retirement age of 60 in 2003
after flying with Southwest for 30 years and walked away with $8,000,000 of
Southwest stock.

M. LAMAR MUSE

Founding CEO of Southwest Airlines

Fredericksburg

lamarmuse@earthlink.net

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

University of Texas making great strides in diversifying campus

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 559 words


Kudos to the University of Texas for making record gains this year in attracting
thousands of the state's brightest and best minority students. That is good for
Texas - a state whose minority population has become the majority.

Preliminary enrollment figures are encouraging: Enrollment of black students is
up by 28 students. With that increase, black students number 1,939. A record
number of Hispanic students - 7,453 - also are enrolled this year.

Those numbers seem small when compared to UT's total student enrollment of
nearly 50,000 students or when compared with figures that show that Hispanics
make up 35 percent of Texas' population; blacks, 11 percent; and other
minorities, 5 percent. Even so, the figures signal something much bigger: For
the first time in a decade, the total enrollment for black students is higher
than it was in 1996. That was the year black enrollment reached a record high of
1,911. It was also the year that the Hopwood court ruling - named after
plaintiff Cheryl Hopwood - barred UT and other state universities from using
affirmative action policies to recruit and admit students. The court case and
its fallout caused enrollment of African Americans and Hispanics to plunge.

It has taken a decade for African American enrollment to fully rebound at UT.
Enrollment for Hispanic students bounced back faster after UT was legally
prohibited from using affirmative action to recruit and admit students. Since
2002, Hispanic enrollment exceeded pre-Hopwood levels.

There's no doubt that Texas was the loser as some of its most gifted students
went out of state to attend college and pursue their careers. We'll never know
how many scientists, engineers, doctors, lawyers, nurses and teachers Texas were
lost to states whose universities were more welcoming to minorities.

The Legislature moved swiftly and wisely to curb the brain drain by passing a
law that required the state's selective universities to guarantee admission to
students who finish high school in the top 10 percent of their class, regardless
of their scores on college entrance exams, such as the SAT or the ACT. The 1997
law has helped students across racial and economic lines, boosting enrollment of
Hispanics from South Texas high schools as well as white students from more
rural areas.

The top 10 percent law has worked well. It rewards merit and effort.
Unfortunately, the law, alone, didn't change a climate at UT that was
unwelcoming for minorities, particularly black students. UT deserves credit for
facing the problem without excuses, then moving to change it. The university,
under the leadership of former UT President Larry Faulkner, began making changes
that improved the racial climate, including hiring Gregory Vincent, who became
the school's first vice president of diversity, and recommending that
Confederate statues be moved from their prominent West Campus home.

The university also began using affirmative action again after the U.S. Supreme
Court upheld limited use of those policies in 2003. UT President William Powers
Jr. has vowed to continue making diversity a top priority. That is good for UT
and for Texas.

It's not hard to envision a Texas where Hispanics are the largest ethnic group.
That still is years away. But Texas won't be competitive in future years if it
does not graduate more minority kids from its top colleges.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2006



CORRECTION: In Tuesday's editorial, "University of Texas making great strides in
diversifying campus," we incorrectly portrayed recommendations regarding the
Confederate Statues on campus by stating that former University of Texas
president Larry Faulkner recommended moving the statues from West campus.

We should have said that before stepping down as president, Faulkner recommended
forming a committee that would study various options regarding the Confederate
statues on the South campus. Those options included rearranging the statues so
as to fulfill the intentions of the original artist in 1920 by rearranging them
in a single place on campus in a pavilion or moving them to a different
location, according to a spokesman for the university. To date, no action has
been taken.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 23, 2006 Monday

Is Austin unfit?;
Some saywe're not the fittest city around. (Gasp!) Mayor has plans to change
that

BYLINE: Pam LeBlanc, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1811 words


Seattle, Denver, Baltimore, Honolulu. All more fit than Austin? Come on.

One look at runners toiling away along the Town Lake hike-and-bike trail and you
know Austin's got a thing for fitness.

Our city hosts more than 90 organized runs a year. We've got a mayor who has
made fitness a priority. The city spawned the Marathon Kids program, in which
school-aged children run a cumulative marathon over six months and fill out fuel
logs that encourage them to eat fruits and vegetables. We're home to the Texas
Round-Up, a fitness festival with participants from around the state. And Austin
boasts multiple locations of Whole Foods and Central Market, meccas for folks
looking for fresh and organic foods.

Yet in its just-out 2006 listings, Men's Fitness magazine ranks Baltimore the
No. 1 fittest and Austin the 23rd fittest city in the country, down from 19th in
2005 and 2004. It was those rankings two years ago that inspired Mayor Will Wynn
vow to put our city at the top of the list by this year.

Didn't happen. And while Wynn admits to eating a little humble pie because of
his prediction, he thinks he's onto something better -- the Austin Fitness
Index, devised with help from the national Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

Earlier this month, Wynn and the Mayor's Fitness Council, formed in 2004,
unveiled their index for ranking the healthiest cities in the country. Austin is
way down on the debut list at No. 13, but the mayor says the index is a fairer
challenge.

"I'm happy (Men's Fitness) raised awareness and has the rankings, but there
really should be a more objective, scientific benchmark," Wynn says.

The Austin Fitness Index ranks communities based on four "pillars of health":
physical activity, nutrition, healthy weight and tobacco use. The index uses
statistics provided by the highly regarded CDC.

Scoring 68.2 out of a possible 100 points, Austin ranks 13th among the 15 cities
in the initial Austin Fitness Index analysis.

But look out, Wynn says. Only five points separate us from list-topping Seattle.
And he's on a mission to make sure we get there -- by 2010.

"As much as we talk about live music, and as much as UT defines this city,
physical activity and outdoor recreation are part of the fundamental character
of Austin," Wynn says.

Why we're not No. 1

But first, back to Men's Fitness.

The nationally distributed magazine annually compiles a list of the country's
fittest cities, comparing them in more than a dozen categories. These include
the number of health clubs, the number of fast-food restaurants, television
viewing, health care availability and the number of public basketball courts,
tennis courts, golf courses and swimming pools per capita. Also factored in are
statewide statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on
obesity and sedentary behavior.

But this year, Editor Neal Boulton threw in some new criteria. The changes --
which include more emphasis on commute time -- didn't bode well for Austin.

"Commute times are a killer," Boulton says. They mean higher stress levels and
more tired (and less likely to exercise) people. They also mean a population
more likely to succumb to the lure of fast food, says Boulton, who says he sent
a reporter to Austin to research the list.

According to the magazine, sports participation in Austin is down from last
year, the number of overweight folks has increased and alcohol consumption is
up. (All those football-watching parties, perhaps?) We have few public
basketball courts and more than one in four residents admits to not having any
real physical activity in the past month. On the good side, the magazine says we
have plenty of public swimming pools, health-food stores and sporting-goods
stores.

Cities all over Texas have a preponderance of fast-food restaurants and higher
television viewership than cities in other parts of the country. Our "big
honkin' cars," as Boulton puts it, slurp gas, leaving us with less disposable
income. And fast food is cheap.

Baltimore, on the other hand, expanded its roads, dropped its average commute
time and added acreage to its park system in the last year.

We shouldn't feel too bad, though. Just making the fittest-city list in a state
where nearly every other big city appears on the countering fattest-cities list
is an accomplishment. (Woe to Dallas, Houston, El Paso and San Antonio, which
rank fourth, fifth, eighth and 12th fattest in 2006.)

"Given your mayor's tenacity, I'm positive you guys will move up," Boulton says.
"Austin is great; it's as much an example for America as Baltimore. I'd love to
give a big Texas award to Austin, because you're in the minority within that
state."

Austin shows up in other rankings, too. In Men's Health magazine's December 2005
list of the "100 Best (and Worst) Cities for Men," Austin was ranked third
behind San Francisco and Honolulu, earning an A-plus in health, B-minus in
quality of life and an A in fitness, for a final grade of A-plus. The Austin-San
Marcos area also ranked 39th in Self magazine's list of America's Healthiest
Places.

Get off your duff

The Mayor's Fitness Council, headed by fitness guru Paul Carrozza, owner of the
RunTex group of stores, has been at work for more than a year to get more people
in Austin exercising and eating right.

The council immediately teamed with Steps to a Healthier Austin, a federally
funded program that aims to prevent diabetes, obesity and asthma by discouraging
poor nutrition, physical inactivity and tobacco use. It also created a Web site
to encourage people to be more active: www.austininmotion .com.

Then the fitness council decided it could do a better job of ranking the fitness
levels than a magazine. And so it created the Austin Fitness Index.

The index uses a 100-point scale, with a possible 25 points in each of the four
categories. Each pillar is one of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention's Healthy People 2010 goals, a set of 10 "leading health indicators"
that are broken into 467 specific health objectives for the entire nation. To
earn all 25 points in the Austin Fitness Index, a city must meet the
corresponding Healthy People 2010 national goals.

For example, one of the CDC's goals is to increase the percentage of adults who
do moderate exercise for at least 30 minutes a day to 30 percent. Another is to
boost the percentage of people who consume at least two daily servings of fruit
to 75 percent, and increase the percentage of people who eat three servings of
vegetables to 50 percent.

When the fitness council ran the numbers, the top three finishers were Seattle
(73.2), Denver (72.9) and Portland (71.9).

Many Austinites regularly exercise, but more than half the city's adult
population is overweight, putting us short of national goals. And our nutrition
scores are lousy -- we do not eat enough fruits and vegetables.

"From a true fitness standpoint, Austin is a very fit city," Wynn says. "We're
virtually at the CDC's goal. A large percentage of the population is active
enough to be considered at the benchmark."

But according to the August 2004 Austin Behavior Risk Factor Survey, conducted
by the Austin/Travis County Health and Human Services Department for the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, 60 percent of adults here are overweight or
obese. Three-quarters of us eat fewer than the recommended five fruits or
vegetables a day.

"Physical activity isn't our biggest problem," Wynn says. "We should be talking
about nutrition as much as promoting another 5K run."

Austin, with its fat-laden barbecue and Tex-Mex habits, isn't the only city with
low nutrition marks. "Nobody has done exceptionally well in terms of nutritional
habits across the nation," says Dr. Adolfo Valadez, medical director of the
Austin/Travis County Health and Human Services Department and a member of the
Mayor's Fitness Council.

The good news is nutrition is also one of the easiest areas to improve. "Just
eating one additional serving of fruit or vegetable would allow us to obtain
that goal," Valadez says. "It really is that simple."

To remind us to do that, and to jog our collective memories that better health
equals less spending on public health care, the Mayor's Fitness Council is
plotting a marketing campaign. It's also organizing a speakers bureau and
pushing the idea of corporate physical education -- reminding businesses that
they can improve a company's productivity, reduce absenteeism and lower
insurance expenditures by offering their employees time, coaching and support
for exercise programs.

Wynn thinks Austin can improve its overall index score and advance into the top
10 by the end of 2006, and become the fittest city in the nation by 2010. But
it's not the ranking that matters the most, he says; it's about improving health
in our community on a regular basis.

"If we can get the community to do something -- or something more -- for 30
minutes a day, and eat one more fruit or vegetable a day," we can climb in our
rankings, Wynn says.

Be like Will

Wynn, for one, is doing his part to boost the city's fitness level.

He walks to City Hall most days. He runs, 5 miles at a time, five times a week.
He walks to Whole Foods for groceries. And this year's resolutions include
competing in the Capital of Texas Triathlon, shaving 5 minutes off his time in
the American-Statesman Capitol 10,000, cooking at home more often and eating
more fruits and vegetables.

With that as an example, Baltimore doesn't have a chance.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

(box)

How does Austin rate on its own index?

Austin Fitness Index calculations for select cities (25 points per category
possible; 100 is perfect score)

Seattle 73.2

Denver 72.9

Portland, Ore. 71.9

Boston 71.3

Tucson, Ariz. 71.1

Albuquerque, N.M. 71.0

Colorado Springs, Colo. 70.9

San Francisco 70.9

Minneapolis 70.8

San Diego 70.1

Milwaukee 70.0

Virginia Beach, Va. 68.9

Austin 68.2

Fresno, Calif. 67.6

Sacramento, Calif. 65.6

(box)

1. Baltimore

Fitness centers/Sporting goods stores: F

Nutrition: B

Exercise/Sports participation: F+

Alcohol: D-

TV watching: B

Overweight/sedentary: C+

Junk food: A-

Air: A

Climate: D

Geography: B-

Commute: D+

Parks/Open space: A-

Recreation facilities: B-

Health care: A

2. Honolulu

Fitness centers/Sporting goods stores: B+

Nutrition: A

Exercise/Sports participation: C-

Alcohol: C

TV watching: B

Overweight/sedentary: A

Junk food: C+

Air: A-

Climate: B

Geography: A

Commute: B+

Parks/Open space: A-

Recreation facilities: A

Health care: B

3. Virginia Beach

Fitness centers/Sporting goods stores: C-

Nutrition: C-

Exercise/Sports participation: D-

Alcohol: D-

TV watching: D

Overweight/sedentary: B

Junk food: B+

Air: A

Climate: B+

Geography: A

Commute: B

Parks/Open space: A-

Recreation facilities: A

Health care: C+

23. Austin

Fitness centers/Sporting goods stores: B+

Nutrition: C-

Exercise/Sports participation: D

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               19 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ice pack melting faster, say scientists

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 401 words


WASHINGTON - The huge Greenland ice pack, which contains 10 percent of all the
ice on Earth, has begun to melt at a dramatically faster rate in the past two
years, scientists said Thursday.

Using data from a pair of NASA satellites that measure small variations in the
Earth's gravity, University of Texas scientists said Greenland is losing ice
into the ocean at the rate of about 57 cubic miles a year.

That would mean a net loss since the summer of 2004 of about as much water as in
Lake Erie.

The same satellites measured a net loss - the amount of ice that melts into the
ocean during the summer, minus the amount that is replaced by winter snows - of
about 20 cubic miles per year during 2002 and 2003.

''It's kind of sobering when you look at the rate Greenland is depositing water
into the ocean,'' said Byron Tapley of the UT Center for Space Research.

The findings confirm other calculations pointing to accelerating Greenland ice
melt, and are consistent with computer models that predict the course of climate
change. They are being reported today in Science Magazine by Tapley and UT
scientists C.R. Wilson and J.L. Chen.

Tapley is chief scientist for the NASA satellite system, known as the Gravity
Recovery and Climate Experiment.

If all of Greenland's ice melted - a process scientists say would take centuries
- the additional water would raise the global sea level by about 20 feet.

In fact, Tapley noted, ocean current alterations that could result from massive
Greenland melting may represent a more imminent danger than sea level rise.
That's because the constant northward movement of water in the Atlantic Ocean
carries heat from the tropics to northern Europe.

Heavy infusions of fresh water into the north Atlantic could shut down this
''heat conveyor,'' scientists fear. Paradoxically, this would cause Europe - and
Greenland - to become much colder for a century or so.

A separate study by 16 international scientists, also published in Science,
concluded that Antarctic snowfall accumulation has remained steady over the past
50 years, with no increases that might have mitigated the melting of the ice
shelf, as some researchers had assumed would occur.

The second paper challenges computer projections that warmer weather in the
southernmost continent will spur greater snowfall accumulation and compensate
for the world's melting ice sheets.

Additional material from the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 2, 2006 Monday

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 980 words


AUSTIN

Fire damages apartment units

A fire started Sunday morning by a woman trying to light a candle in a North
Austin apartment complex left two units damaged and seven people temporarily
displaced.

Five units were vacated at the Fairfield Village Apartments, 824 Fairfield
Drive.

The people evacuated were treated at the scene, Austin Fire Department spokesman
Lt. Palmer Buck said.

The fire started, Buck said, when a woman put a paper towel on a hot oven
burner, hoping to use the flaming towel to light a candle in her room. The towel
caught the bed on fire, however, Buck said.

The fire started about 9:37 a.m. and was declared controlled at 10.

A balmy winter wonderland

Blame global warming if you want. Or just smile and go swimming.

Sunday was the warmest Jan. 1 in Austin's recorded history. While most of the
rest of the country shivered through winter weather, the temperature hit 85
degrees at Camp Mabry, according to the National Weather Service.

That eclipses the previous record high of 82 degrees, set in 1955.

The reason for the warmer temperatures, according to weather service forecaster
Cristy Mitchell, is that winter storms have been traversing the central and
northern parts of the country while winds coming off the Rocky Mountains have
created warm air here.

Hit-and-run kills pedestrian

A pedestrian was killed by a vehicle early Sunday morning, police said.

Police think that the person was struck in the 7400 block of Interstate 35
North, near Anderson Lane. The vehicle did not stop, but witnesses say it might
have been a brown sedan, possibly a Ford Taurus.

The pedestrian's name is not being released pending notification of family.
Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call detectives at
974-5794 or CrimeStoppers at 472-8477.

Police traffic enforcement

Police will be watching for traffic-law violations in these areas today:

Morning:

Manchaca Road, 1200 block of Springdale Road, Interstate 35 from Yager Lane to
Anderson Lane, Exposition Boulevard.

Afternoon:

Howard Lane and I-35.

Austin welcomes year's first baby

Elias and Irma Lopez rang in the new year with Austin's first 2006 baby.

At 12:01 a.m., Irma Lopez gave birth to Jaziel Lopez, a 9-pound, 5-ounce boy.
Nurses at Austin Women's Hospital, where he was born, immediately called around
town and determined that Jaziel was the first child born this year in Austin.

He is the couple's third child. The other two, 10-year old Jonathan and
5-year-old Jacqueline, were born in Corpus Christi.

"They thought they were going to have their first baby in Austin," said Maria
Garcia, a hospital worker helping translate for the family, "not have the first
baby in Austin."

Compiled from staff and wire reports

TEXAS DIGEST

DALLAS

Perry plans Cotton Bowl kickoff

Gov. Rick Perry will kick off his 2006 campaign with a 30-second television ad
that will air during Monday's Cotton Bowl matchup between Texas Tech and
Alabama.

The ad will make its debut only hours after Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn
will announce whether she will challenge Perry in the March Republican primary
or run as an independent.

Either way, she's sure to criticize Perry, as she has been doing for months.

The governor will try to blunt those barbs by touting job creation, lawsuit
reform and higher public school standards in the commercial, which opens with a
field of bluebonnets, a mountainscape and a cattle drive before panning to Perry
on the porch of the Governor's Mansion.

If elected to another four-year term, Perry could hold the governor's office for
10 years, which would make him the longest-serving governor in Texas history.

GRAPEVINE

Storm evacuee kills self, wife, son

A Hurricane Katrina evacuee killed his wife and 14-year-old son with a shotgun
before turning the gun on himself as the family faced eviction from their
apartment for failing to pay rent, police said.

Ryan Peter Ruiz Sr., 40; Kelli Ruiz, 37; and Ryan Peter Ruiz Jr. were found dead
Friday in their apartment in Grapevine, northwest of Dallas, police said. The
couple's 16-year-old daughter, Kirstin Ruiz, was in North Carolina at the time
with friends, police said.

Grapevine police Sgt. Todd Dearing said that the family was supposed to be out
of the apartment Tuesday but that the complex gave the family a few extra days.

The family was receiving aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
Dearing said.

TRAFFIC REPORT

INTERSTATE 35

Williamson County: Northbound and southbound access roads reduced to one lane
between U.S. 79 and FM 3406. Northbound access road reduced to one lane between
Paloma Drive in Round Rock and Westinghouse Road in Georgetown. Southbound
entrance just north of FM 1325 closed.

STATE AND U.S. HIGHWAYS

Texas 29 (Williamson County): Westbound lanes reduced to one between D.B. Wood
Road and Interstate 35.

East Ben White Boulevard (Texas 71): Eastbound lanes detoured to access road
between Burleson Road and Alvin Devane Boulevard.

CENTRAL AUSTIN

East 45th Street: Reduced to one lane in each direction between Airport
Boulevard and Speedway.

Riverside Drive: Reduced to one lane in each direction east of South Congress
Avenue. Westbound traffic only between South Congress Avenue and South First
Street.

San Jacinto Boulevard: Reduced to two lanes between East Fifth and East Third
streets.

South Congress Avenue: Reduced to five lanes between Barton Springs Road and
Academy Drive.

AUSTIN AREA

Blue Bluff Road: Closed at Texas 130 alignment.

East William Cannon Drive: Traffic shifted to new road between South Pleasant
Valley Road and Running Water Drive.

Pecan Park Boulevard: Reduced to one northbound lane between RM 620 and
Brushstop Drive.

Wilke Lane: Closed between Heatherwilde Boulevard and FM 685.

Williamson County Road 118: Closed between County Road 107 and Cottonwood Creek.

Sources: Texas Department of Transportation, City of Austin Web sites

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jaziel Lopez, third child of Elias and Irma Lopez, was born at 12:01
a.m. Sunday at Austin Women's Hospital.
From left, Jaime Buzan, Dave Hoffman and Capt. Stephen Street of the Austin Fire
Department inspect the roof for hot spots after dousing a fire Sunday at the
Fairfield Village Apartments.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               22 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            September 1, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1127 words


Justice's hard work, courage affected millions

Congratulations to the Austin American-Statesman for the excellent story
outlining the life and work of U.S. District Judge William Wayne Justice (Aug.
11, " 'Activist' U.S. judge still fighting injustice at 86").

Justice's vision, courage and decisiveness have clearly moved forward the cause
of freedom and justice in our society. With the signing of the Declaration of
Independence, a handful of courageous men provided our history with a major
thrust for freedom in our society. Thirteen years later, with the adoption of
the Constitution, our young country began with an idealistic commitment to human
rights and to equality for all. Regretfully, the implementation of that ideal
has been and continues to be a long and difficult struggle.

When an objective history of the civil rights struggles of the last half century
gets written, the name of one extraordinary Texan, William Wayne Justice, will
certainly stand out.

Thirty-eight years ago, Justice began his lonely work. Three decades of struggle
followed, the outcome of which would make the difference in the lives of
millions of people. Our society has been blessed by the life's work of this fine
man.

JOHN McCARTHY

Bishop emeritus

Austin

The future of education

The American-Statesman's Aug. 22 editorial, "A valuable lesson in how to
attract, retain good teachers," was very much appreciated by all those who
believe in the future of public education in the Texas.

The Association of Texas Professional Educators shares the concern that this
year's state-mandated teacher pay raise and the additional salary increases from
the various school districts might be anomalies. The editorial is right on
target by pinpointing districts' future need to maintain the revenue necessary
to continue increasing salaries to meet future student demands.

We hope the next Legislature will continue to make school finance a top
priority. Texas teachers continue to rise to the challenges of higher standards
and diverse student populations; it is right for the public to pay attention and
reward them for this work. Highly qualified and motivated teachers do make a
difference in the lives of students, and adequate compensation is required to
meet this need.

DOUG ROGERS

Executive director

Association of Texas Professional Educators

Austin

Wynn's good stewardship

Mayor Will Wynn's determination to better utilize land occupied by the downtown
post office (Aug. 26 article, "Post office receives six offers for space")
demonstrates his genuine vision for downtown Austin.

His long involvement in downtown development issues also shows that his vision
has been tested by practical experience.

I believe that Wynn has the rare ability among politicians to identify and solve
problems within the parameters of city government, and not simply to treat
symptoms of problems.

Austin is steadily achieving its goal of creating a vibrant, 24-hour downtown,
thanks, in part, to Mayor Wynn's leadership. Although we often hear criticisms
of city government when things go badly, we should acknowledge and praise city
officials for the far greater number of things that go well. And one of the
things going well in Austin government now is the tenure of Mayor Wynn.

MARC KATZ

Austin

I'm fired up over gas

Re: Aug. 25 article, "Texans aren't fired up over gas":

This Texan is. As long as the people of this county keep saying that Congress
cannot do anything about the high price of gas, that is what it will do -
nothing. The voters need to put pressure on Congress to open up more drilling
and gas production, which has been available for years. In the small town of
Lometa, one gas station is 20 cents higher than stations in Lampasas, just 16
miles away. Why? Their gas does not push my car any farther. Sure, energy prices
should be on voters' minds.

ARNOLD A. AVANT

Lometa

Sorry about rude Texans

Re: Aug. 28 editorial notebook by Chanmi Kim, "The Austin adventure":

I want to thank American-Statesman editorial intern Chanmi Kim for her warm and
friendly editorial, and welcome her to Austin. I'd also like to apologize for
Texans who were rude to her as a newcomer when she didn't know the difference
between Longhorn burnt orange and just plain orange.

THERESA BAYER

Austin

Michael Crichton's facts

It is time to debunk some of the tree-huggers' rhetoric regarding global
warming. There is no conclusive scientific proof that there is any danger from
global warming, if it is indeed occurring. There is a host of scientific
evidence that the Earth has been warming and cooling for millions of years, and
this was before the use of fossil fuels.

This Chicken Little mentality comes from too many do-gooders who lack evidence.
I would refer these folks to Michael Crichton's latest novel, "State of Fear,"
for good arguments and scientific references refuting the nonsense of the
environmental movement. Admittedly, some of the story is theatrics, but the
scientific notations and references are not.

For example, readers learn that the Antarctic continent, which contains 90
percent of the world's ice, has actually cooled since 1976. So, what about the
ice sheets that are supposedly melting and will be causing coastal flooding?

Remember that these environmental organizations have an agenda, not the least of
which is to collect funds to pay lawyers, contribute to political campaigns and,
no doubt, to pay some very nice salaries.

RON BASELICE

Lago Vista

Education's bankruptcy

Re: Associated Press story on statesman.com on Aug. 21, "Flag-burning Kentucky
teacher removed":

There is uproar over Dan Holden, a Kentucky middle school teacher who burned the
flag in his attempt to motivate his seventh-grade social studies students to
write a paper on free speech. What should really burn people is the quality of
modern education.

Our flag is a philosophical icon that represents the culmination of years of
trial by error, as well as an evolution of ideas. To grasp this requires a solid
base of history and its handmaiden, philosophy: subjects poorly taught even in
today's colleges.

To expect children to pontificate on abstracts such as free speech or the
American flag is a confession of how bankrupt our educational system is. This is
clearly evident because most adults can't even tell you the basic branches of
government.

The way to prevent teachers from burning the flag is to start revamping our
educational system.

KEVIN AZAR

Austin

Not front page anymore

It is a shame that our soldiers' deaths in Iraq have become so commonplace. The
recent deaths of nine of our soldiers made the third page of the
American-Statesman and was buried within a story. Have we become so callouse
that we no longer need or care to hear about those who have given their lives
for this war?

PAUL CLANCY

pclan52@hotmail.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Chinese water plan opens rift between science, state

BYLINE: Craig Simons INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 833 words


BEIJING - The plan sounds audacious: Move 53 trillion gallons of water - roughly
equivalent to 40 percent of Lake Erie - annually from Tibet to northern China to
turn deserts and parched lands into fields and forests.

The ambitious proposal to build hundreds of miles of aqueducts, tunnels and
reservoirs, called the Big Western Line, is reminiscent of massive engineering
projects carried out with little environmental oversight under Mao Zedong in the
1950s and 1960s.

But unlike in the Mao era, the proposal has drawn a chorus of protest from
China's scientific community and created a rare rift between the experts and
some of the Communist Party's most prominent statesmen.

The discord has prevented the project from getting beyond the drawing board, and
it highlights the more prominent role China's scientists have achieved in recent
decades.

''Under Mao, scientists were often sidelined, but now the government has
realized that it needs technical expertise to solve its problems,'' said Zhao
Yean, a senior member of the government's Yellow River Water Resources
Committee.

Serious problem

With one-fifth of the world's people but only 8 percent of its fresh water,
China may have no problem as pressing as its growing water crisis.

As the populations of cities in northern China surge, water tables are dropping
rapidly and sections of the Yellow River, China's second-longest waterway, run
dry for much of the year.

Much of north-central China is at risk from encroaching deserts. The government
estimates that every year, a new area roughly the size of Rhode Island is buried
under sand.

''With one engineering project we could solve all of northern China's water
problems,'' said Guo Kai, 73, a water engineer and chief proponent of the
massive Big Western Line. ''Northern China is water-starved. We need to help the
people who live there.''

He has attracted the support of at least 15 senior generals in the People's
Liberation Army.

''Many of the generals have lived and traveled in western China so they know how
serious the water shortage is there and how difficult life is,'' said Li Ling,
the author of ''Tibet Water Plan to Save China,'' a book supporting the Big
Western Line.

But a group of prominent scientists has lined up against the plan, warning that
it could cause dramatic climate changes and widespread environmental damage.

Unlike in the past, they have knowledgeable potential allies in top government
positions.

President Hu Jintao has a postgraduate degree in ''water conservancy
engineering'' from Qinghua University, often called China's MIT, while former
President Jiang Zemin earned a degree in electrical engineering from one of
Shanghai's top schools.

Many older Communist Party officials, promoted in the 1970s because of their
working-class backgrounds, have retired and been replaced by younger,
better-educated officials, Zhao said.

Guo and his supporters have good intentions, but because they aren't scientists,
''they really don't understand the difficulties of building such a large
water-transfer project or the damage it would cause the environment,'' Zhao
said.

The Big Western Line calls for water to be diverted from six Chinese rivers,
including an upper stretch of the Mekong, the Yalung Zangbo and Nu, all of which
flow through South and Southeast Asia.

After being diverted, the water would flow northeast through a series of
reservoirs, natural rivers and tunnels. From Qinghai Lake, a major nesting place
for migratory birds in China's western Qinghai province, it would be split into
constructed channels and existing rivers and moved as far east as Beijing.

Short-term fix

One supporter of the project is 88-year-old air force Maj. Gen. Wang Dinglie,
one of a handful of living Communist Party members who accompanied Mao on the
Long March, the Red Army's 6,000-mile trek from southern China to Shanxi
province before World War II. He holds a revered spot within the party, Li said.

Such influence has generated enough support that Guo was given 11 meetings with
top Beijing officials over the past year, the Southern Weekly newspaper
reported.

But if Guo is building political momentum for the plan, scientists are pushing
back.

Guo Qiaoyu, a water expert with the Nature Conservancy's Beijing office, who is
not related to Guo Kai, said that the water transfer would cause the Yellow
River to flood, while the changed flow and water temperature would lead to a
rapid decline in fish and other aquatic species.

''Really, you can't just change an entire environment suddenly without causing
massive damage,'' she said.

Instead of focusing on moving water north, Beijing should work to save water
already there by convincing farmers to install water-saving technologies, among
other things, said Jiang Liping, a World Bank water resources specialist in
Beijing.

''Moving water north is only a temporary solution if Beijing can't control its
use,'' he said. ''In the long term, the only way to solve the problem is to
improve water management.''

csimons@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Spruced-up Hyatt is on the market

BYLINE: - Shonda Novak AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1154 words


The newly remodeled Hyatt Regency Austin on Town Lake is on the market, 14
months after Grand Prairie-based Fairfield Properties Inc. purchased the
property with plans to build two condominium towers on the site.

Jones Lang La Salle is marketing the 448-room hotel, which Fairfield bought for
about $50 million in October 2005. Fairfield recently completed a $10 million
renovation of the 17-story hotel, updating the guest rooms with new carpet,
drapes, furniture, fixtures, wall coverings and flat-panel televisions.

Fairfield could get as much as $85 million for the hotel, according to a report
in Real Estate Alert, a national investment publication. The property is
appraised at $36.2 million on the Travis County tax rolls.

Regardless of who buys the hotel, Hyatt would continue to operate it under a
long-term management agreement that has more than 20 years remaining, said
Morrie Graves, the hotel's general manager for 15 years.

"Hyatt has been running it since it opened (in 1982), and it has changed hands
at least five times that I'm aware of," Graves said.

Paul Johnston, a vice president with Fairfield, a residential developer, said
the company intended all along to sell the hotel after refurbishing it.

"That's always been our business plan, to buy the entire property, renovate the
hotel and market it, and keep ownership of the land around the hotel and
redevelop it," Johnston said. In the hot real estate investment climate now, "it
seemed like the right market environment to sell the hotel."

Randy McCaslin, a vice president in the Houston office of PKF Consulting, said
it's a good time for the Hyatt to be sold because the downtown Austin hotel
market is strong.

Through September 2006, downtown hotel rooms were 76.8 percent occupied, and
room rates averaged $146.02, up from 73.5 percent occupied and average daily
rates of $130.53 during the first nine months of 2005, McCaslin said.

"Although a lot of hotels are planned for the downtown area, none of them will
enter the market before 2009, giving a new hotel owner the chance to experience
two years of strong economic activity," McCaslin said. "Interest rates are still
reasonable. There is a lot of money available for real estate projects, and the
cost of new construction has increased 25 percent in the last two years, making
the purchase of an existing hotel very attractive."

Austin is seeing changes in its downtown hotel market, with some properties
remodeling and adding services, others changing hands, and eight new ones
planned, including three Marriott hotels that White Lodging Services Corp.
intends to build on Congress Avenue that would be the largest hotel development
in Austin's history.

Indiana-based White Lodging opened two Marriott-brand hotels in August near the
Austin Convention Center downtown.

Although many additional rooms are being planned, "it's unlikely all these
projects will come on the market at the same time, and as some of them begin to
start construction, it could delay some of the other projects," McCaslin said.

At the Hyatt site, Fairfield is seeking a zoning change to build 500
condominiums in two towers of up to 19 stories each on the hotel's south and
west parking lots. The earliest construction would start is 2008, said Michael
Whellan, an attorney in Austin for Fairfield.

Next door, Crescent Resources LLC plans to start construction in early 2007 on
AquaTerra, a 20-story luxury condominium tower. AquaTerra would be the first
high-rise to be built south of Town Lake since the Hyatt opened..

Crescent, a real estate development and land management company based in
Charlotte, N.C., is partners with Duke Energy, Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V
U.S. and Crescent's senior management in AquaTerra. The tower is slated for a
parking lot that faces a five-story building housing the Greater Austin Chamber
of Commerce and other tenants at 210 Barton Springs Road.

Crescent won't break ground until it has buyers for half of the units, but that
is on track to happen soon, said Steven Brandt, vice president of Crescent's
Texas operations.

When AquaTerra's marketing office opened in November, Brandt said the project
was drawing interest from potential buyers including young professionals,
empty-nesters and second-home buyers.

Crescent and Fairfield aren't saying much about how views from their planned
high-rises might be affected by their neighbor's project.

"We're proceeding with our plan," Brandt said. "We've taken every measure to
design a project that protects as many views as we can. I won't comment on what
a developer next to us may or may not do."

Whellan said he had nothing to add to his recent comments, in which he noted
that both projects are being designed by "sophisticated residential builders
whose architects and engineers know how to design buildings in a way that takes
into account the locations of other nearby structures."

The city's planning commission has recommended approval of Fairfield's zoning
change request, which next goes to the City Council. Fairfield is not asking to
build higher than the site's 200-foot limit.

Fairfield plans to make improvements to the Town Lake hike-and-bike trail that
adjoins its property, including rounding out some sharp curves and modifying
some landscaping to improve visibility, Johnston said.

snovak@statesman.com; 445-3856

(BOX)

A downtown hotel boom

Planned

* Three Marriott hotels, part of a $185 million project by White Lodging
Services Corp. for much of the block bounded by Congress Avenue and Second,
Third and Brazos streets. The tallest: a 26-story Marriott convention center
hotel with 650 rooms. Two others: an 11-story upscale Renaissance Hotel with 200
rooms and a 15-story Springhill Suites by Marriott with 150 rooms.

* Hotel Van Zandt, a $100-million, 29-story hotel with 55 luxury condos slated
for Red River and Davis streets. Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants will manage it.

* A 250-room W Hotel on West Second Street, including a 2,000-seat venue for
'Austin City Limits.'

* A luxury hotel at Third and Colorado streets, planned by San Antonio-based
Hixon Properties Inc. The site includes the former Bitter End restaurant.

* Seaholm Plaza Hotel, a 22-story hotel and condo tower that would be part of a
multimillion-dollar mixed-use project at the former Seaholm Power Plant.

* A hotel tower of about 30 stories and an adjacent condo tower as part of a
$250 million project at the southwest corner of Red River and East Cesar Chavez
streets. From Australian developer Constellation Property Group.

Sold

* The Driskill Hotel, to Los Angeles-based Lowe Enterprises Investors for $55
million in October 2005.

* The Four Seasons Hotel, in February to Chicago-based Lodging Capital Partners
LLC, which will begin a $15 million makeover in January.

* The Holiday Inn on Town Lake, sold in August to San Diego-based Pacifica Host
Hotels, which plans to do a multimillion-dollar makeover.

(GRAPHIC)

Hyatt Regency site plan (see microfilm)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1045 words


A CHANGING AUSTIN SKYLINE

Good news for downtown

Re: May 11 article, "A daring design for downtown":

Wow - here was some truly good news on the front page. Pelli Clarke Pelli
Architects will design a high-rise building to grace Austin's skyline.

Austin finally will have an architectural landmark of distinction. This will
raise the bar for future projects while ensuring the vitality of downtown. Thank
you, Austin developer Tom Stacy, for the bold vision.

SANDRA GREGOR

Austin

A Houstonian vision?

The City Council has declared a temporary halt to McMansions in residential
areas. What is the difference between a looming 4,500-square-foot home and a
multistory skyscraper in what should be a rigidly zoned area of Austin -
downtown. Who needs the McBuilding - a few people or the majority of Austinites?

I suggest the City Council apply the same logic to commercial buildings as it
has to private residences. The proposed tower appears totally out of line with
Austin - and more in line with Houston. Who wants to be more like Houston?

KAYE COSTIN

rkclrdt@yahoo.com

Austin

Cutting trees isn't answer

I really hope the recent power outages don't cause an orgy of tree cutting.
Power outages are part of living around trees. I don't understand people who got
so angry at being without power for a few days. When my neighborhood lost power
for four days in 2001, it brought us closer together as we all shared what we
had. A blackout can be a positive experience about living with nature.

Cutting all the branches off all the urban trees won't stop thunderstorms made
more intense by global climate change (more heat = stronger storms). Let's not
go overboard.

TOM CUDDY

cuddyroc@juno.com

Austin

Blackout wasn't that bad

My husband and I live in Tarrytown. Our power was off for four days after the
recent storm. We were one of the last 20 homes to be turned back on. During that
time, we got to know neighbors over a feast of barbecued meat that had been
melting in the freezer.

We went to a Friday-night movie and studied the social habits of Austin
teenagers, caught up on a multitude of errands and did some serious browsing at
the mall. Nights were unusually cool. We discovered our windows still opened!

The neighborhood coffeehouse had power, and we spent a lot of time on our deck
with a portable radio and a couple of candles. All in all, it wasn't so bad.
Frankly, I've been on camping trips that were a lot worse.

BARBARA WATT

Austin

Trains safer than driving

Re: May 9 letter to the editor, "Worries about rail safety":

The letter writer is to be commended. He lives in Dripping Springs, yet he took
time to write a letter concerning child safety in East Austin's Rosewood Park.

If indeed his concern is child safety rather than bashing commuter rail, I would
like to suggest the following: push for more, not less, commuter rail. Rail
travel is incontrovertibly safer per passenger mile than automobile travel.

PHILIP RUSSELL

Austin

Why some didn't pass

As a Reagan student, the recent news of 40 or more seniors having failed the
Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills and not being able to graduate this
month is disappointing. The students will have to retest in July. The parents of
these students have stated that this isn't good enough and that Reagan has left
their children behind. However, these seniors have taken the test multiple
times. Just before they took the last one, I saw very few seniors seeking
tutoring.

Did Reagan leave these students behind, or are there other circumstances that
contributed to them not passing?

CHRISTOPHER CUEVA

christophert.cueva@gmail.com

Austin

A bad word for a Sunday

I was greatly offended by the opening sentence of Mark Lisheron's May 7 article,
"For legendary whistle-blower, no end to fight." The article appeared on Sunday.

I decided to grab the paper and at least scan the front page before attending my
regular Sunday school and church. I could not believe the first thing I read on
this Sabbath day was Lisheron stating, "Another lawyer has tried to quit George
Green, and, by God, Green isn't in any mood to let him." Why is such language
necessary to report on this matter and, more pointedly, how appropriate is this
language on the Sabbath for virtually all Christians?

As a lawyer by profession, I "wordsmith" a lot of documents. I have read that
sentence over and over several times trying to see any meaningful addition the
words "by God" made to the statement and, frankly, I see none. This sentence
should never have made the final cut with the words "by God" included,
especially on a very important religious day where people by the thousands
attend their local churches to worship God.

FRED E. DAVIS

Austin

I'm all shook up

I never knew what a consummate artist Elvis was until I heard his songs mangled
by the top four contestants of "American Idol."

RON JAEGER

Austin

Is democracy dead?

With every passing election cycle, I become more convinced that democracy is
dead.

During the 2004 election, there were 25 contested congressional races in Texas
in which voters got to choose between the two major parties. In those races,
Democrats won 43.49 percent of the vote, while the Republicans got 54.92
percent. However, the Democrats won only eight seats (32 percent) and the
Republicans got 17 (68 percent). This is absurdly unfair.

Until we have nonpartisan congressional redistricting or, better yet, a system
of proportional representation such as in New Zealand, we cannot honestly say
that we live in a democracy.

JEFFREY BROOKS

anaxagoras@sbcglobal.net

Austin

Why Bush is falling

President Bush's approval ratings are at a new low of 31 percent for a good
reason. He has used his bully pulpit to talk about things that serve only his
and his party's interests - issues that are very simple-minded and easy to
attract a response.

Our country has been systematically weakened and divided by a few people and one
so-called mastermind. They have turned our people against each other. The rest
of the world hates us more than ever. We have been morally, financially,
militarily, environmentally and globally weakened. And our safety has been
jeopardized. Even though our country has been so critically damaged, we can
become great again if we will become involved in the process of electing
qualified leaders.

DAN POGUE

Mfpogue@aol.com

Marble Falls

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Plans for coal plants blasted

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 754 words


Texas could see a 30 percent increase in greenhouse gases if all 17 of the
coal-powered plants proposed for the state go online, according to a national
report released by an environmental group Thursday.

The report, called "Making Sense of the 'Coal Rush' " and published by
Washington-based National Association of State PIRGs, says Texas' coal plants
could accelerate climate change. But the company proposing the lion's share of
the plants, TXU Corp., says its generators will be cleaner than any plants
currently online.

As the nation's energy demands grow, coal has become an increasingly valuable
resource for generating power. Although the cost of coal has tripled in the past
eight years, it is still much cheaper than natural gas and less of a political
hot potato than nuclear power. Renewable energy, such as wind and solar power,
continue to carry high capital costs.

There are about 150 coal- powered plants being proposed across the country,
according to the report from the public interest research group. If they are
built, carbon dioxide emissions would increase 10 percent in the United States,
or 2.4 percent worldwide, the report said. It says further coal mining would
damage land and water, and require costly digging and transmission of coal. The
report says companies and governments should invest in renewable energy instead.

"We're lining up for a sprint in the wrong direction on energy policy," said Rob
Sargent, senior energy policy analyst for USPIRG. He said the coal plants use
"dirty and outdated tech- nology."

Indeed, much of the environmental debate about the coal plants has revolved
around the impact of the proposed plants and the technology they would employ.

Environmentalists have said the proposed Texas plants, many of which expand
existing plants, will damage air quality in the Austin area. Seven of the
proposed plants or expansions would be clustered about 100 miles north and
northeast of Austin; another would be in Bexar County.

Environmentalists support a technology called integrated gasification combined
cycle, known as coal gasification or IGCC, which relies on cooking off the
impurities of coal before turning it into a synthetic gas that burns almost as
efficiently and cleanly as natural gas. Thus far, the process has been used to
produce electricity in only a couple of plants across the country, and the
electricity has cost more to produce than power from standard coal plants.

Environmentalists say that IGCC technology has improved since those plants went
online and that costs will come down.

"Those plants have been up and running for quite some time," said Karen Hadden,
who leads Austin's Sustainable Energy and Economic Develop- ment Coalition.
"They've run experiments, and the technology has improved in time."

Only 16 percent of the proposed plants would use the technology, none in Texas.

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, which permits the proposed
plants, views IGCC and conventional coal-powered plants as different
technologies and does not compare their emissions, said Richard Hyde, director
of air permitting at the agency.

Two of the plants have received approval from the commission; a preliminary
recommendation on the other 15 could come by the end of the year.

"One thing that often gets lost is how far advanced coal technology is on these
plants," agency spokesman Terry Clawson said. "It's very, very clean."

Environmentalists say there is no such thing as clean coal.

Power companies say the new coal generators will have fewer emissions than
existing plants.

"New TXU power generating units proposed for Texas will have lower emission
rates than the country's IGCC plants," said Kimberly Morgan, a spokeswoman for
TXU, which has plans for 11 new or expanded plants.

The company has committed to lowering its emissions 20 percent while doubling
its coal-burning capacity.

"Electric utilities in Texas have made a significant investment in environmental
controls over the past five years, and private industry will continue to be in
the vanguard of improving environmental quality as coal-fueled power plants
achieve cleaner emissions," said Donna McDonald, director of the Clean Coal
Technology Foundation of Texas, a nonprofit funded by coal companies.

The group touts statistics that show drops in nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide
matter over the past two decades, but the group acknowledged government
regulations account for much of the drop.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

(GRAPHIC)

Proposed coal-fired power plants (see microfilm)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 18, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Feds signal a shift on Alcoa deal

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 802 words


In the latest move in a battle over a Central Texas coal-burning power plant,
the federal government appears to be willing to allow Alcoa Inc. and TXU Corp.
to use an old air permit at the site, instead of having to apply for a new,
stricter permit that citizens groups have demanded.

The government's position, laid out in a motion earlier this week in federal
court, opens the way for a deal between the aluminum giant and the state's
largest energy company for control of the plant, which powers an aluminum
smelting operation in Rockdale, about 60 miles northeast of Austin.

The government's motion has been cheered by Alcoa and TXU, which wants to buy
Alcoa's air permit rights. Three citizens groups that were involved in a 2003
settlement with Alcoa said they have been jilted.

"TXU should obtain a new permit like any other person in the state," said Reed
Zars, a lawyer who represents Neighbors for Neighbors, Public Citizen and
Environmental Defense, all of whom were part of the settlement.

The debate over the Rockdale plant gives a glimpse into efforts around the state
to push for and against the construction of coal-fired power plants.

Their advocates, including energy companies and Gov. Rick Perry, say the plants
bring energy and jobs to Texas. Their opponents say the plants emit far-flung
pollution that leads to respiratory problems, as well as greenhouse gases that
contribute to global climate change.

Earlier this decade, the citizens and environmental groups accused Alcoa in a
lawsuit of illegally releasing more than 1 million tons of air pollution from
the plant during a 17-year period.

As part of the settlement reached in 2003, Alcoa was required to pay a $1.5
million fine; spend $2.5 million on environmental mitigation projects in Central
Texas; and replace its three coal-powered generating units at the plant with a
new single, cleaner-burning, coal-powered unit by 2007.

But Alcoa was unable to find a partner to build the new generator until TXU
stepped forward last year. To sweeten the deal for TXU, Alcoa has tried to
loosen the emissions controls in the 2003 settlement - and continue operating
the plant under the company's existing air permit.

Under the current permit, the plant can emit nearly 3,000 tons of nitrogen oxide
annually, equal to the tailpipe emissions of about 136,000 cars,

But environmentalists argue that, since the new plant won't be built by the 2007
deadline, it should require a new, stricter air permit.

In August, U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks ruled that Pittsburgh-based Alcoa
could sell its existing permit to TXU but forced the company to meet with
citizen groups and the U.S. Justice Department to reach a compromise on air
emissions.

The Justice Department's motion, filed Tuesday, would allow the companies to use
the existing air permit but would impose certain requirements. The motion:

* Asks for $859,000 in penalties because Alcoa will not be able to build its new
generating unit by the April 25, 2007, deadline set in the settlement.

* Calls for Alcoa to shut down its three old generating units four months
earlier than called for in the 2003 settlement (a move Alcoa itself had
suggested).

* Calls on the company to achieve an emissions rate for nitrogen oxide that is
20 percent lower than the rate called for in the settlement agreement.

Justice Department officials declined to comment on the motion Friday because
the matter is in litigation.

"This motion represents a good compromise," TXU said in a statement.

Alcoa spokesman Kevin Lowery emphasized the relationship between keeping the
power at its plant running and keeping jobs at the smelter.

"We want to make metal; we want to continue to employ people."

But citizens groups said the government motion provides Alcoa with a way out of
the strict 2003 settlement, which mandated that the new plant be up and running
next year.

"It's clear to us the federal government has caved in to political pressure,"
said Travis Brown, who heads Neighbors for Neighbors. The justice department,
TXU and Alcoa are "touting this as a vast improvement. We think that's hogwash."

Because Alcoa failed to meet the deadline for a new plant, the citizens groups
argue that TXU should have to apply for a new permit, which would require more
stringent pollution standards. They also say the 20 percent reduction is not
new, because TXU has committed to reducing emissions statewide.

"We were not included and not invited into any of these discussions," Zars said.
This compromise "is not true to the objectives we sought in the" settlement.

And as for jobs - the operation employs about 1,000 - Zars said Alcoa has said
it would buy electricity off the market to keep operations running even if it
could not rebuild its own plant.

Lawyers said they will meet with Sparks next week.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

TXU, Austin company team up to try out emissions converter

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 264 words


A small, privately funded Austin company that has designed technology to reduce
power plant emissions has signed a deal to test its equipment at a coal-fired
power plant belonging to Dallas-based utility TXU Corp.

Skyonic has designed SkyMine, which converts carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas
emitted by coal-fired plants, into commercial-grade chemicals. Those can then be
used for baking soda or dishwashing powder, according to CEO Joe Jones.

A TXU spokeswoman said the utility bought a small share of Skyonic - less than 3
percent of the company. The companies plan to install a test facility at TXU's
Big Brown facility, about 65 miles east of Waco, in January.

"This is an opportunity to put it all in place in an honest-to-God unscrubbed
coal plant," Jones said.

TXU has been at the center of the state's current environmental energy debate.
The company proposes building 11 new coal-fired plants (including an expanded
Big Brown unit) that would emit 78 million tons annually of carbon dioxide, or
CO2, a gas that has been linked to global climate change. The company says the
plants are the fastest way to meet Texas' growing appetite for energy.

"Though economical technology to capture CO2 does not exist today, we are making
investments like this to support development of emission reduction technologies
and help them become a reality in the future," Mike McCall, CEO of TXU
Wholesale, said in a statement.

Last week, several institutional investors pressed TXU to explain how it would
reduce its CO2 emissions in case of new federal regulation.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday

New year forecast same as '05: dry

BYLINE: Dick Stanley, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 502 words


After one of the driest years on record, meteorologists say there's not much to
look forward to except more drought.

"My feeling is at least the first half of the year will be below-normal
precipitation," Lower Colorado River Authority meteorologist Bob Rose said. "We
might see changes in that by the late summer and fall."

KVET-KASE meteorologist Troy Kimmel, who also teaches meteorology at the
University of Texas, agreed.

"Given the pattern we're in," Kimmel said, "I feel sure we'll continue in this
dry pattern for the balance of the winter and into the spring."

Long-range weather predictions are tricky. The Old Farmer's Almanac predicts
them a year in advance. But the almanac's forecast of a cool-and-wet 2005-06
Central Texas winter already is good only for laughs.

Kimmel doesn't usually make predictions beyond seven days. Rose does, but he
doesn't like to. Even the National Weather Service has shied away from
long-range predictions in recent years.

The Climate Prediction Center is taking a stand only through March, calling for
warm and dry in Central Texas.

Beyond March, the prediction center will say only that it foresees "equal
chances" of normal or abnormal temperatures and precipitation.

But, for now, most meteorologists are willing to extend the pattern of the past
few months. When they see a pattern as old as the current dry one, sticking with
the pattern is less risky.

"We've been below normal on rainfall since August," Rose said, although it was
starting to get dry in April, the 12th-driest April at Camp Mabry in West
Austin.

In June, after 29 days without rain, the month became the sixth-driest June at
Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.

Last year was plenty hot, culminating in the warmest September recorded in
Austin. There were 26 days of 100 degrees or higher, the worst since the 40 such
days of 2001. Ten days were at normal temperatures.

Newcomers to Texas wonder why droughts are so common. Part of the reason is the
state's location on the planet, on the eastern edge of the "Great American
Desert," where dry heat is the norm.

Texas also sits at about 30 degrees north latitude, where, on the other side of
the world, the great deserts of North Africa and the Arabian Peninsula are
found. So Texas is in good latitudinal company for droughts.

Droughts have plagued Texas at least once a decade for most of its recorded
history. The father of Texas, Stephen F. Austin, was reported to have lost his
first crops to an 1822 drought, and it's been touch-and-go ever since.

The Austin area's last severe drought was just five years ago, from 1998 to
2000.

Rose is putting his hopes for an end to the drought on this year's hurricane
season, which begins in June but doesn't really get under way until August.

"We're looking at another active hurricane season, which may bring more rain to
us by late summer," he said. "Otherwise, I just don't see any changes that would
bring us even normal precipitation. But that could change."

dstanley@statesman.com; 445-3629

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               40 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1060 words


TOM DELAY TO LEAVE OFFICE

Now fix Texas' districts

I'm glad U.S. Rep. Tom DeLay is resigning. He deserves to go. But the corruption
of the DeLay era will not be over until my father's old 10th Congressional
District - and all the other Texas districts butchered by Republicans - are
reinstated. That's when Texans will be represented fairly in the U.S. Congress
again.

PEGGY PICKLE

Austin

L

earning a lesson

Maybe Tom DeLay has learned that you don't mess with Texas.

BEN HARRISS

Austin

Ronnie Earle's results

The American-Statesman headline "DeLay quits House race" prompts me to say,
"Thank you, thank you, Ronnie Earle, for cleansing the body politic in Texas."
This is a day of schadenfreude to the max.

CARLOS CABALLERO

carlosxcaballero@hotmail.com

Austin

The stench of corruption

Republican leaders lauded Tom DeLay after he announced his resignation.

"He has served our nation with integrity and honor," said House Majority Leader
John Boehner, R-Ohio. Never mind that his employees, at the least, were engaged
in fraud and influence peddling. Apparently, like flowers at a funeral, the
smell of corporate money is so sweet that you do not notice the rotting corpse
of the body politic.

ERIC JACKSON

Buda

This is good for the GOP

As a Republican, it is with a deep sigh of relief that I greet the news that Tom
DeLay will resign.

Far from acting out of honor and principle, DeLay chose to leave because he saw
the handwriting on the wall: He was going to lose his upcoming election.

Although he was once an effective engine in the Republican machine, that
distinction cannot rightfully be claimed by DeLay anymore, in part because he
has been bogged down by his own indictment, those of members of his staff and of
his friend, convicted felon Jack Abramoff.

Whether or not DeLay has broken the law, he has clearly and consistently stepped
over ethical lines. For that, he should be ashamed. With his departure, may a
new era dawn for the Republican Party and Congress.

OREN M. SPIEGLER

Upper Saint Clair, Pa.

Drinking, driving not OK

Too many people think it is perfectly acceptable to go to a bar and have four or
five beers and then drive home. It is not.

Tough luck if it angers you that the police and Texas Alcoholic Beverage
Commission are cracking down - many of us have been wondering what took so long.

If you are staying in a hotel and want to go to the bar and have cocktails, and
you respect the rules of the establishment, then you should not be harassed. If
you are in a pub with friends and have a designated driver, then you should not
be harassed. But if you go out after work for "a few beers" and get a bit
carried away, then you should not be driving.

Your rights are not the only ones in play here. My rights are in play, also. I
have the right to use public streets without worrying about your drunken bravado
and slow reflexes.

If you're not drinking to the point of public intoxication, then you should have
nothing to worry about.

KAY FREEMAN

Austin

Wasting money and time

Re: March 29 article, "Lake Travis district flooded with open records requests":

I was troubled to read that 891 of the 947 open records requests that cost the
Lake Travis school district more than $200,000 were written by one couple.

What is wrong with these people?

If they have such a problem with the school district being appropriate for their
kid, then they should move him somewhere else.

They need to quit wasting taxpayer money and the school's time on their own
personal, misunderstood crusade. The rest of us are quite happy with the
excellent quality of our school district, educators and administrators.

STEVE JONES

Austin

Snakes in the Capitol

Re: March 30 editorial, "The Texas Ethics* Commission; *Disclaimer: When it
comes to disclosing donations, the committee will look the other way":

The editorial brought back memory of a comment about Texas government that my
friend Dr. James Dunn made years ago: "That snakepit of corruption also known as
the Texas Legislature."

What do you expect from cotton-mouths and rattlesnakes who sink their fangs into
poor children to suck away their school money and health insurance funding so
they can give it to their wealthy supporters?

I'm not surprised. It's just the latest sickening episode of government in the
Lone Star State.

JERRY W. REEVES

Lincoln

Checking the system

Re: March 24 editorial, "Did Texas execute an innocent man? DA is barrier to
truth":

I agree that the case of Ruben Cantu raises broader issues about the accuracy of
the Texas criminal justice system and that it demands nothing less than an
independent investigation to uncover what went wrong.

If the members of Gov. Perry's Criminal Justice Advisory Council wanted to look
into this case, they could. They appear unwilling to do so, leaving us with two
other viable alternatives. We could either establish an Innocence Commission
that has subpoena power to fully investigate the underlying causes of wrongful
convictions or an investigation could be conducted by one of the Texas
state-supported Innocence Projects.

In the latter, the governor could direct the innocence commissions to undertake
investigations since they are ex-officio members of the Council, which will
enable the state to utilize its own resources in the pursuit of justice.

Until we know what happened, we will be powerless to prevent it from happening
again to another innocent person.

DAVID R. DOW

Director, Texas Innocence Network

Houston

Science has changed

Re: April 2 column by George Will, "The hype over global warming":

Will cites 1970s predictions of a coming ice age to discredit present
predictions on global warming.

He forgot that science is progressive. He neglected to point out that our
present knowledge of earth history, climate and climate change is at least an
order of magnitude greater than it was in the 1970s. There is no comparison
between the databases for the two sets of predictions, and his argument is
deceptive.

JIM THOMERSON

Austin

Questions for protesters

If the students protesting the immigration bill, which oddly enough has not even
been finalized, are so eager to stay in the United States, why were they waving
Mexican flags and shouting "long live Mexico" in Spanish? And I would like to
know who organized the protests, and what they were protesting against, since,
as I said, the bill has not even been voted on in its final form.

CARL SWANSON

carlswanson@sbcglobal.net

Austin

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 27, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Austin quiet on coal plant questions

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1085 words


City government in Austin, so often in the avant-garde on green issues, has
remained conspicuously aloof during what has shaped up as one of the state's
biggest environmental fights.

Proposals by utility companies to build 17 coal-fired power plants throughout
Texas have drawn cities as large as Dallas and as small as Hillsboro (population
8,232) into a coalition of local governments that has anted up $500,000 to
challenge the plants.

Opponents of the plants say they would jeopardize air quality, including in
Central Texas, which is on the brink of violating federal clean air standards.
Last Monday, a bipartisan group of 24 lawmakers, including six from the Austin
area, called on the state to halt fast-track permitting for the plants, arguing
that if air quality declines further, Central Texas could lose federal highway
dollars. And on Tuesday, environmental groups, using federal Environmental
Protection Agency methodology, said the plants would lead to 240 premature
deaths statewide a year.

An energy utility lobbying group, the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council,
has called that study simplistic. And the plants' advocates, including utility
companies and Gov. Rick Perry, say that the state's electrical grid needs the
new plants to satisfy the energy appetite of a growing population and that the
plants will produce thousands of jobs.

What capacity remains on the electrical grid is shrinking, and they say the
state needs cheap energy, fast. A showdown is in the making. Last month, Travis
County chipped in $10,000 to the Texas Cities for Clean Air Coalition, joining
Houston, El Paso and Waco in the 21-member group, which primarily includes
Dallas-area cities.

Yet the City of Austin has not contributed money to the coalition, and the City
Council has not officially considered joining.

Austin's absence has little to do with a shift on environmental philosophy and
just about everything to do with protecting energy turf: Austin owns its energy
utility, Austin Energy. And experts say utility etiquette holds that an energy
provider stay out of the permit review process of other providers.

"Utilities don't get involved in other utilities' cases before regulatory
agencies," said Matt Watson, an aide to Mayor Will Wynn.

Geoffrey Gay, a lawyer who represents cities on utility issues, said the cities
that have joined the coalition might be seen by lawmakers as meddling in the
affairs of the private utility companies.

Those companies have a powerful lobby at the Capitol, and Gay said cities have
good reason to fear that utility lobbyists would push lawmakers to deregulate
municipal utilities, putting them in direct competition with the bigger private
utilities for the first time.

"My advice to a city like Austin would be to stay as far away from deregulation
as possible," Gay said. "Deregulation has been a failure. You're far better off
maintaining control and keeping it in the hands of local folks."

But Dallas Mayor Laura Miller, who organized the coalition, has criticized
Austin's decision to do nothing more than pass a resolution opposing the new
plants.

"I've been stalking Will Wynn for months," Miller said. "One of the first people
I called, obviously, was the mayor of Austin, since it has positioned itself as
the greenest city of Texas.

"I thought it would be an easy sell, but he says they're not going to join."

According to statistics from the utility companies' permit applications, if the
plants were built, annual statewide emissions of smog-producing nitrogen oxide
would increase by 30,000 tons - equal to the tailpipe emissions from about 1.58
million cars - and output of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide would jump by
more than 115 million tons. In 2001, according to the most recent data
available, the energy industry in Texas emitted nearly 660 million tons of
carbon dioxide.

Environmental groups have pushed for investment in energy conservation programs
and newer, cleaner forms of coal-burning technology.

TXU Corp., which has proposed 11 of the expanded or new coal plants, has
distributed a list of its own: Forty-five city councils, chambers of commerce
and other community organizations have supported TXU's plans.

Austin is not on that list, either.

As it happens, Wynn is chairman of the Central Texas Clean Air Coalition, a
group of elected officials in the Austin area that champions clean air policies.

As part of the group, Wynn has lodged protests against the coal-fired plants
with the state environmental commission. He has also spoken about the pressing
crisis of global climate change as a member of the U.S. Conference of Mayors
panel on climate protection.

But Wynn is unwilling to risk the ire of the private utility companies, so he
will not protest the plants as a direct representative of the City of Austin,
Watson said.

The Texas Public Power Association - which lobbies for the state's 72
municipally owned electrical companies, including Austin Energy - has advised
its members not to join the Texas Cities for Clean Air Coalition.

"We work with everyone in the industry on a regular basis, and since this
doesn't have a direct impact on municipally owned utilities, we don't see any
reason for us to be involved," said Mark Zion, the head of the association.

No association members have joined the Dallas-led coalition, he said.

Some of the members, including Austin, would appear to have a conflict if they
protested the construction of coal-fired plants, Zion said, because a majority
of them get some of their power from coal.

Austin owns a share of the Fayette coal-fired power plant, which has accounted
for 35 to 40 percent of Austin's power over the past five years, according to
Austin Energy officials.

Austin City Council Member Lee Leffingwell, who co-sponsored the resolution
opposing the construction of the power plants - it was passed unanimously in
June - dismissed the idea that Austin's stance is influenced by its part
ownership of the Fayette plant.

Austin and the Lower Colorado River Authority, which also owns part of the
plant, are sharing the $300 million cost of new pollution-reducing scrubbers
there.

Austin's maneuvering has left Miller, who has made clean air one of her chief
issues as Dallas' mayor, fed up.

"Austin in particular has a lot of people who understand the global warming
issue," Miller said. "I would think the citizens of Austin would want to be
involved with it.

"It's all kind of silly," she added. "You're either concerned about the plants,
or you're not."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday

Long on energy;
Cliff Redd, the man orchestrating the Long Center development, has enthusiasm --
and a Midas touch

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARTS WRITER

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 2902 words


It was the late 1950s. As Cliff Redd's family convertible zipped past Palmer
Auditorium, his father talked excitedly about how the building and its space-age
dome represented Austin's future.

"It was so modern, so forward and so big," says Redd, "It epitomized everything
about the optimistic, can-do, post-war Texas spirit: You dreamed it big and then
you did it."

Soon after the Palmer opened, Redd's parents caught Elvis Presley in concert
there. In 1969, Redd marched across Palmer's wide stage along with his
graduating class from Lanier High School. Later, he was in the audience when
folk trio Peter, Paul and Mary sang in the cavernous venue.

Redd's honey-smooth Texas accent softens the edges of, but doesn't slow, his
rapid-fire speech as he relates these memories. His is a style that blends
lightness and intensity, a quick laugh punctuating his words, his blue eyes
flashing, his hands gesturing expansively even as he talks about the deeper
meaning of how architecture epitomizes the era of its creators. Redd easily
meshes the personal and the global, neatly fits the big picture onto the small
picture.

It's a capability that enables him to see that, while the Palmer was, at first,
in all its modernity and ambition, a forward-looking beacon for an emerging
state capital, it is now, as the green dome gives way to sleek new forms,
destined to be another kind of symbol for a city that is today vastly more
sophisticated and mature: the Long Center for the Performing Arts.

Perhaps that accounts for Redd's exuberance over his current job: executive
director of the Long Center.

"There's a beautiful new thing inside of an old thing," he says. "And helping it
happen is exactly what I want to be doing now. Exactly."

Redd took the helm in July 2004 -- a low point in a campaign that had started in
the early 1990s. Redd replaced the center's first director, David Fleming, who
resigned in July 2003 to become the executive director of the Weidner Center for
the Performing Arts in Green Bay, Wis. Fleming's resignation came just a week
after Long Center officials announced that they planned to downsize the project
from the original $125 million four-venue complex and instead build the facility
in phases, starting with a $77 million two-theater space.

Redd's peers in Austin say he couldn't have arrived at a better juncture.

"Cliff came to Austin at a time when many in the arts were plagued with a
general pessimism that was the byproduct of post-2001 series of disastrous
national events," says Cookie Ruiz, executive director of Ballet Austin, one of
the three major arts groups, along with the Austin Lyric Opera and the Austin
Symphony Orchestra, that will make the Long Center their permanent home. "Since
arriving, Cliff's brought an optimism to his position that is contagious. He's
reignited the vision of the project while refusing to accept anything but the
successful completion of the Long Center."

Indeed, Redd's optimism has spread -- and turned up green. Since his arrival,
the capital campaign has netted $15.7 million or more than $800,000 every month.
With construction now well under way and opening scheduled for fall 2008, the
Long Center needs to raise $9 million in endowment funds to reach its goal.

Long on inspiration

"I come from an ambitious family that set their sights high -- very high," Redd
explains. "Whatever you did, you made it work out no matter what. Failure didn't
enter into the equation."

Not surprisingly, that ambition translated into financial success. And being
raised in a family that Redd refers to as "socio-economically blessed and lucky"
puts in him a position that few arts executive are: He is comfortably at home
around Lone Star royalty and their largesse.

His grandfather, John Inglis, to whom Redd was particularly close, emigrated to
Houston from Scotland when he was 17 and started a mad love affair with
aviation. Although Inglis earned his wings as a pilot, he opted to ascend the
business ladder, eventually becoming president of corporate conglomerate Gulf &
Western and jettisoning the family into a higher socio-economic class. (Along
the way Inglis befriended another aviation aficionado, Howard Hughes, and the
two remained friends for years.)

Redd's father, Reynolds B. Redd, earned doctorates in chemistry and psychology,
got involved in the emerging post-war field of medical instrumentation and was
an accomplished amateur pianist, playing jazz tunes by ear. His multitalented
mother, Betsy Jean Inglis Redd, designed costumes for community theater, painted
and, among other civic leadership positions, was president of the Junior League
of Houston for a time.

Redd was born Reynolds B. Redd Jr. at Hermann Hospital in Houston on July 19,
1951, the oldest of three children. ("Cliff" is a nickname his maternal
grandmother gave him). The family moved to Austin five years later and lived in
a modern house in the then-new University Hills neighborhood off Cameron Road.
His parents, who had themselves lived in the Austin area (his mother attended
Southwestern University in Georgetown), continued "their long love affair with
this city," Redd recalls. And their son began his.

However, when he was 10, thanks to his father's prospering career, the family
moved to Fairfield, Conn., just a 30-minute train ride from New York City -- and
more importantly, Broadway. Already bitten by the theater bug ("I think we
theater people just show up on the planet as theater people," he jokes), Redd
saw Barbra Streisand in "Funny Girl," Carol Channing in "Hello Dolly!" and
Richard Burton in "Hamlet." In summer, there was the Stratford Shakespeare
Festival nearby in Connecticut. Redd considers such early exposure to theater
profound, something that would forever direct his life choices, despite the fact
that his family considered the arts "something you volunteered for, not made a
career of," he says.

Returning with his family to Austin in the late 1960s --  fundamentally as part
of the first high-tech boom when corporations such as IBM and Tracor started
pulling tech-savvy employees from around the country to the emerging Lone Star
capital -- was at first jarring for Redd. "I essentially had to reacquaint
myself with Texas," he says. His father went to work for Tracor. Redd enrolled
in Lanier High School, where he joined the Golden Myth Players, the school's
theater troupe.

After graduating in 1969, he began what he calls his "tacky tour of Texas
colleges." His stint at the University of Texas was followed by a transfer to
Southwestern University, then North Texas State in Denton, all the time studying
theater. College in the turbulent 1960s, he remembers, was chaos. Although Redd
rallied passionately behind the liberal causes of the era that swept across
campuses, he found tranquility and professional growth came from outside the
classroom.

B. Iden Payne, the famed British director and teacher who concluded his career
at UT, was near retirement, Redd remembers, and the two would sit outside the
drama department at the end of the day, waiting for Payne's daughter to pick him
up. "We'd talk about theater, but really we would talk everything --
everything," Redd says. "That's how I learned from him."

Redd left school before completing a degree and, at age 20, staked out his
professional arts career by founding Theatre Arlington.  "It wasn't good enough
to just be a director -- I had to start my own theater company," he says now,
laughing at the way his inherited ambition compeled him to stake out a big claim
in a town that wasn't very arts-savvy. While working a day job in the interior
design department of a Sanger-Harris department store, he built a theater
company despite that fact a local patron told him he had "chosen the most barren
soil in Texas in which to plant the seed of art."

Within a decade, Theatre Arlington was a thriving, financially fit regional
theater able to hire professional actors and stage a popular season of classics
and new plays. Redd carved out a reputation for himself as a polished, even
daring director. Take, for example, his 1983 production of Edward Albee's
explosive drama about frustrated married couples, "Who's Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?" Redd cast the arguing couples at the play's center as gay men. "It made
sense," says Redd. "There was a whole generation of gay men at the time who were
deeply unhappy."

Albee was unhappy, too. Indeed, the show garnered some national buzz, and when
the playwright found out about Redd's production, he sent a cease-and-desist
order. While the short run of the Theatre Arlington show prevented Albee from
further action, the play now comes with a rider that it must be presented as
written.

By 1990, Theatre Arlington was flying high, but Redd was ready for a change. It
was only after he accepted the position as executive director of the Shakespeare
Festival of Dallas that he learned that nonprofit that presented free theater in
the park was more than $300,000 in debt.

Nature abhors a vacuum. And Redd abhors being in the red.

"Early on, I learned that all dreams were tied to money," he says. "And to get a
community to support an arts project you had to get them to have a love affair
with it." Over the course of a decade, he took the organization -- one of the
oldest free Shakespeare festivals in the U.S. -- out of the red and into the
black, increasing and diversifying the audience along the way.

"He was an inseparable part of the organization," says Edith Love, former
executive director of Dallas Theatre Center and a longtime friend of Redd's.
"You couldn't think of the festival without thinking of Cliff. Every single
performance he'd be out there making a curtain speech, letting supporters know
they were appreciated, pulling them into the inner circle."

Redd remembers most fondly the way the free Shakespeare performances brought so
many together. "We got to blur a lot boundaries," he says. "I loved looking out
at the audience and seeing the Highland Park yuppie couple, next to the gay
couple, next to the African American family. Art has that ability to bring
people together who ordinarily wouldn't rub shoulders with each other."

Long on influence

Redd is far beyond just being an ordinary people person. "His love is people,"
says Love, who cherished many heart-to-heart talks with Redd over breakfast at
Lucky's Diner in Dallas. "He's interested in all kinds of people and he has a
remarkable talent for listening to them and understanding them."

Redd describes himself as an "extreme extrovert," he says. "I derive so much of
my energy from the people who populate my life on all levels. That's led me to
two very long-term relationships including a marriage with Charlotte Mathes,
who, despite our divorce, has steadfastly remained one of my closest friends,
and a same-sex partnership that spanned a great deal of my twenties and thirties
and ended over two decades ago."

Indeed, spend more than a few moments with Redd and you learn that while he is
deeply invested in the arts, clearly his biggest pride is his son, 22-year-old
Max Mathes-Redd.

"He's my greatest contribution to the planet," Redd says.

And for his part, Mathes-Redd remembers a dedicated single father who made
dinner every night no matter how late his demanding job extended the workday.
"Actually, we never ate dinner alone," Mathes-Redd says. "Usually several of my
friends would end up with us, too. Everybody liked my dad. He listened, he
always put forth the effort."

Mathes-Redd also remembers watching his father during rehearsals at Theatre
Arlington coaching nuanced performances from awkward, amateur actors. "He's one
of those directors who could get others to do things they never imagined they
could do," he recalls. "These weren't professional actors, and yet he could
sensitively bring things out in them they didn't even know they had."

Perhaps it's that directorial skill that's enabled Redd to bring something out
in Austinites that didn't think they had: money.

Though the Chronicle of Philanthropy may list Austin as one of the Top 10
stingiest cities in the country and though people told him there was no more
money to raise in Austin, Redd found it. Since arriving in Austin in summer
2004, Redd has not only netted millions, he's also diversified the people
supporting the campaign, spearheading Long Center support groups focused on
businesswomen, the African American community and younger patrons.

For one thing, Redd saw something nobody else did in Austin: philanthropists in
the raw. "Austin is a meritocracy and that's a gift, but it's also a curse," he
says. "In a meritocracy you don't show off your wealth. And so we've been loath
to even identify a philanthropic community and even more reticent about
celebrating it. The money is here in Austin -- you just have to work harder to
get it."  And work hard he does.

Although he is adamantly not a morning person, weekday mornings often find Redd
at one 7:30 a.m. breakfast meeting or another. He can give a stump speech with a
sincerity and vigor most politicians would envy, frequently referencing his
personal history with Austin and the Palmer Auditorium.

Long days in the office are capped by evening receptions, executive committee
meetings or one-on-one campaigning. He often arrives home after dark. Without
fail, he takes his two beloved standard poodles, Drake and Geoffrey, for a
three-mile walk around his Lost Creek neighborhood each night. "My neighbors
must think I'm a vampire," he jokes. "The only time they ever see me out and
about is late at night."

Indeed, as social and public as his job may be, it's also solitary.

"When I decided to take this job, I didn't stop to think that 34 years in the
Dallas-Fort Worth area produced an infrastructure of friends that were like my
family," he says. "Leaving that support system was jarring to me. This is lonely
work -- people don't want to ask you over for dinner because they think you're
going to hit them up for a donation.

"Admittedly, my focus right now has been on the job at hand -- actualizing the
Long Center dream. The entire community is counting on me as well as the board
and staff to succeed in this endeavor."

Still, Redd calls himself a "hopeless romantic" who someday wants to find a
partner. "I am going to trust the universe that I will recognize that right
person for me when I meet them," he says.

Of course, every other weekend finds Redd and his dogs heading to his second
home in Galveston; his son studies maritime history at Texas A&M-Galveston.
Mathes-Redd confirms that beach time is the only time his super-energized father
stops long enough to recharge: "He doesn't want to do anything but hang out with
the poodles on the porch and sleep in the hammock." (In fact it was his friend
Love who gave Redd the hammock as incentive to relax.)

"It's the one thing I wish I did inherit from Dad -- his energy," says
Mathes-Redd.

Long on ambition

That energy keeps him going, and thinking far beyond completing the current $77
million capital project.

"Finishing the building is not even the first half of the first chapter of the
story of the Long Center," he says. After all, the current aim to erect the
2,300-seat Dell Foundation Hall and the 99-seat Rollins Studio Theater is only
half the original plan. A rehearsal hall and an intermediate 700-seat theater
need also to be phased in as planned, Redd says. Plus, there's programming to
consider. "I envision the City Terrace as sort of drive-in theater without
cars," he says of the circular plaza that wraps the front of the complex. He
sees it as a stage for casual programs and the inside as a site for changing
exhibitions. He'd like to bring in production capabilities so that performances
can be broadcast or "audience members can buy a DVD of what they saw on their
way out of the theater," he says. "How do we take what we have in Austin and
turn a spotlight on to it? There's no reason the Long Center can't be the
Kennedy Center for the state of Texas."

He even has a vision for the basement: he sees it becoming an arts incubator --
a communal business center where small and medium arts groups could have
affordable office space and shared access to services. "You'd be surprised at
what the right surroundings and adequate services can do for arts groups," he
says.

Now managing director of Portland Center Stage, Love explains that Redd's
expansive, welcoming approach extends to all corner of his life. "He's the
consummate host," she says. "He loves to bring  people together, and there isn't
a bone of insincerity in him."

She remembers planning a surprise party for Redd's 50th birthday a few years
ago. "Not only could we plan to throw his surprise party at his house, but I
also invited about a half-dozen of his relatives from out of town to come and
stay the weekend with him -- without telling him anything in advance of course,"
she says. "I wouldn't do that to anybody else in the world, but Cliff is so
welcoming, laid-back and yet he's also so organized. His house is always in
perfect order. Of course, he could handle a party for 60 or so just thrust on
him in his house. And of course, he loved it."

And Love predicts that the gregarious, warm-hearted Redd will also thrive in
bringing people together at the Long Center.

As Redd himself puts it: "I can't wait to make sure everybody is comfortable in
that building."

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Despite the long hours Cliff Redd puts in as director of the Long
Center development, he still finds time to spend with his poodles Geoffrey,
center, and Drake.
At Lanier High School, Redd was a member of the school's theater troupe.
Cliff Redd, center, chats with Will Steakley, left, and Sean Fric at a cocktail
reception with members of Catalyst 8, a group of young professionals. 'Since
arriving, Cliff's brought an optimism to his position that is contagious,' says
Ballet Austin's Cookie Ruiz.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               43 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 18, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

With shift in focus, Dell is trying to bounce back

BYLINE: Dan Zehr AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TECH MONDAY; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 971 words


Dell Inc. took some serious lumps over the past 18 months, the sort of pounding
that will put a company in a reflective mood.

And reflect it did. The company's top executives say they turned a critical eye
on every nook and cranny of the business, searching for the problems that have
limited Dell's sales growth and given its rivals renewed vigor.

Last week in New York, they offered up their solution: They call it Dell 2.0, a
plan that could turn out to be a fundamental shift in the way that Dell does
business with home-computer buyers, who are fueling the industry's growth these
days.

CEO Kevin Rollins said Dell 2.0 will emphasize edgier product designs and put a
more human face on what the company called the "transaction" side of its
business.

One of Dell's biggest challenges with consumers has been the perception of
impersonal service, especially from its tech-support centers.

"The sheer name 'transaction': It was really about efficiency in how you handle
the sale," said Ro Parra, senior vice president for home and small business.
"And over the years, words develop, words like 'call avoidance' and 'customer
concessions,' words that really didn't give you warm fuzzies about what we
were."

Inside Dell, the word 'relationship' was used to describe the corporate and
government business.

Dell built its business on enterprise, or commercial, sales, which still provide
about 85 percent of its revenue. But those sales have slowed in the company's
largest markets, especially in the U.S. and Europe. Dell will look to emerging
markets to fuel more enterprise growth, Rollins said, and it will try to build
better relationships with U.S. consumers.

"They're saying the right things," said Stephen Baker, a tech analyst with the
NPD Group, a market research firm.

But Baker, like other analysts, questions how quickly Dell can reverse its
slump. So far, the company has not offered a lot of details about Dell 2.0 or
explained how it is expected to change the company's fortunes.

The PC industry is at a turning point, analyst Tim Bajarin at research firm
Creative Strategies said. It spent the past 25 years bringing technology to
business, but for the next 25 years, it will focus on bringing digital
technology to the masses.

"Dell has caught a new fervor for consumer religion," Bajarin said. "But to be
fair, this is hitting all the big players.

"It's a shock to the PC system. . . . It's one thing to know how to deal with
enterprise and a completely different thing to sell to the man on the street."

Consumers have posed a challenge for Dell largely because its computers aren't
on store shelves - unlike rivals such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Apple Computer
Inc.

So Dell has made a point of putting its products in those more traditional
retail locations, and Dell 2.0 could take that further. The company has about
170 kiosks in malls throughout the country where consumers can place orders. And
in July, it opened its first full-size store in the Dallas mall. It will open a
second store this fall in West Nyack, N.Y.

Customers cannot buy and carry out products, but they can try out Dell computers
and TVs and order them.

"We went from 6 percent (U.S.) consumer share in 2000 to 30 percent at the end
of 2005," said John Hamlin, who leads Dell's global online and branding efforts.
"The stores were just a product of the realization that at 30 percent share,
we'll have to do some things differently to get the next 30 points of share."

For months, analysts have suggested that Dell should rethink its devotion to the
direct model and get its computers on store shelves. Dell has strongly resisted
those calls, saying more and more consumers are shopping online, where they can
eliminate the middleman and customize their own computer.

But more and more, the company is experimenting with a variety of ways to extend
its sales reach in ways that sound similar to the one-on-one experience that
works so well for retailers.

"We're willing to experiment a little with how far we can take the direct model
to get the next customer," Hamlin said. Dell 2.0 should include "a really
intense understanding of the customer that no other company should be able to
replicate."

"It's really part of developing that relationship," said Parra, who helps lead
Dell's consumer business. "So while, yeah, it'll be less efficient, I think in
the long run it will allow us to get to revenue and profit pools that here to
now we haven't been able to get to because of that lack of relationship with the
customer."

Close relationships have long been the key to Dell's corporate sales and
support. The company has dedicated teams to wait on its larger customers. "I
want to drive the same relationship we have with our corporate customers to our
consumer customers on an individual basis," said Dick Hunter, Dell's former head
of manufacturing who now runs its customer experience efforts. "I want to create
the same one-to-one relationship we have in the corporate space."

Hunter has encouraged technicians to give their individual phone extensions to
some customers, allowing them to call back and talk to the same person about a
problem. Only a year ago, that practice would have been unheard of. He dreams of
a time when each Dell box shipped includes a picture of a few tech-support
agents dedicated to each customer.

"Dell took sort of a similar approach to service issues that it had with
manufacturing, running it in terms of efficiencies," said Claes Fornell,
director of the American Customer Satisfaction Index, which showed a drop by
Dell two years ago, providing one of the first signals of the problems that
Hunter is being asked to fix.

"But that only works up to a point," Fornell said. "There's got to be a point
where . . . you need to customize your service a little better. That's going to
cost you."

dzehr@statesman.com; 912-5932

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1125 words


That's what John Kerry was trying to say

With his magical pen, Ben Sargent did it again in his cartoon depicting
President Bush stuck in Iraq, which was exactly what U.S. John Kerry was trying
to say. As usual, Bush picked up on an opportunity to put Kerry down again and
started ranting that Kerry meant it was the troops who were stuck in Iraq when
he meant Bush.

The cartoon also shows Bush's father's friends at the door, always coming to
Bush's rescue.

After the Republicans lost power in Congress, Bush ate humble pie. It looks like
those days were short-lived.

D. E. KISSMAN

dekiss@aol.com

Austin

A piece of Austin history

A very old client and friend sent me to see the original Congress Avenue Bridge.
I found it at Moya Park, close to the Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.
What a beautiful bridge. It is a work of art. It is sad to see it relegated to
such an obscure location.

The old man who sent me to see it told of the times when wagons and carts pulled
by mules and horses would have to take turns crossing the bridge. In those early
days, people walking across the bridge could witness the floods that would pass
close under the bridge.

If the city were ever looking for a project, or hears of a group looking for
one, this would be a good one for the enrichment of the people of Austin. This
bridge needs to be brought back to its home on the Colorado River. The people of
Austin should have an opportunity to enjoy and appreciate such a major part of
Austin's history. There are several locations where this beautiful bridge could
be located on Town Lake.

BERRY COX

Austin

Pastor forgot someone

Re: Nov. 15 article, "Faith is tested when sex scandals hit":

Regarding the sexual assault of a minor by the education minister of Great Hills
Baptist Church, the church's pastor, the Rev. Michael Lewis said, "There's a
sense of disappointment, a sense of betrayal . . . when someone that you know
and you love and respect makes a moral choice that is certainly harmful to the
church and most of all injures the Lord and his testimony." He further states,
"There was a lot of weeping, a lot of mourning on my behalf and the
congregation's behalf."

Where is the mention of the victim?

MIKE KELLY

mikelly62@yaho.com

Austin

Don't touch pension

Re: Nov. 16 article, "Pension fund urged to help startups":

Gov. Rick Perry should keep his greedy fingers out of the TRS cookie jar. The
Texas Teacher Retirement System has already suffered enough with the dot-com
debacle in the stock market, the lack of meaningful returns on investments of
late and an ever-increasing drain on its fund base by newly retiring teachers.

With the prospect of fewer long-term teachers keeping the fund robust, and more
and more green teachers just getting into the system, the TRS will eventually be
looking at deficit spending. The last thing Texas teachers need is to add
disillusionment about the retirement system they anticipate drawing upon to the
list of grievances we already have with our state. TRS is not Perry's private
slush fund.

He should find funding for these startup companies and research projects
elsewhere. Here's an idea: How about from other businesses?

DAVID FARHIE

Austin

A bad gamble for teachers

The employees of school districts throughout Texas depend on the teacher
retirement system to be there for them when they retire. And they trust the
system to invest their hard-earned money in sound, dependable investments. The
idea of investing $600 million of that money in start-up companies, as Gov. Rick
Perry suggests, is a very bad one. Most start-up companies fail with in the
first year. So, why gamble with money that doesn't belong to the state? It's a
typical Republican idea - spend, and spend some more, even if you don't have it.

DANNY GEORGE

dano_43@hotmail.com

Austin

Debating with a club

Re: Nov. 15 letter to the editor, "Putting victims out front":

It's amazing how blinding partisanship can be. The letter writer claimed that
sympathetic spokesmen and women, such as Michael J. Fox, Cindy Sheehan and
Kristen Breitweiser, should not expect to be "immune from challenge or criticism
because of their plight."

This type of thinking is the direct result of the brass-knuckles partisan
politics espoused on right-wing talk shows every day. It fails to acknowledge
the distinction between legitimate frontal attacks on the public political or
policy positions a person takes and purely ad hominem attacks offered up by the
right in each of these cases.

While frontal attacks often further real debate, ad hominem attacks, like
rhetorical shivs between the ribs, only stifle debate. Maybe this last election
shows that a growing number of voters would like to see fewer shivs between the
ribs.

SEAN WALGREN

Austin

Two years of hard work

Now that American voters of both parties have purged a Republican-controlled
Congress and caused the president to jettison his secretary of defense, the new
Congress will have a two-year shot at cleaning up a monumental six years of
mess.

Wish them luck - they will need it!

TED S. CORIN

Austin

Same old corruption

Incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's endorsement of John Murtha for House
majority leader drips with irony.

This is the woman who has been constantly blathering on about the GOP's "culture
of corruption." So, she endorses a man who Citizens for Responsibility in Ethics
in Washington has called one of the 20 most corrupt members of Congress? I
recently watched the FBI video of the Abscam sting on Murtha. It is devastating.
Why is it that the media didn't focus on Murtha's corruption? Oh yeah - he's a
Democrat.

DON SCOTT

dscott@austin.rr.com

Cedar Park

We're patriots, too

I have read many comments in recent days to the effect that any vote for a
non-Republican candidate is a pro-terrorism vote. That is just nonsense.

We all love America, and we all want to see our enemies defeated. Why on earth
would anyone think otherwise? Oh, now I remember - President Bush and Rush
Limbaugh said so. And we all know how truthful they turned out to be.

JUDY WARDLOW

judy-wardlow@hot.rr.com

Copperas Cove

Earth warmed before

Re: Nov. 15 article, "UT biologist: Hot planet is killing off animals":

I have some questions for UT biologist Camille Parmesan. Since there is good
scientific evidence of a medieval warm period around 800 A.D. that was global,
and had average temperatures that were a full degree warmer than today, how did
these fragile species survive that period?

If the planet has warmed approximately one degree over the past century, but
seasonal, even daily temperature fluctuations are much greater, how can one
degree of average change cause extinction? How has Parmesan ruled out other
factors that can cause extinction? I await the answers to these questions with
an open mind.

RICHARD QUINN

N182TJ@aol.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

BEST BETS

BYLINE: - Lauren Dimitry

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 551 words


Worship warm love with Ziggy Marley

Ziggy Marley sat in on his first recording session when he was only 10 years
old. Originally from Kingston, Jamaica, Marley had this formative experience
because of his father, legendary musician Bob Marley. Ziggy Marley eventually
joined his three siblings, Stephen, Sharon and Cedella, to form the three-time
Grammy Award winning group the Melody Makers. While playing with the Melody
Makers, Marley learned how to creatively blend R&B, blues, hip-hop and, of
course, reggae.

After two decades with the band, he released his first solo album, "Dragonfly,"
in 2003. Marley's lyrics explore social and political issues, but also include
experiences from his childhood. Released in July, Marley's second solo album,
"Love Is My Religion," features him playing most of the instruments while
expanding on themes from his first solo album. Musically, the new album is based
in traditional reggae but Marley spices it with bass beats. The "Love Is My
Religion" global tour kicked off this summer and lands in Austin tonight.

THE NEXT BEST

Musicians share a gift

Enjoy the season by listening to Grammy Award winners Eric Tingstad and Nancy
Rumbel perform traditional holiday music. "The Gift" is the duo's first album
together, and it includes such favorites as "The Little Drummer Boy" and "O Holy
Night." Tingstad, a guitarist, and Rumbel, a woodwind player, have enjoyed
critical acclaim as two of America's foremost acoustic musicians for over 20
years. Tonight's show is part of this year's Austin Acoustic Series. 8 p.m.
University Presbyterian Church, 2203 San Antonio St. $20-$25.
www.austinacousticseries.com.

Laughing a blue streak

The "Blue Show" is for people who prefer their comedy a little on the racy side.
Honest, politically incorrect and vulgar, the "Blue Show" is slightly off the
beaten path, even for the comic world. The show features headliner Lucas
Molandes with Natalie Cox, Ray Soto, Fred Jones and Jason Strakowski. Molandes
is a young comic who grew up in East Texas and attended the University of Texas.
Somewhere between his native small town and college in Austin, Molandes
developed a bitting sense of humor that critics say promises him a long career
in comedy. The Velveeta Room's organizers say that the offbeat "Blue Show" fits
perfectly with their desire to support experimentation and freedom of speech.
9:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. The Velveeta Room, 521 E. Sixth St. $5.
www.thevelveetaroom.com.

BEST OF THE REST

'B scene at the Blanton' - The Blanton Museum unveils its new modern and
contemporary galleries for its monthly art party. Includes a DJ, a play
performance, a cash bar and tours. 6 to 11 p.m. Blanton Museum, Martin Luther
King Jr. Boulevard and Congress Avenue (on UT's campus). $5-$10.
www.blantonmuseum.org.

'Young at Heart' - Pianist Anton Nel, conductor Peter Bay and the Austin
Symphony Orchestra present a concert that includes Benjamin Britten's 'Young
Person's Guide to the Orchestra,' Erno Dohnányi's 'Variations on a Nursery Song'
and Beethoven's 'Symphony Number 2 in D.' 8 p.m. Bass Concert Hall, 23rd Street
and Robert Dedman Drive (on UT's campus). $19-$42. www.austin symphony.org.

(BOX)

Ziggy Marley with Skye

When: Doors at 8 p.m. Show at 9 p.m.

Where: La Zona Rosa, 612 W. Fourth St.

Cost: $27

Information: www.lazona rosa.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday

In China town, a road changes life

BYLINE: Craig Simons, INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 853 words


PINGYAO, China -- South Big Street offers an economics lesson.

The quiet lane in China's eastern Shanxi province was the heart of Chinese
finance in the 1800s. Roads from Beijing, Xian and Shanghai converged in the
city, and industrious merchants set up the country's first banks to serve
traders.

But by the 1930s, railroads had bypassed Pingyao, and it had become a backwater.
Today, South Big Street looks much like it did 100 years ago: Gray brick
mansions roofed with intricately carved tiles crowd between Buddhist temples and
small artisans' stands.

Behind the ancient facade, however, the city's economy is once again expanding.

Since a four-lane highway connecting Pingyao with most of China's largest
cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, opened in 2002, the number of annual
tourists has surged from 300,000 to 720,000. In 2004, the local economy grew by
15 percent.

"Now it's easier for people to get here," said Ho Shijun, deputy director of
Pingyao's tourism ministry. "The highway has spurred the economy tremendously."

It's a statement echoed by officials in tens of thousands of Chinese
communities.

Like America with its efforts to build a national highway system in the 1920s
and 1950s, Beijing has invested heavily to build roads and freeways. China's
combined highway length has grown from 3,100 miles in 1996 to 18,600 miles
today, second only to the United States in the size of its national freeway
system, according to Yale Zhang, director of China operations for auto industry
consulting firm CSM Worldwide.

Last year, Beijing announced a plan to spend some $241 billion over the next 20
to 30 years to nearly triple the size of the highway network.

The new arteries, which cut through poor Chinese countryside where people still
travel mostly on foot or by bicycle, have fueled private business and the
service sector.

And, as in the United States, more roads and more cars have spawned concerns
over the consumption of oil, degradation of the environment and the toll on
farmlands as urban areas sprawl.

The benefits of the highway in Pingyao are evident to Haidong Coal Company. Both
the cost and time required to ship a truckload of coal to neighboring Hebei
province were halved, Manager Gou Jiancheng said.

"With the highway open, the market suddenly became much bigger," he said.

The four-star Lize Yuan International Hotel in Pingyao opened in September and
employs more than 200 workers.

"Without the new highway, we wouldn't be here," said Xu Wenxiu, the hotel's
general manager.

Such micro additions to China's economy combine for macro gains, fueling the
country's rapid economic expansion. Beijing's investments in roads and public
works have reduced logistical costs and made exports more competitive.

Jiang Zhongshen, a manager for the state-run China Merchants Logistics Group,
estimated that transporting raw materials and finished goods accounted for 20
percent of product cost in China, much higher than the 3 percent rate for
efficient companies in the United States. For China Merchants' clients such as
British Petroleum, Coca-Cola and P&G, "lowering logistical costs is a major
concern," he said.

The rapid highway building, however, has created problems. Most notably, China's
building spree has displaced millions of people, most of them poor farmers who
are given little compensation.

Disputes over land use are a major factor in rising numbers of protests. Chinese
participated in 87,000 protests last year, up from about 10,000 a decade ago,
according to government statistics.

China's expanding road network also has spurred car sales. Zhang said new car
sales in China grew more than 23 percent in 2005, and there are now 8 million
cars on Chinese roads.

Zhong Guifeng, a 35-year-old engineer from Guangzhou, is a prototype of the more
mobile Chinese auto enthusiast. For his two-week-long Chinese New Year holiday,
he skipped the traditional family reunions and bundled his wife and 10-year-old
daughter into his Volkswagen Polo for a 3,700-mile trip through eight provinces.

"A few years ago we rarely drove outside of Guangzhou" City, Zhong said. "But
with all the new highways, traveling is easy now."

For the world, the costs of China's new mobility will range from growing demand
for oil to faster climate change. Experts expect that Chinese energy use will
roughly double within the next decade.

China produces roughly 16 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions -- the
gas primarily responsible for global warming -- and within 30 years is expected
to surpass the United States as the top producer.

Experts also worry that China's new mobility will hasten the spread of diseases,
including AIDS and bird flu.

But Chen Shuxian, a 40-year-old hotel manager in Pingyao, isn't worried about
the costs of increased Chinese mobility.

"Even in the 1990s, no one (in Pingyao) could imagine owning a car," he said.
Today many of his guests drive to the city from as far away as Beijing and
Shanghai.

The highway has brought Pingyao back to life, he said. "We used to be a center
of Chinese commerce. Now we're just getting started again."

csimons@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pingyao's South Big Street has gone from hub to quiet roadway and back
to hub again. China's booming roadway initiative is rapidly changing the
economics and environment of the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               48 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bush battered by video, report, ports and polls

BYLINE: Scott Shepard WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 805 words


WASHINGTON - As President Bush toured the Indian subcontinent this week, his
administration was buffeted by a series of political storms at home, darkening
the election-year mood of fellow Republicans who, just over a year ago,
envisioned a GOP majority ruling Washington for at least another generation.

A new video surfaced showing Bush being briefed about the threat posed to New
Orleans and its levees by Hurricane Katrina last year, and a new report was
published showing that intelligence analysts warned for more than two years that
Iraq could collapse into a civil war.

Additionally, not only has a burgeoning controversy over Arab ownership of U.S.
port operations driven a wedge between Bush and members of his own party, but a
series of polls also showed Bush's popularity at historic lows, clouding GOP
prospects in upcoming congressional elections.

The troubling national security issues of the week eclipsed what would otherwise
have been a major political victory for Bush: the Senate's renewal of provisions
of the Patriot Act, legislation that overcame threats of a filibuster by
lawmakers concerned that the original act, passed in the wake of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, did not adequately protect civil liberties.

Instead, the Bush presidency's popularity is spiraling downward, according to
the polls, raising concerns about his ability to manage the government and his
willingness to be candid with the American people - all of which are stirring
the anxieties of Republicans as never before.

''It's been a tough week. It's been a tough month. It's been a tough year,''
veteran GOP pollster and strategist Whit Ayers said Friday. ''In the world of
politics, things can change in a flash, and right now I would really welcome a
change.''

Since his second term began, Bush's popularity has steadily eroded, from 52
percent approving his job performance in January 2005 to 38 percent in the
CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll released this week, nearly equaling the lowest
approval rating of his presidency: 37 percent last November, in Gallup's
polling.

The CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll of 1,020 adults from Feb. 28 to March 1 had a
margin of error of 3 percentage points.

Only one president has ever polled lower at this stage of a second term after
his re-election: Richard Nixon, whose job approval rating dipped to 27 percent
six months before he resigned at the height of the Watergate scandal.

Moreover, the latest Gallup polling showed that public support for Bush's
handling of the war on terrorism, one of the pillars of his presidency, has
dropped below 50 percent for the first time since the attacks on New York and
Washington in his first year in the White House. Only 47 percent approve of the
way Bush is conducting that war, down from 54 percent just a few weeks ago.

And though Bush's approval among Republicans remains relatively high, a poll by
Opinion Dynamics for Fox News found that 77 percent of Republicans approve of
his job performance today, compared with 82 percent less than a month ago.

''The Republican base is the only thing sustaining the president,'' Ayers said
of the polling data. ''If you're in the White House, that's the most encouraging
sign right now,'' he said. On the other hand, ''any sign of erosion of that base
is going to be discouraging,'' he added.

The Fox News poll taken Feb. 28 to March 1 of 900 registered voters nationwide
had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.

Some prominent conservatives have sought to downplay the significance of some of
the polling this week, especially a CBS poll taken Feb. 22-26 of 1,018 adults
nationwide (with a margin of error of 3 percentage points) showing Bush's
approval rating at 34 percent - an all-time low for his presidency. They argued
that Republicans were underrepresented in the survey.

But Byron York, a columnist for the conservative National Review, rejected those
arguments. ''The problem for George W. Bush is not a bit of bias in the latest
poll. It's that, by any standard, he is losing support for many of his policies
and, perhaps most important, he is losing support among Republicans,'' York
wrote in a column Thursday.

Ed Goeas, another well-known Republican strategist and pollster, did not paint
as dire a political picture in presenting his Battleground 2006 polling data to
reporters on Thursday. Eight months out from the 2006 congressional election,
Americans are in ''an anti-Washington mood,'' not necessarily an anti-Republican
mood, he contended.

''Washington is broken and needs to be fixed'' is the view of most Americans, he
added.

Eventually, though, Goeas conceded that in the current political climate, ''it
is possible'' the GOP could lose control of Congress to the Democrats. To avoid
such a loss, Republicans ''will have to prove to the voters that they can
govern,'' he added.

sshepard@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

KLRU HIGHLIGHTS

SECTION: SHOWWORLD; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 713 words


"Masterpiece Theatre: Carrie's War" at 8 p.m. Sunday is an adaptation of Nina
Bawden's international bestseller, a coming of age tale about the World War II
evacuation of a girl and her brother from London to a strict family in Wales.

vv

In April 1906, San Francisco was destroyed by earthquake and fire. Thousands
were killed, and tens of thousands were left homeless. But three years later the
city had been rebuilt from the ashes. "American Experience: The Great San
Francisco Earthquake" at 8 p.m. Monday looks at the destruction and rebirth of
San Francisco, and how it became a part of American folklore.

vv

As global warming turns up the heat, researchers are stunned to discover that
our planet is actually growing dimmer. In an even more alarming twist, there is
concern that solving the dimming problem could greatly accelerate global
warming, melting ice caps and flooding coastal cities. "NOVA: Dimming Sun" at 7
p.m. Tuesday examines this baffling climate conundrum and follows the
implications of the discovery for our planet's future.

vv

How did life begin? Is there life outside Earth? Is there a future for humankind
on other planets? Each new discovery inches us closer to answering these cosmic
questions - linking life on Earth with the rest of the universe and renewing our
dreams of what lies in the unknown realms of the stars. "Exploring Space: The
Quest for Life" at 8 p.m. Tuesday searches for answers.

vv

Jack Johnson and Rilo Kiley are on "Austin City Limits" at 10 p.m. Tuesday and
11 p.m. Friday.

vv

"Standard of Perfection: Show Cats" at 7 p.m. Wednesday revolves around the
owners, animals and judges at the Cat Fanciers' Association International Cat
Show, one of the world's foremost feline competitive events. "Show Cats" is
KLRU's Family Choice program for April. See KLRU.org/familychoice for a family
discussion guide.

vv

"New Medicine: Doctors and Healers" at 10 p.m. Wednesday looks at the dramatic
changes happening in health care as a result of the growing acceptance of the
mind-body connection-positive changes in areas such as physician training, the
hospital environment and the doctor-patient relationship.

vv

Explore Barton Springs, experience Mexic-Arte's Dia de Los Muertos Parade and
visit the University of Texas' Center for American History on "Downtown" at 7:30
p.m. Thursday.

vv

If it happened in Texas, chances are good Stephen Harrigan has written about it
as a book, a screenplay or a magazine article. Join him on "Texas Monthly Talks"
at 7 p.m. Thursday and 12:30 and 8:30 p.m. Friday for a trip from the Gates of
the Alamo to Challenger Park, where his latest novel takes us deep inside the
culture both in and around NASA.

vv

"Journey to Planet Earth" at 8 p.m. Thursday is a global investigation of why
and how nearly 50 percent of the world's animals might become extinct during the
next 25 years. The program is also a visual celebration of the natural world and
features stories of hope and personal courage.

vv

They are the "bad boys" in the Bible, and their seafaring skills are legendary.
But who exactly were the Phoenicians, what became of them and what was the
secret of their success? "National Geographic: Quest for the Phoenicians" at 9
p.m. Thursday sets out to solve this mystery through the pioneering work of
three very different scientists.

vv

With renewable energy sources available throughout the state, why is Texas
investing in five new coal-fired electric generating plants that will be among
the biggest pollution sources in the nation? "Austin Now" at noon and 8 p.m.
Friday explores the world of Texas Power in special documentary and studio
interview for Earth Day.

vv

"Billfish: A Challenge for Survival" at 9 p.m. Friday brings viewers deep into
the domain of marlin, sailfish and swordfish - some of the fastest, stealthiest
and most agile creatures in the ocean. "Billfish" is a voyage into a teeming but
vulnerable world of beauty and ferocity that pits man against nature.

vv

The Great Outdoors shows how to get started with citrus, from fruit choices to
cultivation on "Central Texas Gardener" at noon and 4 p.m Thursday. The garden
tour spotlights a home on the upcoming Austin Lyric Opera Guild garden tour.

vv

Allison Krauss + Union Station and Kathleen Edwards are on "Austin City Limits"
at 7 p.m. Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

FRIEND OR FOE?

BYLINE: Cedric Golden AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 817 words


Major Applewhite sat in a Philadelphia Marriott hotel for an hour, deep in a
phone conversation with his mentor.

The issue at hand was whether he should leave his job as quarterbacks coach at
Syracuse to take a job at Rice, a struggling program in transition.

Texas offensive coordinator Greg Davis listened patiently, threw in a couple of
his homespun analogies and encouraged his former star quarterback to follow his
heart. Do what's best for you and your wife, Julie, he said.

Then Davis begged out of the conversation, saying: "Major, can we talk later? I
have some things on my mind."

Only the national championship game in the Rose Bowl, where things turned out
fine for the Longhorns, who topped Southern California 41-38 to win their first
national title in 35 years.

A few days later, new Rice coach Todd Graham introduced Major Applewhite as his
offensive coordinator/quarterbacks coach, making the 28-year-old Applewhite one
of the youngest assistant coaches in NCAA Division I-A football.

On Saturday, Applewhite will seize the opportunity to match wits against Texas
defensive coordinators Gene Chizik and Duane Akina while trying to hand his alma
mater a second straight loss, something that has not happened to the Longhorns
in a season since 1999.

Applewhite would love to take some of his on-field brilliance and cut and paste
it onto the current Rice roster. The owner of most of Texas' passing records, he
finished his career with a 22-8 record as a starter and ranks first in passing
yards (8,353), touchdown passes (60), passes attempted (1,065) and total offense
(8,059 yards).

The Owls were 1-10 last season and ranked 86th nationally in scoring at 21.9
points per game. Ken Hatfield's triple-option offense lacked explosiveness and
did not lend itself to comebacks. Rice ranked last in the nation in passing
offense at 103.3 yards per game.

Applewhite is out to change that ranking.

"We're going to open it up and try to put some points on the board," he said.
"The guys are excited about the change of offense and have spent some time of
their own in the summer working on the finer points. I'm pleased with how they
have challenged themselves."

A former UT graduate assistant, Applewhite installed a one-back offense similar
to Texas' in the offseason. In their opening game, the Owls built a 30-14 lead
over Houston before losing 31-30. Quarterback Chase Clement passed for 152 yards
and two touchdowns but also injured the thumb on his throwing hand.

Minus Clement, the Owls tried a flex wishbone attack against UCLA on Saturday.
Converted wideout Joel Armstrong replaced Clement at quarterback, completing 7
of 11 passes for 65 yards as Rice lost 26-16.

Applewhite's credentials and his insatiable thirst for football - he went to 16
summer camps in high school, Davis said - was enough to convince Graham that he
had his man.

"Major Applewhite, just that name speaks for itself," said Graham, who came to
Rice after being the defensive coordinator at Tulsa for three seasons. "He's a
winner. He brings us instant credibility to where we want to go offensively."

Known as a coach on the field during his playing days, Applewhite is becoming
accustomed to life in the coaches box, while also taking up the challenge of
recruiting athletes to a private school that's far from a power in a football
state.

It's only been eight months since Applewhite accepted Graham's offer, and he
feels far removed from the day last December when he called Davis from Syracuse
and said, "Hey coach, it's three degrees outside. Three!"

The climate is a lot more to his liking in the Lone Star State. And the
recruiting ground is more fertile and familiar.

"The first thing (in recruiting) is you don't get hung up on by the (high
school) secretary here, and you get to talk to the coach," he said. "The second
thing is when I stayed up in the Northeast, I would go to these schools and ask
for the coach and he would be working at the post office."

In what has to be considered one of the most turbulent periods in Mack Brown's
coaching tenure at Texas, Applewhite endured a debilitating knee injury in his
junior year and watched helplessly from the sideline the next season as Chris
Simms struggled in a 14-3 loss to Oklahoma.

Applewhite reached near-cult status that same season with a near-miracle relief
appearance in a 39-37 defeat to Colorado in the 2001 Big 12 championship game,
followed by a 473-yard passing performance in a 47-43 Holiday Bowl victory over
Washington.

Several years past the quarterback soap opera that engulfed him and Simms,
Applewhite believes that time of his life was invaluable in bringing him to this
point of his young coaching career.

"It was tough on both of us, but it made him a better player and made me a
better coach," he said. "To be around that, you can't trade those experiences
for anything else and you can't get them any place else."

cgolden@statesman.com; 912-5944

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday

Taxpayers deserved the details on Frost Tower lease deal

BYLINE: Rich Oppel, EDITOR, AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. J3

LENGTH: 712 words


Since last May, two words have described the relationship between Tim Hendricks
and the American-Statesman. He was the plaintiff; we were the intervener.

Just after Christmas, when almost nothing was moving in Austin, I called
Hendricks, senior vice president of Cousins Properties, and asked if we could
meet. We were in a dispute, and we both had lawyers, but gentleman that he is,
Hendricks agreed.

Looking out over a warm, hazy winter day toward the Hill Country, we talked
business and journalism for 90 minutes in a conference room on the 11th floor of
the downtown Frost Tower.

Hendricks explained the intense competition among  downtown office buildings and
why Cousins, owner of the Frost Tower at 401 N. Congress Ave., fights to keep
secret its rental rates.

It was a huge coup when Cousins persuaded the University of Texas Investment
Management Co. (UTIMCO) to move to Frost from the Chase Bank Tower three blocks
away on West Sixth Street.

Hendricks is a deal-maker, a hard-driving Texan. The capture of UTIMCO was one
of the biggest deals of the year in a market where few truly new tenants are
moving into downtown. You go after your competitor's tenants.

Existing renters shop around for larger, upgraded trappings at rates that are
bargains today compared with those in the tech boom years of the late 1990s.

In February 2005, UTIMCO signed an 11-year lease with Cousins for 28,923 square
feet of space on floors 27 and 28 of the Frost Tower.

UTIMCO manages $18.7 billion in higher education endowments and other state
funds. It is the nation's third largest university endowment after Harvard and
Yale.

At the newspaper, we were surprised to learn that a lawyer for the University of
Texas System, parent for UTIMCO, had agreed to a confidentiality clause in its
contract. Let us see the lease, we asked. This rent money is taxpayers' money.
Citizens have a right to know how it is spent.

The system referred our request to Attorney General Greg Abbott, who agreed with
us on May 16 that the lease must be released under the Texas Public Information
Act despite the secrecy clause. "We believe the public has a strong interest in
the release of of prices in government contract awards," he ruled.

Cousins Properties sued the attorney general. The Statesman joined the suit as
an intervenor.

We had allies in James Huffines and Barry Burgdorf, chairman and general
counsel, respectively, of the UT System Board of Regents. They disagreed with
the decision of Burgdorf's predecessor to approve the confidentiality clause.

Huffines and Burgdorf could only offer support as long as the lawsuit stood;
they couldn't release the information.

Hendricks and Cousins Properties had a lot in the game. We had a news story of
moderate importance and a principle of great importance.

Cousins had a lot of skin in the game -- an investment of $120 million in the
Frost Tower. Hendricks also had more than 30 percent of the space to rent in the
525,000-square-foot building. He described his predicament in an affidavit last
summer:

"There is little job growth in the downtown area, so that the new leases are
being written basically involve lateral moves where a tenant moves from an
existing building to a different one. Thus competition for tenants among
downtown buildings is fierce," he says in the affidavit.

I promised Hendricks only one thing if he released the lease contract:  I would
look over the resulting article before publication.

Last week, Cousins Properties dropped its lawsuit and gave us the lease. Shonda
Novak and Robert Elder provided readers details in an article published on our
Business front Friday.

The guts of the deal: UTIMCO's base rent plus estimated expenses are $25.74 a
square foot. The $15.74 base portion is fixed for 11 years; estimated expenses
could change. At the time it was signed, Cousins was asking $32 a square foot in
the Frost Tower, and the average downtown rents for first-class properties were
$24 to $26.

UTIMCO got a good deal. Cousins got an excellent tenant and perhaps a toughened
climate for negotiating future deals. But the Frost Tower now is 82 percent
leased.

Renters now have more information on the market place, and taxpayers know how
their money is being spent -- at least for now, at least in this case.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               57 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 23, 2006 Monday

'Prison is the new slavery,' advocate says

BYLINE: Joshunda Sanders, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO/STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 424 words


The greatest threat to the legacy of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. is a
"cradle to prison" cycle in which a black 4-year-old boy today has a one in
three chance of going to jail, one of the nation's leading advocates for
children said Sunday in Austin.

"Prison is the new slavery," said Marian Wright Edelman, founder of the
Children's Defense Fund, at an event honoring the slain civil rights leader. "As
we celebrate and remember Dr. King, let's ask God to help us to help our
children."

Edelman delivered the keynote address for the 13th annual MLK celebration,
organized by the Austin Area Heritage Council. Sunday evening's event included a
mention of local civil rights leaders who died in 2005 and an hourlong
performance by the Grammy-winning group Sounds of Blackness.

Edelman's appearance capped a week of observances of the life and lessons of
King. Edelman once served as legal counsel for one of King's campaigns to help
the poor.

Edelman, 66, was born in segregated Bennettsville, S.C., and grew up in a
changing racial climate that saw both the historic Brown v. Board of Education
decision that overturned segregation in schools and the sweeping changes ushered
in by the civil rights movement. Her advocacy for children reaches back to the
1960s, when she helped establish a Head Start program for poor children in
Mississippi.

She earned degrees at Spelman College and Yale Law School and was the first
black woman admitted to the Mississippi State Bar. She is the recipient of
dozens of honorary degrees and awards and the author of eight books about
children and families.

She founded the nonprofit Washington-based Children's Defense Fund in 1973 after
working as a staff attorney and director for the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People's legal defense and education fund. The group
works to reduce the number of neglected, sick and uneducated poor children.

In a calm, erudite tone Sunday, Edelman denounced "special interest groups" who
she said make money on the backs of disadvantaged children, calling attention to
the 1.4 million children in Texas without health insurance.

She told the audience of about 200 people at the Hyatt Regency hotel sobering
statistics about children today: A baby is born without health insurance every
48 seconds; a child is killed by gunfire every three hours; a child is abused or
neglected every 35 seconds.

"What is it going to take for us to determine that we will stop killing off our
children of every race?" she asked.

joshundasanders@statesman.com; 445-3630

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marian Wright Edelman, a longtime advocate for children, gave the
keynote address Sunday to wrap up this year's local Martin Luther King Jr.
Celebration.
The Grammy-winning group Sounds of Blackness, which includes Gary Hines, left,
performed for an hour Sunday during the event honoring slain civil rights leader
the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American Statesman


                               66 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

America, framed by Wenders

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1282 words


German-born director Wim Wenders has made some beautiful films populated by
lonesome wanderers - and to feel them purely, you must often commit to a kind of
journey as well. His best movies have their own emotional climates, their own
exotic gravities. You get lost for a while, stepping into the center of a
Wenders film. He doesn't leave you with much of a road map. But there's plenty
of music and mood and humanity, and an atmosphere conducive to reflection.

Wenders, 60, made his first movies in Germany but experienced his cinematic
breakthrough in America with "Paris, Texas," a tender, haunting story about a
wanderer and broken love (written by Sam Shepard) that won the Palme d'Or at the
Cannes Film Festival in 1984. Two of his loveliest films are "Wings of Desire"
(1987) and "Buena Vista Social Club" (1998) - one about angels wandering in the
streets and skies of divided Berlin, the other a documentary about forgotten
masters of Cuban music wandering the streets of Havana.

The director has had a long fascination with America, with themes of loneliness
and longing, with music. He did an entire film propelled by the spirit of
Portuguese fado, another on the blues, yet another on Willie Nelson. "My life
was saved by rock 'n' roll," he once said. "It was this kind of music that, for
the very first time in my life, gave me a feeling of identity, the feeling that
I had a right to enjoy, to imagine, and to do something. Had it not been for
rock 'n' roll, I might be a lawyer now."

Wenders' latest movie (which opens today) is "Don't Come Knocking," a bookend
film, of sorts, to "Paris, Texas," with Wenders and Shepard once again telling a
story about an American man who's lost his way. This time, the wandering
American is over-the-hill cowboy actor Howard Spence - played by Shepard - who
rides off the set of movie called "Phantom of the West" only to encounter
phantoms of a different kind.

During South by Southwest, Wenders talked with the American-Statesman about
music and movies, about the American West and the American male. It was a scene
that felt like something out of a Wenders movie: deserted Fifth Street bar, a
Saturday morning, delicate light, delicate echo, bartender in a wool cap
cleaning last night's glasses.

The director sits at the end of a long bar. He has long, wavy hair and looks
younger than his years. Wenders is a most gentle and understated man: He talks
softly, expresses a lot with his eyes. Sometimes, lost in thought, he glances
toward the front door, toward the morning light.

Austin American-Statesman: For all of us who love it, "Paris, Texas" was a great
gift. But a part of me imagines that it was special for you, too, that maybe you
learned things - the way you collaborated with Sam Shepard, or explored certain
themes - that advanced your career as a filmmaker. Do you see the film as a
gift, personally?

Wim Wenders: It was a great gift in my life. I'd been in America since 1978, and
made two films - "Lightning Over Water" and "Hammett" - but these were not the
films I set out to make (here). I felt I was at a dead end. And it was only when
Sam and I teamed up and decided to write that I realized this was what I'd come
here for.

I had never believed much in the narrative - all of my stories, until then, were
always too meandering, always way too long, sort of going in circles. But with
Sam, for the first time, I trusted the flow of that very simple story. And with
Sam's help, for the very first time, I really went with the flow. "Paris, Texas"
was so linear and simple - and driven by something so powerful, sort of a river.
It was the first time I felt I was in my little boat of a movie on that sort of
a river.

From opening to closing, what sets "Paris, Texas" apart is tone. And sure
enough, tone has been the vital ingredient in every film you've made since. I
know you're really influenced by music, but still - tone is a musical word, and
you're in a visual medium.

The music in "Paris, Texas" - and ever since - isn't just an ingredient. It's
almost the power of what the film is all about. And "Paris, Texas" marked the
beginning of something that I really didn't want to let go of afterward.

I knew Ry Cooder was going to make the score of that film, from the very first
day of the shooting . . . and Ry actually played it as he stood in front of the
film screen, with the projector running, playing his guitar. He was inspired by
the way Miles Davis had done the score for "Elevator to the Gallows," so he,
too, stood in front of the screen, playing the guitar as we ran the scenes over
and over, until he felt happy with it.

Yet the narrative - the way the plot advances, the way you worked with images -
that was very musical as well.

That was a departure for me. Until "Paris, Texas" I'd made all my films in a
premeditated way. The lighting, everything. The night before, I would sort of
scribble down my little story boards. (He draws little scenes on an envelope -
close-ups, broad shots - to demonstrate.) I knew when I was going to reverse
angles, when I was going to do the tight shot. I knew exactly how I was going to
shoot.

In "Paris, Texas" - for the first time in my life - I would deliberately forbid
this to happen. I always came to the set in the morning with no idea how I was
going to shoot . . . never a first set up . . . and it drove the production
manager crazy. It doesn't sound so important, but it was a big departure. I was
totally driven by character and sense of place.

"Don't Come Knocking" is a little bit of a cousin to "Paris, Texas."

It is a distant cousin. But the truth is, neither Sam nor I - 20 years ago -
would have dared to write or act in anything like this one. "Paris, Texas" is
really sort of a tragic story. Travis (Stanton) is the film. We were seeing the
film from the inside of his soul. But in "Don't Come Knocking," we had this sort
of ironic distance. None of us remotely identified with Howard (the washed-up
cowboy movie actor). We liked him. But we knew he was a loser. The women (in the
film) are really the heroes of this story - as Howard is just falling apart in
front of us.

After seeing the film, I wrote down these words: "Howard is an absent father, a
man who has trouble facing up to accountability, his appetites forever colliding
with this last little whisper of moral decency. He sits on his broken sofa -
befuddled, stunned, surrounded by the wreckage of his own making." He's a little
bit of America, yes? Howard is America.

Yeah. You can see him as a metaphor for other cowboys in high places, trying to
live up to conflict, and he's (messed) it all up. . . . The only person who can
get him off of his sofa is (the female character named) Sky, who comes to him in
the spirit of forgiveness.

It's interesting that Howard is offered forgiveness. Yet most of the world is
not looking at America with forgiving eyes right now.

I know. We're in a very, very strange place, inhabiting a strange world in which
the very basis of this country - or even the basis of Christianity - has been
perverted. Maybe Howard is a symbol of that perversion. He's lost his way. . . .
and (yes), it is a rare notion for someone to say, "OK. We've made lots of
mistakes . . . but it's a good thing that you tried, and it matters to me that
you're alive."

Men in this country are all so preoccupied with other things. Careers. Politics.
Fame and fortune. Men, more than women, have started believing in the fact that
they can buy everything, consume everything, just change everything. They can
also swap families, the idea of family, and give up on any responsibility to
indulge in a sort of freedom that, in the end, is just a lack of freedom.

bbuchholz@statesman.com; 912-2967

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 22, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

PREGNANT PAUSE? HARDLY.

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1254 words


During her first two pregnancies, Kristen Turner zoomed back and forth across a
swimming pool up until the days she gave birth.

I know this first-hand; she churned past me many times despite her expanded
girth. Now she's on track to do the same with baby No. 3, due in late July.
Along the way, this certified personal trainer is helping other women stay in
shape as they prepare for motherhood.

"It's liberating to be pregnant and fit," says Turner, 36, a former collegiate
swimmer and Ironman finisher, adding that instead of training for an event or to
lose weight, pregnancy is a time to maintain general fitness.

Women were once advised to spend their pregnancies kicked back on the couch by
doctors who worried that the bumps and jolts of exercise could hurt the
developing fetus. But more recent studies have shown that women who exercise
(albeit at a gentler pace) during those all-important nine months have fewer
complications and deliver healthier babies.

First, a few warnings: Don't start a rigorous exercise program while pregnant.
Consult with your obstetrician about exercise as soon as you learn that you are
going to have a baby. And consider hiring a personal trainer who can supervise
your exercise sessions.

"You do need to back it off," Turner says. "There is no formula, no exact
prescription. But you have to be baby-centered and not self-centered."

Time for maintenance

At her tiny No Excuses Gym, Turner works one-on-one with clients, many of whom
are either pregnant or have small children. Toys, games and pint-sized furniture
fill one side of the room, so kids can play while mom exercises. Cardio
machines, weight benches and exercise balls crowd the other side.

Today, Susie Matzorkis, 35, who is expecting her third child in late June, is
warming up with a few minutes on an elliptical trainer. As with her past
pregnancies, she's keeping up a regimen of walking, light weights, yoga and
using a step machine.

"It seems so hard to get the momentum going when you're so tired," Turner says,
keeping a careful eye on her client. "But it feels so good."

Matzorkis, who grew up training as a dancer and gymnast, agrees. Exercise has
"always been my way of life, so it comes naturally," she says. "I find that it
helps before, during and after, particularly during delivery and recovery."

Matzorkis moves to a bouncy blue exercise ball, where Turner has her sit while
she does bicep curls with light weights.

"The goal during pregnancy is to maintain muscle tone, not increase strength,"
Turner says. That means transitioning to more repetitions and lower weights.
This is no time to attempt to hoist huge amounts of weight or set personal
records.

"If you're a naturally competitive, athletic person, it's time to check that at
the door," Turner says. "Pregnancy is not the time to prove how much you can
do."

Consider using exercise bands tied to a doorknob instead of dumbbells. They
provide resistance without cumbersome weights.

For the next 30 minutes, Matzorkis works her way through a regimen that includes
squatting and tossing a melon-sized ball into the wall, stepping on and off a
low platform, and other low-impact exercises. Then she and Turner head outside,
where they take off at a brisk walk down a nearby trail.

Pregnancy, Turner says, is a great time to try new activities. If running
becomes uncomfortable - and it likely will as the months pass - try something
different, like some types of yoga (but with modifications).

Stay aware of how your body feels, and keep your doctor and personal trainer
informed. That should help dictate what kind of exercise you do. "Sometimes
something that feels good one week is uncomfortable the next, just because of
the way the baby shifts," Turner says.

Safety first

In 1985, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists cautioned
pregnant women not to exceed a maximum heart rate of 140 beats per minute when
they exercised. But for many athletes, that hardly qualifies as a workout.

That train of thought is shifting. Experts such as Dr. James Clapp, a professor
emeritus of reproductive biology at Case Western University in Cleveland, now
believe that exercise makes for an easier pregnancy and, sometimes, a quicker
delivery.

Fitness level prior to pregnancy is key. If you didn't exercise regularly before
you got pregnant, don't jump into it full-tilt now (but do exercise.) And if
you've always been a runner, swimmer, cyclist or other exerciser, keep at it.
(Though cyclists and others might want to shift to less risky sports.) Just pay
close attention to what your body is telling you.

Clapp, author of "Exercising Through Your Pregnancy" (Addicus Books, $17.95),
even gives the OK for exceeding the 140 bpm mark - if you are fit, and
especially early in pregnancy. Monitoring pulse rate during pregnancy isn't
helpful anyway, he says, because pregnancy alters the normal heart rate.
Instead, he recommends using perceived exertion to determine how intensely you
are exercising. Run or walk, for example, but don't pass the level where you
can't have a conversation while you are doing it.

"For almost all forms of exercise, there are benefits which include maintaining
fitness and flexibility, improved sense of self, body image and sense of
well-being, fewer pregnancy symptoms and quicker recovery after the birth," he
says.

Just remember that exercise has three main effects on the fetus: It increases
body temperature, it poses a risk of sports injury and it can restrict oxygen
flow. That said, fit women are better able to dissipate heat and are more
efficient at handling the stresses of exercise.

Take a few precautions.

In our hot climate, try to exercise early in the morning or late in the evening.
Don't get overheated (especially in the first trimester, when the fetus can't
regulate its body temperature). Wear light, breathable fabrics and drink plenty
of water - 6 or 8 ounces for every 15 minutes of exercise.

Don't overdo it. Swim, walk or move at a level that feels comfortable. Make sure
you don't deprive your growing baby of oxygen by holding your breath or pushing
yourself to maximum exertion. Wrap up your session with a thorough cool-down.

As for injuries, a blow to the abdomen or a bad fall can damage the placenta or,
later during the pregnancy, the fetus. Talk to your doctor about what activities
you can safely do. Obviously, hockey, boxing, wrestling, football, soccer,
horseback riding, scuba diving, snow or water-skiing and scuba diving are out.
Walking, swimming, yoga and light weight lifting are all good options.

Remember that your center of gravity has shifted. And if you get dizzy or
experience pain or shortness of breath, stop exercising.

Most of all, enjoy it. Revel in the changes occurring in your body; don't be
horrified at your gloriously swelling belly. Exercise will make it easier to
drop the weight when the baby is born.

"After a baby, everything is different," Turner says. "Your time is not your
own. This is doing something for yourself, even if your baby is with you. It's
healthy for you as a parent, and it makes you a better mom."

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

Sports to try during pregnancy
* Brisk walking
* Swimming
* Moderate jogging (if you jogged before you became pregnant)
* Moderately paced tennis (if you played before you got pregnant)
* Low-impact aerobics or water aerobics
* Yoga

Sports to avoid during pregnancy
* Downhill skiing
* Horseback riding
* Contact sports such as soccer, basketball, and hockey
* Scuba diving

Source: The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology



LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

KEEP AUSTIN WAIKIKI

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1223 words


For a moment, I shut my eyes and just listen.

With a crisp slap, five paddles cut simultaneously into the cool green glass of
Town Lake, and the narrow, 45-foot outrigger canoe I am helping to paddle surges
forward.

I look up now, as we fly under the Congress Avenue Bridge. Dozens of tourists
are lined up to watch the bats come out, their bodies silhouetted in the fading
light.

"You can catch 'em!" a bat-watcher shouts down, encouraging the paddlers in
another outrigger canoe that is slicing down the river next to us, about 10 feet
back.

"Dig deeper!" yells Justin McGuire, captain of this boat and president of the
Austin Outrigger Canoe Club. We're skimming across the water, and I think I feel
that elusive soaring motion the other paddlers described to me before we started
this little adventure.

"Hut!" hollers the person in the second seat. "Ho," everyone else chants back.
On the next stroke, we all switch our paddles to the opposite side of the canoe
and resume stroking.

Paddling along

Outriggers, with their stabilizing "ama," or pontoon, on one side, are made for
choppy water and ocean currents. In the sea, the canoes "surf" along breaking
waves.

The boats ride a little heavier in fresh water, but glide just as gracefully.
And though there's no element of surfing here in Central Texas, the boats don't
"huli," or flip, as easily. Factor in Austin's warm climate and accessible
downtown waterway, and it's not a bad place to launch an outrigger canoe.

The Austin Outrigger Club formed here in 2000, but slowly faded away. McGuire
and Michael Brooks revived it about a year ago, after Austin Outdoor Gear and
Guidance donated a pair of six-person canoes for the club's use.

Last week, someone in Louisiana donated a third boat. That's a good thing,
because Fiberglas outriggers cost between $10,000 and $12,000. Handmade wooden
outriggers cost much more.

Outrigger canoes were developed in the islands of Southeast Asia. Surfside
cities in Pacific Rim countries are home to hundreds of outrigger clubs. In the
United States, the sport is popular in Hawaii and California. Clubs also have
sprouted in unlikely places such as Las Vegas and Phoenix. In Texas, Dallas and
Houston have clubs.

The Austin club has about 25 members. They paddle Tuesday and Friday evenings,
plus Sunday mornings. They've traveled to Miami and Catalina, Calif., to compete
in outrigger races, and hosted their own sprint races here in Austin in April.
They're also working to improve their knowledge of the Polynesian culture that
surrounds outrigger canoeing.

"The aloha spirit encompasses the sport no matter where you go or race. There's
a nice spirit of sportsmanship," Brooks says.

Brooks, 44, a landscape architect, picked up the sport while living on the
island of Saipan in the Western Pacific. "The thing that hooked me was being out
on the water in the elements," he says. "The first time I did it, I saw dolphins
and chased turtles and thought, 'Wow. What a cool sport.' "

Earl Proeger learned to paddle an outrigger while living in Guam. He moved back
to Austin with a one-man outrigger canoe, heard about the club and helped get it
going again.

"There's no end to the beauty of it," he says. "You're offshore, in that crystal
clear water . . ."

Several club members, including James Bishop, learned to paddle outriggers while
living in Hawaii, where the sport takes on a spiritual element. There, new
outriggers are christened with native plant leaves, sea water and leis.

"Canoe club is an extension of family at the ocean," Bishop says. Paddlers talk
about the ocean, travel, fishing, food, seasons and spiritual matters during
their regular practices. "It's all interwoven at the canoe 'hale' (house)."

Basic outrigger paddling skills are not difficult to pick up, but it can take
years to perfect a stroke. The Austin club welcomes wannabe paddlers of all
ability levels.

In a six-person outrigger canoe, the paddlers all face forward. The front
person, or stroker, sets the pace. The second person calls the "changes,"
letting the paddlers know when to switch their paddles to the other side of the
boat. Seats three, four and five are typically the strongest paddlers. The
steersman, who captains and guides the boat, sits in the last seat.

While regular paddling involves a lot of arm work, paddling an outrigger
requires a twisting motion of the torso and back. The paddlers work up a sweat
digging in their paddles.

"The physical aspect - I love this sport," Brooks says. "You feel like Hercules
when you're done."

Mike Sciola, who paddles with the Austin group, credits his paddling routine
with helping him shed 25 pounds. "It works the shoulders, upper body, lower
back, abdomen - all the major muscle groups," he says.

Speedy and smooth paddling takes cooperation. Do it right and you feel the
synchronicity.

"The whole key to paddling is the team, as one, pulling the canoe," Brooks says.
"Everyone's blades are in the water at one time, and out of water at one time."

In sync, the boat flies along. When one person is off, you feel a lurch or a
kick.

A real workout

A few hours before I joined them, club members carried two of the 400-pound
boats to the water at the rowing dock just east of the Four Seasons Hotel on
Town Lake. We climbed in, and after a quick lesson for me, we set off.

"Paddles up," McGuire called, and everyone hoisted their paddle in the air. At
"paddles out," they leaned forward, blades poised. And at the cry "huki," which
means "pull" in Hawaiian, everyone dug in.

We paddled (OK, I was pretty awkward at first) upstream. Before I knew it we
were past Auditorium Shores. The water glinted silver and gray in the sunlight.
Traffic buzzed overhead on the bridges.

As we moved on, I started to get the hang of it. Now I'm feeling the rhythm.

Unlike paddling a canoe, the motion on an outrigger is almost overhead. You
stretch out your arms, stabbing into the water in front of the boat. The idea is
to pull the boat forward, not push the water backward.

"Imagine a chair on wheels," says McGuire, 30. "You reach forward with a
plunger, plant it and pull the chair forward."

We paddle our way to Red Bud Isle, a good 3 1/2 miles from where we put in,
pausing a couple of times to rest, drink water and wipe the sweat off our brows.
It takes about 45 minutes. My back feels like over-pulled taffy when we get
there.

We stop to admire the scenery. One by one, the paddlers slip into the water,
hanging onto the iako, or graceful wooden arm that supports the pontoon on the
outriggers.

"All right, let's go," McGuire calls. We take our places back in the boat and
ready our paddles. We're off again, speeding down the lake.

A racing outrigger cruises at 8 or 9 miles per hour. We're slower than that, but
the shoreline is scrolling past remarkably quickly. We zoom past swans and blue
herons, curious turtles and kayakers.

"Aloha, welcome to Austin," someone at the front of our outrigger calls out as a
Capital Cruises boat full of sightseers chugs past.

We paddle in to shore. Everyone hops out and helps lug the heavy boat out of the
water. A few use plastic scoops to bail a little water. Then someone breaks open
a box of pizza and passes it around.

I feel peaceful and pleasantly tired. If paddling an outrigger canoe on Town
Lake is this much fun, I think, imagine what it's like out in the ocean.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

They're not from here . . .

BYLINE: Michael Corcoran AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. K01

LENGTH: 2598 words


Singer-songwriter Slaid Cleaves had been in Austin only a couple months in 1991
when he played an open mike at the Saxon Pub. After his short set, a patron came
up to him, gushed about what he'd just heard and said, "You know, if you stick
it out here three or four years, things might really start happening for you."

Cleaves had to laugh to himself. Three or four years? The Saxon Pub listener had
no idea he was talking to a guy who had conquered the Portland, Maine, rock
scene in just 12 months. In fact, the main reason Cleaves had packed up his 1976
Dodge Dart and relocated to Austin was because he'd so quickly hit the ceiling
in Lobster Country.

Like so many musicians around the country, Cleaves had heard that the "music
matters" burg of Austin, home to South by Southwest and Willie Nelson's gypsy
cowboy movement, was where you took it to the next level, organically. Players
have been flocking to this liberal outpost since the '60s, where the choice for
many was staying in Lubbock or Amarillo and getting pummeled by future cable
installers because you had long hair and played the guitar, or coming down to
Austin, where you could get all the juicy acceptance you could handle because
you had long hair and played the guitar. The musical migration has never slowed.

The first day in town, Cleaves opened the paper to all those club ads and
figured he was in the right place. But eight years later, to pay the bills, the
goateed folk singer was still scrambling for gigs, still working construction
jobs and renting his body out for Pharmaco testing. There were encouraging
moments - getting signed to Rounder/Philo in '97, after winning the new folk
competition at Kerrville. Finding a fan in producer Gurf Morlix (Lucinda
Williams, Ray Wylie Hubbard). A favorable review in the daily paper. But until
his make-or-break album "Broke Down" became a hit on KGSR and other AAA stations
across the country in 2000, a typical Cleaves gig would be in front of a dozen
folks at Flipnotics on a Tuesday night.

"It was a long, hard struggle to get noticed in this town," Cleaves said
recently from the house in East Austin he shares with Karen, his wife of 12
years. "When it finally happened, it was such a thrill. I couldn't believe it."

"Broke Down" sold nearly 40,000 copies and established Cleaves on the national
folk festival circuit. In Austin, his no-cover shows for stragglers have been
replaced by two-night sell-outs at the Cactus Cafe. "It feels like all my dreams
have come true," he said, knowing that if this success had come as easily as in
Maine it wouldn't mean as much.

The Cleaves story is quite typical - sans the happy ending - of the majority of
musical transplants who trek to Austin for more opportunities to play gigs, find
backing musicians, build up a reputation, attract media attention and play in
front of audiences who, generally, elevate music as a noble calling. Austin's
where you go when you're burned out on seeing the same 100 people at your shows
in your hometown.

"We were drawing big crowds in the Bay Area, but it wasn't going anywhere," said
Josh Zee of the Mother Truckers, a soulful country act that moved here from
California at the suggestion of Ray Benson last July. "We just wanted to be part
of a scene that understood what we were doing, that could help us grow." Fronted
by Zee, a former guitarist for the hard-rock band Protein, and his
ukulele-playing wife and singer Teal Collins, the Truckers are that rare act
from somewhere else that has been able to build up a sizable local following
almost instantly. They pack the Continental Club every Thursday, get regular
airplay on KGSR and have a charming new CD "Broke Not Broken," which has been
flying off the shelves at Waterloo Records.

And how's this for a welcome to Texas? The group celebrated its first year in
Austin by playing Willie Nelson's Fourth of July Picnic in Fort Worth. Mother
Truckers have only one complaint with life in Austin: Nobody told them about how
expensive it is to run the air conditioner in the summer. "The first time we got
an electric bill, I hit the roof," said Zee. "It was hundreds and hundreds of
dollars. I called up the city utilities office and said that I felt they should
warn newcomers to the area."

The bills have been getting easier to pay in recent weeks. Mother Truckers are
this year's Greencards. That Aussie-Brit bluegrass trio moved to Nashville in
2004 to record an album and to tour the East and Midwest more feasibly, but not
before thrilling Austin club crowds. The Truckers similarly drilled their way
into local hearts with a mix of chops and charisma.

Zee's stellar ax runs and unexpected songwriting dim the lights for Collins'
exuberantly clear and buoyant vocals. The way audiences go nuts for the sound is
reminiscent of the early days of the Damnations, themselves transplants from
upstate New York.

Before their gifts found a place to shine, the Truckers got their foot in the
door with connections forged before the move. Besides Benson, who offered up his
Bismeaux studio on speculation that the record will sell enough to pay recording
expenses, the group had a fan in former Antone's blues queen Angela Strehli,
whose husband owns a Northern California nightclub where the Truckers played
regularly. Strehli told Continental owner/booker Steve Wertheimer about this
cool group heading his way.

"It's only natural to want to help younger talent," said Benson, who first saw
the Truckers when they opened for Asleep At the Wheel in San Francisco. "We were
helped by Commander Cody and Dolly Parton - lots of people."

Benson said he could see that the Truckers were just spinning their wheels in
the Bay Area. "They didn't have what we have in Austin," Benson said. "And I
didn't think Austin had anyone quite like the Mother Truckers."

Can you quit

your day job?

But for every act that finds a measure of paradise here, there are dozens of
hopefuls from elsewhere who give up the dream after a few fun years, getting
real jobs. The consolation for not being able to make a career out of music is
getting to live in Austin. Some slide into the velvet rut, the slacker musician
comfort zone, doing just well enough to not quit. Other bands go for a change of
climate, moving on to Seattle or Nashville, Tenn., or Brooklyn, N.Y., or
whatever scene is hip at the moment. Their places in the local scene are taken
instantly.

"There are only four or five cities to move to if you want your career to grow,"
said country singer Dave Insley, who came to Austin from Tempe, Ariz., in April.
"For my kind of music there's Los Angeles, New York, Nashville, Chicago and
Austin. And I always got a better feeling in Austin than those other places. The
audiences are more sophisticated. If you say, 'Here's a song by Ray Price,'
everyone knows who Ray Price is."

But few people knew who Dave Insley was when he started playing in town
regularly. Moving to Austin is, in many cases, starting over. Big fish, meet
enormous pond. And you can toss those clippings about winning "best songwriter"
or "best rock band" in a reader's poll of the weekly back home. That won't get
you Saturday night at the Continental - or even Tuesday at Ego's. What happened
in Taos, N.M., in St. Louis, in Shreveport, La., in Little Rock, Ark. or
wherever, stays there, as far as club bookers are concerned.

"It's great being a hometown hero," said Insley, who left a sizeable following
in the land of cacti and canyons. "We'd play these big, crowded gigs, but
afterwards it wouldn't translate into anything tangible. I just wasn't satisfied
with making a few dollars on a Saturday night."

Upon his arrival, Insley quickly discovered one of the best reasons to move to
Austin: great sidemen are as easy to find as Thundercloud Subs locations. "The
talent pool here is amazing," he said. "There was, like, one steel player in
Arizona. But here, if my regular steel player can't make a gig, he'll give me
five other names to call, and they're all great. Try to find a drummer in Tempe
on short notice who can play a country shuffle."

Insley said the path to contentment in Austin intersects with realistic goals.
"If you've moving to Austin to get a record deal and to become a big star,
you're going to be disappointed," he said. "And you can't make any money here;
you've gotta go out on the road. But if you're here to grow as a musician and to
meet new challenges, there's not a better place in the country."

Personality goes

a long way

Soul/gospel singer LZ Love relocated to Austin from Oakland, Calif., in 2003
because of "the fellowship of musicians I felt here." She came to town to sing
at a bar mitzvah and ended up that night on Sixth Street jamming with blues
bands. "It just reinvigorated me," she said. But the singer said her R&B sound
has had a hard time finding acceptance on radio and in the higher profile clubs.
"Austin's still very country- and folk-oriented, but that's changing," Love
said. "I think because I'm not from Austin it's hurt me to a certain extent.
People want to make sure you're going to be around a while. But I'm not going
anywhere. I'm making some amazing friends here."

Talent is only part of the formula for success in Austin, said Vickie Lucero,
whose Propaganda Media in Kyle handles publicity for such transplants as Guy
Forsyth, Adam Carroll, Wendy Colonna, Graham Weber and more. "You have to be
ambitious if you want to be taken seriously," Lucero said. "And it really helps
if you can deal with people on a personal level."

Lucero offered Weber's story as an example. "Everyone wants to play the Cactus,"
she said, "but Griff (manager Luneberg) is a tough cookie. He's not easy to bowl
over. But Graham just showed up and started playing open mikes. He and Griff hit
it off right away and Graham started hosting the Monday night songwriter night."
Weber also became fast friends with Cleaves, who recorded Weber's "Oh, Roberta"
on "Unsung," the recent Cleaves CD comprised entirely of songs by other, mostly
obscure, artists. Unintentional - or at least subtle - networking is the most
effective kind.

Lucero also credits "the most supportive media in the country" for making Austin
such an attractive destination for musicians. Local television, radio, print and
online media are open to championing rising talent, sometimes rushing to be the
first to tap this band or that songwriter as a rising star. Asked to name
differences between the Bay Area and Austin, Zee of the Truckers didn't
hesitate: "The fact that a writer with the newspaper is sitting across from me
taking notes - that's something that would never happen to a local musician in
San Francisco. Everything there is geared to the national touring acts."

If the band fits . . .

As hyped as the music is, the audiences are equally special, according to David
Fisher of Big Blue Hearts, the roots pop band that moved to Austin from Los
Angeles in May 2005. "The people come out to listen to the music here," said
Fisher, whose vocals evoke West Texan Roy Orbison, "whereas in L.A. we always
felt like we were being sized up. The first night we played here it felt like
sitting down on an old, comfy couch."

Home for three-fourths of the group is a $600-a-month apartment in North Austin,
which allows the Hearts to operate more stress-free than in L.A., where they
lived in a $3,000-a-month house. "It's more laid-back here and I think it's
affected our music in a positive way," Fisher said.

It's that vibe, not the music industry, that attracted a musical migration in
the '70s and '80s, when Austin truly was an inexpensive place to live and the
good times flowed like sangria. "Nobody was thinking about career opportunities
in the '80s," said Hole in the Wall booker Paul Minor, a music-scene fixture
since 1982. "You moved your band here because it was dirt cheap and there were
tons of places to play. It wasn't competitive like it sometimes is now."

Minor said he'd rather book a band whose members come out to hear other acts
than ones that venture from the home studio only when they've got a gig. "I love
when people see this as a scene and want to become part of it."

Naked ambition has never played well in Slackertown, but South by Southwest,
which has grown into the most significant all-encompassing music conference in
the world since its 1987 inception, has made Austin feel more like a launching
pad for up and coming acts than the "Groovers Paradise" that made the city's
early reputation. Once a secret Shangri-La, Austin now proudly markets itself as
"the Live Music Capital of the World," and those who wish to make their living
playing music often see Austin as a first resort.

More than 2,037 Austin-area acts, counting bands and solo artists, are
registered with the Texas Music Office, more than twice as many as in 2000. The
number of venues featuring live original music has remained roughly the same,
about 60 to 70, in the past 20 years.

The influx of musicians is not always greeted with open arms. About three South
by Southwests ago, local band the Wannabes printed up T-shirts with "Welcome To
Austin" on the front and "Don't Move Here" on the back. Sometimes it does seem
that there are just too many musicians vying for too few gigs.

"Back in Arizona, if someone asks what you do and you tell them you're a
musician, they look at you like you're from Mars," Insley said, then laughed.
"But in Austin, you're surprised to meet someone who isn't a musician."

If there's a backlash against musicians who've moved to this mecca in recent
years, Fisher said he and the other members of Big Blue Hearts haven't felt it.
Then he corrected himself. "Well, we had to learn early on to not introduce
ourselves as being from L.A.," he said. The band felt their affiliation with the
City of Angels would set them apart as nouveau Texans, to give them a bit of hip
cache. Instead, they found out that nobody cared where they were from. They're
in Austin now.

"Living in Austin really helps on the road," Insley said. "It's like a seal of
approval. I remember when I was in Chicago one night, looking for something to
do, and I saw an ad for an act that said they were from Austin. I remember
thinking about all the competition down here and I figured, 'Well, if they've
got it together enough to stand out, to go out on a national tour, they must be
a pretty good band.'"

mcorcoran@statesman.com; 445-3652

Here's a sampling of musicians who moved to Austin from elsewhere to further
their careers:

Artist                    Moved from

Mike Keller           Fargo, N.D.
Toni Price             Nashville, Tenn.
Grand Champeen  Harrisburg, Va.
Weary Boys          Humboldt, Calif.
Troy Campbell      Columbus, Ohio
Kelly Willis           Washington, D.C.
The Gourds           Dallas/Shreveport, La.
Vallejo                  Birmingham, Ala.
Tony Scalzo          Orange County, Calif.
Guy Forsyth          Kansas City, Mo.
Trish and
Darin Murphy        Houston
Alejando
Escovedo             San Francisco
Jerry Jeff Walker   New York City
Trail of Dead        Olympia, Wash.
Reckless Kelly     Challis, Idaho
Seth Walker         Burlington, N.C.
Erik Hokkanen     Clearwater, Fla.
Lou Ann Barton    Fort Worth
Brian Keane         Seneca, S.C.
Marcia Ball          Vinton, La.
Bob Schneider     El Paso
Jimmy LaFave     Stillwater, Okla.
Ian McLagan        Los Angeles
Joe Ely                Lubbock
Ray Benson        Quapaw, W.Va.
Sarah Brown       Ann Arbor, Mich.
Malcolm
Welbourne          Shreveport, La.
Carolyn
Wonderland        Houston
Jon Dee
Graham              Eagle Pass
Mr. Blakes          Dallas
Cruiserweight      Terrell
Cross Canadian
Ragweed            Stillwater, Okla.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Clinton summit aimed at making world a better place

BYLINE: David Ho NEW YORK BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 406 words


NEW YORK - President Clinton and first lady Laura Bush kicked off the Clinton
Global Initiative's annual summit of world political and business leaders
Wednesday, an event that collected on its first day pledges for more than $2
billion in funds and programs to combat global ills.

The largest of the 107 commitments was $500 million from Opportunity
International to help 50 million poor people work their way out of poverty by
2012. The group's pledge is part of a larger goal to raise $1 billion to provide
loans, savings and training for 100 million people in Africa, Asia, Eastern
Europe and Latin America.

''While we certainly like commitments with lots of zeros behind them, when you
consider the hundreds that were made and kept over this past year, some of those
with smaller budgets had very large impacts indeed,'' Clinton said.

The more than 1,000 people attending the summit included the leaders of
nonprofit groups, philanthropic tycoons Bill Gates and Warren Buffet, U.N.
Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and about 50 current and former heads of state.

Other expected participants include President Carter, cycling champion Lance
Armstrong and News Corp. CEO Rupert Murdoch.

Workshops and meetings at the three-day summit are intended to produce
commitments in four areas: energy and climate change, poverty reduction,
religious and ethnic conflict resolution, and global health.

Last year's inaugural summit fetched more than 300 pledges worth $2.5 billion in
funds and programs, many of which are ongoing. Of those who attended last year,
17 people were not allowed back after failing to make or keep a commitment,
Clinton spokesman Jay Carson said.

On Wednesday, Bush announced the first commitment of the 2006 summit, a $16.4
million investment - $10 million from two U.S. aid agencies over three years and
the rest from two foundations - to bring clean water pumping systems to
sub-Saharan Africa.

The pumping systems from the nonprofit group PlayPumps International are
children's merry-go-rounds attached to a water pump and storage tank. More than
700 of the pumps are already installed in southern Africa. The group's goal is
to provide clean water to 10 million people in 10 countries by 2010.

''Around the world, more than a billion people do not have safe water to drink
or to use to keep themselves and their homes clean,'' Bush said. ''PlayPumps are
fueled by a limitless energy source: children and play.''

dho@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

At UT, Shell Oil chief defends industry, touts alternatives

BYLINE: Claudia Grisales AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 391 words


The head of Shell Oil Co. is on a barnstorming tour of the country, hoping to
spread his company's viewpoints on energy issues and confront a backlash against
high energy prices.

On Wednesday, John Hofmeister was in Austin, where he spoke at the University of
Texas' LBJ School of Public Affairs, touting conservation, renewable energy and
nontraditional approaches to boosting fuel supplies.

"Conventional oil and gas is not the only answer," Hofmeister told a luncheon
crowd as he outlined his strategy to assure a secure energy future for the U.S.

Hofmeister is president of the U.S. operations of Royal Dutch Shell PLC, the
European energy giant. The company, which employs 14,100 people in Texas, gets
70 percent of its oil and gas from beneath the Gulf of Mexico.

Austin was the seventh stop on a 50-city, two-year tour in which Hofmeister and
other top executives will try to convince consumers, regulators and policymakers
that energy companies aren't the enemy and to promote their views on energy
policy.

Among Hofmeister's points:

* He doesn't buy the theory that the world is running out of oil, but said the
"easy oil . . . the inexpensive oil" mostly has been found. Hofmeister said his
company is investing more to get oil from sources such as shale formations in
Colorado and oil sands in Canada, but said that is a costly, long-term process.

* He said there is a "linkage" between greenhouse gases and climate change and
that the "time for debate is past." Hofmeister called for a national strategy to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but said a newly passed California law that
requires the state to reduce greenhouse emissions by 25 percent by 2020 goes too
far.

* He said the United States needs to expand alternative energy sources, such as
wind power, while promoting conservation. But he said the government should not
just "throw money" at alternative energy.

With more than 22,000 U.S. employees, Hofmeister says Shell isn't oblivious to
soaring gasoline bills.

"Every Shell employee pays the same price as every American. We give no employee
discounts," he said after the speech. "So we feel the pain at the pump that
every American feels and we don't like it anymore than they do."

"The way to get the price down," he said, "is either to use less fuel or to find
more fuel and to produce more fuel."

cgrisales@statesman.com; 912-5933

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 29, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Sex and balances

BYLINE: Chris Garcia AMERICAN-STATESMAN FILM WRITER

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1196 words


Shortbus" takes its title from the short, yellow buses that ferry "special" kids
to and from school, as opposed to the long bus for "normal" children. In John
Cameron Mitchell's new movie, it's the name of a hedonistic salon where
mavericks, misfits and art types gather to party, socialize and engage in
uninhibited sex. There is an actual orgy room.

The film's sex scenes are real, and could very well be considered pornographic.
Mitchell hired unknowns through an open casting call on the Web. Nearly 500
people sent in audition tapes. With cast in place, the director fostered a
workshop climate - in the mold of directors John Cassavetes and Mike Leigh -
that went on for 2 1/2 years. The performers created their characters and story
material with Mitchell.

Staging the sex was a delicate matter.

"Everyone had different needs," Mitchell says. "Some were more comfortable than
others. Some were up for rehearsing scenes that were sexual and others wanted to
save it for shooting. There were plenty of nerves. We had to discuss stuff a
lot, boundaries and creating a set conducive to it."

"Shortbus" is unrated and earns its Texas premiere Oct. 6 as part of the Austin
Gay and Lesbian International Film Festival, which begins today. (The movie
opens Oct. 13 in Austin.)

Mitchell, 43, is best known for writing, directing and starring in "Hedwig and
the Angry Inch," a drag-rock opera filled with glitter, lament and big hooks. It
was one of the best movies of 2001, fast becoming a cult darling. He has since
directed videos for Bright Eyes and Scissor Sisters. Two of his scripts - "Oskur
Fishman" and "Nigh," a partly animated children's story - are gestating and
awaiting funding, a process he's used to.

"If each film isn't exactly the same as the last one, you have to fight for it,"
Mitchell sighs. "I don't plan on doing things that are comparable."

He spoke to us last week by phone.

American-Statesman: The title "Shortbus" could be a tad misleading for the
unsuspecting viewer. It's easily explained in the film, but does it have
metaphorical meaning, too?

John Cameron Mitchell: None whatsoever. (Beat) Of course it does! It's the name
of a salon for the "gifted and challenged," all those people who thought they
didn't measure up, yet find that their social, mental, physical, artistic,
sexual, gender-wise disability is an asset in the end. You see the world in a
different way as an outsider. It can destroy you or make you much more
interesting than the average person.

So it's a refuge for oddballs.

Yeah, a sanctuary for those who don't fit in. That's what New York is and that's
what Austin is for Texas and Portland is for Oregon and Athens is for Georgia -
enclaves for people who are sort of freaks but are actually a lot more
interesting, thoughtful, sensitive and questioning of the status quo.

A mournful, post-Sept. 11 pall hangs over the film, making Shortbus also a place
of consolation, a salve for wounded souls.

There's a sadness that hangs over the city and the country right now anyway.
There's a line in the movie that it's like the '60s but with less hope. The
ascendant Republicans' power is only based on fear, fear of worse to come. It's
not based on optimism. It's different even than Reagan's false optimism. That's
just where we are right now. It finds its way into the smallest corners of our
personal lives, too. I've heard of more suicides and drug overdoses in the past
few years than I have in my whole life. It's no accident.

Despite the hyperventilating press, "Shortbus" isn't the only recent indie film
to show sexual intercourse. "9 Songs," "Brown Bunny" and "Romance" come to mind.
How do you differentiate your art from straight porn?

First of all, you imply that porn is an accusation. Porn is morally neutral, I
think. There's bad porn and good porn. I don't have a problem with porn made in
a fun, respectful way that is actually interesting. But this isn't porn, and I
was very careful about saying that because so much porn is bad. The assumption
that all sex on film is porn is narrow and very juvenile. Pretty unanimously,
people who see the film say that sex is the last thing they're thinking about by
the end of it, which was our plan. The sex is front-loaded, becoming less
explicit as you go along. By the end, I really want it to just be another brush
stroke on the painting. I want it to be integrated as it is in our lives. When
people say it wasn't what they expected, that the film was emotional and funny,
I'm like, "What is sex in your own life? Is it really free of emotion and humor?
If so, you need to think about changing some things." We certainly need to
change some things about how we see sex in American film.

What do you mean when you say American film doesn't respect sex?

That there's only porn or it's negative and ends in mutilation. There's nothing
in between. I'm talking about explicit sex in movies. Sex is a very rich and
revealing language. We can tell a lot about our characters from the way they
have sex in the film. We introduce the characters by the way they have sex. It's
a language we know as human beings, so why not use it in a film? It's an
aesthetic potential. Also, we want to challenge audiences who come from a
prudish society where sex is feared as equally dangerous as, say, terrorism. Gay
marriage was as big a deal for some (voters) as a terrorist with a nuclear bomb.
Irrational fears are running rampant. We want to challenge the
compartmentalization and demonization of sex by injecting it into a story about
relationships and sex and connection, instead of patronizing an audience and
treating them like children by cutting away from sex.

cgarcia@statesman.com; 445-3649

(BOX)

John Cameron Mitchell's 'Shortbus'

When: 9:30 p.m. Oct. 6

Where: Arbor, 9828 Great Hills Trail

Tickets: $6-$9

Information: www.agliff.org, 302-9889

(BOX)

'AGLIFF 19: Say What?': The 19th Austin Gay and Lesbian International Film
Festival The oldest and biggest gay film festival in the Southwest starts today
with 150 movies from 20 nations. It runs through Oct. 8. All shows are at the
Arbor, 9828 Great Hills Trail. Tickets are $6-$9; $25-$35 for opening night film
and party. 302-9889, www.agliff.org. A few highlights:

'Puccini for Beginners' (7 tonight) - Gretchen Mol co-stars in this modern New
York screwball romance.

'Paper Dolls' (9:15 p.m. Tuesday; 3 p.m. Oct. 8)- In this documentary, gay
Filipino immigrants in Israel perform drag shows when they're not being
caregivers for the elderly.

'Gypo' (7:15 p.m. Wednesday; 1 p.m. Oct. 8) - A miserable, working-class couple
is rocked when a Romany Czech refugee enters their lives in this British drama.

'For the Love of Dolly' (9:25 p.m. Wednesday) - Some Dolly Parton fans make
dolls of and shrines to the country singer. In this bemusing documentary, even
Dolly looks scared of the most extreme fans.

'C.R.A.Z.Y.' (7 p.m. Saturday) - Jean-Marc Vallee's Canadian coming-of-age drama
follows a teenage boy in Montreal as he negotiates growing up gay.

'The Gymnast' (7:15 p.m. Oct. 6) - Dreya Weber plays a former gymnastic champion
whose personal life is a source of dissatisfaction, until she meets a gorgeous
young dancer. Weber will be at the screening.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Close, intriguing races

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1170 words


Voters in Central Texas will be tested on election day by an unusually strong
lineup of candidates for the Texas House of Representatives.

The region's voters are the beneficiaries of a roiling discontent with the
political status quo. The candidates who walked door-to-door or attended
neighborhood voter forums heard from people who think that it is long past time
for a change.

Some of the rancor is fueled by events - President Bush's handling of the war in
Iraq, spiraling gas prices this past summer and the Republican leadership's
handling of former U.S. Rep. Mark Foley - over which a state legislator has no
control. Some of it, however, is dissatisfaction with the political gridlock
that produced a frustrating procession of special sessions of the Legislature
this past two years.

The result is an electorate expressing its distaste for incumbents, regardless
of political party. This climate has produced close and intriguing races here in
Central Texas, where several House districts have, in the past several
elections, swung back and forth between Republicans and Democrats. This year, an
unprecedented number of Libertarians have also joined the fray.

District 47

A lot of money has been spent and a lot of attention paid to the seat being
vacated by Republican Terry Keel, who ran unsuccessfully for the Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals. Two qualified first-time candidates are running. Democrat
Valinda Bolton deserves your vote.

Bolton, 47, a professional in the field of assistance for victims of child
abuse, sexual assault and domestic violence, wants to improve the public school
system. Bolton wants Texas teachers to get another pay raise, and she would push
for a cap on college tuitions. She has the endorsement of the Texas State
Teacher Association.

Bolton, who has lived in Oak Hill for two years, is smart, plain-spoken and
sincere. It is the sincerity of her Republican opponent, Bill Welch, on the
issue of campaign contributions, that we question. Welch has many admirable
qualities. A colonel in the Air Force Reserve, Welch, 51, volunteered for active
duty after 9/11 and served in Afghanistan and Iraq. He is a 22-year resident of
the district who has campaigned tirelessly. Welch is a successful businessman
who feels a duty to public service.

At an Oct. 11 voters forum, however, Welch could not recall the name of his top
campaign donors. We are concerned that Welch, who told voters he would not be
beholden to special interests, forgot the $35,000 given to him by Bob Perry, the
power broker who finances much of the state's Republican leadership.

Yvonne Schick, 58, a Libertarian, is also on the ballot.

District 50

Another swing district, in northwest Austin and Travis County, saw the emergence
of a strong Republican candidate. Still, there is not enough reason for voters
to turn out incumbent Democrat Mark Strama, whose deft work with the Republican
majority should earn him a second two-year term.

Strama, 39, has taken pains to praise Gov. Rick Perry's school finance plan, for
which he enthusiastically voted. Strama liked the property tax cut that resulted
and the raise it gave teachers. His vote was in keeping with a growing
reputation that Strama knows how to get things done for his district.

Having been greatly outspent by Strama, Republican Jeff Fleece, 34, nonetheless
has impressed voters with a principled, conservative platform undergirded by a
strong management style honed at West Point and currently at Dell Inc. But some
of his positions - including support of school vouchers and opposition to
embryonic stem cell research - are at odds with the district's moderate
constituency.

Libertarian Jerry Chandler, 59, is also on the ballot.

District 52

Don't expect Republican Rep. Mike Krusee to back away from the increasingly
tough questions about the Trans Texas Corridor. Right now, there is a lot to
answer for: which route the multibillion-dollar toll road will take; who must
give up their land for it; and just how voters signed off on the funding in 2001
without knowing what they might be paying for.

After seven terms, Krusee, 47, has shown that he is willing to stand up and give
voters in Round Rock and eastern Williamson County answers to those questions.
Krusee has said the state's major highways, particularly Interstate 35, must
have some relief. Voters will need his stewardship of such a mammoth and
controversial undertaking and he should be given another term.

In addition to her opposition to the Trans Texas Corridor, Karen Felthauser,
Krusee's Democratic opponent for a second time, has called for public school
reform and teacher pay increases. Felthauser, 52, is a substitute teacher and a
member of two of the state's leading teachers unions.

Lillian Simmons, 43, is the Libertarian in this race.

District 45

Incumbent Patrick Rose, a two-term veteran at the age of 28, is another Democrat
who has established an ability to work constructively with the Republican
majority. Voters in Blanco, Caldwell and Hays counties ought to return Rose a
third time.

His Republican opponent is Jim Neuhaus, 66, a part-time rancher who is retired.
Neuhaus is a former president of the San Marcos school board, but he cannot do
for the district what Rose can.

The Libertarian candidate is Tom Gleinser, 58.

District 20

Quietly and quickly, Republican state Rep. Dan Gattis, 38, has become a leader
in the House, balancing a conservative philosophy with an eagerness to work with
legislators of both parties on legislation beneficial to this region of Texas.
We particularly applaud his staunch support for openness and accountability in
state government. The voters in Milam and part of Williamson County will benefit
from his continued leadership.

The Democratic opponent, first-time candidate Jim Stauber, 64, describes himself
as a fiscal conservative. The former United Auto Workers Union member would be
tough on illegal immigration because of the jobs lost to American labor. Gattis
is the voters best choice in this race.

District 17

Rep. Robby Cook, 44, a Democrat, has for five terms represented parts of Brazos,
Bastrop, Burleson, Colorado, Fayette and Lee counties on issues that mean the
most to constituents there. His service on the Land and Resource Management
Committee and his work on private property rights, and ground and surface water
protections, are significant and worthy of our endorsement for a sixth term.

Republican Tim Kleinschmidt, a 49-year-old lawyer who works the family ranch in
Lexington, is running for the first time, also in support of property and water
rights for ranchers and farmers.

Districts 46, 48, 49 and 51

The incumbents in these Travis County races face only Libertarian candidates.
Voters should re-elect Rep. Dawnna Dukes, 43, the Democrat in District 46 over
35-year-old Richard Wedeikes; Rep. Donna Howard, 54, the Democrat in District
48, over Ben Easton, 47; Rep. Elliott Naishtat, 61, the Democrat in District 49,
over Lisa McKay, 45; and Democrat Eddie Rodriguez, 35, in District 51, over
34-year-old Arthur DiBianca.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: compiled from staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 944 words


AUSTIN

It's a dog's life

ELECTIONS

Early voting under way

Early voting for the Nov. 7 election runs through Nov. 3. Registered voters who
want to cast ballots early don't need to vote in their precincts: They can go to
other early voting sites in their counties. More information and a list of early
voting locations are available at:

* Williamson County: http://wcportals. wilco.org/ elections/index.html

* Travis County: www.co.travis.tx.us/ county_clerk/election/default.asp

* Hays County: http://elections.co.hays .tx.us

* Burnet County: www.burnetcountytexas .org/Elections/tabid/128/Default.aspx

* Bastrop County: www.co.bastrop.tx.us/ ips/cms/countyoffices/countyClerk.html

* Blanco County: (830) 868-7357

* Caldwell County: (512) 398-1804

* Llano County: (325) 247-4455

CENTRAL TEXAS

Candidate forum is Wednesday

The West Austin Neighborhood Group will hold a forum for the seven candidates
running in the Nov. 7 election for the District 21 U.S. House seat, held by
Lamar Smith, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Wednesday in the LCRA boardroom, 3700 Lake
Austin Blvd. The event is open to the public.

AUSTIN

Police traffic enforcement

Police will be watching for traffic-law violations in these areas this morning:

1500 block of Rio Grande Street; 4700 block of East William Cannon Drive; MoPac
Boulevard (Loop 1) from Town Lake to Far West Boulevard; 7500 block of RM 2222;
U.S. 290 West.

BELL COUNTY

Body identified as missing soldier's

Human skeletal remains found Sept. 25 in southwestern Bell County have been
identified as Matthew L. Moraski, a Fort Hood soldier missing since 2001.

A landowner found the remains and military identification tags while walking in
a remote area of his property on FM 2484. Bell County Sheriff Dan Smith has said
investigators are calling Moraski's death questionable but do not know a cause
of death.

According to Army records, Moraski, originally of Westfield, Mass., was 23 when
he was classified as absent without leave for failing to show up Dec. 27, 2001,
Smith said. Officials later declared Moraski missing after his relatives said
that they had not heard from him, Smith said.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

TEXAS DIGEST

FALFURRIAS

Man hitches ride in truck engine

An illegal immigrant from Mexico was found hiding in the engine compartment of a
truck, U.S. Customs and Border Protection said Monday.

Border Patrol agents found the man Sunday after a security dog reacted to the
truck at an inland highway checkpoint. He was found in a compartment between the
radiator and engine.

The man appeared to be in good health and declined medical attention, officials
said. He was processed for voluntary return to Mexico. The driver and passenger,
both U.S. citizens from Weslaco, were detained and questioned.

BROWNSVILLE

Singer's attorneys seek probation

Attorneys for Tejano singer Joe Lopez said Monday that they will ask for
probation for him when he appears before a jury Oct. 30 for sentencing on two
counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child and one count of indecency with a
child.

The jury convicted Lopez on Friday of molesting a 13-year-old girl.

Lopez, 56, is the former lead singer of Grupo Mazz.

''We want to make sure that the jury understands that it is not unusual - in
other words, it's not unheard of - that someone obtains probation for this type
of offense,'' attorney Michael Young said Monday during a news conference at his
law office.

Prosecutor Chuck Mattingly said the district attorney's office wants prison time
for Lopez. Mattingly declined to comment on a plea agreement that had been
offered in August that would have given Lopez 10 years' probation and 120 days
in jail for a guilty plea to a charge of injury to a child, The Brownsville
Herald reported in today's editions.

Funeral for family shot in Florida

A mariachi group played songs of mourning Monday as pallbearers brought the
bodies of a family of four gunned down along the Florida Turnpike to a
Brownsville cemetery.

About 200 mourners stood under an overcast sky as the caskets for 28-year-old
Jose Luis Escobedo, his wife, 25-year-old Yessica Guerrero Escobedo, and their
two toddler boys were placed alongside one another.

Family members sobbed and held one another as last rites were said and the four
were lowered into a single grave.

Their bodies were found Oct. 13 in a grassy area off the highway in Port St.
Lucie, Fla. Authorities have said the family died of multiple gunshot wounds and
appeared to be lying down or kneeling when they were shot. The couple's vehicle
was found abandoned 70 miles south of the crime scene in West Palm Beach.

So far no arrests have been made, and a motive for the killings has not been
revealed.

HOUSTON

Police policy worries immigrants

Immigrants living in Houston told the city's police department that a new policy
requiring officers to ask all arrested suspects whether they're citizens has
created fear in the immigrant community.

City officials announced this month that police would work more closely with
federal officials to identify illegal immigrants involved in crimes. Under the
policy, all arrested suspects are asked about citizenship. Those without
identification are fingerprinted and their criminal histories are checked in a
national database.

''The climate today is one of terror in the community. You can feel the
tension,'' said Teodoro Aguiluz, executive director of the Central American
Resource Center.

More than 200 people attended a Sunday forum hosted by the center to explain the
changes.

Houston officers are still barred from asking people who aren't under arrest
about their immigration status, a restriction that has prompted critics to
denounce Houston as a ''sanctuary city'' for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

KLRU HIGHLIGHTS

SECTION: SHOWWORLD; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 445 words


"Nature" at 7 p.m. Monday examines the growing threats to survival of the
penguins of Antarctica caused by climate change.

vv

"Masterpiece Theater" at 9 p.m. Monday presents the final installment of the
"Prime Suspect" series. Helen Mirren returns as detective Jane Tennison to take
on the case of a 14-year-old student who is found dead.

vv

"American Experience" at 8 p.m. Tuesday takes on the legend of the outlaw Jesse
James.

vv

"American Experience" at 9 p.m. Tuesday looks at the dramatic life of legendary
sharpshooter Annie Oakley.

vv

"Nova" at 7 p.m. Tuesday presents "The Family That Walks on All Fours." Using
evolutionary data, it examines the scientific implications of a Turkish family's
disability.

vv

"Frontline" at 8 p.m. Tuesday explores how a scandal in the mayor's office
forced an all-American town to confront its most basic feelings about
homosexuality and sheds new light on the confusing, often contradictory,
experience of gay people themselves in a place far from the main battlefields of
the culture wars.

vv

"SXSW Presents" at 9 p.m. Tuesday showcases "Witches in Exile," directed by
Allison Berg. This documentary looks at women in Ghana accused of witchcraft as
they struggle to survive in isolated "witch villages" after having been banished
from their communities.

vv

"Secrets of the Dead" at 7 p.m. Wednesday investigates the urgent rush to
create, test and deploy a bomb that could destroy Nazi dams and the efforts to
train an elite squadron of pilots for the unusually dangerous low-level night
flights to drop it far inside enemy lines.

vv

"Warplane" at 8 p.m. Wednesday examines how the jet engine redefined the
military role of the airplane.

vv

Evan Smith chats with Lawrence Wright, author of the best seller "The Looming
Tower: A History of Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11," on "Texas Monthly Talks" at
7 p.m. Thursday and 8:30 p.m. Friday.

vv

Get a peek into Austin's music industry, learn about a new innovative program to
help formerly incarcerated men get a new lease on life on "Downtown" at 7:30
Thursday and 9 p.m. Friday.

vv

"Austin Now" at noon and 8 p.m. Friday presents the second installment of the
"Getting By Series," which will focus on wages, the high cost of prescription
medicine and visit some local area food pantries.

vv

"In Context" at 9:30 p.m. Friday looks at the Noguchi Museum in Queens, N.Y. and
the music of World Party.

vv

Find out how to pick a living Christmas tree and plant it after the holidays on
"Central Texas Gardener" at noon and 4 p.m. Saturday.

vv

Legendary singer Van Morrison delivers a spellbinding performance, with one of
his best stage bands ever, in his first appearance on "Austin City Limits" at 7
p.m. Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Airlines may add $50 emissions fee for Europe flights

BYLINE: Shelley Emling INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 513 words


LONDON - Americans could pay an extra $50 for their trans-Atlantic travel
because of a plan to require all flights using European Union airports to abide
by stringent emission regulations.

The draft EU legislation would require airlines to join Europe's
emissions-trading program, which is aimed at reducing the release of carbon
dioxide and other gases thought to cause global warming. If approved by all EU
nations, by 2011 aircraft operators would buy allowances to cover the amounts
that their emissions exceed allocated limits.

Airline experts said they expect that the cost of the allowances, estimated to
be 39.60 euros (about $50) for long-haul round-trip flights, would be passed on
to already fee-weary passengers.

''Regulators and airlines alike must bear in mind that U.S. airline passengers
already pay surcharges for security and airport improvements and fuel surcharges
on some routes,'' said Henry Harteveldt, vice president and travel expert at
Forrester Research in San Francisco.

''I suspect some are tired of being saddled with extra fees and would prefer the
airlines bear this expense,'' he said. ''The airlines will howl that they can't
afford these fees, even though to a degree the fees are a consequence of
airlines that have chosen to fly older planes longer.''

He said the airlines that would be hardest hit by the policy would be those
flying older aircraft and those that fail to fill a high proportion of their
seats.

Although the proposal won't be formally presented until about Dec. 20, some
airlines already were expressing their disapproval Thursday.

''Non-European countries, including the United States, believe that unilateral
imposition of emissions-trading requirements absent mutual agreement between
nations violates international law,'' said David Castelveter, a spokesman for
the Air Transport Association in Washington.

''Air carriers have dramatically improved their fuel efficiency, and trading
obligations are unnecessary to spur continued improvement,'' he said.

Richard Hedges, a spokesman for American Airlines in Europe, said the airline is
awaiting release of the draft proposal so that the specifics can be reviewed.

Although plane emissions account for only 2 percent to 3 percent of carbon
dioxide emissions, they have increased by 87 percent from 1990 levels, according
to the Times newspaper in London.

News of the proposal comes just weeks after the British government issued a
stern warning that the world faces an economic catastrophe unless the United
States and other large nations quickly cut the emissions blamed for global
warming.

In general, Europe continues to take a harder stance when it comes to
environmental issues than the United States, where President Bush cited the
economic costs as he refused to join the Kyoto Protocol, which is designed to
curb global warming.

For example, French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin this week proposed
punitive taxes on imports from countries that refuse to sign the Kyoto Protocol.

Neither the United States nor China, the world's top two polluters, have signed
the agreement.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

If you're hot, you're hot

BYLINE: Shonda Novak and M.B. Taboada AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: STATESMAN HOMES; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1645 words


The downtown condominium market has gone cold in Boston. Phoenix, long a housing
hotspot, has a glut of 45,000 homes for sale. Sellers are stuck in San Diego,
where home sales are down 26 percent this year and the median price has fallen
five months in a row.

In many parts of the country, the five-year real estate boom has given way to a
season of gloom, with inventories swelling, prices flat or falling and everyone
wondering what made the bubble pop.

Cut to Austin, where the resale market is on track for a record year and home
builders have been scrambling to keep up with demand, especially for homes in
the higher price ranges. So far, downtown condominium developers say sales are
healthy.

We took a look at the market in Austin and five other cities that represent both
hot and cold real estate markets.

Phoenix: The $200,000 starter house reappears

A year ago, Phoenix was one of the hottest markets in the country, with sales
and prices running at record highs. The median home price hit $263,000 - almost
$100,000 more than in Central Texas.

But up to a quarter of the sales were to investors, who began selling their
properties wholesale when it became harder to flip them for a fast profit.

Now, existing home sales are down 34 percent, and new-home starts are off 18
percent from last year.

Phoenix remains expensive. In 2005, first-time buyers could expect to pay as
much as $230,000 for a new house. These days, the figure is closer to $200,000.
Some builders are piling on incentives.

Before the market started cooling, there were few homes valued at less than
$200,000, said Ben Sage, Phoenix office director for Metrostudy, which tracks
new home markets around the country.

"As the market has been adjusting, home builders have been lowering prices,"
Sage said.

In Central Texas, starter homes can be had for less than $150,000, but builders
are shifting their activity to higher price ranges because of rising
construction costs and sales to West Coast newcomers.

A year ago, almost a third of new-home starts were less than $150,000. This
year, that has fallen to 25 percent.

"That doesn't mean there's not strong demand for starter homes because there
certainly is," said Eldon Rude, who heads Metrostudy's Austin office. But
first-time buyers will have to look farther from Austin to find what they can
afford.

Now is a good time to buy those homes, Rude said, as builders try to get rid of
year-end supply in the lower price ranges.

Dallas: A coast-to-coast million-dollar refuge

The Dallas home market is softening, with sales and prices falling - except,
that is, for properties priced at more than $1 million.

In September, 59 homes valued at more than $1 million were sold, up 23 percent
from a year earlier.

"In the luxury homes, we are seeing more demand than in years past," said Martha
Morguloff, real estate broker/agent with Ebby Halliday Realtors, the top-selling
agency in Texas.

"We have a number of people who are moving here from the East and West coasts
because our business climate is so good," she said.

And those buyers are snatching up multimillion-dollar homes.

The picture isn't so rosy for the overall market. Sales and prices slipped last
month, and the supply of listings shot up 11 percent from a year ago, to a hefty
45,715, according to the North Texas Real Estate Information Service.

In Central Texas, more than 250 homes priced at $1 million or more had been sold
through September, up 56 percent year-over-year, according to the Austin Board
of Realtors.

"It's an upward-moving market," said Cord Shiflet with Moreland Properties, who
specializes in upscale homes and said his business is up 40 percent this year.
"It's been a strong year."

However, he said, there are more than 400 properties in that price range on the
market.

"There are a lot of sellers that are holding on to high hopes and high prices,"
he said. "There is a lot of inventory. However, the good homes are going very
fast. The good stuff moves."

Much of that movement comes from buyers from both coasts. "A lot of people still
look at Austin as a great value," Shiflet said.

Boston: Condo prices falling back to reality

Downtown Boston's luxury condominium market is undergoing one of its steepest
downturns since at least the early 1990s, when LINK, a real estate information
service, started tracking the market.

Sales were down almost 20 percent in the third quarter from a year ago. The
median price dropped nearly 7 percent to $419,000.

At the peak, in the third quarter of 2004, sales skyrocketed 25 percent and the
median soared 18 percent to $433,500, said LINK president Deborah Taylor Blair.

"That was just unsustainable over time, so we see this market as moderating from
its peak," Blair said.

Some sellers are taking their units off the market rather than settling for
lower prices. That's reducing inventories, which could help spur a rebound,
possibly as early as next spring, Blair says.

In Austin, Kumara Wilcoxon owns downtown real estate and is investing in several
of the 10 downtown condominium projects planned or under construction.

She's putting her money where her mouth is: Wilcoxon is an agent for Van Heuven
Properties and sells condos downtown, where developers say sales have been
strong to buyers ranging from young professionals to empty nesters to
out-of-towners. Prices range from the mid-$300,000s to more than $1 million.

Wilcoxon isn't worried about a slowdown.

"With Austin on the map as one of the most desirable places to live, we won't
hit a slump in the market," she said. "There's a constant flow of people that
are moving here and a strong demand for downtown living."

In addition, "we've had a nice, steady appreciation, not the extreme that you've
seen in places like California where properties have doubled in price, so we're
not as vulnerable to the bubble effect as other parts of the country," she says,
adding that on average, properties downtown have been appreciating about 10
percent per year.

Raleigh: Feels a lot like Austin in many ways

Raleigh-Durham, N.C., is like Austin in many respects. It's a high-tech area,
home to major universities, and the kind of place "where people go to school and
never leave," says Connie Floyd, a broker with York Simpson Underwood Realty.

The area has 1.2 million people, about 30 percent smaller than Austin, and a
healthy economy and real estate market.

Floyd has had a record year, selling all of her listings within two weeks.

"If a well-maintained house comes on the market and it's priced well, it's
gone," Floyd said.

The median home price, now at $227,000, has been moving up modestly in the past
few years - about 2 to 3 percent, higher in Chapel Hill, home of the University
of North Carolina.

"We are not part of the national bubble you hear so much about. We have not seen
appreciation rates skyrocket. We're just trucking right along."

In Central Texas, the real estate picture is similar. Here sales are on track
for another record year, thanks to "jobs, jobs, jobs," says Gay Puckett, an
agent with JB Goodwin Realtors.

"Our relocation department has never been busier with corporate incoming moves,
and I'm sure this is happening all over Austin," Puckett says.

In September, the Central Texas median price hit $173,800, up 7 percent from a
year earlier. There's less than a four-month supply of homes for sale, a sign of
a seller's market, she said.

Demand is strong in the first-time move-up market. Sales in the $200,000 to
$250,000 range are up 11.5 percent this year.

Factors influencing sales include healthy job growth and favorable interest
rates that are allowing more first-time buyers to enter the market, which in
turn allows those sellers to move up.

"So much of this is jobs-driven. I can't emphasize that enough," Puckett said.
"When people feel secure in their jobs and optimistic about the economy, they're
more comfortable extending themselves financially."

Portland: On the waterfront, homes in demand

In Portland, Ore. - a high-tech city like Austin - waterfront properties are in
demand for their "serene views" and the boating, fishing, swimming and
water-skiing opportunities they afford, said Ann Martin, a broker with
Prudential Northwest Properties in Lake Oswego, a suburb just south of Portland.

Twenty-three lakefront properties are on the market, with a median price of $1.6
million, Martin said.

Homes on several rivers in the Portland metro area also attract a range of
buyers for $250,000 cabins to "exquisite estates in the several millions,"
Martin said.

"Overall, our real estate market has been healthy with 15.7 percent appreciation
overall in the last year," Martin said. "Prices have jumped at the lower end as
more buyers enter the market, with somewhat more stable prices at the upper
end."

In Central Texas, "Lake Travis may be at 40-year historically low lake levels
this year, with nary a ramp in sight of water, but buyers are still drawn to the
water views," says Puckett, the JB Goodwin agent.

Through October, 120 properties have sold on the lake. The most expensive home
was a $4 million-plus property on the south shore, with an additional 25 sales
between $1 million and $3 million, and 50 between $200,000 and $900,000, she
said.

Lake Austin also is seeing healthy sales, with 39 waterfront homes sold through
mid-November, more than double the 18 sold during the same period in 2005,
Puckett says.

Buyers run the gamut from executives and retirees to people relocating to the
area and others who are buying second, weekend-type homes, mostly from Houston
and Dallas, said Bertina Schreiber with Moreland Properties.

'If a well-maintained house comes on the market and it's priced well, it's
gone.'

Sound like Austin? That's how it is in Raleigh, N.C., too. Also, check out the
markets in Boston and Portland, Ore., F4.

Once-sizzling sales are slipping in Phoenix. In Dallas, the market for the rich
and famous is booming, F1.

Some hot, some not

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1102 words


DEVELOPMENT ON TOWN LAKE

Better by comparison?

Re: Nov. 25 editorial, "It will take some compromises to protect the
hike-and-bike trail":

Since the American-Statesman building itself practically overhangs the lake,
perhaps it and the Hyatt won't stand out so much if there's plenty of company.

The editorial too briefly pointed out the precedent-setting nature of allowing a
reduction in setback, and it did not mention the openness of the space in front
of the Four Seasons, which conforms to requirements.

Instead, the editorial focused on the threat of CWS Capital Partners to prevent
the hike-and-bike trail from crossing their property. I, for one, am willing to
call the developer's bluff in favor of a waterfront that feels open. This
developer seems to feel the city and the public somehow owe him for putting up
three 18-story buildings on the edge of the lake.

BROOKS KASSON

Austin

Make all sides happy

The city could condemn the property for an easement (it is clearly a legal
public use). Fair market value would have to be paid for an easement, not the
expensive fee title.

The developer wants an 80-foot buffer in order to build more units. The city
should give the developer an additional 20 stories and require the developer to
produce 40 percent of the additional height as affordable units. This 40 percent
must be sold to a Community Development Corporation at cost (defined by the CDC
as what they can pay to keep the rent down in the $400 range for a one bedroom).

The developer would make the extra profit, retreat to the 150-foot setback, and
the city would get the extension through condemnation and an increase in
permanent affordable rental units downtown.

JOHN GOLDSTONE

goldy1@flash.net

Austin

Development is not all bad

As an artist primarily interested in painting scenes in and around the
hike-and-bike trail, one might think I'd be 100 percent against development
along Town Lake. Actually, I like seeing beautiful buildings, interesting
architecture, existing in a pleasing way with the nature that to me Austin would
not be Austin without.

And though I am a Libra, and enjoy depicting a blend of buildings and nature in
my art, I'd say the last sentence of the editorial is how I'd have to tilt:
"Condo projects come and go, but the hike-and-bike trail is forever. It, and the
lake front, should be there for all to enjoy."

ADAN LERMA

Austin

Government isn't answer

In his Nov. 24 column, "The silent treatment won't cure cancer," Lance Armstrong
wrote a strident plea for voters to hold politicians accountable for reduced
taxpayer funding of cancer research.

My mother died of cancer in 2003. I deeply feel the emotion that motivates
Armstrong. It doesn't take much effort to turn these emotions in to pleas for
more money. But not every problem of mankind is solvable by government.

Government has no special skill to cure cancer - except the ability to use force
to raise funds. It's a shame to see Armstrong pleading to reduce everyone's
freedom so politicians can say they "did something." Voluntary contributions may
be even better. Government is not especially efficient giving our money away.

I encourage everyone to give generously to charity.

RICHARD A. RELPH

Austin

Ugly display by UT fans

The annual game between the University of Texas Longhorns and the Texas A&M
Aggies is just that - a game, a rivalry and a sports competition between fellow
Texas schools. But last week's game tended toward pettiness and belittlement.

Even though my family and I wear the orange with pride, my daughter has chosen
to don the maroon. She attended her second football game, and it's doubtful
she'll attend another one, at least not at UT. During the game, UT fans pointed
and directed foul and lewd language at her. And, while the Aggie fans applauded
and cheered Colt McCoy as he was carried off the field, the UT fans booed and
hissed the Aggies for knocking him out of play.

This behavior on the part of UT fans was uncalled for and inappropriate. It was
Texas A&M, not UT, that acted like champions. I may bleed orange, but I'd
happily be infused with maroon.

E. H. SIKES

sikesfam@austin.rr.com

Austin

Give us a science section

Thank you for recent articles on climate change, ecology, economics, endangered
fisheries, renewable energy and energy conservation.

Austinites deserve more intensive coverage of these topics. I believe that a
science section would attract a loyal audience for the American-Statesman and
that the wealth of scientific expertise in Austin would provide a respectable
and reliable source for such an addition.

JOHN TOUCHET

touchetjw@earthlink.net

Austin

Skewing the news

Re: Nov. 25 letter to the editor, "We need Al-Jazeera":

The letter implies that Al-Jazeera is "information free from distortion and
censorship" and referenced British Prime Minister Tony Blair's recent interview.
According to the letter writer, "Tony Blair recently acknowledged . . . that the
Iraqi war is a disaster." That's disingenuously distorting the truth.

Here's Blair's complete response when asked a question in which the war was
called a disaster by the reporter: "It has, but you see what I say to people is,
why is it difficult in Iraq? It's not difficult because of some accident in
planning, it's difficult because there's a deliberate strategy - al Qaeda with
Sunni insurgents on one hand, Iranian-backed elements with Shia militias on the
other - to create a situation in which the will of the majority for peace is
displaced by the will of the minority for war."

RALEIGH EMRY

Manchaca

Long Center isn't best

I enjoyed reading Michael Corcoran's column about Leon Payne and why he should
be included in the Austin Music Memorial (Nov. 27, "Musicians engraved in
Austin's collective consciousness").

I totally agree that Payne should be on the list of recognized Austin artists.
Corcoran did forget to mention Payne's brief incarnation as Rock Rogers on the
Starday record label in the mid-1950s. He (along with other country and western
stars such as George "Thumper" Jones) tried to climb on the rockabilly bandwagon
by cutting rock 'n roll 45s for the kids. Payne's attempt, "Little Rock
Rock/That Ain't It," was one of the best.

I'm not sure that the Long Center is the best place for the Music Memorial
because the arts groups tearing down the old Palmer Auditorium eliminated the
biggest incubator of Austin music from the late 1950s through the 1990s, not to
mention all the other nonmusic events that took place there.

It seems only fair that the Music Memorial be located somewhere that is still
contributing to the cultivation of Austin music, maybe like Antone's?

DOUG HANNERS

doug@austinrecords.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               92 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled by American-Statesman staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 471 words


His own shopping network

'We just spent it on dining, vacations, and, you know, it got mixed up with
legitimate money as well.'

John J. Villarreal, former director of Austin's community access cable TV
stations, pleading guilty to stealing more than $350,000 from the city-supported
nonprofit that ran the stations. Villarreal was sentenced to seven years in
prison.

vv

How to start a coal fire

'We are at a point in time where other states and businesses are starting to
take global warming seriously. California is heading toward the future, and TXU
and Texas are sprinting full speed back to the 1950s.'

Colin Rowan, spokesman for the advocacy group Environmental Defense. TXU Corp.
is planning to spend $10 billion to build 11 coal-fired power plants in the
state, which would more than double the company's carbon dioxide emissions.

vv

Between us and stratosphere

'Troposphere, whatever. I told you before I am not a scientist. That's why I
don't want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth.'

Justice Antonin Scalia, after being corrected during Supreme Court arguments
about which layer of the atmosphere was at issue in a case aimed at settling
whether the federal government must regulate vehicle emissions of greenhouse
gases under the Clean Air Act.

vv

He's doing a heck of a job?

'The reality on the streets of Baghdad suggests Maliki is either ignorant of
what is going on, misrepresenting his intentions, or that his capabilities are
not yet sufficient.'

National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley, in a classified memo expressing
serious doubts about the leadership of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki.

vv

Advice with a grain of sand

'Would it not be more beneficial to bring the U.S. officers and soldiers home,
and to spend the astronomical U.S. military expenditures in Iraq for the welfare
and prosperity of the American people?'

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in a letter to the American people.

vv

Don't even attempt good will

'It seems whenever someone tries to say "Peace on Earth" it is met with so much
resistance.'

Lisa Jensen, a Pagosa Springs, Colo., homeowner who was threatened with a fine
by her homeowners association if she didn't remove a peace-symbol wreath that
some of her neighbors saw as a protest of the Iraq war. The threat was later
withdrawn.

vv

View to a killing

'They were murderers, murderers. They were not officers. No one gives anyone the
right to kill somebody.'

Nicole Paultre, whose fiancé, Sean Bell, was shot and killed by New York police
on the couple's wedding day.

Most popular on statesman.com

The five most e-mailed stories by statesman.com readers, Nov. 26 through
Thursday:

1. Coldest weather of the season expected

2. St. Ed's aims for best in the West

3. Snead to transfer at mid-term

4. What happened to Texas?

5. More workers are restless and ready to bolt, survey finds

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               95 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Forging a new path

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 2419 words


Austin ought to be one of the best bicycling cities in the country. We've got
rolling hills to train on, a climate that invites year-round cycling and a
population that puts stock in keeping fit. The world's greatest cyclist even
calls Austin home. But we've got a long way to pedal before we can coast.

"Clearly a lot of people want to ride, but there are so few facilities that it's
only for the confident riders or Lance (Armstrong) wannabes," says Mia Birk, a
University of Texas graduate who was Portland's bicycle program manager before
she joined Alta Planning + Design, a Portland-based transportation consulting
firm working with Capital Metro here. "The enthusiasm is there, but there's a
long way to go."

Portland didn't build its bike-friendly image overnight, and neither can Austin.
The city needs a comprehensive, updated bike plan, Birk says, something that's
in the works here for 2007.

We need to get people involved in the process; ask them what they want, Birk
says. Put in a spine of key routes that go to major destinations. Vote in
bike-friendly leaders at all levels of government. And pick one or two
high-profile projects to get things rolling.

"Biking - it's not a problem, it's a solution," Birk says. "Obesity, congestion,
air quality, cost of gas, economy - they all point to cycling."

The Lance Armstrong Bikeway could become the focal point Austin needs.
Construction of portions of the 6-mile route that will run east-west through
downtown, from Veterans Drive at Lake Austin Boulevard to the Montopolis Bridge
at U.S. 183, will begin in 2007. Completion is scheduled for 2008, says Annick
Beaudet, project manager of the city's Bicycle and Pedestrian Program. The
bikeway will consist of a combination of off-street concrete trails, on-street
striped bike lanes and on-street signed bike routes.

A slew of other projects are also in the works, from bike lanes on Barton
Springs Road, East William Cannon Drive and Lake Austin Boulevard, to planned
bike pathways along future light-rail lines and a downtown bike station for
commuters who use many modes of transportation.

The city's decade-old bike plan, which will be updated in 2007, currently
outlines 86 main bike routes in various stages of completion that cover some 650
miles in the city, but many are just designated routes, without any special
infrastructure. Some stretches are envisioned as bike lanes, others as off-road
paths and some as simply wide road lanes that bikes can share with motor
vehicles.

As it is now, many would-be cyclists in Austin have a perception that biking is
dangerous, and it's scary to ride on the shoulder of a road.

"That's what they said 15 years ago here," Birk notes about Portland. People
complained that the city didn't have enough bike lanes, the biking routes were
discontinuous, the bridges weren't accessible and there were no curb ramps for
bikes.

Portland underwent a comprehensive public process, with officials talking to
more than just cyclists about what was wanted and needed. They made the bridges
accessible, filled in missing gaps in the cycling routes and promoted cycling
like crazy.

"Start with what is easy," Birk says. "Don't start with moving people's (car)
parking . . . Then start on harder projects like filling in gaps in routes and
diverting traffic."

In Portland, bike ridership doubled after the city put in about 165 miles of
bike lanes, mostly on arterial streets. Austin, by contrast, has about 70 miles
of on-street painted bike lanes.

Bike lanes cost an average $5,000 to $10,000 per mile, although they can cost as
little as $2,000 per mile or up to $20,000 for a one-mile stretch of street
marking. Most of the cost is in grinding off old lane lines, Birk says.

Many bikers in Portland didn't like the idea of pedaling alongside high-speed
cars, separated only by a painted line. That's when engineers began encouraging
motor traffic to stick to more heavily commercial streets and steering bikes to
less-trafficked "bike boulevards." On some streets, cars can park for businesses
or homes but cannot be driven continuously for long stretches; bicycles can go
farther because of barrier "cut-outs" that allow passage.

Portland also put some of its roads on a "road diet," narrowing the car lanes
and adding 4-foot-wide bike lanes. On other routes, roads were widened and the
shoulders striped as bike lanes - a more expensive alternative.

No matter the infrastructure, most cyclists agree that the best way to make the
streets safer is to get more cyclists on the road.

"Increased bicycle use leads to safer roads," says Jonathan Maus, who runs
bikeportland.org, a Web site dedicated to all things bike-related. "Just get on
your bike. There's strength in numbers."

But before most folks will do that, a certain amount of infrastructure must be
in place. "And you have to get people out so other people can see them out
riding," Birk says.

In Portland, that took about 15 years.

One way to start is to organize a high-profile event that would close a major
road or bridge to motorized traffic, letting bicycles take over for one day,
like Portland does with its annual Bridge Pedal. "That was really helpful for us
in the '90s to get massive quantities of folks out training and experiencing the
feel of city riding," Birk says.

Austin already has a good base of events each May as part of Bike Month - from a
group ride with elected officials to bike fit clinics and bike-in movies. It has
several active cycling groups, including the Austin Cycling Association, which
offers weekly group rides. Other groups stage 24-hour mountain bike races and
road biking criteriums. Online chat rooms are geared toward cyclists, and local
bike safety guru Preston Tyree teaches Street Cycling classes.

There's also a 3.17-mile paved veloway for cyclists and in-line skaters in
Southwest Austin. But the loop is for recreational cyclists, not commuting or
serious training.

"Austin has a lot of favorable ingredients to be a great cycling city," says
Shawn Turner, an associate research engineer at the Texas Transportation
Institute in College Station, which compiles information for the Texas
Department of Transportation. But on the national level, it's just typical of
cities its size, he says.

Some cities and state departments of transportation - in Portland, for example -
go out of their way to make sure bicyclists are accommodated on roads and
streets. In Texas, officials want to accommodate cyclists, but have their hands
full just trying to relieve motor traffic congestion, which is deemed more
critical. "There's just a lot of other traffic problems first and foremost on
their radar screen," Turner says.

"In Portland, they might put in a bike lane that requires taking out a car
lane," Turner says. "They're willing to make a tradeoff not just to accommodate
cycling, but to make biking a viable mode choice. In our part of the world, we
are operating under the assumption that people want to drive anyway."

On the roads for work or exercise, local cyclists here face plenty of danger. In
the past year, two cyclists have been killed while biking on Capital of Texas
Highway (Loop 360), one popular training route. Another cyclist was killed in
November while riding the access road of Interstate 35 in Georgetown.

Austin's on the cusp of vaulting to the next level, Birk says, but it's critical
to get all agencies working together. That process should get a boost in 2007,
when Beaudet leads an update of the city's decade-old Austin Bicycle Plan. That
should take a year.

"I think we're doing really good with the challenges we have and will do even
better as we recognize our goals," Beaudet says, noting that it's much easier
and cheaper to incorporate bike infrastructure as roads are built rather than
retrofit them later. "Momentum is definitely building."

The city is applying for "bike friendly city" status from the League of American
Bicyclists, which recognizes communities that are improving conditions for
bicyclists. Such a designation would give Austin, which is scheduled to host the
league's annual conference in 2008, bragging rights.

Austin has three sources of funding for bike plan facilities - bond money, grant
funds and federal funds. (Recently announced cuts in federal transportation
funding to the state will mean less money for future "enhancement" projects like
bike paths, but won't affect any current projects, Beaudet says.) As part of the
November bond election, voters approved $2 million earmarked for bike and
pedestrian projects, including Beaudet's update of an overall master plan for
bikeways in Austin.

Robin Stallings, executive director of Texas Bicycle Coalition, based in Austin,
is less optimistic about the local scene. He ranks Dallas and Houston ahead of
Austin for bike infrastructure. Even Amarillo, Lubbock and El Paso are surging
forward in their missions to become the most bikeable cities in Texas, he says.

Austin needs to spend money - $300 million over the next 20 years - to put
Austin on par with bike-friendly cities such as Portland, Stallings says. The
city should start by focusing on projects that would generate the most trips.
Paint - and bike lanes - are relatively cheap, but many people are not
comfortable in bike lanes and prefer separated pathways. "When you have a
complete system, people will begin to use it," Stallings says.

Stallings has other, more controversial, ideas, too. He says city policy should
require new office buildings to include indoor bike parking and shower
facilities for commuters. He says toll roads should be used as a way to control
and manage congestion, not just to pay for road construction. He'd also like to
see a required bicycle awareness course for motorists who get speeding tickets
or run red lights. Requiring downtown employees to pay for parking, increasing
gas taxes and offering rebates for electric bicycles also would encourage
biking, he says.

"Just because we're used to free parking and cheap gas, who thinks that's a
God-given right we'll have forever?" Stallings says. He knows many people would
oppose such plans, but thinks some would change their minds if they were
educated about them.

"Lance is a good excuse," Stallings says. "This could be a pilgrimage site for
cyclists around the world."

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

(BOX)

The Austin Bicycle Plan

To see the City of Austin's Bicycle Plan, go to
www.ci.austin.tx.us/bicycle/plan1.htm and
www.ci.austin.tx.us/bicycle/bi_plan2.htm.

Already approved projects with construction target dates include:

1. Lance Armstrong Bikeway, a 6-mile, east-west bike route through downtown,
from Veterans Drive at Lake Austin Boulevard to the Montopolis Bridge at U.S.
183, consisting of a combination of off-street concrete trails, on-street
striped bike lanes and on-street signed bike routes. (Spring 2007-08)

2. Montopolis bike/pedestrian path, using the old U.S. 183 truss bridge over the
Colorado River. (2009)

3. Upper Boggy Creek trail improvements, path to connect Downs-Mabson Field to
Hancock Shopping Center. (2008)

4. Barton Springs Road, bike lanes from Robert E. Lee Road to Rollingwood.
(Spring 2007)

5. Jollyville Road/Loop 360, concrete bike and pedestrian path from Jollyville
Road to the Arboretum. (Early 2007)

6. South Lamar Boulevard/U.S. 290, bike route through neighborhood to avoid
intersection. (Summer 2007)

7. North Acres PX Bike Trail, path from Park Plaza to bridge over Little Walnut
Creek and on to Furness Drive. (Fall 2007)8. East William Cannon Drive bike
lanes, from Interstate 35 to Pleasant Valley Road. (No start date)

9. Off-street bike and pedestrian path along CapMetro rail right of way from
Daffin Lane to city of Manor. (2009)

10. Improving existing bike lanes along Lake Austin Boulevard between Exposition
Boulevard and Red Bud Trail. (2008)

11. Pleasant Valley Bike Route, off-street bike and pedestrian path from Oltorf
Street to Burleson Road. (Summer 2007)

12. Bowie underpass to connect Pfluger Bridge to Third Street via bike and
pedestrian underpass of Union Pacific rail line. (Summer 2007)

13. Bowie Street bike and pedestrian improvements from Third Street to Sixth
Street. (Summer 2007)

14. Barton Creek Bridge at MoPac Boulevard, a bike and pedestrian bridge over
Barton Creek, parallel to the north and southbound lanes of MoPac bridge.
(Design phase 2007) The following fields overflowed: HEADLINE = Forging a

new path Austin will need action, leadership and money to reach its potential as
a bicycle city LEBLANC: Updating plan first step to long-term goals The Austin
Bicycle Plan

To see the City of Austin's Bicycle Plan, go to
www.ci.austin.tx.us/bicycle/plan1.htm and
www.ci.austin.tx.us/bicycle/bi_plan2.htm. Already approved projects with
construction target dates include:

1. Lance Armstrong Bikeway, a 6-mile, east-west bike route through downtown,
from Veterans Drive at Lake Austin Boulevard to the Montopolis Bridge at U.S.
183, consisting of a combination of off-street concrete trails, on-street
striped bike lanes and on-street signed bike routes. (Spring 2007-08)

2. Montopolis bike/pedestrian path, using the old U.S. 183 truss bridge over the
Colorado River. (2009)

3. Upper Boggy Creek trail improvements, path to connect Downs-Mabson Field to
Hancock Shopping Center. (2008)

4. Barton Springs Road, bike lanes from Robert E. Lee Road to Rollingwood.
(Spring 2007)

5. Jollyville Road/Loop 360, concrete bike and pedestrian path from Jollyville
Road to the Arboretum. (Early 2007)

6. South Lamar Boulevard/U.S. 290, bike route through neighborhood to avoid
intersection. (Summer 2007)

7. North Acres PX Bike Trail, path from Park Plaza to bridge over Little Walnut
Creek and on to Furness Drive. (Fall 2007)8. East William Cannon Drive bike
lanes, from Interstate 35 to Pleasant Valley Road. (No start date)

9. Off-street bike and pedestrian path along CapMetro rail right of way from
Daffin Lane to city of Manor. (2009)

10. Improving existing bike lanes along Lake Austin Boulevard between Exposition
Boulevard and Red Bud Trail. (2008)

11. Pleasant Valley Bike Route, off-street bike and pedestrian path from Oltorf
Street to Burleson Road. (Summer 2007)

12. Bowie underpass to connect Pfluger Bridge to Third Street via bike and
pedestrian underpass of Union Pacific rail line. (Summer 2007)

13. Bowie Street bike and pedestrian improvements from Third Street to Sixth
Street. (Summer 2007)

14. Barton Creek Bridge at MoPac Boulevard, a bike and pedestrian bridge over
Barton Creek, parallel to the north and southbound lanes of MoPac bridge.
(Design phase 2007)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               96 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Letters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1057 words


IRAQ STUDY GROUP

Report isn't the answer

The long-anticipated report of the Iraq Study Group offers as simplistic a
solution to solving the mess as the Bush administration's thinking was in
creating it.

While on the surface the report's language seems blunt and forceful, a careful
reader will find a lot of instances of "could" instead of "should." In spite of
operating under the aegis of archetypal foreign policy "realist" James Baker,
the document takes numerous flights of fantasy, like when it whimsically states
settling the key source of conflict in the Middle East - the Israeli-Palestinian
problem - would be helpful in stabilizing Iraq and the region in general. Do
Hebrew and Arabic have a word for "Duh?" But thanks should go out to the gang
for adding momentum to a long overdue course change in Iraq. And special thanks
to the Bush administration for necessitating the group's existence in the first
place.

GREG McCARTY

Austin

Helping the president

The name for the Iraq Study Group's findings should be "Bailing Out Bush."

BILL LEWIS

Buda

What's in 'U.S. interest'?

Former U.S. Rep. Lee Hamilton of the Iraq panel has stated that Iran has been
unhelpful to U.S. interests in Iraq thus far. The expression "U.S. interests" is
thrown around a lot, as though every American wants the same thing.

Not every American is a shareholder in an oil corporation. Not all Americans
compulsively buy things they don't need. Not all Americans drive their family
around in a vehicle that was designed for livestock, fertilizer and feed. Some
of us just want to mind our own business, live a simple, sustainable lifestyle
and not bother anyone else.

Some of us want clean air, a stable climate and a stable dollar. Some of us have
no interest in controlling one of the world's largest oil reserves. We would
really appreciate it if journalists would demand that politicians be more
explicit when they use the vague term "U.S. interests."

IRENE HEITSCH

Austin

Don't fear pulling troops

I find it interesting that both British Prime Minister Tony Blair and President
Bush have said that the Iraq Study Committee's recommendation of removing our
troops if the leaders of Iraq did not get their troops in shape was
unacceptable. I'm old enough to remember what happened in Vietnam, and I have
doubts that pulling out troops would result in a sudden increase in terrorism in
the United States or Britain. In fact, I wonder if suddenly we would not be more
welcomed in Arab countries.

LARRY OGILVIE

Liberty Hill

A time for diplomacy

The Iraq Study Group's recommendations to the Bush administration can be summed
up in one word: diplomacy.

That is a concept that has eluded the Bush administration. It is time to bring
our troops home alive as soon as possible.

CHRIS WILSON

Lakeway

Don't forget the beginning

Although I welcome and applaud the fresh perspectives coming from Washington
about how to extricate ourselves from Iraq, let's remember one fact: This
administration lied to us about the reasons for going to war, and has been in
denial ever since. There never was a good reason to declare war on Iraq. Period.

Let's never forget that fact.

MICHAEL D'EATH

Dripping Springs

Handled with honor

Last week, we attended the services of a fallen Marine and hero, Craig Ledsome,
whom I am proud to say is a member of my family.

There was a tremendous gathering for this occasion, family and many friends.

I just wanted to send special thanks to three other groups of people in
attendance. First is to the members of the Austin Police Department and the
Travis County sheriff's department, which provided the escort. They were
well-prepared and performed in an exceptional manner. This allowed our
procession to proceed smoothly. The other group is the Patriot Guard Riders.
Their presence and contribution was tremendous.

I cannot express enough the gratitude the family has for this group of patriots.

JIMMY REED

jimbocva-43@sbcglobal.net

Pflugerville

A threat to America

While conservatives are preoccupied with the coming deluge on Capitol Hill, they
should be more concerned with the current reign of terror in our universities.

After politicians have become little piles of dust, the consequences of
political correctness in the academies will remain.

Almost all our universities have been commandeered by leftist ideologues, whose
chief goal is to purge from the nation's memory the rich content of Christian
civilization, to discredit our free-market prosperity and to promote a
simplistic set of platitudes that are more likely to promote radical ignorance
than an understanding of our world.

What is going on in our universities is scarier than Hillary Clinton and more
dangerous than a Democratic Congress.

GERARD KERN

Austin

Fighting Wal-Mart's plan

Increased traffic is only one of the factors why I don't want a
200,000-square-foot Wal-Mart in my neighborhood.

A new Wal-Mart at Northcross will bring increased crime, noise and pollution,
along with a well-deserved reputation as a bad employer. It will undoubtedly
drive many of the interesting small businesses in this area away.

Just because other areas have allowed big retail centers doesn't mean we should
follow along blindly.

I'm not opposed to the development of Northcross. I just want to see it done in
a reasonable manner with input from the surrounding areas.

DAN DICKERSON

Austin

Why students fail

In her Dec. 6 column, "Don't leave students stranded," Mary Gordon Spence asks,
"How is it that our city and our school district have allowed students to fail?"

Although it might be easiest to assign the blame for the Johnston High School
students' failure on the city and school district, any truthful analysis must
recognize that these students' problems began long before they arrived at
Johnston.

Poor attendance, lack of daily preparation, sleeping in class, unattended
teacher conferences, bad attitudes and low expectations are common with many
(though not all!) of these students.

Our teachers, aides and administrators are doing a tremendous job in this
environment in spite of limited resources and low pay.

The question to ask is "Why have parents permitted their children to fail?"

Why not take advantage of free tutoring, go to the library and read, get enough
sleep at night, complete homework daily and arrive on time?

It's called parenting, and it must begin way before children go to high school.

CAROLYN LONG

Austin

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               97 of 97 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

METRO & STATE BRIEFING

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1388 words


CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

AUSTIN

Insurance office robber sought

With the culprit still at large, police on Wednesday released a video of a
robbery last week of a South Austin insurance agency.

A man wearing a mask entered the EZ Auto Insurance Agency at 343 S. Congress
Ave. on Friday morning, displayed a weapon and demanded cash before fleeing.

The man is described as white or Hispanic, 5 feet, 9 inches tall, with a slim
build and short hair. He was last seen wearing a maroon shirt with a white
collar and gray horizontal stripe, with gray jeans.

Anyone with information on the incident is asked to call the robbery tip line at
974-5092 or CrimeStoppers at 472-8577.

9-year-old boy reported missing

Police are searching for a 9-year-old boy who vanished Wednesday night in North
Austin.

Eric Gomez was last seen at 7:15 p.m. at the J.J. Pickle Elementary School
recreation center at 1101 Wheatley Ave.

Gomez is 4 feet tall, weighs 60 pounds and has short dark hair and brown eyes,
police said.

He also has a small scar on his forehead, police said.

Anyone who might know where to find Gomez is asked to call 911.

Neighbor saves woman from fire

A neighbor rescued a 78-year-old woman in a wheelchair from a burning and
smoke-filled Southeast Austin home Wednesday, Austin Fire Department Lt. David
Belknap said.

Joe Anthony Granados, the 32-year-old neighbor, said he saw smoke coming from
the woman's house at 6111 Begonia Circle about 6 p.m.

The woman was in the home's front doorway and seemed confused when he tried to
speak with her, Granados said.

He opened her screen door and wheeled her to safety.

Belknap said firefighters got there just as Granados was wheeling the woman, who
was not identified, away from the flames in the back of the house.

No one was injured in the fire, which mostly damaged a back room, the attic and
the roof.

Belknap said the fire was still being investigated Wednesday night.

Energy-efficiency rebates offered

Austin Energy and Texas Gas Service will offer combined rebates to customers who
improve the energy efficiency of their homes.

The combined incentives will pay up to 45 percent of the cost of additional
attic insulation and up to 55 percent of the cost to repair leaky ducts.

Homeowners can significantly reduce their gas and electricity bills by reducing
the amount of fuel wasted through leaks, insufficient insulation or inefficient
equipment, the utilities reported.

For low-income customers, the utilities also will offer joint energy-efficiency
improvements. Customers can apply for the free weatherization program by calling
482-5346.

Additional information is available at www.austinenergy.com and www.texasgas
service.com.

Ex-ACC teacher sentenced in theft

An Austin college professor convicted of possessing stolen items that once
belonged to the late pianist Glenn Gould was sentenced to 60 hours of community
service Wednesday in New York.

Barbara Moore, 62, of Austin also must pay $5,500 in restitution and help
recover stolen memorabilia and other items that are no longer in her possession.
She taught at Austin Community College when she was arrested.

Items stolen from the Canadian Library and Archives in Ottawa include a page
with Gould's signature written 18 times and a page containing an outline for a
musical composition depicting sounds of sea, wind and gulls.

Prosecutor Jennifer Martin accused Moore of stealing the items while she did
research at the library in the late 1980s. In October a jury acquitted her of
that and other similar felony charges but convicted her of two misdemeanor
counts of criminal possession of stolen property.

Conference to focus on Kwanzaa

The seventh African American Men and Boys Monthly Conference will run from 10
a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday at Dobie Middle School, 1200 E. Rundberg Lane.

The event will focus on the principles of Kwanzaa and include workshops on
education, community engagement and parental involvement.

The monthly conferences bring together African American parents, professionals
and leaders to mentor young men and boys about taking responsibility for their
own success.

For information, contact Michael Lofton at 585-6696.

Police traffic enforcement

Police will be watching for traffic-law violations in these areas today:

Morning: Wickersham Lane from Oltorf Street to Riverside Drive; Airport
Boulevard; 7500 block of RM 2222; 1500 block of Rio Grande Street.

Afternoon: William Cannon Drive.

TEMPLE

Man killed in industrial accident

An employee of LJT Texas LP died Wednesday morning in an industrial accident at
the company's steel tubing manufacturing plant on Eberhardt Road, officials
said.

The man, who was in his 30s, was pronounced dead at the scene by Justice of the
Peace David Barfield, said Thomas Pechal, spokesman for Temple Fire & Rescue.

The man's identity was not released pending notification of relatives.

Pechal would not release any information about the accident Wednesday.

A woman who answered the phone at LJT Texas on Wednesday afternoon declined to
comment.

TEXAS DIGEST

ARTS

Agency director sets retirement

Ricardo Hernandez, executive director of the Texas Commission on the Arts since
2002, announced Wednesday that he will retire in August, ending 30 years with
the agency.

A visual artist, Hernandez plans to pursue his art career full time.

Hernandez was hired by the commission in 1977 as part of the artist-in-residence
program and joined the staff three years later to work on the Emergency School
Aid Act Multi-Cultural Arts Program. He was named deputy director in 1988 and
served in that position until being named executive director in 2002.

"When I first joined TCA, I planned to stay with the agency for about two years
because I was anxious to get back into the studio," Hernandez said. "Now, almost
30 years later, I could not imagine having spent that time with a better group
of people working for a better cause."

ENERGY

Business group backs power plants

One of the state's most powerful lobbies, the Texas Association of Business,
released a report Wednesday that said coal is the most reliable way to meet the
state's growing energy demands.

If coal-fired power plants "are not built in just a few short years, Texas will
be unable to meet increased electricity demand," states the report, titled
"Don't Leave Texas in the Dark."

TXU Corp., which is wants to build 11 of the plants, is a paying member of the
business group, said association spokeswoman Cathy DeWitt.

Environmentalists say the plants will emit tons of air toxins and contribute to
global climate change. A group of Dallas business leaders has set up a political
action committee to persuade lawmakers to oppose the fast-track plan.

An administrative law judge will hear arguments about that plan today in Austin.

SCUTTLEBUTT

What a save at Whataburger

Being a regular has its perks.

When Georgetown resident Charles "Coach" Nelson passed out in his truck at the
Whataburger drive-through at Interstate 35 and Williams Drive, two restaurant
employees came to his rescue. They knew he had diabetes, and they had his wife's
phone number on file.

"They come in here just about every day. They're like family," said manager
Aretha Lyons, who tended to Nelson along with fellow employee Natalie Collazo.

Nelson and his wife, Jane, both 80, said they have been going to the Whataburger
for breakfast and coffee four or five times a week for nearly a decade.

On Nov. 21, Collazo was working the drive-through window when a customer told
her that a man was slumped over in his pickup behind the restaurant. When she
saw that it was Nelson, Collazo said, she reached inside the truck, put it in
park and yelled to Lyons, who rushed out with orange juice for Nelson. They
called 911 and kept talking to Nelson to try to keep him conscious, Lyons said.

With some additional treatment from Williamson County EMS, Nelson said, he was
ready to get off the stretcher and back to his routine.

But Lyons and Collazo insisted that he and his wife stick around for a while, he
said: "They're just real nice people. The ladies got us a meal together, and
they didn't even charge us for it."

The Nelsons said they can't thank Lyons and Collazo enough for what they did.

They probably saved his life, Jane Nelson said.

"If we'd been somewhere else, it could've been a disaster," she said. "The story
would've had a different ending."

- Katie Humphrey, 246-0053, khumphrey@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
