
                               1 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 30, 1999, Saturday

Earth's no stranger to quick climate shifts

BYLINE: Paul Recer

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 474 words


WASHINGTON -- An ice age that gripped the Earth for thousands of years ended
abruptly when temperatures soared, according to new findings published Friday
that suggest the world's climate can change in just a few decades.

The study prompts fresh concerns that climate change from global warming could
happen suddenly, experts say.

Jeffrey P. Severinghaus of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography said that a
new method of analyzing gases trapped in Greenland ice shows that the air
temperatures warmed rapidly at the end of the last ice age about 15,000 years
ago.

"There was a 16 degree abrupt warming at the end of the last ice age," said
Severinghaus, lead author of a study published Friday in the journal Science.
"It happened within just a couple of decades. The old idea was that the
temperature would change over a thousand years. But we found it was much
faster."

Severinghaus said the rapid temperature increase may have been touched off by a
surge in warm currents in the Atlantic Ocean that brought a melting trend to the
vast ice sheet covering the Northern Hemisphere. It still took hundreds of years
for the ice to recede, but the start of the great thaw was much more sudden than
scientists had once thought.

This suggests that the Earth's climate is "tippy" -- prone to be stable for long
periods, but subject to sudden change under the right conditions, Severinghaus
said.

"We know that over the next 100 years the Earth will probably warm because of
the greenhouse effect, and there is a remote possibility that we might trigger
one of these abrupt climate changes," he said. "This certainly gives us pause."

"Both the rapidity and the magnitude of the temperature change is surprising,"
said scientist Pieter P. Tans of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration. Tans cautioned, however, that "another piece of evidence to
support it," is needed.

Many experts have predicted that an increase in greenhouse gases, such as carbon
dioxide, could cause a gradual global warming, with temperatures rising slowly
over many decades. The greenhouse effect is global warming caused by the buildup
in the atmosphere of man-made carbon dioxide and other gases that trap the sun's
heat.

Severinghaus also said the Greenland ice core study suggests that such changes
in the Earth's climate may not be smooth, but sudden, adding that there may be
"thresholds of change" that are still unknown .

"We can't really say how much carbon dioxide is OKokay or not OKokay," he said.
"We might do well to expect surprises."

As the world warms

By studying deep core samples of ice taken from Greenland and other areas,
researchers have been able to understand historical climate changes. Here's a
look at the average temperature in Greenland during the past 20,000 years.

(See microfilm)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                               4 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 12, 1999

Bush sweats politics of dry weather; News conference on drought

BYLINE: Ken Herman

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 566 words


Once again, it's too warm and too dry too early. It's time for Gov. George W.
Bush to sound the almost-annual drought alarm.

But now, because the governor apparently wants to be president, the weather --
like everything under the sun -- becomes political.

Sure enough, says Bush, it looks like another prolonged dry spell, hot on the
heels of a 1998 drought that killed crops, caused fires and threatened water
supplies.

Could be the worst ever, said Bush, who recalls life in Midland during the 1950s
drought generally acknowledged as the one by which the rest are measured.  "It
looks like the history books may be being rewritten right now," said Bush,
unknowingly steering a news conference from Texas weather to presidential
politics.

Is all this warm weather evidence of the global warming that has Vice President
Al Gore -- the frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination -- all hot
and bothered, Bush was asked.

"It would be hard to ignore that something's going on -- and that something is
global warming," Gore said last summer as Texans sweated through a summer hot
even by Texas standards.

Global warming, Gore says, is a serious environmental ill in need of serious
medicine, including approval of an international agreement featuring a mandatory
emissions reduction that could lead to restrictions on motor vehicles.  Though
Bush's goal du jour was to persuade Texans that they may be suffering through a
drought of historic proportions, he steered clear Thursday of the global warming
theory.

"I think the science is still out on issues like global warming," he said,
adding, "before we put public policy in place that could have dire consequences
we better make sure we know what we are doing."

Bush's comments came on a day when two groups said Bush has done little to
battle air pollution, which some scientists say contributes to global warming.
Public Citizen and the Sierra Club put their criticism in a context Bush is
going to have to get used to as he moves toward a presidential campaign.

"The governor characterizes himself as a compassionate conservative," said Tom
Smith, Public Citizen's state director. "His compassion on this issue, however,
seems to be primarily for industrial corporations which have had 28 years to
come up to today's modern standards for clean air, not compassion for the
thousands of Texans who have to breathe dirty air because of corporate
indifference."

The two groups oppose House Bill 2504 by Rep. Ray Allen, R-Grand Prairie, and
supported in concept by Bush, claiming the measure would do nothing to reduce
emissions from plants allowed to keep operating after clean air laws were
passed. The measure mandates the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
to report to the Legislature in two years which of the grandfather plants are in
compliance with current air standards.

"I was the first governor to call in companies that had their plants
grandfathered and said, 'Clean up,' " Bush said. "And there have been a lot of
companies that have stepped forth and reduced emissions by a significant amount,
and I expect more to come forth."

Bush said he sees no need for the kind of mandatory programs pushed by the
Sierra Club and Public Citizen.

"I think we can encourage people to do it on a voluntary basis," he said.

You may contact Ken Herman at kherman@statesman.com or 445-1718.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              13 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 11, 1999, Sunday

Mars' wrinkles unveiled//A space probe's malfunction leads to vivid new images
revealing clues to planet's past

BYLINE: John Noble Wilford

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1020 words


Mars is coming into much better focus, so clearly that scientists think they now
see in the towering mountains, layered canyon walls and meandering channels
telling traces of the planet's early history, when volcanoes belched gases into
a denser, warmer atmosphere and rivers flowed across the russet plains.

It was a time, more than 3 billion years ago, when conditions on Mars seemed
much more hospitable to life than today's cold desert environment.

In the past year, the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft has looked down from orbit
and snapped hundreds of pictures of the landscape that are 20 to 40 times as
detailed as anything obtained by previous explorations. And this was not even
part of the original mission plan but an example of a constructive response to
adversity.

When Surveyor reached Mars orbit in September 1997, a malfunction had left its
solar-power panels vulnerable to excessive vibrations. Flight controllers at the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., had to maneuver the spacecraft
gingerly into its planned circular orbit for the primary mission of mapping the
entire planet. Only recently, a year late, has Surveyor reached the intended
orbit for its two-year mapping operation.

As eagerly as scientists await the improved maps, which will be used in
selecting future landing sites, the delay was made more than bearable by the
photographs and other scientific data transmitted while Surveyor was slowly
getting into position.

The most revealing pictures were taken when the craft dipped within 100 miles of
the surface, much closer than its prescribed mapping orbit.

"We've gotten a bonus mission," exulted Arden Albee, 72, of the California
Institute of Technology, the mission's chief scientist, who put off retirement
twice to be around for this moment.

Commenting on the results in a recent issue of the journal Nature, Maria Zuber,
a planetary scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the
Surveyor photography provided a spectacular new view of the geological processes
that shaped the Martian surface.

"These images, combined with observations from other orbital sensors and with
local views from surface landers, offer the hope of piecing together a
self-consistent view of Mars' early climate -- with implications for the
development, or not, of early life on the planet," Zuber concluded.

Some of the pictures revealed unsuspected aspects of familiar landmarks, like
Valles Marineris, the canyon stretching 2,400 miles just south of the Mars
equator. Shot at oblique angles, the pictures showed for the first time sharply
defined horizontal layers in the chasm walls. The dark and bright banding
represented layers, each 15 to 165 feet thick, reaching to depths of five miles.

In an analysis of the pictures, a team of planetary geologists led by Alfred
McEwen of the University of Arizona in Tucson concluded that the most likely
explanation for the layering was periodic lava flows from repeated volcanic
eruptions over much of the history of Mars.

The geologists estimated that volcanoes spread 10 times as much lava onto the
Martian surface as previously thought, enough to cover an area the size of the
United States to a depth of four miles.

Volcanoes and water

Such volcanic activity would help explain why Mars appears to have had a thick,
warm atmosphere in earlier epochs. Today, the atmosphere there is too cold and
thin for liquid water to exist on the surface. But observations by Mariner 9 and
two Viking spacecraft in the 1970s surprised scientists with ample examples of
deep channels, dry river beds, flood plains and other signs of water erosion.
This implied a thicker, warmer atmosphere in the past.

Volcanism would have released substantial amounts of water to the surface and
also gases to sustain a significant atmosphere. If the principal gas was carbon
dioxide, Mars could have developed greenhouse conditions to retain atmospheric
heat and maintain a relatively warm climate.

The findings provided other clues to the planet's watery past. From previous
photography showing valleys that appeared to start abruptly at almost full size
and without tributary channels, it was assumed that flash floods of upwelling
ground water were mainly responsible for surface erosion. This left open the
question of whether the early Mars environment could sustain flowing surface
water for long periods.

Michael Malin of Malin Space Sciences Systems in San Diego and Michael Carr of
the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., reported that the new pictures
supported the view that ground water, rather than rainfall, played an important
role in the formation of most of the water-eroded landscapes. Many of the dry
channels appeared to be the result of short-duration floods, presumably fed by
frozen reservoirs just beneath the surface. Other scientists suggested that
volcanism could have melted these reservoirs and brought the water to the
surface.

Signs of slow erosion

But Malin and Carr also found the first strong evidence that in some places
water had flowed for extended periods over great distances. A prime example is a
narrow, meandering valley in Nanedi Valles. Surveyor pictures detected a
600-foot-wide trough at the bottom of the 1.6 mile-wide canyon, indicating to
the scientists that flowing water had steadily eroded the channel deeper and
deeper over a long period of time.

For its mapping mission, the Surveyor is orbiting Mars from pole to pole,
passing over a given part of the planet at the same local time on each orbit.
Mapping pictures are to be taken repeatedly of the entire planet from a 250-mile
altitude over almost two Earth years, the equivalent of one Mars year.

Although the global map is mainly intended for interpreting the planet's
geologic history and planning future missions, Surveyor will be directed to take
special pictures of the borders of the southern polar ice cap in May.

The pictures will be used in selecting a safe and interesting landing site for
the Polar Lander spacecraft, already on its way for a scheduled landing in
December.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New data from the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft helped NASA detail
this graphic, above, that shows the north pole of the red planet, top.  At
right, a crater lies next to the summit of a small volcano, which has a
slashlike vent that's more than a mile long.//The 1.6 mile Nanedi Valles
indicates that flowing water had steadly eroded the channel deeper and deeper
over a long period of time.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              15 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 19, 1999, Monday

New places to measure city weather; Austin-Bergstrom's gauges record

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 557 words


There's no need to wait for global warming, Austinites, the climate is changing
already. Well, the perception of it, at least.

For instance, how much rain has Austin had this year?

Just more than 18 inches, if you go by Austin's old weather standard, the
automated gauges at the defunct Robert Mueller Municipal Airport. But according
to gauges at the new Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, which are the
figures local news media increasingly are reporting as the standard, the total
is more than 20 inches.

Austin isn't getting wetter. It just tends to rain about 1.5 inches more
annually at the new airport than at the old one.

But more rainfall isn't the only change being seen as the new airport's
measurements become the standard. Summers at Austin-Bergstrom are also a few
degrees hotter. And the change will really be noticed in the winter, when the
official daily low temperature could plunge more than ever before.

That's because winter temperatures at Austin-Bergstrom can be as much as 20
degrees colder than at the old airport. The new airport's elevation is more than
50 feet lower than Robert Mueller Airport, and cold air gathers in low places.

"There have been times," said Jim Spencer, meteorologist for KXAN-TV, "when the
coldest temperature out there was the coldest in Texas."

Folks in the Panhandle had better watch out: Austin's going to steal some of
winter's cold records.

To help meteorologists cope with the changes, the National Weather Service last
week moved the old airport's automated rainfall, temperature, humidity and wind
gauges to Camp Mabry, in West Austin but still in the central city. Those
measurements will now be known as Austin City, to distinguish them from
Austin-Bergstrom, which is southeast of the city.

"You'll see references to both for climatological data," said Bill Runyon, data
acquisition manager at the National Weather Service forecast office in New
Braunfels. "As far as I'm concerned, they're both official, but the oldest
observing records are the ones for Austin City."

For a meteorologist, more data is always better than less. It helps improve
forecasting accuracy.

However, reporting two sets of numbers could be confusing for people.

With two sets of measurements for everything, "after a while, it's a bunch of
numbers," said Cliff Morrison, meteorologist for KEYE-TV. "What we ought to do
is declare one (set of observations the standard) and go with it."

WeatherData Inc. already has. The Kansas company, which does weather forecasting
for the Austin American-Statesman, is using the new airport's figures
exclusively.

Troy Kimmel, meteorology lecturer at the University of Texas, applauds the
weather service's commitment to maintaining and extending the old set of
observations. He, however, foresees Austin-Bergstrom's figures becoming the ones
that most will use.

"It's inevitable," said Kimmel, who also reports on the weather for KVET radio.

Spencer, who is trying to deliver both sets of data in his weathercasts, already
is drawing complaints.

"We're still debating how to handle this whole thing," Spencer said. "I don't
want to lose Austin's true climate history. But people ought to be able to tune
into any weathercast and see similar numbers."

You may contact Dick Stanley at dstanley@statesman.com or 445-3629.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: These weather instruments at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport are
used by local meteorologists to help monitor weather conditions. //The automated
weather system at Austin-Bergstrom airport, shown in these two photographs,
records different readings than the weather station at Camp Mabry in West
Austin.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              16 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

Cty movesto keep its weather on even keel

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 369 words


It happened as recently as April 17.

The morning low was 42 at Austin's old airport while, at the new one, the
temperature hovered 1 degree below freezing.

To prevent the perception that Austin's climate has changed, when Robert Mueller
Municipal Airport closes May 23, the National Weather Service will have two
sites for determining official conditions: one at rural Austin-Bergstrom
International Airport and the other at Camp Mabry in West Austin.

Allowing meteorologists to average conditions at the two sites will ease the
fact that winters at Bergstrom can be up to 20 degrees colder, summers a few
degrees hotter and rainfall more than an inch heavier than at Mueller.

"Austin's climate won't change drastically just because we're switching
airports," said Bob Rose, a meteorologist with the Lower Colorado River
Authority.

Conditions at Bergstrom differ so much from the central city chiefly because its
elevation is almost 100 feet lower and cold air, being heavier than warm,
collects in low places.

Houstonians had a similar problem in 1970, when the weather service's official
monitoring station was moved from Hobby Airport to the new Houston
Intercontinental Airport on the city's forested north side.

"They were breaking temperature records all the time at Intercontinental," Rose
said.

With two official weather measuring sites for forecasters to consider,
Austinites won't be as likely to run faucets uselessly, because of skewed
forecasts of hard freezes.

Builders, who have relied on temperature averages established in the central
city, won't have to change their methods to suit new averages compiled at rural
Bergstrom.

City planners, gauging the potential flooding effects of new concrete on rain
runoff, won't have to juggle their figures to fit Bergstrom, whose average
rainfall is 1.5 inches more a year than in the central city.

And meteorologists can sleep easier, knowing that averaging weather conditions
at Mabry and Bergstrom will give their forecasts a better chance of coming true.

"It begins to make us more of a big city," said Jim Spencer, chief meteorologist
at KXAN-TV. "Los Angeles has more than one official weather-measurement
station."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              20 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 3, 1999

Industry seeks credit for air emission cuts

BYLINE: John H. Cushman Jr.

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 544 words


WASHINGTON -- Even as a proposed treaty on global warming faces an uncertain
future in the Senate, big companies are maneuvering to push through legislation
giving them valuable credits for early actions to control the waste gases that
the treaty would strictly limit.

The proposed treaty, negotiated in Kyoto, Japan, and signed by the Clinton
administration last year, requires steep reductions in the industrial nations'
emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases. If the Senate eventually approves
it despite widespread opposition from major industries, companies want to be
sure they get credit for any reductions they achieve before the treaty takes
effect in 2008.

The legislation could mark a significant shift in the debate in the Senate,
potentially linking the financial interests of industry to the goals of treaty
supporters. And if it succeeds, it could revive the efforts of the
administration to persuade industries to cut their emissions voluntarily, which
have met with mixed success.

"This is a potential winner," said Eileen Claussen, executive director of the
Pew Center on Global Climate Change and a former treaty negotiator. "It helps
get the United States moving. It is voluntary. It is supported by industry. It
seems to me there should be a way to get legislation like that through
Congress."

For some companies, credits earned now could be applied against strict limits
they would face later. Companies able to make even deeper cuts in emissions now
could sell their surplus credits for billions of dollars under an emissions
trading system that the administration wants to set up.

With so much at stake, big companies, joined by influential environmental groups
and policy analysts, are already lobbying hard for Congress to guarantee credits
for early action.

Three senators, led by John Chafee, R-R.I., introduced legislation late in the
last session that would assure the companies that their early reductions would
earn credit under any mechanism the government eventually establishes to limit
emissions of greenhouse gases. The bill is also backed by Sens. Joseph
Lieberman, D-Conn., and Connie Mack, R-Fla.

In a December speech to the National Association of Manufacturers, Chafee, who
chairs the Senate Environment Committee, said he'd make the bill a priority this
year. "While the climate debate will indeed continue over the next few years, we
strongly believe that there is a voluntary, incentive-based approach which can
be implemented now," he told the group, which has opposed the treaty.

"The good guys who take action now will be rewarded by having these actions
count," Chafee said. "This credit program may also make early greenhouse gas
reductions financially valuable to the companies who make them."

That could mean a windfall for companies that have recorded reductions in
greenhouse gas emissions since 1991.

But there is considerable debate whether actions taken years ago should be
granted credits.

"To the extent the credit is regarded as an incentive to spur industry to make
greenhouse gas reductions that would not otherwise occur, there is little basis
for rewarding reductions already achieved," said a report written for the Pew
Center by Robert Nordhaus and Stephen Fotis.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              21 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 10, 1999, Saturday

China asks for environmental technology// Chinese premier says trade deficit
could be eased while cutting pollution

BYLINE: George Gedda

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 548 words


WASHINGTON -- U.S. exports of environmental technology to China could be the key
to easing the American trade deficit with China as well as China's air and water
pollution problems, Premier Zhu Rongji said Friday .

"All in all, it is a very arduous task for us to protect the environment," Zhu
told a U.S.-China forum on development and the environment at the State
Department.

Zhu, who is here on an official visit and met with President Clinton on
Thursday, disputed U.S. estimates that the American trade deficit with China is
$57 billion, contending the figure is exaggerated. But he said he would be
willing to trade China's surplus for a cleaner environment.

"If that happens, I will be very happy," Zhu said, speaking through a
translator.

Vice President Al Gore said the United States and China rank first and second,
respectively, in worldwide greenhouse gas emissions and must work together for a
solution because of their effect on global climate change.

"If these trends continue, we will be competing in the 21st century for the
title of largest producer of greenhouse gases in the world," Gore said.

Zhu suggested the United States could help reduce air pollution in China by
exporting clean coal-burning technology, saying, "I think the United States has
developed their advanced technology in this regard and we are fully prepared to
cooperate with the United States."

Flanked by conservative Sens. William V. Roth Jr., R-Del., and Strom Thurmond,
R-S.C., China's premier and No. 3 Communist Party official, Zhu Rongji, reached
way across the political spectrum Friday to appeal for support for China's entry
into the World Trade Organization.

At a Blair House breakfast a day after Zhu and President Clinton failed to wrap
up an agreement for China to join the WTO, Zhu "was almost singularly focused on
trade and WTO," said one of the 15 members of Congress who attended. But the
American lawmakers nevertheless used the occasion to raise their own concerns,
ranging from human rights to weapons proliferation.

Zhu told the lawmakers that President Clinton lacked the "courage" to strike a
deal on China's admission to the WTO in the current political climate in the
United States.

It was the second day that Zhu and his Chinese colleagues colleages spent
playing American electoral politics.

Also on Friday, Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan and Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright signed an agreement doubling commercial airline flights between the two
countries.

Meanwhile Rep. Dan Burton, chairman of the House Committee on Government Reform,
wrote Zhu to ask his cooperation with the panel's campaign fund-raising
investigation.

While rejecting accusations his country tried to channel money to the
Clinton-Gore campaign in 1996, Zhu offered to cooperate with any campaign
finance probe during a press conference Thursday with President Clinton.

Burton, R-Ind., wrote that his committee's investigators were informed by
Chinese embassy officials in 1998 "that anyone who attempted to travel to China
or Hong Kong to conduct interviews in this investigation would be arrested."

His letter requested interviews with individuals in China, and records of bank
wire transfers.

This article includes material from The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carol Browner, center, of the Environmental Protection Agency, and
Chinese official Zeng Peiyan sign an environmental agreement Friday. Chinese
Premier Zhu Rongji and Vice President Al Gore applaud at left. Mary Brandt of
the State Department Office of Treaty Affairs is at right.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              22 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 13, 1999, Sunday

For many environmentalists, deregulation is a dirty word; They fear

BYLINE: Kitta MacPherson, Bruce Hight

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 1431 words


In the four years since energy deregulation has gotten under way in various
parts of the nation, production at coal-fired plants has increased by about 8
percent.

At the same time, the output of environmentally friendlier natural gas-fired
plants has decreased 5 percent, according to figures collected by the federal
Department of Energy.

"There's a relationship here," said Jeff Keith, an energy consultant based in
Boston.

The relationship, environmentalists contend, is that in the much-ballyhooed
spirit of competition, companies with some of the dirtiest energy-producing
plants will get access to more consumers and, in the long run, polluters will
proliferate.

"Cheap energy is dirty energy," said Ashok Gupta, a policy analyst with the
Natural Resources Defense Council in New York. "It's simply the way it is."

Deregulation will allow any company to sell energy to virtually any consumer, as
long distance phone companies now do. Consumers would still receive energy
through existing power lines and gas pipes. But they can select a specific
provider, who sends power to the existing power grid.

A deregulated power market has put cheap power within the reach of brokers who
operate behind the scenes to supply energy to utilities as their customer demand
fluctuates. The brokers' reliance on cost to determine which power supply they
peddle concerns environmentalists.

Energy plants that burn fossil fuels emit gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen
oxide and sulfur dioxide, which are thought by some scientists to be major
culprits in global warming, smog and acid rain .

"It's kind of unbelievable that anyone in his right mind would be encouraging
people to opt for pollution-heavy forms of energy in light of what we are
learning," said Jerry Mahlman, director of the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics
Laboratory at Princeton University, a federally financed institute that has
pioneered investigations into climate change.

The energy produced by coal-fired plants in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky could
easily be sold to consumers in New Jersey, where deregulation takes effect Aug.
1.

Such plants often produce energy more cheaply, according to analyses of data
provided to federal regulators. Plant operators can sell in the direct "retail"
market for consumers, offering products that are a few cents cheaper per
kilowatt hour.

But the best opportunities for the purveyors of cheap energy are in the
"wholesale" energy markets made possible by deregulation. A shadow world to most
consumers, the wholesale market is the realm in which energy brokers, responding
to public consumption patterns, purchase blocks of power to feed the
interconnected system of energy known as the grid.

A key reason for the cost advantage offered by the decades-old coal plants,
analysts said, is that they don't have to abide by the more stringent emission
policies in force in newer plants.

The stacks that jut from the roof of American Electric Power Co.'s Gen. John
Gavin power plant in southern Ohio cough up more nitrogen oxide, which triggers
the chemical reaction that creates smog, than all plants in New Jersey combined,
according to emissions records maintained by the Environmental Protection
Agency.

"We can't say that coal is clean, but we do what we can to keep emissions down
and stay within the regulated limit," said Debra Strohmaier, a spokeswoman for
American Electric Power.

The owners of coal-fired power plants, such as Cinergy Corp. in Indiana, are
close to their primary power source -- coal mines -- and don't have to purchase
and maintain expensive emission-monitoring equipment. And there are few negative
local consequences to stop such companies from belching out pollution, since
prevailing westerly winds waft the dirty air away from its source.

Kathy Meinke, a spokeswoman for Cinergy, said her company is trying its best to
be responsible. "It's not damn the torpedoes, and we'll burn whatever we want,"
Meinke said. "We'll comply with all environmental regulations."

Rolling back the clock?

For activists who have spent careers lobbying to improve and enforce pollution
regulations, deregulation at its worst is an end-run around clean air rules, an
environmental Armageddon. "There's a sense that we're opening a Pandora's box,"
said Staci Berger, an energy expert for New Jersey Citizen Action, a grass-roots
advocacy group. "There's a grave concern that this will really roll back the
clock."

But the mood of environmentalists in Texas is considerably different, thanks to
provisions in Texas' new electric deregulation law that will force the state's
older power plants, including those fired by coal, to reduce their nitrogen
oxide emissions by 50 percent and their sulfur dioxide emissions by 25 percent.

Mark MacLeod, director of state energy programs for the Environmental Defense
Fund, said the new Texas law is "one of the most progressive in the nation for
dealing with emissions from power plants." He said hopes the law becomes a model
for other states and the federal government.

Also, so far, new power plants being planned or built to meet the state's
growing demand for power will be fired by natural gas, not coal.

Most residential consumers in states where restructuring is in full swing, such
as California and Pennsylvania, have chosen to stick with their old utility
companies. About 1 percent of consumers are opting for "green" energy producers,
companies that market renewable energy sources, often at a premium price.

A long time coming

To consumers, the restructuring of the utility industry may seem to have
surfaced as unpredictably and forcefully as a tidal wave. Actually, the wave has
been gathering force for a long time.

Congress started the change in 1992 with the passage of the National Energy
Policy Act, which required that utilities open up their transmission
capabilities to competitors.

Other factors contributed to the momentum:

* Industrial customers pressing to cut energy bills.

* Inventors and entrepreneurs seeking a way to squeeze into the market with new
energy technologies.

* Evolving social and legal attitudes supporting monopoly breakups, already seen
in the telecommunications and airline industries.

By the mid-1990s, most environmental groups had realized that efforts to break
up the electric power industry were dead serious. Some groups hated the idea
from the get-go.

Others, like policy analysts at the Natural Resources Defense Council, spotted
an opportunity to foster renewable energy -- which uses non-depleting resources
such as the sun, wind and water as power sources -- and introduce companies
embracing such "green" technologies into the marketplace.

Such groups made a strategic decision -- they would support the notion of
deregulation and work to nudge it to the pro-environment side. All they needed
was some clout, the kind that comes from big industry.

Some found their good guy in Eric Svenson, director of environmental policy for
the giant New Jersey-based utility, Public Service Electric and Gas Co. Five
years ago, Svenson and some others at the company -- including an executive who
eventually became its president, Lawrence Codey -- spotted what
environmentalists were beginning to grasp. And they gasped.

Under deregulation, the company's executives realized, PSE&G could never compete
purely on price with some of the outside competitors, such as American Electric
Power of Ohio and Cinergy Corp., created in 1994 from the Cincinnati Gas &
Electric Co. and PSI Energy, the largest electric utility in Indiana.

Adherence to local emission standards, PSE&G officials realized, would place
them at a competitive disadvantage because of the higher costs involved in doing
business. Codey assigned Svenson to work with environmentalists to develop a
solution.

Svenson met Gupta of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "We recognized that
we had a common interest," Svenson said. "And it's been a strong partnership
ever since."

PSE&G officials said they have become something of a pariah in their utility
industry groups for "going green." New Jersey's Board of Public Utilities is
also in the process of crafting "disclosure" guidelines that will detail the
environmental impact -- by reporting emission levels of pollutants -- for all
energy companies vying for consumer accounts.

"The future rests on how effectively we can convey information to people,"
Svenson said. "Given the data, my bet is that people will do the right thing."

Staff writer Bruce Hight contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              23 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 16, 1999, Monday

Cleaner energy coming,; Austinites may soon get to buy power from

BYLINE: Dylan Rivera

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1194 words


The next time you flip a light switch or turn on a television, you're probably
going to put coal dust in the air, increase climatic changes that are warming
the planet and use energy that will never be recaptured.

That's because most of the energy for electricity in Austin comes from coal or
natural gas. Austin City Council members say they want to change that by
increasing the city's use of renewable energy sources that cause little or no
pollution.

So Austin's electric utility this summer is expanding aggressively into
renewable energy sources, those that contribute less or not at all to global
warming. Austin Energy is negotiating contracts that could cost as much as $78.6
million over 10 years to buy electricity generated from landfill gas and from
wind-powered turbines.

If successful, the new program will increase the number of homes supplied by
renewable energy sources from about 4,400 to 22,000, Austin Energy officials
said.

Currently, only about 0.5 percent of the city's electricity comes from renewable
sources. But contracts under negotiation would increase that by more than five
times, to about 2.5 percent.

"Although that's nothing to retire on, it's a huge leap for one purchase," said
Paul Robbins, an environmental activist and electric utility watchdog. "It's a
big step for the city, and as someone who has often been critical of the Austin
electric department, I'm quite happy about this decision."

Austin Energy, the city's electric utility, supplies about 300,000 homes with
power that comes from coal, natural gas and nuclear energy, which are reliable
sources but present a host of environmental problems.

The world's supply of coal and natural gas will run out some day. Nuclear power
plants don't produce hazardous emissions, but the waste they produce is
politically volatile.

Burning coal and natural gas also releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere,
which scientists consider a significant factor in global warming, the trend of
climates becoming hotter across the planet.

Locally, ground-level ozone is the most troublesome air quality problem.
Vehicles on roads in the Austin area account for most of the nitrogen oxide
emissions that contribute to ground-level ozone, but fixed points, including the
city's two natural gas power plants, accounted for 13 percent of those emissions
in 1996, said Wade Thomason , executive director of the Clean Air Force, a
nonprofit group that studies Austin's air quality.

The City Council this summer set a goal of buying 5 percent of the city's energy
from renewable sources -- those that won't run out. Most of those sources also
won't pollute the atmosphere.

"It's a more global undertaking, and I think Austin is probably out there among
the leaders of utility companies doing this, but we're certainly not the only
ones," said Mark Kapner, energy services manager for Austin Energy.

But boosting Austin's electric customers into more environmentally friendly
power sources will require higher utility bills for those who choose to support
the program, Kapner said. It's slightly more expensive to obtain energy from
those sources than from the city's current plants, he said.

Getting a share of the renewable energy will cost about $3.60 per month for the
average residential customer who currently pays about $80 per month. To ease the
city's residential and business electricity users into environmentally friendly
sources of electricity, Austin Energy plans a marketing campaign this fall to
teach the public about global warming and other effects of fossil fuels.

According to a September 1998 customer survey, 1,974 households and 275
commercial customers would be willing to pay more for renewable energy.
Residential customers interested in the idea said they would pay an additional
$5 to $10 a month if at least 10 percent of their energy came from renewable
sources. Commercial customers willing to participate said they would pay $25
more per month for the same service.

Customers can sign up this fall in a program that Austin Energy is calling Green
Choice.

To people such as Bruce Sterling, who voluntarily pays a monthly premium on his
utility bill for a separate solar energy program, investing in renewable energy
is about investing in the future.

"It's a moral and political thing with me," said Sterling, an author. "I'm
willing to invest in it because I feel better about it. I'm not nagged about my
own conscience once I know that all my own energy is green."

The new planet-friendly electricity won't be available for six to 12 months,
Kapner said. That's because the companies generating the electricity will build
new plants to accommodate Austin's demand for energy.

"We want people to know about it," Kapner said. "But there's no requirement that
they sign up immediately."

Austin Energy issued a request for proposals in January that drew 12 bids.

Utility officials then selected five companies for negotiations, based on the
price of the power, reliability of the power source and track record of the
company, Kapner said.

In July, the council approved negotiations with two wind energy companies: Texas
Wind Power Co. of Austin and Enron Wind Development Corp. of Tehachapi, Calif.
The council also approved negotiations with three landfill gas companies:
Browning Ferris Inc. and Energy Developments, both of Houston, and Eco Gas Inc.
of Austin.

The renewable energy companies will charge consumers about the same price that
Austin Energy charges, Robbins said. So why would Austin Energy charge a higher
rate for renewable energy that costs the same as coal-burning energy?

Renewable energy may have the same price per unit, but there are other factors
involved in the cost, Kapner said. Renewable energy saves Austin Energy the cost
of fuel for its traditional energy plants, but the cost of the plants themselves
and wages for the workers who operate them will not decline significantly,
Kapner said.

You may contact Dylan Rivera at drivera@statesman.com or 445-3819.

(FROM BOX)

Turning landfill garbage into electricity

Austin Energy plans to expand the city's use of methane gas from landfills for
electricity. As garbage in landfills decay, it releases the gas into the
atmosphere. Here is how the gas is turned into electrical energy.

Steps in harnessing landfill methane

1. Landfill waste decomposes naturally and releases methane gas, which is sucked
into perforated underground pipes.

2. A network of pipes lead the methane to a central compressor. The compressor
typically pushes the gas to a flare that burns the gas off, preventing methane
from contaminating the atmosphere but also releasing carbon dioxide.

3. The fan pushes some of the methane gas to an engine-generator, an electric
generator that converts the gas to electricity by using using the methane to
fuel a specially designed engine.

4. From the generator the electricity goes to a transformer that increases the
voltage, allowing it to travel in transmission lines.

5. When it reaches a house or business, the voltage is reduced for use in
electrical appliances.

Source: Austin Energy.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Austin is negotiating to buy electricity created by turbines like these
in West Texas.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              24 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 11, 1999, Wednesday

Surprise drought made forecasters miss by miles

BYLINE: Seth Borenstein

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 857 words


WASHINGTON -- Just five months ago, the nation's top meteorologists warned of a
worsening drought . . . in the Southwest.

The rest of the country didn't have to worry about a shortage of rain in the
spring and summer to come, National Weather Service officials said.

Now, the forecasters concede they failed to predict a drought of historic
proportions because a combination of factors, including a relatively wet winter,
led them astray.

The experts say media hype, over-reliance on the El Nio weather phenomena (and
its flip side, La Nia) and successes in the middle 1990s have made long-range
weather prediction seem more reliable than it is. Indeed, though everyone from
farmers to investors to emergency managers relies rely on the predictions,
forecasting next season's climate is still just a bit better than a crapshoot.

"It's still an art form that drives the scientists crazy," said Richard Larsen ,
a meteorologist and research manager for the private forecasting firm
Information Services International in Budd Lake, N.J.

"Climate prediction is still in its infancy," said Climate Prediction Center
Deputy Director Jim Laver. "The truth is we're going to win some and we're going
to bust some."

And when it comes to dry spells, Laver said, "there is no good tool yet for
forecasting drought."

The current East Coast dry spell -- the worst ever in New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland and Rhode Island -- is so bad that President Clinton on Tuesday
declared all of New Jersey and 34 counties in New York disaster areas, allowing
farmers to get low-interest loans.

The forecasts for the spring and summer "have been pretty bad," said Huug van
den Dool , a senior scientist and former chief of predictions at the weather
service's Climate Prediction Center in suburban Camp Springs, Md.

Government forecasters hope to do better. Starting this summer, they are
introducing improvements in the way droughts are forecast, monitored and coped
with, including a drought severity rating system that will be unveiled later
this week.

Drought is a weather nightmare. It's tough to notice a drought until it is
several months long. It's tougher to predict one. And it's toughest of all to
break out of a drought cycle, meteorologists say.

And as meteorologists converged to forecast the spring and summer of 1999, every
factor that possibly could confound them was in place.

First, the season was a problem. Winters are relatively easy to forecast, with
big storm fronts lumbering along. In the summer, tiny, subtle variations in the
jet stream -- such as the changes that pushed it farther north this summer --
can make major differences.

Then there's the timing problem with spring and summer. If it doesn't snow much
in the winter, it's no big deal. But a drought in the spring and summer hits
during agriculture's planting and reproduction seasons and really hurts, said Al
Peterlin, chief meteorologist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

"For agriculture and for drought it's timing, timing and timing," Peterlin said.

Add to timing the problem of location. It's much tougher to forecast in the
North and East than the South and West because there are so many different
weather variables, experts said.

And meteorologists and farmers don't usually think of drought in the East.

"If you talk to 100 farmers east of the Mississippi they all say we never get
drought," Peterlin said.

Meteorologists also had to mix in the fickle La Nia factor, the cold water flip
side of El Nio. La Nia was not as strong as it had been. And even when it is
strong, it doesn't have side effects that are as easily forecast as El Nio,
especially in the mid-Atlantic states, said Vern Kousky, analysis chief at the
Climate Prediction Center.

Finally, it was such a moist winter that the East looked as if it had broken its
six-month dry spell, said David Miskus, chief meteorologist for the Joint
Agricultural Weather Service, a partnership between the weather service and
Department of Agriculture.

But new programs are in the works.

The Agriculture Department plans to put in up to 500 soil monitoring stations
across the nation. These could help meteorologists with their forecasts, because
soil moisture is a key ingredient in what happens with weather, Peterlin said.
If soil is bone-dry, it's harder to get rain.

The Climate Prediction Center is planning to use better computers to get a
handle on the hard-to-figure drought problem, Laver said.

And together, the weather service, the Agriculture Department and the National
Drought Mitigation Center have produced a new way to measure and communicate
drought and its effects. It's called "Drought Monitor," and is on the Internet
at http://enso.unl.edu/

monitor/monitor.html

The new monitor has a 0-to-4 drought scale for urban water problems, agriculture
problems and forest fires, and is designed to be objective and consistent
compared with the four other drought indices that clash in the weather world,
Laver said.

And what of New Mexico, where the National Weather Service was worried about
drought?

It's been getting drenching rains.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              25 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

U.S.-backed center will study fuel emissions

SECTION: News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 216 words


WASHINGTON -- The Transportation Department will announce plans Monday in
Detroit to create a "center for global climate change and environmental
forecasting" to better deal with problems caused by carbon dioxide and
fossil-fuel emissions.

With transportation accounting for 26 percent of the nation's greenhouse-gas
emissions, a department historically described as a "public works" agency needs
the ability to conduct scientific research and gauge the benefits of emerging
technologies and alternative fuels, Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater said.

Noting that the center will work closely with the Environmental Protection
Agency and the Energy Department, Slater said, "I'm just pleased that we in
Transportation will not be taking a back seat on the issue of the environment."

Slater's announcement will come at the National Town Meeting for a Sustainable
America, a four-day conference beginning today that organizers predict will draw
at least 3,000 public officials, corporate executives and air and water
pollution experts to Detroit.

Vice President Gore is scheduled to speak Tuesday at the forum, which is
sponsored by the President's Council on Sustainable Development, the nonprofit
Global Environment and Technology Foundation, General Motors and other groups.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              30 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 14, 1999

THE MOTLEY FOOL

SECTION: Business; Pg. H3

LENGTH: 1249 words


ASK THE FOOL

Float on

Q: I'm trying to understand the insurance business. Can you explain "float"?

-- P.V., Charlotte, N.C.

A: Warren Buffett explained it best in his 1997 letter to shareholders. (His
company, Berkshire Hathaway, owns a number of insurance companies, such as
GEICO.)

He said: "Float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float
arises because premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that
sometimes extends over many years. During that time, the insurer invests the
money. Typically, this pleasant activity carries with it a downside: The
premiums that an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses
it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an 'underwriting loss,' which is
the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over
time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain money.
But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for
money."

You can learn much more from Buffett's letters, which are at
www.berkshirehathaway.com.

Q: Q: What's a zero coupon bond?

-- O.F., Paradise, Calif.

A: Bonds are loans. Imagine a regular 5 percent $10,000 bond, where you lend
$10,000 to a company or government. You receive interest payments of 5 percent
per year until the bond matures, when you get your $10,000 back. (You used to
have to send in coupons to get these payments.) With a zero coupon bond, there
are no interest payments, but the amount you lend is smaller than the amount
you'll receive at maturity.

Thus, a zero coupon bond could pay you the equivalent of 5 percent per year by
having you pay $6,139 today to receive $10,000 in 10 years.

THE FOOL SCHOOL

Return on assets

We've all heard the term "capital intensive," and we all have an idea of what it
means. A steel company is capital intensive, requiring a lot of costly equipment
to generate earnings. Software companies typically have a much lighter business
model. Once the software has been developed, it's simply a matter of copying it
onto disks, packaging it and marketing it.

Investors can measure a company's asset-heaviness by calculating its return on
assets (ROA). There are a few steps involved in this, but they're not too tough.
(Got your pencil ready?) You'll find all the numbers you need on a company's
recent balance sheet and income statement. We'll use Wal-Mart's fiscal 1999
results as an example.

Return on assets is determined by multiplying net profit margin by asset
turnover. To get net profit margin, look near the bottom of the income statement
for net income and divide that by net sales (also called "revenues") from the
top of the statement. Dividing Wal-Mart's net income of $4.43 billion by its net
revenue of $139.21 billion (yowza!), we get a net profit margin of 0.0318, or
3.18 percent.

Asset turnover is calculated by dividing net revenue by the average of total
assets for the period. (Total assets are listed on the balance sheet.) Since the
revenues we're using cover all of fiscal 1999, we'll add the total assets from
this earnings report to those from a year ago, and we'll divide by two. Dividing
Wal-Mart's revenue by its average total assets of $47.33 billion yields an asset
turnover of 2.94. In other words, Wal-Mart generates nearly $3 in sales from
each dollar of assets. Not bad, especially next to Kmart's asset turnover of
2.43.

Now that we have a net profit margin of 0.0318 and an asset turnover of 2.94, we
multiply them to get a return on assets of 9.4 percent. This shows that Wal-Mart
creates 9.4 cents of earnings from each dollar of assets. By comparison, Kmart's
ROA is 3.7 percent.

MY SMARTEST INVESTMENT

Crash course

Flash back several years. The headlines called it a "Global Market Meltdown."
Newscasters called it a crash. But what I saw on my computer screen was that
shares of Intel were selling for $72. I called that a bargain.

The word "crash" is interesting. Cars crash. Yet every day we get into them. The
reason we get into cars despite the obvious risks is the same reason we should
stay in the stock market. We simply can't get where we want to go without them.
Staying in cash is like giving up your car and trying to walk everywhere.

And even though a car could take your life, all the market could take is your
money. Yet I don't see many people walking. To my knowledge, no one has died
from "Global Market Meltdown."

-- Marion Sutherland, Naperville, Ill.

The Fool responds: Beautifully said. Market crashes will occur, but if you've
invested for the long haul, you can ride them out. (In the past three years,
Intel's stock price has quadrupled.)

FOOLISH TRIVIA

Name that company

I was founded in 1939 by a Canadian entrepreneur named Nathan Cummings, who
purchased the C.D. Kenny Co., a small Baltimore distributor of wholesale sugar,
coffee and tea. In 1953, when my sales topped $200 million, I changed my name to
Consolidated Foods Corp. Over the years I've acquired many businesses. Today I
employ about 139,000 people, sell my wares in some 140 nations, and rake in more
than $20 billion per year. My brands include Jimmy Dean, Aqua Velva, Brylcreem,
Endust, Ty-D-Bol, Hanes, Wonderbra, Coach, Beefy-T and L'eggs. But I might be
known most for my cheesecake. Who am I?

Last week's answer

My founder has had a varied career, procuring cotton clothing for the Army,
running a textile business, starting a winery and, finally, founding me in 1982.
("Hickory Stick" used to be part of my name.) My main product line is named
after a famous World War I cannon. I'm the largest U.S. manufacturer of the
items I make. My sales swung up from $55 million in 1990 to $843 million in
1997. But in 1998, I put up a veritable snowman, with sales and earnings
declining, and am not out of the woods. Bill Gates has endorsed my stuff. Who am
I? (Answer: Callaway Golf)

Last week's winner was James Bryant of Austin.

THE FOOL TAKE

Hot or cold soup?

Branded consumer product companies such as Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble and
Gillette usually trade at high price-to-earnings ratios because of strong
results they've posted over several decades. Continual innovation to meet the
changing needs of consumers has driven their success. Occasionally, however,
these firms make mistakes (New Coke, anyone?), and their stock prices drop,
creating possible buying opportunities.

Campbell Soup Co., which also makes Pepperidge Farm products and Godiva
chocolates, has recently dropped into this category as its earnings fell below
the expectations of Wall Street analysts. Declining soup demand (partially
attributable to the warm winter) and a major initiative to streamline the
company's distribution system are two of the culprits. Campbell also has been
hurt by changes in exchange rates that cause international sales to translate
into fewer dollars.

According to the Wall Street pros surveyed by First Call Corp., Campbell's
earnings per share for the year ending in July should be $1.89, a penny less
than the prior year. The company has demonstrated over several decades its
ability to grow earnings. If this year's weak earnings turn out to be a fluke,
the stock could move up in the years ahead. Campbell Soup now trades at a
price-to-earnings ratio below that of the Standard and Poor's 500 market index.
Curious investors might want to research it to see if it would be an appetizing
addition to their investment portfolios.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              31 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 29, 1999, Thursday

Southern comfort or classic Hollywood, new lines set the scene; Furniture makers
hope to trigger emotions with familiar images

BYLINE: Allen Norwood

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 849 words


HIGH POINT, N.C. -- With new introductions, three furniture companies are hoping
to persuade us to buy with images conjured up by a cowboy hat, classic movies,
and coffee with pecan pie on the veranda.

Vanguard Furniture introduced its new Stetson collection at the huge wholesale
furniture market that concluded last week in High Point.

Classic Leather unveiled its Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Home furnishings, and Lexington
displayed pieces based on its new licensing agreement with Southern Living
magazine.

"In the home furnishings industry, what you try to do is create an emotional
response in the buyer," said Andy Hines, Vanguard's vice president for
marketing. ". . . You're selling a total environment."

The Stetson collection's environment could be a lodge in the wide-open spaces of
the American west.

It's not rustic -- in fact, some pieces in softer fabrics are casually elegant
-- but the collection mixes dramatic textures and materials in a bold way.
Leather is combined with tapestry-look fabric and even metal and stone. The arms
on some sofas and chairs bear marks that resemble those left by a band saw.

A solid mahogany chest features carved rope trim on the corners, beaded details
on drawer fronts, sunbursts radiating from the centers of doors.

Nail-studded upholstery trim at the base of a sofa resembles the familiar
Stetson hat band.

The new furniture line from Hickory, N.C.-based Vanguard is part of a major push
by 135-year-old Stetson, a quintessential American label, to expand with new
products around the world. Look for a new clothing line next spring, to join
Stetson eyeglasses and cologne.

The company president is Pierre Bessez -- who's French, by the way, and the
former head of Christian Dior -- and he says the world is ready for more
Stetson.

"I bring a global view, and the American lifestyle is idealized outside the
U.S.," he said. "Here, you take it for granted.

If the new Stetson line conjures up images of Robert Redford in "The Horse
Whisperer," then the Classic collection that's part of the new MGM line recalls
Greta Garbo, John Barrymore and Joan Crawford in "Grand Hotel."

It's sleek and stylish in a 1920s or 1930s, Manhattan-penthouse sort of way.
Wood is maple, with a dark walnut or black lacquer finish. Upholstery is
leather, Ultrasuede, velvet or mohair. Arms on sofas and chairs are unadorned
Retro curves; chests and tables are gleaming cubes.

"It's a combination of Art Deco and Moderne," said Ron Freeman, Classic
Leather's director of business development. "The designer was charged with
capturing an era, and he nailed it."

Lexington, which introduced the 100-piece Southern Living collection, has had
its own success with licensing.

Lexington's most popular line is the Bob Timberlake collection, named for the
popular artist who is from the furniture company's North Carolina hometown of
Lexington. The Timberlake collection brings in about $100 million in annual
sales. The company's No. 2 collection bears the name of champion golfer Arnold
Palmer, with sales of up to $35 million.

Lexington's Barbara Strickland said the company hopes the magazine's name -- as
well as the names of sister publications Cooking Light and Coastal Living -- has
the pull to make the new collection a hit, too.

"The Southern Living name is known all over the country," she said, "and, of
course, the furniture can be used all over the country."

Readers who have seen the layouts of formal brunches in the Birmingham,
Ala.-based magazine might be a bit surprised by the furniture. It's not dark,
formal mahogany. Instead, it's of alder, in a warm medium color akin to pecan.

The traditional designs are based on French and English country looks,
Strickland said. There are a few hand-painted pieces that are even more casual.

There are pieces for every room, inside and out. A kitchen island features
simple diamond designs on drawer fronts, along with a cutting-board top. An
outdoor group looks for all the world like bamboo and reed, but is actually
vinyl.

The twice-a-year International Home Furnishings Market in High Point features
2,400 exhibitors who utilize 8 million square feet of space. This spring,
attendance reached an estimated 75,000.

Typically, designs begin to appear in retail showrooms about six months after
the wholesale market.

The Southern Living collection, though, will make its public debut in May in a
Southern Living Idea House in Austin . The house and the furnishings will be
featured in the August issue of the magazine, Strickland said.

(from box)

New century colors

These trends were visible at the 1999 High Point furniture show:

*Gray becomes the neutral in home decor, from pearl gray to gunmetal, especially
in paints.

*Green, reflecting the gardening motif, shows up on fabrics in shades of sage,
spruce, kiwi and lime.

*Honey-toned, weathered or crackled finishes remain popular in accessories.

*Deep, rich earth tones, such as burnished browns and paprika, enrich leather
upholstery.

-- Danny C. Flanders, Atlanta Journal-Constitution

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lexington's Southern Living collection, named for the magazine,
features alder, a warm casual wood.  It will have its public debut in May at
Southern Living's Idea House in Austin and will appear in the magazine in
August.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              34 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 28, 1999, Sunday

The original SLACKERS//Austinites of A.D. 1000 wore sandals, padded canoes and
hung around Barton Springs.  So what else is new?

BYLINE: Janet Wilson

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 2303 words


Downtown Austin, 1,000 years ago: Instead of towering buildings, there were tall
grasses. Trees were clumped along the creek beds and shores of the Colorado
River, which was undammed and usually flowed freely through a narrower channel.

The climate was wetter, and the land was lusher. Where today's health-minded
Austinites run on the hike-and-bike trail, hunters and gatherers set up hide-
and brush-covered tents.

Who were these early settlers? In a sense, they were Austin's prehistoric
slackers.

While neighbors in other parts of this land we now call Texas and northern
Mexico were hard at work, hunched over and planting, sweating and praying for
rain, these primitive Austinites were taking it comparatively easy. Life here,
at the junction of two rich and diverse types of land -- the rolling hills thick
with animals and the prairie with its deep, black soil -- was good.

And water was everywhere.

"What attracts people here has attracted people to the same area throughout
prehistory," says archaeologist Michael Collins, associate director of the Texas
Archeological Research Laboratory at the University of Texas' J.J. Pickle
Research Campus.

As we stand on the brink of a new century, and the year 2000, we wonder: What
was life like here at the turn of the last millennium? Even experts disagree on
some aspects. But information gleaned from several hundred significant
excavation sites in Central Texas, anthropological studies and a lot of educated
speculation, helps paint a picture of life among our predecessors.

Most of the time food was plentiful -- hulking bison roaming the hills, fat
deer, antelope, black bear, turkey, plump rattlers and, in the rivers, turtles,
fish and mussels. (No armadillos -- they hadn't wandered this far north yet.)

There were nuts, acorns and hackberries. Cattails grew in streams and onion-like
plants grew in large patches here and there.

The people who lived here would hunt and gather and bring the bounty home to
their limestone overhangs or their tents nestled in the tall grasses and along
rivers and creek bottoms.

And then, when their prey had gotten smart and moved elsewhere, when they'd
eaten up all the nuts and plants and burned up all the twigs and branches, they
just hitched their things to a team of sturdy little dogs (yes, they had dogs)
and eased on down the road.

The attraction is the "great Texas ecotone," the boundary between the limestone
uplands of Central and Western Texas and the Gulf Coastal Plains of Eastern and
Southern Texas, which separates two regions rich in valuable resources these
early settlers could exploit -- a one-stop shopping extravaganza.

"We see that (boundary) as a lazy 'S' that starts east of Dallas, comes down
through Central Texas, turns west at San Antonio and goes to Del Rio," Collins
says. "It's not coincidence that about one third of the population of Texas
today lives along the ecotone. Today's cities stand where we find the major
concentration of archaeological sites, which is along that same boundary."

Water, an essential element in the survival of all communities, has drawn folks
here for at least 12,000 years. That's how long experts believe people have
lived on the soccer fields of Zilker Park and along Barton Creek.

There is great controversy over the origin of North America's earliest settlers.
Studies continue, but some archaeologists believe they were descended from
groups of Eurasian hunters who crossed the Bering Strait around 15,000 B.C. They
didn't stay in one place, but were part of the great migration across the
continent. While there is no direct evidence, experts believe Texas' earliest
settlers were among their descendants.

There's a lot we don't know about the people who lived here at the turn of this
millennium. Our climate destroyed perishable materials -- buffalo hides,
clothing, baskets -- so there are gaps in our knowledge of their daily lives.

"They were probably as indigenous as you get, descendants of people who were
here a very long time," says Collins.

We do know that in coloring and appearance, they were similar to Native
Americans today. The men were about 5 foot 4, the women a bit smaller, and on
average they lived three or four decades.

Moving around

Archaeologists believe their homes were small, dome-shaped enclosures that could
be moved from one temporary camp to another along the Colorado, San Marcos,
Guadalupe and Comal rivers as well as creeks we know as Walnut, Onion, Barton,
Shoal, Waller and Bull.

When available, they set up household in rock shelters, roasting meat, simmering
stews and steaming vegetables over hearths made from piles of stones and in
earth ovens.

"Whenever they depleted any key resource they had to move," says Collins. "If
you burn wood on a daily basis, finding it is a real headache. If you're burning
wood for lighting and cooking and heating, you won't find a twig laying on the
ground within a mile of the place."

They moved from one campsite to another, rarely abandoning them, but returning
when the seasons changed or the hunting improved.

Except for dugout canoes that Collins is convinced were used extensively to
traverse waterways, Austin in 1000 A.D. was a pedestrian society. Horses were
not on the scene yet, so terrier-sized dogs pulled triple duty. They helped drag
entire villages to new locations, helped masters bag their limit during hunting
season and, upon returning to the teepee, transformed into Fido, the family pet.
Eventually, some were eaten.

While they have not found evidence of clothing, Collins and Tom Hester, director
of UT's archaeology research lab, believe the Native Americans wore sandals made
of fiber and garments adorned with beads or feathers. Archaeologists have found
long, thin bones with fancy carving that could either have been used for weaving
or as hair ornaments.

Based in San Marcos

A little farther south, another group of Native Americans took a liking to the
area known today as Aquarena Springs. Archaeologist Jim Garber, an anthropology
professor at Southwest Texas State University, believes a large dwelling
uncovered in San Marcos was used as a permanent base from which early residents
took short hunting trips.

"It's unusual because they didn't normally spend a lot of time and energy in one
location," says Garber. "The dwelling was about six meters in diameter and had a
nicely made central fire pit, which meant there was a hole in the roof. The
walls were of upright posts placed every couple of feet. We don't know what was
between the posts, but probably various sticks were woven into it. There was a
doorway on one wall and we know it burned because we find charcoal and ash and
staining associated with burning."

Outside was a storage pit dug into bedrock and what appears to have been a trash
bin.

"Interestingly, along one wall we found what would have been a bone ornament
hanging on the wall," he says.

Bows and arrows, lances and spears were used for hunting and for protection.
Winter and early spring were the most difficult because families had to live off
what they had killed or amassed in the fall.

"When people hear about foragers they think these people had to live hand to
mouth and were too dumb to farm," says Hester "But that's not true. They had
very distinct scheduling in their use of resources and they had to be in the
right place at the right time."

Just north of Austin, in a field near what is now Round Rock, these early
settlers gathered once a year to harvest camas bulbs, an underground plant that
resembles a wild onion. If eaten raw, the plants were mildly toxic with zero
food value. But steamed for a day or two they became highly nutritious. And they
preserved well. Native Americans cooked them, ground them into flour, made cakes
and mixed them with jerky.

Camas bulbs largely disappeared after sheep and cattle were introduced to the
area.

Generally the population was healthy, except for a high incidence of
osteoarthritis and bad teeth -- the result of a high-grit diet and using their
teeth to work leather. It would be another five centuries before Christopher
Columbus discovered America and European explorers followed, bringing with them
new infectious diseases that decimated Native American populations.

No one knows the size of area villages, but Hester and Collins believe at times
there may have been as many as 100 to 150 people living in communities along
riverbanks and on plateaus west of Austin. The archaeologists assume families
were similar to what explorers reported about American Indian bands in the 1600s
-- a dad, a mom and children accompanied by a large number of kin living in
camps set in clusters.

While it's easy to mistake primitive lifestyles for ignorance, that's not the
case, say Hester and Collins. Austin's early residents were cosmopolitan by
prehistoric standards, had fairly sophisticated communications outside the area
and a trading network that allowed them to acquire precious commodities, such as
obsidian (volcanic) glass from far-away territories that would become Wyoming,
Idaho and northern New Mexico. High-quality flint from the Hill Country has been
found in excavation sites throughout Texas and the Great Plains.

Farming was a well-established occupation by this time and the hunters and
gatherers who settled in Central Texas were well aware of this lifestyle option.
Within a few days' walk in any direction other groups had been farming, or at
least gardening, for centuries. But early Austinites said, "No, thanks."

"There was no reason they couldn't have grown crops here. It's just that their
way of life was less stressful and less work than farming," says Hester. "We
guess that that's an element in the fact that these folks never saw any interest
or desire to start farming. They watched the Caddoes and Pueblos and were
thinking, 'Why in the world would anybody do that? It's too hard.' "

Living in the land of plenty would have left time for more trivial pursuits.
Although they haven't found anything as elaborate as the beautifully painted
teepees of the Plains Indians, archaeologists have found painted stones in
Central Texas and a few examples of rock art in area caves. And they surmise
that rubbing a stick across notched bones could have been used as early musical
instruments.

Throughout North America hundreds, maybe thousands, of people gathered once or
twice a year at regional social events. Experts say Central Texans were no
exception. Not exactly chili cook-offs, these gatherings afforded the chance to
exchange information, find a good mate, trade for some obsidian glass and, well,
party down.

But, alas, every Eden has its snake.

Around 1,000 years ago, a drought began that ravaged plants and trees and sent
animals scurrying for greener pastures.

"It was rather abrupt in geologic terms," says Collins. "The drought period
started right at 1,000 years ago and it resulted in drying up of springs,
stressing of vegetation, reconfiguration in the distribution of plants and
animals across the landscape."

In addition, there was major political upheaval. Skeletons from cemeteries along
rivers and creek beds reveal more death from arrow wounds during this time than
any other in Texas history. No one can say with certainty why it was such a
hostile period.

But Collins has a theory.

"When your economic base begins to change, the political landscape changes with
it," he says. "There could have been feuding or warfare among resident Central
Texas groups because they were competing for resources made more restrictive
because of the drought. I don't think it's coincidence that you have evidence of
violence and evidence of climatic change at the same time."

The chosen people

For the next few centuries bison left Central Texas. Summers were hotter,
winters colder. Vegetation along the streams withered, so when thunderstorms
sent water rushing through the valleys, there was widespread erosion. Some
archaeologists think that as resources dried up and surpluses diminished, Native
Americans did what it took to keep newcomers from poaching on their territory
and safeguard their livelihoods -- hence, increased violence.

Today, no direct descendants of the indigenous people who lived here a thousand
years ago remain in this area, Hester and Collins say. But some aspects of human
nature transcend history.

Our predecessors spent most of their lives feeding and housing their families.
They were territorial and weren't crazy about new people moving here.

Building homes on bluffs and along waterways was popular. Children and adults
frolicked in the cooling waters of Barton Springs.

And even though we don't know what they called themselves, Hester and Collins
say it probably was something like "Us," or "The Chosen" or "The Best People."
Everyone else was "Not Chosen" or "Not As Good."

Sound familiar?

You may contact Janet Wilson at jwilson@statesman.com or 445-3668.

Weir' view

Austin artist Frank A. Weir's acrylic painting on our cover portrays a village
at the confluence of Barton Creek and the Colorado River in A.D. 1000. Weir, who
has a doctorate in anthropology, a master's of art in archaeology and a bachelor
of science in fine art, owns Weir Enterprises, a private archaeological and art
consulting firm. Until 1995 he worked for the Texas Department of Transportation
as director of archaeological studies for the highway-design division and deputy
director of the cultural resources management section of the
environmental-affairs division. Weir has provided illustrations for, and is a
non-salaried fellow at, the Texas Archeological Research Laboratory, a research
facility at the University of Texas and the largest archaeological repository in
the state.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Town Lake.//Tools were important to the hunters and gatherers who lived
here at the turn of the last millennium. Bows and arrows were in use as well as
scrapers (below right) and knives (beneath arrow heads). The round stone (left),
called a mano, was used for grinding seeds.//Early Central Texans gather around
an earth oven to prepare meals. In a site near Round Rock, archaeologists found
charcoal beneath and around stones they believe were used as an oven.
For thousands of years, indigenous people hunted wild game, fished and livednear
the area now known as Lou Neff Point, where Barton Creek empties into Town Lake.
Frank A.Weir, an Austin artist, archaeologist and anthropologist with expertise
on the ancient history of Central Texas, created for the Austin
American-Statesman this painting of what life might have looked like here in
A.D. 1000. //The view today: Centuries come and go but Austinites continue to
take pleasure in scouting Lou Neff Point overlooking

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              35 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 18, 1999, Sunday

Ecology growing as issue in race ,; Environmental policy sure to

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1981 words


During the 1992 White House campaign, President Bush dubbed Al Gore "ozone man"
because of the Democratic vice presidential candidate's deep interest in global
environmental issues. The vice president has since toned down his environmental
rhetoric, focusing on urban sprawl, an issue with broader appeal.

Republican George W. Bush, son of the former president, scored points with
independent-minded voters in his 1994 campaign for governor of Texas when he
declared that they didn't need Washington to tell them how to take care of
Barton Springs and other natural resources. Then he mistakenly shot a killdeer,
a protected nongame bird, on the opening day of dove season and had to pay a
$130 fine.

Environmental issues have not figured prominently in the current presidential
campaign -- at least so far.  Still, they are virtually certain to assume a
higher profile. Opinion polls show that the public cares deeply about clean air,
safe water and parks.

Unlike many of the campaign issues du jour, which tend to be decided on a state,
local or personal level, environmental policy is something over which the
occupant of the White House actually wields considerable influence. Moreover,
the environment is an area where the two front-runners, Bush and Gore, appear to
differ sharply.

For Bush, the environment has been a second-tier issue during his 4 1/2 years as
governor. He has never delivered a major speech on environmental issues,
focusing instead on civil and criminal justice, welfare, taxes and education.
Bush nonetheless acknowledged the likely role of environmental policy in the
campaign at a news conference just days before he announced that he was
definitely in the race.

"I think it should be a major issue," Bush said. "I think the environment's
incredibly important for the 21st century for America. I'll address Mr. Gore's
positions if I run and if I'm nominated and if he runs and if he's nominated."

Bush has offered few details about the environmental policy he would pursue as
president. During a recent swing through Washington state, he said Pacific Coast
salmon should be protected in a way that would not require breaching dams on the
Snake River. On global warming, he says the scientific evidence is sufficient to
warrant concern, but he has not specified whether and how emissions of carbon
dioxide and other "greenhouse gases" should be reduced.

As governor, Bush has pursued a lighter regulatory touch, a states' rights
agenda, a cooperative approach with industry, deference to private-property
interests and aggressive action in limited problem areas. He sponsored a
resolution at the Western Governors' Association in 1997 calling for increased
federal spending on land acquisition, as well as a boost in the states' share of
such outlays from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, a little-known trust
fund financed by offshore oil revenues.

Bush's top legislative priority on the environment this year was to curb air
pollution from older industrial plants that are exempt from current regulations.
He pursued a plan under which companies would be encouraged to voluntarily scale
back emissions. Environmentalists pressed for mandatory reductions. The governor
got what he wanted from state lawmakers, except for a provision that triples
fees annually for the largest plants if they do not cut emissions -- an
incentive that he did not seek but welcomed.

Bush also helped craft an electric-utility deregulation bill requiring older
power plants to reduce emissions. In addition, he moved aggressively, through
legislation and administratively, to secure improvements in a program intended
to provide water and sewer services to substandard developments along the border
with Mexico.

One of Bush's mantras is local control, but he has made an exception for Austin.
The Legislature regards the capital city as too liberal, and so lawmakers have
approved several bills in recent years curtailing the city's powers to regulate
development and water quality. Bush did not push for the laws, but he signed
them. And four years ago, Bush signed a private-property-rights bill to make it
harder for state agencies to impose regulations that reduce property values.

Mixed signals

The governor counts cleaner air as his biggest environmental achievement. But
much of the improvement is a result of the federal Clean Air Act amendments of
1990, signed by his father and implemented largely under President Clinton. The
governor's appointees to the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
opposed the federal government's tightening of standards for ground-level ozone
and fine particles, an initiative spearheaded by Gore.

Bush's record on wildlife and parks is also mixed. His appointees to the Texas
Parks and Wildlife Commission have slowed the acquisition of parkland while
working to improve management of current holdings. The governor was silent on
proposed state legislation to increase money for parks, and the measure failed.

But Bush helped launch an effort to establish a privately financed endowment for
parks that has secured $4 million in cash and $10 million in pledges, and he
backed a voluntary program that protects wildlife habitat on more than 10
million acres of private land, said Andrew Sansom, executive director of the
Parks and Wildlife Department.

The governor opposed the listing of the Barton Springs salamander as an
endangered species, arguing that the amphibian, found only in Zilker Park, was
adequately protected by state and local water-quality rules. That view was
rejected by most scientists and a federal judge. On the other hand, Bush vetoed
legislation this spring that would have reduced safeguards for wetlands.

Bush declined to establish a marine reserve along the Gulf Coast for the
endangered Kemp's ridley sea turtle. But his administration has stepped up
enforcement by state game wardens of laws to protect the turtles from shrimping.

"Bush doesn't really seem to put environmental issues on his list of priorities,
much less high on his list of priorities," said Ken Kramer, director of the Lone
Star Chapter of the Sierra Club.

But Barry McBee, Bush's former conservation commission chairman and now
executive assistant to Lt. Gov. Rick Perry, said the governor backs full and
fair enforcement of environmental laws and demands solid scientific grounding
for decisions.

"He is a very quick study," McBee said. "The governor's record will tell the
American people that balanced, reasonable environmental protection will occur on
his watch."

Gore softens approach

Perhaps no issue is more important to Gore than the environment. But he has been
careful so far in the campaign not to overplay his hand. Gore is a card-carrying
environmentalist, having written a 1992 best seller, "Earth in the Balance," an
impassioned plea for vigorous action to combat global warming, ozone depletion
and species extinction. He has been Clinton's environmental point man, leading
the anti-sprawl initiative, promoting stricter clean-air standards and rescuing
negotiations in Kyoto, Japan, on an international climate treaty.

The vice president learned the danger of appearing too green in the late '80s,
when he ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination. Global
warming and nuclear arms were "exotic at best" to voters, as he put it in his
book.

Gore's campaign Web site lists four priorities for "America in the 21st
Century," and the environment is not one of them. The four are education,
faith-based organizations, prosperity and fighting cancer. Don't expect his
campaign rhetoric to include such zingers as this one from his book: "We must
make the rescue of the environment the central organizing principle for
civilization."

Still, there's no doubt the environment is at the top of his agenda. His
anti-sprawl initiative -- Gore likes the term "livability" -- seems to be
resonating with soccer moms stuck in traffic and other demographic groups. The
vice president is pushing a multibillion-dollar plan to preserve green space and
water quality, ease traffic congestion, expand mass transit and curb low-density
suburban development.

He recently took the podium to announce the administration's $7.8 billion plan
to restore water flow in the Everglades, a plan supported by Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of the Texas governor. That was a delicious political moment for
the vice president. Not only did he get to announce a pet project, but he got to
do it with the backing of someone named Bush.

Some activists have been disappointed that Gore has not done more to push
environmental initiatives.

"From the day Gore was elected vice president, he has sought to moderate some of
the messages in his book and has followed a very balanced and in some respects
disappointing environmental policy," said John Echeverria, director of the
Environmental Policy Project at Georgetown University Law Center.

Bill Bunch, chief counsel of the Austin-based Save Our Springs Alliance, said
Gore has not been aggressive enough in pushing to protect endangered species and
to set aside ecologically significant lands. Coming from another perspective,
author Gregg Easterbrook, in his book, "A Moment on the Earth," faults Gore for
dwelling on "end-of-the-world locutions" while downplaying good ecological news.
"Someday even Vice President Gore will smile when he talks about the ecology,"
Easterbrook wrote.

A deep commitment

But most environmentalists regard Gore as a longstanding ally. Twenty years ago,
as a member of the House, he co-sponsored the Superfund program for cleaning up
toxic wastes. Long before global warming became widely recognized as an issue,
he held hearings and sponsored legislation on the subject. He wrote legislation
to protect the stratospheric ozone layer.

The League of Conservation Voters, the political arm of the nation's
environmental movement, gives Gore a 64 percent overall rating for his terms in
the House and Senate. That means he sided with environmentalists on 64 percent
of key votes.

Gore has traveled around the world to study environmental problems, once
spending a night in a small tent on a slab of ice in the Arctic Ocean. He is
comfortable with such technical concepts as chaos theory, feedback loops and the
first law of thermodynamics.

Gore's book, written while he was a senator, traces his interest in
environmental protection to his childhood. He grew up learning about soil
erosion on the family farm in Tennessee, and dinner-table discussions about
"Silent Spring," Rachel Carson's movement-launching book on pesticides, left a
lasting impression. In 1989, his son nearly died in a car accident, and writing
"Earth in the Balance" was part of Gore's effort to find broader meaning in
life.

As vice president, Gore has weighed in to help protect Yellowstone National Park
from mining, to set aside red-rock canyons in Utah and to safeguard ancient
redwoods in California's Headwaters Forest. And along with Clinton, he has
deflected numerous attempts by Republicans in Congress to roll back
environmental legislation.

"It's safe to say that the vice president has played a mixed hand pretty well,"
said Mike Casey, vice president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit
watchdog organization. "I don't think anyone can doubt he has a serious
commitment."

George Frampton, chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality,
said a lesson of the Clinton-Gore administration is that an ambitious
environmental agenda and robust economic growth go hand in hand.

"He's obviously the major supporter of stronger environmental measures within
the administration," Frampton said. "He's provided support for people in the
administration and agencies to do good things."

You may contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at rhaurwitz@statesman.com or 445-3604.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Al Gore: Has been careful not to overplay issue dear to him. ; George
W. Bush: Gives mixed signals on wildlife, ozone.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              36 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 15, 1999, Sunday

U.S. may be in for doozy of a drought, experts say; But if a serious

BYLINE: Philip Brasher

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 608 words


WASHINGTON -- As dry spells go, the drought of 1999 is merely average in size.

But if historical climate patterns hold true, Americans are due for a major one
that could cover at least a third of the country -- and they are not prepared to
deal with it, government officials and drought experts say.

Such droughts come about once a decade; the last one was in 1988.

The country does not have an integrated network of observation stations for
monitoring droughts as they develop. Communities frequently do not implement
conservation measures until their water sources are running low. Thousands of
farmers do not buy crop insurance even though the government heavily subsidizes
the premiums.

"We have to do more," said Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, who heads a new
federal commission in charge of recommending a national policy for dealing with
droughts.

Tornadoes and floods are "like heart attacks -- quick strikes that compel people
to spring immediately into action. But drought is like a cancer -- slow,
insidious and not always easy to detect in the early stages," he said.

This year's drought has parched crops from Virginia to parts of the Midwest and
forced suburbs from Washington to New York to restrict water use. Philadelphia
has banned the use of tinder-dry athletic fields. So far, the drought has
affected about 15 percent to 20 percent of the country, about normal for most
years.

If it continues into the winter, and weather forecasters say it might, the
drought could expand across the nation's heartland and become one of the
droughts of the century. If it's not this one, another big drought should be
coming soon, said Albert Peterlin, the Agriculture Department's chief
meteorologist.

"There is a history of drought spreading westward into the crop area. If this
drought were to continue into the winter, it could be the drought we're talking
about," he said.

The 1988 drought reached 36 percent of the country and destroyed crops
throughout the Plains. Droughts in 1977 and 1963 covered 32 percent of the
nation, and in 1954, nearly 50 percent.

At the height of the Dust Bowl, in 1934, two-thirds of the country was in
drought.

Close to normal rainfall is expected in the Northeast this fall but not enough
to make up for this year's shortfall, according to the National Weather Service.

Drought experts say farmers and community leaders on the East Coast could have
been better prepared for this year's drought if they had been warned sooner or
if they had paid closer attention to weather forecasts; drought conditions were
showing up on precipitation reports 13 months ago.

"In this country, we spend very little money with regard to drought. We spend
very little money on mitigation," said Don Wilhite, director of the National
Drought Mitigation Center at the University of Nebraska. "What we tend to do is
wait until the next drought and the federal government opens its checkbook."

He recently told Glickman's commission that the government should force
communities and farmers to take responsibility for addressing droughts.

Outside of the Plains states, many farmers do not bother with crop insurance.
Although more Eastern farmers bought policies this year, according to the USDA,
coverage levels are still expected to be relatively low.

In Maryland last year, just half the soybean crop was insured and 43 percent of
the corn. In Ohio, 48 percent of the corn was covered and 37 percent of the
soybeans. By comparison, 99 percent of the cotton in Texas and 94 percent of the
wheat in North Dakota was insured last year. Coverage figures for this year are
not available.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Residents say they've been watching the water levels at Tridelphia
State Park near Baltimore drop since last fall. Parched and cracked, this
reservoir is expected to run dry within a month. ; Steve Hoke, left, and brother
Roger Hoke Jr. walk through a field of what is left of the family's corn crop
last week. Drought has stunted the plants on their Mechanicsburg, Pa., farm.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              41 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 20, 1999, Saturday

Good lessons can be learned from funds' bad times

BYLINE: Chet Currier

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 652 words


NEW YORK -- You can learn a lot about a mutual fund, and your investment in it,
when the fund struggles through a spell of poor performance.

In happy times of high returns, people may not bother to ask tough questions,
either of a fund manager or themselves. The net asset value is rising -- all is
right with the world.

But investors' minds take a much more inquisitive turn when a fund investment
isn't paying off, especially if the market, as measured by the popular averages,
seems to be doing fine, but your fund for some reason is lagging .

That has been happening with many funds in the past year, given the unusual
market climate in which a select few stocks are shining while most others have
barely broken even, or worse. Soaring Internet stocks convey the impression that
a bull market is running rampant, and new highs in the blue-chip-dominated
indexes reinforce that idea.

But disappointment has been the common experience among owners of so-called
value funds, mid-cap and small-cap funds, international funds, growth and income
funds, balanced funds -- in short, the majority of all stock funds -- that have
failed to keep pace with the blue chips or the technology indexes.

In circumstances such as these, some important questions arise: Should the
manager of a fund stand firm in his or her strategy, or overhaul the portfolio
to try to adapt to changing times?

And how do you, as a fund investor, respond? Do you sit back patiently,
reaffirming your confidence in the manager's long-term approach, or do you
subject the fund to a stern reappraisal?

That may lead you to a bit of self-examination: Did you get into this fund in
the first place because its style fit your needs and temperament, or were you
dazzled by past-performance numbers? If you realize that you never took the
trouble to understand how a fund and its manager operate, now is a good time to
remedy that omission.

As Martin Whitman, manager of the Third Avenue Funds and a famed "value"
advocate, put it recently, "You're better served if you try to understand what
we do."

Many of the questions we have been asking don't always have a single right
answer. Depending on a fund manager's whole approach, one situation may be a
good time to stand fast and another to clean house.

At the largest fund of them all, Fidelity Magellan, the sponsoring firm
responded to a period of underperformance a couple of years ago by changing
managers, and the new one, Robert Stansky, overhauled the entire portfolio.

Now, Magellan's latest performance numbers are coming in better than the S&P
500's gains, and everybody seems happy again.

In contrast, managers of many value and small-cap funds have made few or no
changes in the way they do things, while they try to ride out a market climate
hostile to their specialties.

They reason that if they don't stick to their guns now, their whole strategies
will be negated. Said Jean-Marie Eveillard of the SoGen Funds, a
long-established manager whose preferences for value, smaller companies and
international investing yielded few positive results in 1998:

"With the benefit of hindsight, should we have changed our investment style? If
we had, we would have been like fish out of water. So we never considered a
radical change.

"We expect that -- at some point -- circumstances will no longer be as hostile
to our investment style as they recently have been. We try not to be stubborn,
but we intend to be patient."

In his annual report to investors, Ralph Wanger, who has headed the Acorn Fund
family for almost three decades, says: "The outperformance of large-cap growth
companies was so striking in 1998 that one might think this is the way the world
usually works. It isn't.

"Because of the market action in 1998, small-company stocks are at record
discounts to big companies. Discounts like this always go back to equilibrium
over time."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              47 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 28, 1999, Tuesday

U.S. colleges urged to recruit more women in sciences

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1123 words


Question: Which country has the smallest percentage of physics professors who
are women -- Turkey, Hungary or the United States?

Answer: the United States. And it lags far behind the other two countries.

Consider the physics department at the University of Texas, where professor
Linda Reichl is about to become the lone woman among 56 men. The only other
female physicist retires at the end of this school year, and although UT is
recruiting another woman, it has never had more than two in the department at
once.

"I'm completely isolated," said Reichl, a UT faculty member for 25 years. "I
hardly ever see women."

UT is not the only research university in the nation with few women among
science faculty.

The prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which counted 15 tenured
women and 194 men in the School of Science in a much-discussed survey, made a
stunning admission earlier this year: Female scientists faced pervasive,
although unintentional, discrimination.  MIT has since added to the number of
female faculty members and promoted one to serve as an associate department
head. The results inspired Reichl and female scientists at other U.S.
universities to undertake similar studies.

Reichl is working with UT microbiology professor Shelley Payne on a report that
they expect to release this spring on the status of female students and faculty
in all UT departments. Both said they love their jobs, but UT needs to cultivate
a better climate for women, especially in the sciences.

If universities don't do a better job of grooming female scientists, "we're
going to lose ground to other countries in science and technology," Payne said.
"It's a huge, untapped pool."

A Canadian professor's 1991 study was shockingly on point, she said. Comparing
the percentage of female physics professors in 20 countries, the study showed
the United States in a tie for last place with Korea. Just 3 percent of all
physics professors in the United States and Korea were women. Turkey, France and
Italy, meanwhile, had 23 percent of their physics faculty posts filled by women.
The former Soviet Union was at 30 percent and the Philippines at 31 percent.
Hungary led the pack, with women making up 47 percent of physics faculty.

In eight years, the United States has about doubled its percentage, but it still
needs to improve, said Millie Dresselhaus, an MIT physics professor who worked
on the study at her school.

Scientists are also looking at reasons for the disparity.

"It's not that physics is intimidating to women, but it may be that the
environment is intimidating," Reichl said. "This is a national problem."

It starts in grade school, when girls are socialized to believe that boys are
better in math, Payne said.  Young women who pursue science in college sometimes
lose their enthusiasm because of peer pressure and a culture that is not
supportive , Payne and Reichl said. Those who later marry or have children face
added pressures.

Like Reichl, Payne was the only woman in her department when she took a job in
microbiology at UT in 1980. Today, her department has five women with tenure or
on the tenure track out of 20 faculty members, she said.

A lack of role models and mentors compounds the problems graduate students and
professors face , creating a chilly climate on campus, Dresselhaus said.

Dresselhaus was part of a National Science Foundation committee that in 1994
visited 15 university physics departments, including UT-Austin, which was among
those volunteering to be studied.

"They had a pretty bad report," Dresselhaus said. On the positive side, she
said, "they took the report seriously."

UT President Larry Faulkner, who appeared with Dresselhaus on a panel this fall
to discuss women in the sciences, said, "My focus is probably not first and
foremost on recruitment but more on producing a working environment that
respects the realities of women's lives," such as availability of child care.

"We also have to pay attention to compensation equity," he said.

Just one in five of UT's 1,396 tenured faculty members are women, and they tend
to earn less and hold fewer prestigious professorships. Just 5 percent of the
engineering faculty at UT are tenured women, and only 12 percent in the College
of Natural Sciences are tenured women.

"It's the view of many women that an organized mentoring program would be
worthwhile," said Janet Staiger, a radio, television and film professor who
helps lead a UT committee on women's issues.

Nancy Hopkins, a biology professor at MIT, said that until she headed up the MIT
equity study committee, she had no idea how many women felt uneasy, isolated and
marginalized at universities.

"Sometimes a woman is so isolated, she thinks the problems are her own
individual problems," Hopkins said.

Payne said, "It's the same problem a lot of minorities face.  If you're the only
minority or the only woman in the room, it's very isolating."

Another complication that universities face in expanding female faculty ranks is
heavy competition from private industry, which often offers higher salaries to
female scientists and engineers, UT officials said.

Ken Gentle, chairman of UT's physics department, said universities also tend to
attract a large number of foreign students in the sciences -- mostly men.

"If you look at the major contributors to science in this country, a
disproportionate number were educated in Europe and
emigratedemigratedimmigrated," Gentle said. "Although nowadays the Europeans are
doing much better in educating women, they are somewhat less mobile, so we've
tended to recruit more men than women in Europe."

As Payne sees it, the culture of the United States needs to change.

That won't be easy.

"The whole issue of balancing family and work is not resolved," said Hopkins,
who does not have children. In fact, she said, most of the women on the science
faculty at MIT don't.

The first step toward improving the status of women is raising awareness,
Hopkins said. Then, people can work on changing behavior.

"You can't change attitudes easily," she said. "But you can make sure that
certain people can sit at the front of the bus."

You may contact Mary Ann Roser at maroser@statesman.com or 445-3619.

(FROM BOX)

Female Faculty at UT

At the University of Texas, as at most universities in the United States, the
percentage of women faculty in the sciences and engineering is lower than many
other disciplines -- and well below the percentage of women in the country. In
some individual disciplines, the numbers are even lower. At UT's physics
department, just two of 58 faculty members are women -- and one of those is
about to retire. (graph)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Professors Linda Reichl, left, a physicist, and Shelley Payne, a
microbiologist, are working on a report on the status of female students and
faculty at UT.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              54 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          December 8, 1999, Wednesday

Latest Mars failures prompting hard look at NASA

BYLINE: Kathy Sawyer

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1057 words


PASADENA, Calif. -- The devastating loss of an entire generation of U.S. Mars
missions has triggered a total reassessment of NASA's approach to interplanetary
exploration, officials said Tuesday.

"The whole program is on the table for restructuring," space agency
administrator Daniel Goldin said Tuesday, adding that "there's a chance we may
miss" or at least drastically change the next mission in the pipeline, slated
for launch in 2001.

The reassessment will be done in tandem with an exhaustive investigation into
the failure of the Mars Polar Lander and its two auxiliary Deep Space 2 probes,
which have not been heard from since they descended into the Martian atmosphere
on Friday.

Investigators will begin by looking at several technical issues, including ways
to ensure better communications with spacecraft during critical maneuvers. They
will also examine whether more can be learned about the Martian terrain before
committing to a landing.

A number of experts in and out of NASA said the failures confirm growing fears
that the program has pushed the space agency's "faster, cheaper, better"
approach a bit too far, cutting costs -- and therefore numbers of people -- too
close to the bone. Some suggest the changes were pushed through too fast for
institutions involved to adapt adequately.

Where the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which manages missions for NASA, once
handled one or two huge programs that went on for a decade or more, it now
spreads its staff across 10 or 20 much smaller programs that must be dispatched
in relatively quick succession and on a relative shoestring budget. That
strategy was designed to minimize the risk of any individual mission.

"I can assure you that these . . . failures have given us a wake-up call and we
are going to respond to it," said NASA Chief Scientist Edward Weiler. He called
the loss of the $165 million spacecraft and its $29.2 million probes "a crushing
blow" and added he has "no confidence" that the team will launch another lander
in 2001 as scheduled, even though the hardware is largely built.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., a member of a key congressional committee, said
the House will hold hearings on the failures in February. "I am giving them (the
Mars team) the benefit of the doubt" that they did their jobs and simply ran
into bad odds in a risky undertaking, he said.

"In a way, this proves the importance of smaller missions. . . . Part of Dan
Goldin's whole concept is that if you have a lot of small missions, you can
afford to fail, and you learn from your failures," he said. The space agency
administrator'sGoldin's approach replaced NASA's previous tendency to spend
years building just one or two huge "Battlestar Gallactica" missions at a time,
spending as much as $1 billion and pushing the stakes of failure into the
stratosphere.

If the loss of the lander turns out to have been avoidable human error, however,
Rohrabacher said there will be "severe repercussions -- for Dan Goldin and for
NASA." Among other things, he said, Goldin will lose some of his extraordinary
credibility with Congress.

Investigators determined that human error was responsible for the September loss
of the Lander's sistership, the Mars Climate Orbiter. A contractor forgot to
convert English units to metric, and that mistake was compounded, the
investigators said, by poor communications, too few people working on certain
tasks and getting overstressed, and uncertain leadership. Problems that should
have attracted notice were left unattended.

The same investigators, scrutinizing the Lander program in order to catch any
similar lapses before the landing date, noticed one possible technical problem,
which the team acted to correct.

The Polar Lander and two companion probes fell silent as they approached a fiery
plunge into the Martian atmosphere shortly before a scheduled touchdown at the
South Pole on Friday. After four increasingly difficult days, the Mars Polar
Lander flight team remained unable to contact the Lander or the probes.

All recovery strategies were based on the premise that the lander would reach
the surface intact, experiencing some minor problem that could be corrected.

The flight team now acknowledges that the craft might have suffered something
more catastrophic. But because of the lack of telemetry during the crucial entry
and descent phase -- an economy measure -- officials acknowledged they likely
will never find out what went wrong.

Adding a device that would have provided simple tones that reveal minimal
information about the spacecraft's status would have cost another $5 million,
engineers said, and would have been dicey anyway because of the unusually
difficult "geometries" of a landing in the polar region -- something never
before attempted.

Several officials and scientists suggested that past successes of the
interplanetary program based at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory have lulled the
public into a false impression of the complex and risky business of landing on
alien worlds.

"Look at the history of landers on Mars," said Howard McCurdy of American
University. "Of twelve attempts, three (the U.S. Vikings and Pathfinder) have
made it. The Soviets lost all six of theirs. . . . Mars really eats spacecraft."

(FROM BOX)

MORE MARS MISSIONS

A look at future missions to Mars as planned before the failure of the Mars
Polar Lander:

* 2001: An orbiter and lander similar to the two spacecraft lost this year. The
lander is to touch down near the equator, carrying a Mars Pathfinder rover,
robotic arm and other science instruments. Because of the recent losses, the
mission is likely to undergo major changes.

* 2003: The first of two sample-collection missions. The lander and rover will
search for soil and rock samples and take them to a small rocket that will send
the material into Martian orbit.

* 2005: In the second sample mission, a lander and rover will collect more
material and a small rocket will carry it to orbit. A spacecraft built by the
French space agency will be sent to the red planet to retrieve the samples and
return them to Earth in 2008.

* 2007-2009: More sample return missions planned.

* 2011-2013: Plans might include permanent robotic outposts where complex
science missions are carried out.

Source: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              55 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               February 27, 1999

Treasure hunt on the lake; High-tech team to search for sunken racing

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1186 words


Part of Steve Starr's heart is at the bottom of Lake Travis, but some undersea
adventurers are going to help him get it back.

Starr's beloved sailboat, a Catalina 22 dubbed IIObscure , sank Jan. 30 during
an Austin Yacht Club race. Almost a month later, it remains lost in cold, murky
waters as deep as 170 feet.

"I think about it quite a bit," said Starr, a 46-year-old manufacturing
engineer. "I've grown attached to it after putting hundreds of hours of work
into it."

Now, Wayne Gronquist, an Austin lawyer who is president of the National
Underwater Marine Agency, a nonprofit historical preservation group founded by
adventure novelist Clive Cussler, has offered to help for free.

Gronquist doesn't know Starr, but he thinks the hunt, even for a boat worth only
about $6,500, will be good training for his volunteer group, which has found
dozens of sunken historical ships in the past 20 years.

"It's fun, it's Lake Travis and we want the practice," Gronquist explained. "We
think it'll be a snap."

Few boats sink in the combination flood-control reservoir and recreational lake,
and losing one is unusual, said Sgt. Danny Hinkle , supervisor of the Travis
County sheriff's lake patrol.

The lake, formed in 1941 by damming the Colorado River in its course through
canyons west of Austin, is cloudy with silt, and parts are too deep for most
sport divers. This time of year, the surface temperature is about 58 degrees,
and the water grows colder with increasing depth.

Moreover, parts of the deep main basin, where IIObscure went down near the
entrance to Cypress Creek Arm, cover a large grove of old pecan trees. Although
they have been under water for almost 60 years, some of the trees are still
standing, waiting to conceal a boat sinking through their branches.

Nonetheless, Gronquist thinks the search will go quickly. His group has
sophisticated sonar and other sensors to penetrate the dark water and commercial
divers used to deep and dangerous work.

Meanwhile, IIObscure has become the talk of sailors from Boston to San Diego on
an Internet newsgroup in which Starr participates that is devoted to Catalina
22s.

Most newsgroup members use their sailboats for sedate family cruising on lakes
and coastal waterways. When Starr posted news of IIObscure's sinking, they
wanted to know how to keep it from happening to them.

"Sinking with a full racing crew in warm Texas waters surrounded with other
competent sailors for a rescue is one thing; sinking with kids in a cold
mountain lake while out all alone is quite another," newsgroup member Marvin
Paule of Fort Collins, Colo., said in an e-mail.

Starr assured the newsgroup that IIObscure sank during a wild ride in a race
with winds gusting to 25 mph, conditions few family sailors would venture into
with a 22-foot boat.

A turn and a tip

IIObscure sank during a routine turning maneuver in the Austin Yacht Club's
annual Frostbite racing series on a sunny, 70-degree day. The boat was heading
downwind, powered by a large, parachute-like sail called a spinnaker hoisted off
its bow, in addition to a smaller triangle sail rigged on its mast.

Everything seemed to be under control, Starr said, as IIObscure neared a race
buoy marker where he and his crew of two friends would have to turn the boat by
turning the sails.

But during the turn, a gust of wind pushed Starr's almost-new, red spinnaker too
far down, causing it to scoop up water. The combined weight of the water and the
wind in the spinnaker made the boat roll so far over that its mast hit the
water.

Most sailboats will recover from such a mishap, called a knockdown, when the
weight of the heavy keels on their bottoms counterbalances the wind. But things
happened so quickly that Starr forgot to release the lines holding the
spinnaker, and the water-filled sail held the boat on its side. Within a few
seconds, IIObscure had rolled upside down.

Starr immediately looked for his crew. They were OK, but the water was too cold
for swimming, so he urged them to climb onto the bottom of the boat.

"The closest boat (mine) was still a hundred yards or so away," George Robison,
of the Lake Travis community of Hudson Bend, said in an e-mail. "IIObscure was
clearly sinking."

Starr and his crew tried to turn the 2,000-pound boat over, which proved
surprisingly easy.

"However, once upright, she was full of water, was quickly down by the stern and
sank almost upright," Robison said.

Two sport divers later tried to find IIObscure, descending 97 feet in the
vicinity of the sinking, but they had to quit because visibility was about 6
inches.

Starr organized several attempts to find the boat by dragging grappling hooks
along the lake bottom, using a winch on a barge to raise what was found. He
succeeded only in finding part of the old pecan grove.

"We pulled up a good-sized tree," Starr said.

A high-tech try

Gronquist said the problem nevertheless looks easier than conditions on the
Texas coast, where his undersea group is waiting until spring to resume a search
for a French explorer's vessel that sank more than 300 years ago.

"We're used to working in the Gulf of Mexico with its currents, surges, very low
visibility and generally high seas," Gronquist said. "So coming to Lake Travis
will be a pleasure."

He plans to start March 6, hoping to wrap it up in a day or two, towing a metal
detector and a side-scan sonar, a radar-like device developed for the Navy,
behind a motor boat. Underwater objects identified by the devices will be
photographed with an infrared camera lowered from the boat to try to distinguish
an old farm tractor, or an engine block, from a sailboat.

If a sailboat is found, commercial divers will attach inflatable bags it to the
surface.

Starr will go along, keeping his fingers crossed.

"But I still feel optimistic," he said, "especially with (Gronquist) involved."

(From Box)

Recovering a sailboat

Wayne Gronquist, president of the National Underwater Marine Agency, is leadinf
the eddort to retrieve Steve Starr's 22-foot Catalina sailboat named
"IIObscure." Gronquist is using many of the same high-tech methods to recover
Starr's $6,500 sailboat as he and his partner, Clive Cussier, used to find the
French ship La Belle. The recovery team sees this as a training opportunity
while acknowledging that is can be dangerous.

Area where boat sank

On Satruday, Jan 30, during a boat race, Steve Starr's boat is blown over and it
sinks.

Recovery methods

Metal detector and side-scan sonar

Boat will sweep area in a parallel fashion.

Global positioning satelities used to set the search parameters.

Infrared camera and buoy

Infrared -- After locating possible sites, an infrared camera will be used to
verify the boat is there.

Buoy -- After verifying site, a buoy will mark area for divers.

Divers and the lift bag

Divers will first identify the boat, then a team of two divers will attach a
one-ton lift bag to the boat and raise it.  If necessary, divers may try to move
boat to shallower water before attempting to raise it to the surface.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Somewhere out there, in the main basin of Lake Travis, is Steve Starr's
sunken sailboat. A group that searches the Gulf of Mexico for historical wrecks
plans to find it using sonar and specially trained divers. // Steve Starr's
22-foot sailboat IIObscure, in happier days. It's at the bottom of Lake Travis
now.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              58 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 7, 1999, Wednesday

Enjoy it now; Once women's soccer grows, fun will diminish

BYLINE: Mike Penner

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1022 words


You spend 17 days on the road with the Women's World Cup, you begin to hear
things.

You are sitting in an airport terminal and you hear two American men, probably
in their early 40s, talking soccer. They are knowledgeable fans, flying up to
catch the next U.S. women's match.

"I'd rather watch the U.S. women play than the men," one says to the other.

You are walking outside Foxboro Stadium and you hear two teen-age boys riffing
on the same topic.

"I'd like to see the U.S. women play the U.S. men," one says to the other. "I
think the women would beat them."

You return home after the United States' semifinal victory over Brazil and you
are on the phone with an editor who had been indifferent about soccer, and he is
talking enthusiastically about the Women's World Cup.

He has been watching the United States on television and says that, unlike the
men's, the women's games hold his interest from start to finish. He says the
women play most of the game near the goal posts, where the action is, whereas
the men are mostly bogged down in the middle of the field. He says the women
play a more entertaining brand of soccer than the men.

I was about to stop him right there and suggest he borrow my videotape of the
Manchester United-Bayern Munich Champions League final, but then I remembered
the scene from the previous day in Palo Alto. There, more than 73,000 fans
turned up at Stanford Stadium for the first half of the Sunday soccer
doubleheader -- U.S. women against Brazil -- and barely 10,000 of them stayed
for the second half -- D.C. United against the San Jose Clash -- prompting Los
Angeles Times colleague Grahame Jones to quip, "What if they held an MLS game
and 60,000 people left the stadium?"

Is this to become America's new global reputation?

First in war, first in peace, first to prefer women's soccer to men's?

History lesson

For my money, men's soccer played at its highest level is the best sports ticket
to be had. Give me Arsenal, give me FC Barcelona, give me Inter Milan. Better
yet, give me a television V-chip that blocks out all major-league baseball
telecasts and replaces them with action from the English Premier League and the
German Bundesliga. I'd be signing up and shelling out yesterday.

But I do see why the women's game has been easier to access for many fans,
especially the casual observer and those new to the sport. It's a user-friendly
brand of soccer -- played at a slower pace than the men's, which allows
attacking players more time and space for creativity; and without the
defend-or-die dogma of so many men's teams, and so there are more goals.

Also, the home team has been kicking some serious tail. You can never
underestimate the entertainment value of that, not in America, not after the
American men trudged off to France last summer and returned 32nd out of the 32
teams entered in the World Cup.

Hard to warm up to that.

But, as U.S. women's coach Tony DiCicco graciously acknowledges, it is unfair to
compare the U.S. men's and women's soccer teams, noting that the U.S. men
"entered the world game generations behind" the top European and South American
powers.

So let us compare World Cups.

The Women's World Cup debuted in 1991, the men's in 1930. The women began
playing the world game generations behind the men, but stylistically, that has
been an asset for the women. The Women's World Cup, at this early stage of its
history, lacks the cynicism, the pragmatism and the Machiavellian defensive
tactics of the men's World Cup, because its coaches don't arrive at the
tournament with bull's eyes on their backs and entire nations already taking
aim.

Look at the purge of coaches during France '98. Not after the tournament, but
during and usually within minutes of a national team's ouster. Saudi Arabia
dispatched its coach, Carlos Parreira, before the end of the first round, and
all Parreira had done was win the 1994 World Cup with Brazil. Coaches in the
men's World Cup are just trying to keep their jobs, so by and large they pack it
in defensively, play for 0-0 and hope to squeeze through to the next round on
penalties.

It is known as "negative soccer" and the Women's World Cup has been happily free
of it, save for Italy, which clogged up the first-round proceedings with the
same strangling catenaccio defensive philosophy as its men's team. (Catenaccio
is Italian for "bore them to death.") Without an ax hovering over their heads,
coaches in the Women's World Cup are free to play with three forwards, as the
United States does, and emphasize attacking soccer, as every team in the final
four has.

Putting the best up front

Second, the women's game is not as defensively sophisticated as the men's. This
is no knock on the women; look what happened to the NBA once teams became more
"defensively sophisticated."

Simply put, women's soccer at the world level is still at a stage at which its
best talent is positioned up front, at forward and in the midfield. There is no
equivalent of Paolo Maldini, Marcel Desailly or Matthias Sammer in the Women's
World Cup, no dominant defender capable of winning a game by sheer influence
alone.

Of course, there have been many defenders here capable of losing matches on
their own -- which, admittedly, has been part of the fun. Lots of crazy,
unpredictable stuff has happened in the back, which is a sure way to keep 70,000
fans in the stadium and millions more in front of the tube on the edges of their
seats.

So what you have had in this Women's World Cup are teams with highly skilled
offensive players, encouraged by their coaches to push forward, against defenses
not polished or cynical enough to swamp the attacks in a quicksand of whacked
shins, cleats to the backside and elbows to the cheekbone.

In short: An ideal recipe for high-scoring, entertaining, easy-to-consume soccer
-- a sort of no-hands version of arena football. At this point, there is no need
to overanalyze it or overdiagram it or organize symposiums to study methods by
which the women can play more like the men.

At this point, it is best to just sit back and enjoy it.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Up, up and away: China's goalie, Gao Hong, is one of the world's most
acrobatic and athletic, ranging far and jumping high to save potential goals.
Gao is preparing to stop the United States in Saturday's Women's World Cup
championship game.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              67 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               February 23, 1999

Texas pops up in Top 25 polls; Longhorns make first appearance in AP

BYLINE: Randy Riggs

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 908 words


Saturday's victory at Texas A&M earned the University of Texas men's basketball
team national rankings in both major polls, and Coach Rick Barnes some
substantial spending money.

The Longhorns jumped into this week's Associated Press poll at No. 22 by
defeating the Aggies to improve their record to 17-10. And UT's victory,
combined with Oklahoma's loss to Kansas, gave Barnes $75,000 in bonuses for
clinching at least a tie for the Big 12 Conference south division crown, as well
as the overall league regular-season title.

"Hey, that's all right," said Barnes, unaware of the bonuses until informed of
them by a reporter after practice Monday. "I like that."

The Longhorns, meanwhile, like their new national status in the AP poll. It's
their first appearance in the poll since the 1997-98 preseason poll also ranked
them 22nd. UT is 23rd in this week's USA Today/CNN coaches poll, up two spots
from last week.

Texas is the only Big 12 team in either poll.

"I'm ecstatic," center Chris Mihm said. "It shows what hard work and dedication
will do for you."

Incentives in Barnes' contract call for him to make $25,000 for winning a share
of the south and $50,000 for at least sharing the league's regular-season title.
He also has a $50,000 incentive for winning the conference tournament, but his
contract has a maximum of $75,000 in Big 12-related elements, which he already
has reached.

Should the Longhorns, as expected, earn a berth in the NCAA playoffs, Barnes
will receive another $25,000. He would get an additional $30,000 for reaching
the second round, with increasing increments of $5,000 for each game UT
advances.

Butch Worley, UT's senior associate athletic director, said Monday that Barnes'
five-year, $700,000 contract would be re-evaluated after the season, which is
standard procedure for Longhorns' coaches.

"At the end of each season, we look at every coach and try to make a
determination whether their compensation package is where it needs to be,"
Worley said. "We'll certainly do that with Rick."

UT rewarded first-year football coach Mack Brown with a raise from $750,000
annually to $1 million for turning around the Longhorns' fortunes, but Barnes
wouldn't compare the situations.

"You're talking about two totally different sports, two different climates," he
said. "If I were UT, I'd do whatever it takes to keep Mack Brown here. The job
he and his staff has done is unbelievable.

"The only thing I want is for our program and staff to be taken care of, and
(Athletic Director) DeLoss Dodds has been really fair. I'm not thinking about
the contract, I'm really not."

Coaches talking

about moving Big 12 tournament

Several Big 12 coaches say they are not opposed to exploring the possibility of
rotating the men's conference tournament, which has been a fixture in Kansas
City since the Big Eight began holding one in 1977. Potential sites include
Dallas, Oklahoma City and St. Louis. But coaches would like assurances that a
change won't be contemplated simply for the sake of change.

"It's a proven product in Kansas City," Kansas Coach Roy Williams said. "So you
take it somewhere else where they've had trouble with tournaments in the past?

"If someone can guarantee me it'll be just as good somewhere else, that's fine.
But I don't know if you can guarantee that."

Kemper Arena is in the third year of a four-year contract to host the
tournament. Some coaches believe the league will rotate it. "I would say more
than likely something's going to happen," Colorado's Ricardo Patton said. "There
are too many people lobbying to have it moved."

But it's a very sensitive subject in Kansas City, where residents weren't happy
that the conference office was moved from there to Dallas with the formation of
the Big 12. Some coaches acknowledge that a "turf war" mentality remains between
the old Big Eight schools and the Southwest Conference schools from Texas.

"I would say there's probably some truth to that, yes," Kansas State's Tom
Asbury said.

The strongest comments came from Missouri Coach Norm Stewart, who applied a
touch of salt to another old wound by suggesting the Texas schools joined the
Big Eight, rather than the league-endorsed claim that an entire new league was
formed by merger.

"It seems to me (the Texas schools) have gotten a tremendous amount of advantage
for new teams joining a league that was established and had a lot of tradition
and done very well," Stewart said. "Quite honestly, since they joined the
league, I don't see any evidence of benefits we've had. We were getting more
teams in the NCAA (tournament) than we do now. Certainly, that could be due to
weakness in other areas, particularly in Texas."

The rotation issue arose when UT's Barnes suggested it in mid-January. Baylor's
Harry Miller supported Barnes' idea but declined to get into the fray on
Monday's teleconference call between league coaches.

"I had the hand of God coming down on me, God being Norm Stewart and some
others," Miller said. "I've had some abuse over that. So I'll zip up on that one
for now, but my position hasn't changed."

KU edges Cowboys; Kansas beats Oklahoma State 67-66 in overtime Monday night.
Wednesday, Texas can clinch the Big 12 title outright by beating Baylor. The
game will be televised on KVC at 7 p.m.

Randy Riggs writes about University of Texas men's basketball. You may contact
him at rriggs@statesman.com or 445-3957.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              69 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           March 24, 1999, Wednesday

Women at UT less likely to get tenure, high pay, report says

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 656 words


Men who teach at the University of Texas are more likely to be awarded tenure
and be placed in prestigious, higher-paying jobs than female faculty members, a
disparity administrators say they want to fix.

Although UT is making substantial progress, "women are not breaking the glass
ceiling when it comes to being promoted to full professor and getting endowed
professorships," said Janet Staiger, a professor of radio, television and film
who co-chairs the Committee for the Support of Women with UT Vice President
Patricia Ohlendorf.

Staiger shared data compiled by the committee that shows 406 men held endowed
professorships and endowed chairs this year, compared with just 43 women.

Although UT has added more female faculty in the past 15 years, boosting the
faculty from 22 percent women to 32 percent, the number of those winning tenure,
a protected job status, has not grown so dramatically. Fifteen years ago, 13
percent of the tenured faculty were women; today, it's 19 percent, UT data show.

The reasons for the gender disparities among faculty members are complex. They
reflect long-standing discrimination against women in academia, problems with
attracting and retaining women in certain fields, a lack of female mentors and a
society in which women still bear the brunt of child-rearing -- sometimes at the
expense of their careers, female faculty members said.

The gender differences echo problems reported Tuesday at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. MIT officials acknowledged in a report on the World
Wide Web on Friday that bias against female professors in the School of Science,
while not deliberate, is pervasive.

"I think all universities have these problems," said Gretchen Ritter, an
associate professor of government at UT.

Ritter, who earned a doctorate from MIT in 1992, said the climate for women at
MIT is far worse.

UT has approved a policy allowing faculty members on the tenure track to stop
the six-year tenure clock for a year, giving women time off to have a baby.
Administrators also are considering a policy to allow women having children in
the midst of a semester to be assigned to nonteaching duties, Ritter said.

Because MIT is a science and engineering university with fewer female faculty
members than UT, change is more difficult, said Jeanne Freeland-Graves, a
professor of human ecology and chairwoman of the Faculty Women's Organization.
"When you have more women at a university, things improve," she said.

Jennifer Brodbelt, an associate professor of chemistry, said she has not
detected any bias against women in her department. About three of 40 tenured
faculty in her department are women, she said, but UT is taking pains to recruit
more female chemists, she said.

"I really think UT is biting the bullet and moving forward," said Lucia Gilbert,
director of the Center for Women's Studies and a professor of educational
psychology. "Engineering has made a lot of efforts to improve the climate for
women and female students, and the College of Natural Sciences is definitely
working on that."

Gilbert's center offers an interdisciplinary seminar for female graduate
students and seniors to help them "understand the biases and stereotypes so they
don't buy into them."

The UT System has directed each campus to form committees to evaluate the status
of women on campus. A study is under way to see if there are disparities in pay
for comparable jobs and rank.

Data provided Tuesday by UT show that the average female professor at UT's
highest rank is paid $74,336, compared with $85,845 for males. The averages do
not take into account differences in the professors' fields or time in the upper
echelon.

"My goal is to hire fairly and provide a working environment where everyone on
this faculty can succeed as well as they can," UT President Larry Faulkner said.

You may contact Mary Ann Roser at maroser@statesman.com or 445-3619.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Beckworth//Charles Fraser, Jr.//C. Kim Goodwin//Robert
Rodriguez//From maverick filmmaker to heart surgeon to attorney to financier,
these UT graudates have one thing in common - being named 1999's Outstanding
Young Texas Exes.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              70 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 8, 1999, Thursday

25 years ago, Aaron hit a goal that had become a . . .Painful

BYLINE: Karen Rosen

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1226 words


ATLANTA -- Imagine what Hank Aaron's career would have been like if he had been
born 25 years later.

He never would have spent the night in rooming houses while his white teammates
slept in a fancy hotels, never would have been forced to play a road game by
baseball's commissioner and never would have received so much hate mail during
"The Chase."

He also never would have gotten a moment's peace from the media. It would have
been HankTV 24 hours a day. And, of course, with present-day salaries, Aaron
probably would have made enough money to retire before reaching 715 home runs,
let alone 755.

In this 25th-anniversary season celebration, some aspects of chasing Babe Ruth's
record Aaron doesn't want to remember. Given a second chance, he would rewrite
the script from a quarter-century ago. Only the ending would stay the same.

"I wish all of it could have been done differently," said Aaron, 65, now a
Braves executive whose office overlooks Turner Field. "I would have made it like
it was last year with (Mark) McGwire and (Sammy) Sosa -- you know, a happy
moment, going to the ballpark, enjoying yourself, doing what you could do best."

He watched from afar as the St. Louis Cardinals' McGwire and the Chicago Cubs'
Sosa battled to be the first to break Roger Maris' record of 61 home runs in a
single season. He never offered them advice; they couldn't have related to what
he went through.

"I was happy for them; I was happy for baseball," said Aaron, who made the big
leagues in 1954 when Bobby Thomson broke an ankle in spring training. "It was
the same way when Pete Rose was chasing Ty Cobb's (career hits) record. He
seemed to be enjoying it."

Was Aaron envious? He replied cautiously, "I think that I was envious to the
point that, yes, I wish it had been me."

For McGwire and Sosa, the legendary Ruth's record was once-removed. They
thrilled to the chase. Aaron endured it. Not only was Aaron the first black man
to make an assault on a record held by a white man, but it also was the most
prominent record in baseball.

And while McGwire and Sosa had two months of excitement, Aaron's quest stretched
out over the 1973 season and into 1974.

"It wasn't the most happy time of my life, but yet it should have been," Aaron
said. "You remember all these things, and part of it kind of chips away at you a
little bit."

Home runs and hate mail

Changes in society would grant Aaron greater acceptance today. Jackie Robinson
broke the color barrier in 1947, the year before Ruth died. "People were living
in the Babe Ruth era; you have to remember that," Aaron said. "They were not
ready to accept (black players) yet. And here I come along challenging what was
one of the most hallowed, the most prestigious, the biggest record in all of
sport. And people were not about to turn that loose.

"You still had those diehard racist people who wanted to hold onto that."

And they let him know.

Aaron received more than 900,000 pieces of mail. Some of the letters and
postcards were dripping with hate, racial epithets and death threats.

By comparison, McGwire has received an estimated 100,000 pieces of mail. A
Cardinals official said every piece that she had inspected was congratulatory,
and a good many wanted autographs.

The Atlanta police assigned Calvin Wardlaw to protect Aaron. He carried a .38
snub-nosed revolver in a binoculars case, but never had to use it.

The media was slower to pay attention to the man nicknamed "Bad Henry."

"It really didn't pick up until about August of '73 (when he was at 702)," said
Frank Hyland, then The Atlanta Journal beat writer. "Then everybody slapped
their head and said, 'This guy might hit 715.' "

Aaron knew how the media had hounded Maris in 1961, and he wasn't about to let
that happen to him.

"They were taking some of his hair out," Aaron said. "I wasn't going to buckle
under to those guys. I was their last choice: there was Mickey (Mantle), there
was Willie (Mays), there was Harmon Killebrew. I got to be the last choice. I
was close to breaking the record by the time they knew I was there."

Aaron hit home run No. 713 in the next-to-last game of the 1973 season. In the
final game, he had three hits, enough to push his batting average to .301, but
no home runs. For six months, he waited.

Into the record book

At spring training, the media descended on Aaron. For Atlanta and Aaron, the
1974 season opened in Cincinnati.

"It was a very stressful time for him," said Ernie Johnson, Braves announcer and
former teammate. "We all knew he was going to do it; it was just a question of
when he was going to do it."

When Aaron mentioned that he would sit out the series against the Reds so he
could hit the tying and go-ahead home runs in Atlanta, Commissioner Bowie Kuhn
demanded that he play two of the three games. Braves Manager Eddie Mathews was
furious but was forced to comply or face sanctions.

"I don't think that the commissioner would take an aggressive stand like that
today," Aaron said. "We didn't have a union back then. If that happened today to
a player, all a player would do is call up Don Fehr, and Don Fehr would call up
Bud Selig, and that would be the end of that." Aaron laughed. "Don Fehr was
still in diapers then."

Vice President Gerald Ford threw out the first pitch at Riverfront Stadium.
Aaron tied the record on his first swing of the season, a 3-1 pitch from Jack
Billingham.

He played one more game in Cincinnati -- with no homers -- then it was back to
Atlanta. About 250 members of the media followed him, less than a third of the
mob that covered McGwire and Sosa. Writer George Plimpton was there, to write a
quickie book called "Hank Aaron: One for the record."

"It was a great story of the year," Plimpton said. "The intensity. There was an
awful lot of excitement. The whole country was involved."

In the fourth inning against the Dodgers exactly 25 years ago today, Aaron
smacked an Al Downing pitch over the fence in left-center before a record crowd
of 53,775 fans. The wall is still visible in the parking lot where
Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium once stood.

In the post-homer celebration, Aaron addressed the crowd. "I would just like to
say to all the fans here this evening that I just thank God it's all over with.
Thank you very much."

Twenty-five years later, major-league baseball will honor Aaron all season.

"It's a little too little as far as I'm concerned," Hyland said. "Of course, 12
people didn't even have him on their ballot for the Hall of Fame, which is
absolutely unbelievable."

Aaron, who hasn't swung a bat in half a dozen years -- "I just don't have any
reason" -- would be reluctant to relive the chase in today's media climate.

"I don't know that I could stand it right now," he said. "There was no ESPN, or
sports all day long."

In today's news-hungry climate, "Henry wouldn't have been able to move," said
Dick Cecil, a former Braves official. "As cool as he is, he holds most
everything in. I think eventually it would have gotten to him a little bit.
McGwire thrived on it."

And that's where the comparisons end.

"I wasn't built like McGwire; my home runs barely made it," Aaron said.
"Pitchers, said, 'I almost got him out.' "

But they didn't. Until the unlikely day that his record is broken, the home-run
crown belongs to Aaron.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              72 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

Struggling Mazda rests hopes on redesigned '99 Protege

BYLINE: Pete Szilagyi

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. D7

LENGTH: 755 words


There was cause for smiles when the redesigned 1999 Mazda Protege was introduced
last year. Not only is the new Protege a better-than-average compact car, I had
wondered if there ever would be a '99 Protege -- or any other Mazda for that
matter.

For a variety of reasons, Mazda has been on a downhill slide, losing millions of
dollars annually and raising serious concerns about whether it had the moxie to
survive. Ford Motor Company, owner of 35 percent of Mazda's stock, came to the
rescue with capital and management help, while Mazda trimmed its work force and
refocused the model mix and marketing.

Resulting is the new "Get in. Be moved" Mazda ad campaign and a model line that
will be churned in the next few years, with the '99 Protege as the first of the
new generation Mazdas.

Coming in July is a slick redesign of the MPV minivan to be joined by a
sport-utility next year. The 626 mid-size sedan, Miata sports car, Millenia
luxury sedan and B-Series pickup, all solid products, continue in their present
form.

Proteges have always been capable small cars, but the styling has never had the
soft, appealing lines of the Honda Civic nor the clean, practical look of the
Toyota Corolla, competitors with considerably more sales. The '99 Protege has
more acceptable styling, with creased lines, chrome accents and clear "jeweled"
headlights.

As before, the Protege is available in DX, LX and SE trim levels with prices
beginning at about $13,500 for the basic DX up to about $18,500 for a generously
optioned SE. The Protege SE is most desirable for its zippy 1.8-liter,
122-horsepower, double overhead cam four. The DX and LX engine is a 1.6-liter
four that makes 105 uninspiring horses, especially if burdened by an automatic
transmission. The power is too wimpy for aggressive urban traffic.

Automatic transmission in the deep green Protege ES I drove worked seamlessly
unless asked to accelerate quickly at moderate speeds. Then it would pause and
moan while hunting for a lower gear, a common problem with all but the best
automatics linked to small four-cylinder engines. A manual five-speed
transmission is preferred in nearly all subcompact and compact automobiles.

The '99 Protege's handling has been updated by some component changes and
recalibration. Most noticeable improvement is in body stiffness, which yields a
more solid ride and increased mass to absorb crash impacts. It still bumps and
bounces like a light auto, but the body's rigidity allows the suspension to work
more efficiently. The Protege ES's handling, braking, steering response, balance
and noise insulation are above average for a $15,000 automobile.

The intelligent interior space utilization of earlier Proteges continues.
Accommodations for tall occupants up front are acceptable but not generous, with
space for two adults and a child in the rear, which has limited legroom and more
than enough headroom.

A new instrument panel has a simple, pleasing, uncluttered design.
Unfortunately, the too-small radio buttons and climate control dials are a
reminder that the Protege remains an Asian car despite Ford's heavy hand in the
front office. Otherwise, the cabin of the Protege ES I drove was comfortable and
easy on the eyes. Construction quality seemed high.

Looking over the Protege's pricing and options, I find standard equipment fairly
generous and the prices reasonable. However, Mazda is unfair to safety-conscious
shoppers, who must buy a sunroof in order to get anti-lock brakes. The brakes
are a must-have option that should be available singly or included in the base
price, as some Protege competitors offer.

(From Box)

Consumer information for the 1999 Mazda Protege ES

*Base price: $14,925

*Options on test car (including floor mats, automatic transmission,

California emissions equipment): $980

*Freight: $450

*Total: $16,355

*State tax, title, license, other fees: $1,142

*Sample financing: $3,500 down (20 percent), balance financed for 48 months at 8
percent. Monthly payments $342.

*EPA mileage estimates: 24 city, 29 highway

*Safety equipment: Front airbags standard, anti-lock brakes optional

*Drive: Front wheels

*Where made: Hiroshima, Japan.

Summary

*Highs: Roominess, 1.8-liter engine, quality

*Lows: Tiny radio and climate controls

*Bottom line: Pay extra for the ES, please

Consumer information is provided by Mazda North American Operations and a credit
union. Payments are based on credit union's prevailing rate for a 48-month new
car loan.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The redesigned Protege is the first of a new generation of Mazdas. The
'99 Protege has more attractive styling, with creased lines, chrome accents and
clear 'jeweled' headlights.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              74 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

New airport's history full of detours; Years of bickering put city on slow road
to Bergstrom

BYLINE: Kelly Daniel

SECTION: Insight; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1703 words


The new Austin-Bergstrom International Airport will open in seven days --
barring more delays -- and two sounds are all but certain to accompany the
ceremonies.

Contented sighs of relief. Clenched-jaw grumbles.

Such emotions have been a constant in the start-stop-detour-start-again journey
of where to put Austin's new airport.

City officials like to point out that the $690 million airport is the largest
public works project Austin has ever tried. It's understandable it would take
years to complete, they say. But just picking a site took decades. Indeed,
opening day will culminate a journey of so much bitter argument and
finger-pointing, so many false starts and U-turns that some wondered whether
Austin would ever get a new airport.

"As we sometimes do, we just argued on forever," said Charles Urdy, an Austin
City Council member from 1981 to 1994, when the major decisions about where to
build a new airport were made.

Under the council's leadership, Austinites had to vote three times to decide
whether Austin would get a new airport and where. Voters rejected a site in
Manor for the new airport in 1985, reversed themselves in 1987 by approving the
Manor site -- and did yet another about-face in 1993, approving building at
Bergstrom Air Force Base. It took the Pentagon's 1990 announcement that
Bergstrom would be closed to break the stalemate that developed after the 1987
vote.

So many political factions were at work that debate about where to locate a new
city airport was allowed to stall time and again, several former council members
said. One side wanted to expand Robert Mueller Municipal Airport but keep its
convenient location. Another wanted Bergstrom, preferring its ample space. Yet
another group wanted a regional airport linking Austin and San Antonio. It was
enough to leave heads spinning.

"I think it called into question to some extent the ability of a public body to
make a decision and follow it through," said Bruce Todd, who was mayor when
voters approved $400 million in bonds to build the airport and construction
began at Bergstrom.

Given the scope of the work, there was need for caution, Todd said.

"This is the largest public improvement project the city will ever do. You wish
in a perfect world that there had not been that indecision (about Manor). But
reality for Austin did change."

Early push for Bergstrom

In the 1970s, no one could even agree that Austin needed a new airport, much
less decide where to put it.

Robert Mueller Municipal Airport, which opened in 1930, had grown too large for
its East Austin location, with traffic and parking problems joining the already
constant complaints about airplane noise. Building a new airport at the
Bergstrom Air Force Base in Southeast Travis County or in Manor, 12 miles east
of downtown Austin, would solve such problems, said elected officials, residents
and consultants.

But others argued that Mueller's convenient location near downtown demanded that
the city keep the airport there. A 1991 poll of 604 Austin residents found
people were split over keeping the airport at Mueller. Many who favored Mueller
cited a sense of tradition and said the Northeast Austin location was
preferable.

But even 20 years earlier, as the city searched for a solution in the early
1970s, it had turned to Bergstrom.

"In many ways, Bergstrom had always been the first choice," Todd said.

The military airfield was born in 1942, when Austin voters approved buying 3,000
acres in Del Valle and giving the land to the U.S. Army for a new air base. The
facility -- then named the Del Valle Army Air Field but later changed to
Bergstrom Air Force Base -- opened in September that year with a promise that,
once the war was over, the city would get the base back.

"And at the end of the war, boom, Austin would have a new airport," said Bob
Larson, a council member from 1990 to 1993 and a retired Air Force master
sergeant who served at Bergstrom. "But the military wasn't finished with that
airport."

In 1974, elected officials from Austin approached Bergstrom commanders about a
joint-use plan under which the city's commercial and cargo flights could share
the Air Force runway. The Air Force replied two years later: No thanks.

The two entities flirted for several more years but could never come to an
agreement. Meanwhile, a new option surfaced in Manor.

Flight path to Manor

With Bergstrom no longer an option -- at least for the moment -- Austin's
leadership looked to 3,200 acres of undeveloped land near Manor. And residents
there began to sense that they would at least have a shot at two things that had
long passed them by -- prosperity and growth.

Manor's population has hovered around 1,000 since it incorporated in 1913. The
city today has no major grocery store, no pharmacy, no movie theater, no major
tourist draw, although the Manor Downs racetrack does attract visitors.

Manor residents' hopes were dashed when Austin voters rejected moving the
airport to Manor in the 1985 election. But just two years later they changed
their minds and, by a 55.4 percent vote, Manor became the official future
location of Austin's airport.

Landowners in and around Manor hungrily waited for the windfall that was sure to
follow. Airport construction would bring millions of dollars in contracts and
land purchases and would spawn adjoining industries, from hotels to rental cars
to stores and commerce. But the factions that favored Bergstrom and the groups
wanting Mueller to stay put never quit working, said Travis County Judge Sam
Biscoe, who was Precinct 1 commissioner and represented Manor from 1989 to 1997.

"It was never treated with urgency," Biscoe said.  "I think that there was
always hovering over there the thought that the decision might be reversed."

That happened in 1990, when the Bush administration gave the Bergstrom
proponents a sudden second chance with the announcement that the air base was on
a list of military bases recommended for closing.

Those who opposed Manor spoke of its distance -- exaggerating it sometimes, Todd
said -- and said Austin would be foolish to build a new airport at a site out of
its own taxing jurisdiction.

As a result, the Manor location remained an unfulfilled promise.

A quick course change

The news on Jan. 29, 1990, that the Defense Department recommended closing
Bergstrom staggered those who favored building an airport in Manor and
reawakened those who had wanted to use the base all along.

"And I think that helped create a focus where there hadn't been before," Austin
Mayor Kirk Watson said.

There had been too many choices on the table -- and too many political
preferences surrounding them -- for anyone to focus on a single location until
Bergstrom suddenly became available, Watson said.

As the Bergstrom announcement reverberated, yet another choice surfaced and
further sidetracked the debate. An Austin-San Antonio regional airport was
suggested, backed by former U.S. Rep. Jake Pickle. The idea drew positive
comments from Austin but got lukewarm response from San Antonio, and the matter
was dropped.

By 1992, Bergstrom was approved for closure, the military was offering Austin
back the land for free and Manor was off the table. Rather than vote on the
issue itself, the Austin City Council decided to let Austin voters go back to
the polls and decide a question now 20 years old: Should the airport be built at
Bergstrom?

This time, on May 1, 1993, the answer was a firm yes, with 63 percent of the
vote in favor of a nonbinding resolution to approve $400 million in bonds to
build an airport at Bergstrom.

Left out were the Manor residents who had counted on the financial gains that
selling their land would bring.

"A lot of those folks were disappointed because they were promised, in very
specific terms, by Austin that that (airport) was going to happen," Urdy said.
"They just thought that Austin had misled them."

The clock of politics

Ask why it took so long to decide where to build the airport, and the answers
range from chuckles to blame-shifting.

"The public and politicians had all contributed to the delay by sometimes voting
no, sometimes voting yes," Todd said. "The public could never proceed with a
positive vote for the airport. I think some of that could have been based on
(lack of) trust of a political body, in this case the City Council, to complete
a project of that size."

It wasn't just the airport that the City Council debated ad nauseam.

For decades the city was embroiled in controversy over its 16 percent ownership
stake in the South Texas Project Nuclear Plant, located in Matagorda County. At
one point, Austin voters had to approve three separate referendums to keep the
city involved in the project.

How long it took the City Council to make decisions and follow through was the
subject of many jokes. Even some council members agreed they could debate an
issue beyond death.

Contrast that with the current City Council's experience in getting Computer
Sciences Corp. to locate its new headquarters downtown near the Warehouse
District. From start to finish, the CSC agreement took five months.

"The climate really just is not as politically antagonizing as it was back
then," Urdy said. "Politically, it's much more stable, I think. I don't know if
it means anything else is more stable. But politically, it is."

Watson, asked if he believed today's council would need as long to decide where
to put a new city airport, said he thinks the length of the project is based
more on the nature of the decisions than the personalities involved.

"I'm not sure that dynamic of the council alone would play as big a role as
maybe that question assumes," he said, pointing out that the city moved
relatively quickly once it had the chance to use the ample space and potential
savings Bergstrom offered. "Those kind of things helped create a unifying
dynamic that may not have been there previously."

You may contact Kelly Daniel at kdaniel@statesman.com or 445-3618.

See New, H5

Continued from H1

New airport's bumpy road

Slow road led to new airport

Contentious council, fickle voters took decades to decide

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picketers at Austin's City Council Chambers support building a new
airport near Manor -- a project approved by voters in 1987 but stalled at the
time of this picture by political wrangling and the possibility of taking over
Bergstrom Air Force Base.//In April of 1989, about 250 area residents --
including Henry Umshield at the microphone -- gathered at Manor High School to
hear Austin city officials report on progress for their plans to build a new
airport near the town east of Austin. A year later, that plan was effectively
dead.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              76 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 4, 1999, Wednesday

Software. Change is in the air; After years on the fringes, software

BYLINE: Timothy Ziegler

SECTION: Special -- High Tech Austin Style; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 979 words


In the beginning, there was hardware.  It was the Dark Ages -- the 1970s and
early '80s -- and Austin had staked its high-tech claim as a builder of
semiconductors and personal computers, not the software that runs them.

But today, with computer code running everything from the space shuttle to
toaster ovens, Austin's software industry is emerging as the fastest-growing
part of the local high-tech business industry, showing explosive growth in the
past few years.

Industry watchers say such expansion doesn't come without pains, but they
believe the software surge will likely continue.

Just how fast is the local software industry growing?

* Since 1993, the number of local software businesses has almost tripled to
around 650 companies.

* Software companies now employ some 24,500 people -- almost four times the
number of software employees in 1993, according to research group Angelou
Economic Advisors Inc.

* Software accounted for 70 percent of the 200 new technology startups that
opened their doors in Austin last year, and local companies raised tens of
millions of dollars in venture capital, the investment money that is the
lifeblood of growing companies.

* Software companies are expected to soon employ more people locally than
semiconductor businesses, which are second only to computer manufacturing jobs.

It wasn't always easy to be in the software business in Austin.

Doug Lenat left his job as a professor at Stanford University in 1984 to join
the Austin research consortium Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corp .

"It was pretty much a desert as far as software," Lenat said. "It was like
living in a frontier town. There was nobody to talk to."

The early years

One of Austin's earliest software successes was Origin Systems, which makes
role-playing computer games, including the recent hit Ultima Online. Founder
Richard Garriott, known to his gaming fans as "Lord British," said the city's
sleepy software climate in the late 1980s was not all bad.

Origin had to train most employees from scratch, which made for a cheap and
loyal work force.

"Our cost of doing business was so much less than doing business in California
that we put two or three times as many people on a project to come to a similar
spending level as our California counterparts," Garriott said.

But the stumbling blocks were many.

Software companies had to look to California to raise capital and to find
expertise on matters such as intellectual property law or managing an initial
public offering.

Furthermore, acquiring experienced talent proved difficult. "If we really wanted
to try to pick up any experience, it was difficult to even get people on a plane
to come out here to interview," Garriott said.

Local software companies steadily gained speed in the 1980s and early 1990s.
MCC, developed as a research and development think tank financed by some of the
world's largest technology companies, played a big role in spawning software
startups.

Origin made a name for local entertainment software and drew several competitors
to open offices in Austin, and the emergence of the World Wide Web in the early
1990s opened a myriad software opportunities.

Furthermore, as the hardware business changed, stalwarts such as Dell Computer
Corp., Motorola Inc. and IBM Corp. grew their software enterprises. Software
maker Tivoli Systems Inc., incorporated in Austin in 1989 by ex-IBMers, was
bought by IBM in 1996 for more than $700 million.

Problems and concerns

The quick growth of local software companies in the past few years has brought
some new problems. Competition for local talent has been fierce and is driving
salaries upward, which raises the cost of doing business.

"For the first time in the last year, we've had a couple of people who've left
to find higher salaries in Austin," said Lenat, who left MCC to found Cycorp, a
company that sells artificial intelligence-related software.

"That's not something we're used to seeing."

Hiring talent away from other local companies has become a serious sport, and
the game is not just about money.

"If you don't keep employees challenged intellectually and entertained," said
Betty Otter-Nickerson, chairwoman of the Austin Software Council, "they can find
another job with another firm. They can just go across town."

Salaries are still lower than in Silicon Valley, but they are edging upward.

Besides offering good pay and a good work environment, another challenge for
software companies looking for good help is that perhaps Austin's greatest asset
-- a high quality of life compared with other high-tech centers in the United
States -- is changing fast.

Austin has lower housing costs and fewer traffic jams compared with technology
centers such as Silicon Valley or Boston. And like its rivals, Austin also has a
wealth of cultural activities and outdoor activities.

In fact, a recent study of Silicon Valley by consulting company A.T. Kearney
determined that those same quality-of-life issues are driving people out of that
area and into cities such as Austin, where a similar house still costs half its
Silicon Valley counterpart.

As Lenat points out, "Anyone who's driven Bay Area rush hour traffic would say
it's night and day compared to Austin. Austin has virtually no rush hour traffic
compared to those places."

But traffic problems are on the rise in Austin, and housing prices are shooting
up. Surveys show that Austinites fear that traffic will only get worse.

Industry experts say increased housing costs, more traffic and rising salaries
certainly don't spell doom for local software firms, but they should be watched
with caution.

"I wouldn't say it's keeping us from growing, but those are the things we should
be concerned about," Otter-Nickerson said.

"That's what draws people here -- the quality of life."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Origin Systems founder Richard Garriott says Austin's slow-growing
software climate in the late 1980s was not all bad -- he found home-grown work
force to be loyal and less costly. Garriott is shown in front of a scene from
the company's recent hit Ultima Online.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              79 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 8, 1999, Sunday

Slumping prices another blow to cotton farmers; In Low Cotton,

BYLINE: Heather Cocks

SECTION: Business; Pg. J1

LENGTH: 1290 words


Stephen Vorwerk's family tree is deeply rooted in Texas soil. Four generations
of his family built their lives around farming in the state, and Vorwerk is
determined not to break the chain.

But the past few years, Mother Nature's mood swings have been tough for farmers
like Vorwerk to endure. Floods drenched Texas cotton fields in 1997, a season
flanked by two years of devastating drought. Boll weevils also nibbled away at
farmers' profits.

Now, finally the beneficiaries of good growing conditions, cotton farmers seemed
poised for their strongest crop in several years. But now it seems they will
lose out again, this time the victims of a merciless commodity market that has
pushed prices down to their lowest level in six years.

"Prices are pulling us down," said Vorwerk, who farms near Taylor. "It pays the
bills, but there's no profit to live on. How many years can you do that?"

Texas is the nation's largest cotton producer, containing 40 percent of the 14.6
million acres of cotton fields planted this year in the United States.S.,
according to the Texas Agricultural Extension Service.

But the more than 48,000 cotton farmers in the state could receive as little as
45 cents per pound of cotton -- about 10 cents below the minimum cost of
production, according to Carl Anderson of the extension service.

"There is no margin of profit in these prices," Anderson said. "With carryover
debt from the past years of drought, farmers will have an extremely hard
struggle to stay in business."

Four years ago, cotton bloomed on 60,000 acres of Williamson County fields,
according to farmer Donald Stolte of Taylor. Since then, he said, that number
has dropped by half.

And farmers feel powerless to reverse their fortunes, which sank as commodity
prices were dragged down by global economic forces.

"I've never seen prices this bad," said Donald Stolte, who has farmed in Texas
for 20 years. "It's like rubbing salt in our wound. I don't know who's going to
survive this."

Last year's economic meltdown in Asia drove cotton prices into the cellar
because the region's weakened currency stripped it of its buying power, leaving
a surplus of American cotton that far outweighed demand.

In addition, according to Anderson, the strong U.S. dollar suddenly stretched
further in international textile markets, leading the country to import almost
half the 20 billion bales it consumed.

"Our export markets collapsed," Anderson said. "Even with a 4-million-bale
shortfall in the 1998 crop, we suddenly couldn't sell any of it and prices
fell."

That surplus will only grow in 1999, according to farmer Steve Verett, executive
director of the Plains Cotton Growers. With a national yield on pace to hit 19
million bales -- almost 6 million more than in 1998 -- supply will still exceed
demand.

China, which owns 40 percent of the world's cotton, is compounding the problem
by inundating the market with its 17 billion bales of raw cotton. It owns so
much surplus that the country is willing to sell it at any price, Verett said,
pitting independent American producers against an international government.

"Most governments like China are subsidizing their growers," Verett said.
"Chinese farmers can get as much as 90 cents a pound, so they keep farming no
matter what it sells for."

The price floor for American farmers dropped hard in 1996, when Congress passed
the Freedom to Farm Act.  Before that, the government set a national target
price for cotton, paying the difference between that amount and the actual
selling price, according to agricultural economist Don Etheridge of Texas Tech
University.

In return, the government reserved the right to limit the number of acres
planted, hoping to counteract surplus-driven dips in commodity prices. But the
1996 act eliminated those controls, Etheridge said.

"Now, prices can go down to 50 cents per pound and the farmer has no recourse --
nothing to protect him against prices falling that low," said Etheridge, who
said the cotton market has always been volatile. "Most U.S. farmers today are in
a severe state of financial stress."

This also has a ripple effect on the fiscal outlook for agriculture-dependent
economies such as Texas, where farming is the second-largest industry.

Cotton is the state's biggest money crop, valued at almost $2 billion. According
to Etheridge, a 10-cent drop in cotton prices translates into a $240 million
loss for cotton farmers, which in turn slashes state revenues from
cotton-related economic activity by $720 million, he said.

"Everyone thinks the economy is so great, but we're sitting here with prices we
can't control that were better in the '60s," Stolte said. "But the country is
still dependent on agriculture. There's no other industry in the world that
could survive this."

The cotton crop is an especially tricky one, requiring an unpredictable blend of
sunshine and showers, according to Stolte. That makes it vulnerable to any
unusual weather conditions.

And Texas is known for unusual and unpredictable weather conditions.

The recent problems began with the 1996 drought, after which farmers in 110
Texas counties received $17.7 million in federal aid from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's Farm Service Agency. Farmers managed a reasonable yield after the
mudslides and deluges in 1997, but not enough to recoup the previous year's
losses.

When dry weather decimated 1998 crops, all 252 counties qualified for recovery
loans when the agriculture department declared them federal disaster areas.

To help sustain farmers' dwindling budgets, the 1996 Freedom to Farm Act did
include the Step Two Plan, a system of transitional payments to help counteract
low prices while weaning farmers off government aid. But after pouring $701
million into what was designed as a seven-year program, the government's Step
Two fund has already run dry.

"Both Republicans and Democrats agree there's a crisis, but don't agree on a way
to take care of things," said Vorwerk. "In the meantime, I try as hard as I can
and improvise as much as I can. I'll try to make it work doing anything
possible."

But most farmers agree that even though the aid may help in the short-term,
there is no perfect long-term fix. And at times, Stolte said, getting aid can be
humbling.

"I'm sick of handouts," Stolte said. "I just want a good price for my
commodity."

You may contact Heather Cocks at hcocks@statesman.com or 912-5955.

(from box)

Cotton grower: $0.34

Merchant costs (transportation, freight): $0.04

Spinning the fiber; $0.53

Weaving the fabric: $1.74

Cutting, assembling the shirt: $5.73

Retail mark-up: $8.44

Total price: $16.93

The cost

The cost of raw cotton accounts for a tiny percentage of a product's actual
cost. In 1997, the American TExtile Manufacturers Institute examined a man's
woven sport shirt produced in the United States, analyzing which sectors receive
what portion of a shirt's total cost.*

*Assuming the shirt used 8.48 ounces of cotton, including any waste.

Falling prices

Drought, insect infestations and global economic struggles spurred fluctuations
in cotton prices this past decade, causing financial problems for farmers.
There's no relief in sight: through the September harvest, cotton prices could
fall as low as 43 cents per pound, according to the Texas Agricultural Extension
Service.

Average Price Received by Texas producers:

'91: 62.18

'92: 47.03

'95: 73.05

'99: 54.45 Through June

Texas cotton production

Planted acres

'91: 6/30

'95: 6.40

'98: 5/30

Harvested acres

'91: 5.40

'95: 5.75

'98: 3.05

Bales produced

'91: 4.71

'97: 5.14

'98: 3.00

Source: National Cotton Council of America

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Donald Stolte displays a blooming cotton bulb in his Taylor cotton
field. While yields should be good, slumping prices will have many farmers
struggling to survive. // Donald Stolte of Taylor has been farming in Texas for
20 years. Having endured the inevitable ups and downs of the weather, the
current price slump under ideal climate conditions is troubling. 'It's like
rubbing salt in our wound. I don't know who's going to survive this,' he said.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              81 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           August 26, 1999, Thursday

No guts; Hollywood, which eats its young, is now regurgitating its

BYLINE: glenn lovell

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1115 words


Don't look now, but you're hurtling through a box-office time warp.

Suddenly, wherever you turn at the multiplex, there are late '60s and '70s
retreads and telltale remnants of the Vietnam-Nixon years. Polyester shirts.
Grumpy sharks. David Cassidy and the Bee Gees. Watergate-era paranoia.

"It's deja vu all over again," says veteran producer David Brown, who, with
partner Richard Zanuck, ushered in Hollywood's so-called blockbuster era with
"Jaws" and "The Sting."

"When you're remaking 'The Thomas Crown Affair,' it shows a real paucity of
creativity. It's kind of sad."

Pointing up the absurdity of movie-going at the millennium, Zanuck blurts out,
"Jesus, they're remaking movies (such as 'Dr. Doolittle,' 1967) that cost me my
job at 20th Century Fox!"

Take a moment, if you would, to zoom in on the mounting evidence: "Deep Blue
Sea" and "Lake Placid" are the bloody spawn of Zanuck-Brown's original "Jaws"
(1975). The conspiracy thriller "Arlington Road," with Jeff Bridges and Tim
Robbins as mutually suspicious neighbors, ends on the same dour note as the
Warren Beatty thriller "The Parallax View" (1974).

"Stigmata" (opening Sept. 10), with Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne, and
"End of Days" (Nov. 24), with Arnold Schwarzenegger going mano-a-mano with
Satan, are variations on the '70s most popular satanic chillers, "The Exorcist"
(1973) and "The Omen" (1976.) Like the martyred Father Karras in "The Exorcist,"
Byrne's priest beseeches Lucifer to "take me! Let me be your messenger!"

And the retro-raunchy "American Pie"?

The young creators have tipped their hats to the crass -- and not so sweet --
"Porky's" movies from the early '80s, but one could argue that their real
inspiration is 1978's "National Lampoon's Animal House." Likewise, the glossy
"Brokedown Palace," with Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale locked away in a Thai
prison for drug-trafficking, plays as a Gen-Y makeover of the Oliver
Stone-scripted "Midnight Express" (1978).

When Hollywood isn't recycling 25-year-old plots, it's raiding the '70s for
"period" authenticity. The current Watergate spoof "Dick" takes place in 1973.
Spike Lee's "Summer of Sam" is set in 1977, in the weeks leading to the arrest
of serial killer David Berkowitz. Adam Rifkin's "Detroit Rock City" shadows four
high school boys on their quest for 1978's equivalent of the Holy Grail: KISS
concert tickets.

Why are the radical '70s chic again? Is it nostalgia? A retro thing? Or is it
what Brown tags Hollywood's "copycat complex" -- an inability to take chances
when the average studio movie now tips the scale at $50 million?

"None of the above," shoots back novelist-screenwriter William Peter Blatty,
who's flattered that a new wave of possession movies are attempting to emulate
the success of his "The Exorcist."

"I don't read anything sociological into it," Blatty says. "There are only so
many great ideas, and sooner or later we all get around to recycling them. As
far back as the original 'Frankenstein' (1931), audiences have wanted a good
fright, well-executed. 'Blair Witch Project' delivers; 'The Haunting' doesn't."

Renny Harlin, who directed "Deep Blue Sea," likewise chalks up the summer's
"Jaws" wannabes to a natural ebb and flow. "Things just go in cycles, whether
it's fashions, TV or movies," he says. "And filmmakers want to go back to their
own childhood and do what they liked."

Harlin, 40, was just beginning film school when the "Jaws" phenomenon hit.
Steven Spielberg's straight-for-the-jugular style became a huge influence.

"That's why we're now obviously stealing from that period," he says. "It helps
that today's young audience is not familiar with some of these movies. So we can
take the old experience, put a fresh spin on it, and offer it to a whole new
generation."

In "Detroit Rock City" director Rifkin stresses the nostalgia quotient. "For
adults who grew up during the '70s," he says in the film's press book, "it was
the kind of story you could look back on with nostalgia, with fondness for the
times. And for young audiences (it's) relevant because teen-agers haven't
changed from the '70s to the '90s."

Producer Zanuck, whose credits include "Cocoon" and the Oscar-winning "Driving
Miss Daisy," draws at least one parallel between the '70s and the '90s.

"The thing that immediately comes to mind," he says, "is that Richard Nixon
resigned while we were shooting 'Jaws' on Martha's Vineyard. 'Deep Blue Sea'
opened the same year Clinton was impeached. Sure, it's a different political
climate, but this one (political similarity) sticks out."

Graying boomers might call this grasping at straws: Our current obsession with
wealth and self would appear to have little in common with the counterculture
years, which were marked by protest and change and the anarchic riffs of "Bonnie
and Clyde," "Easy Rider," "The Wild Bunch" and "Taxi Driver."

Joel Schumacher ("Falling Down," "8MM") counts himself among the skeptics: The
'70s, he argues, are being plundered either out of greed or some false sense of
nostalgia. He should know; some of the "Exorcist" clones have crossed his desk.

"In today's schizophrenic political climate, I don't think Martin Scorsese would
have been able to portray a child prostitute in 'Taxi Driver,' " says Schumacher
from the set of "Flawless," starring Robert De Niro. "Jodie Foster was so
underage. The tough, important '70s movies wouldn't find an audience now."

As proof, Schumacher ticks off "Bulworth," "Eyes Wide Shut" and his own "8MM."
All three pushed boundaries and were box-office disappointments. All three would
have been right at home in the confrontational '70s. Now, they seem
anachronistic, at odds with our go-along-to-get-along mindset.

"We're in this very deep schizophrenia," he says. "People are looking for
prosaic movies. Fairy tales, like 'Touched by an Angel.' Fuzzy magnets on the
refrigerator. Real life is so scary, so out of control, that people are saying,
'Let's just go to the movies and have a nice time. Don't show me anything I
don't want to see.' "

Peter Biskind, author of last year's bestselling "Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How
the Sex-Drugs-Rock 'n' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood," takes this a step
further: He argues that Hollywood is fixated on the '70s blockbusters -- "Jaws,"
"The Exorcist," "Star Wars" (remade by George Lucas himself as "Episode I: The
Phantom Menace") -- because they're formulaic genre films and, as such, easy to
spin off.

"They're not remaking 'Taxi Driver' or 'Shampoo' or 'Nashville,' " Biskind says.
"They're remaking the worst movies of the '70s, the movies that marked the
decline of personal vision in Hollywood."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Thomas Crown Affair, 1999, 1968 ; Stigmata, 1999 ; The Exorcist,
1973 ; Jaws, 1975

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              84 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 12, 1999, Friday

Tune in for drama, passion and . . . family planning

BYLINE: Ellen Goodman

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 774 words


NEW YORK -- When Agnes Nixon, doyenne of the American soap opera, was once asked
to share the recipe of her sudsy success, she offered up three ingredients: Make
'em laugh, make 'em cry, make 'em wait.

It's not clear whether Agnes had any purpose for "All My Children" beyond
selling detergent. But somewhere along the way, it became clear that if soaps
could sell soap, they could sell social change.

Enter a young character, Ms. Greenleaf, onto the Chinese television screen. On a
rainy fall morning, I am sitting beside Chen Sheng Li of the State Family
Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China, watching a dramatic -- oh
well, melodramatic -- episode of "Ordinary People."

This is the series that kept some 11 million Chinese glued to their television
sets in June, making it the No. 1 soap in the nation and No. 3 show overall. The
theme was family life, but deep down, the message was family planning.

On the screen, Ms. Greenleaf (as her name is translated into English) is being
rowed off to her marriage to Mr. Wrong. She has been, quite literally, sold down
the river, so that the family will have the bucks to buy a wife for her young
brother.

The mother of the bride is crying. The bride is inconsolable. The True Love
arrives --too late! too late! -- with his city-earned dollars to buy her back.
Mr. Wrong is suffering from wounded pride and rage. Disaster all around.

What exactly do Ms. Greenleaf's wedding woes have to do with family planning?
Especially in China, where the population growth has been restrained by
government fiat? The one-child policy of reward and punishment has given the
giant Asian nation a bad international name and made many Chinese wary of all
family planning messages.

Today, China is trying something different. As Chen says through his translator,
"Instead of imposing government policies, we are trying to change attitudes."

This mix of entertainment and education is part of a larger world effort to try
to counter traditional cultur al norms with modern "social dramas." This idea,
pioneered in Mexico during the 1970s, has taken on a new edge as the world's
population has neared and passed the 6 billion mark. The question is how to
limit population without limiting the right of a family to make these most
personal decisions.

In China, much of the resistance to small families comes, not surprisingly, from
the age-old cultural preference for sons. This preference is interwoven in a
structure of arranged marriage and a tradition in which a daughter is expected
to become part of her husband's household. In this climate, wives are pressured
to keep having children until they have a son.

So the theme of "Ordinary People" is about the woes and injustice that come from
the bias toward sons. Not just Greenleaf's forced marriage, but one sister's
marital troubles after having four daughters, and another sister's longing for
the education allotted her brother.

David Andrews, president of Population Communications International, the
organization behind these shows, says, "We are trying to get across the tragedy
of that preference in the soap opera and make having a girl child cause for
equal celebration."

That's a tall cultural order for a small, everyday drama. But the soap opera
operations of PCI and other groups has become a potent and popular tool for
family planning in countries as diverse as Pakistan and Tanzania.

Researchers from the University of New Mexico found that 25 percent of the new
clients at family planning clinics in Tanzania were motivated by the radio soap
opera there.

Of course, a soap opera may sound like another kind of propaganda, even if, as
Andrews cheerfully adds, "it's good propaganda. One person's propaganda is
another person's teaching tool."

I'm not sure what the half-life of a televised soap opera is against the weight
of tradition. Even Chen, a progressive by Chinese standards, says "this won't
happen overnight." But after decades of top-down authoritarian policies, he
acknowledges "it's no use to give lectures." It's better to tell stories.

In stories now in the planning stage, our gal Greenleaf has a daughter, dumps
Mr. Wrong, and shows that a woman can become successful in her own right.
"Ordinary People" will confront the issues of education for girls, teen-age
pregnancy, even AIDS.

But lurking behind the saga is the question that 11 million Chinese tune in to
watch. Can a young woman from a small town ever find happiness, love, success --
and of course a small family -- in big China?

The answer? They're still waiting.

Goodman writes for the Boston Globe.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              88 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 7, 1999

Citing Hopwood ruling; UT ends faculty minority-hiring program

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 877 words


University of Texas officials quietly dismantled a $300,000 a year
minority-hiring program that helped lure record numbers of black and Hispanic
professors to the Austin campus between 1988 and 1997.

This is the first school year in a decade in which UT hired faculty without the
benefit of its Target of Opportunity program, which officials said fell victim
to an anti-affirmative action climate, including the 1996 federal court ruling
known as Hopwood.

Several UT System regents, meeting Wednesday to discuss progress in hiring women
and minorities, said they were surprised to hear Hopwood was having an effect on
hiring minorities. The ruling effectively ended affirmative action in all
student programs, admissions, scholarships, recruitment and retention, or
tutoring, across Texas. Officials at Texas A&M, the University of Houston and
Texas Tech said they did not interpret Hopwood as applying to faculty, an
opinion also expressed by former Attorney General Dan Morales.

UT System General Counsel Ray Farabee disagreed. He said Hopwood, along with
several other court rulings, led him to advise UT System Chancellor William
Cunningham and the campus presidents that "the same broad principles are going
to apply, and you should avoid quotas or set-asides."

Regents Tony Sanchez of Laredo, Patrick Oxford of Houston and Lowell Lebermann
of Austin said they were unaware of that view until Wednesday.

"How broad is this decision?" Sanchez said in an interview. "I see us at every
meeting imposing Hopwood on ourselves in a more and more sweeping fashion."

That also has been a rallying cry of students protesting UT's interpretation of
Hopwood.

"They are more worried about lawsuits," said Carl Villarreal, a senior majoring
in sociology and a member of the Anti-Racist Organizing Committee.

He and others said a diverse faculty makes a university more vibrant, more
varied in its research and more able to provide role models to minority
students. UT officials said they remain committed to diversifying the faculty
but must use legal means.

Stephen Monti, who was UT's acting provost last year and made the decision to
end the minority recruitment program, said Hopwood raised sensitivities about
the program and prompted a review. He was persuaded to end the program by a
December 1997 decision by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, the same court
that ruled in Hopwood.

In that case, a white state employee, Karen Hanson Messer, successfully
challenged an affirmative action program at the Texas Education Agency, led by
former Education Commissioner Lionel Meno.

The ruling doesn't stop UT from recruiting minority faculty; the university just
can't use special programs or give such candidates any preferences, officials
said.

The money that was used for recruiting minorities, including supplementing
salaries and creating positions for black and Hispanic stars, has been put into
a larger fund for hiring all faculty, Vice Provost Ricardo Romo said.

The program was created by Cunningham, then UT-Austin's president, in 1987, when
blacks made up 1.3 percent of the faculty and Hispanics were just 2.5 percent.
During the program's first five years, the campus attracted four times as many
new black and Hispanic faculty members as it did the previous five year period:
76 compared with 18.

So far this school year, UT has hired eight blacks and Hispanics out of 60
tenured and tenure-track faculty, compared with 18 of 109 in all of last year.

Today, of 2,509 faculty members, 76, or 3 percent, are black; 111, or 4.4
percent, are Hispanic; 2,177, or 86.8 percent, are white, 134, or 5.3 percent,
are Asian; and 11, or less than 1 percent, are American Indian.

Manuel Justiz, dean of UT's College of Education, said he never used the program
because he did not have problems luring minority faculty.

"If you just rely on the minority hiring program and you use that as the only
way of hiring minority faculty, you don't make the concerted effort to hire
them," he said. "It can be a cop-out."

Romo said he was hopeful UT would succeed without the program.

"I think we have enough of an international reputation that people will look at
this as a place they want to be," he said.

(From Box)

Tracking the numbers

Over the past decade, the University of Texas significantly increased the number
of black anf Hispanic faculty it hired for tenuire and tenure-track jobs. UT
officials say a programs designed to recruit minority professors helped bring
about that change, but the program has been dismantled.

Year // Black and Hispanic hires // Total faculty hires

1982-83 // 5 // N/A **

1983-84 // 3 // N/A

1984-85 // 2 // N/A

1985-86 // 2 // N/A

1986-87 // 5 // 108

1987-88 // 6 // 113

1988-89 // 20 // 129

1989-90 // 12 // 124

1990-91 // 15 // 114

1991-92 // 18 // 101

1992-93 // 11 // 91

1993-94 // 12 // 86

1994-95 // 11 // 90

1995-96 // 10 // 88

1996-97 // 15 // 98

1997-98 // 18 // 109

1998-99 *** 8 // 60

* includes only black and Hispanic faculty hired for tenure and tenure-track
positions.

** figures not available

*** figures incomplete; at least one black faculty member will be hired this
spring

Source: University of Texas at Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              90 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 11, 1999

Nigerian state elections called peaceful, well-run

BYLINE: By Norimitsu Onishi

SECTION: News; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 454 words


LAGOS, Nigeria -- In a positive step toward Nigeria's historic presidential
election next month, officials monitoring Nigeria's countrywide state elections
Sunday said the voting had been generally peaceful, was well-organized and
represented an improvement over last month's local elections.

Military meddling and armed forces coups have long been part of Nigerian
politics. The army has held power for all but 10 years since independence in
1960. But change has finally come to Africa's most-populous nation.

Preliminary results Saturday in the races for governors and legislators in 35 of
36 states showed that Nigeria's three major political parties scored victories
in their ethnic and geographic bases.

The leading party, the People's Democratic Party, continued to solidify its
national standing by winning the gubernatorial races in more than half the
states.

The results further strengthened the likelihood that Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, the
People's Democratic Party's most prominent member, would become Nigeria's next
president.

That the governor-elect in Lagos state, Bola Tinubu, is a former exile who spent
the past four years in London is a measure of how dramatically Nigeria's
political climate has changed in the six months since the sudden death of the
dictator Gen. Sani Abacha.

"The journey to today's triumph has been rough and difficult," Tinubu said in
his victory speech.

Tinubu, a former senator, returned to Nigeria after Abacha's successor, Gen.
Abdulsalami Abubakar, began a series of political reforms scheduled to culminate
in a handover to a civilian government in May.

His return came just after the sudden death in July in prison of Moshood Abiola,
the billionaire Yoruba and Muslim businessman who succeeded in unifying this
ethnically and religiously divided country of 108 million, but whose victory in
the 1993 presidential elections was annulled by the military.

"It is a victory for pro-democracy forces," said Tokunbo Afikuyomi, another
former exile who was among hundreds dancing to Kool and the Gang's "Celebration"
in Tinubu's house. "It shows that Abiola lives on."

During the weekend, about 100 officials from embassies and U.S. and British
election-monitoring organizations, as well as hundreds of Nigerians, fanned out
across the nation to observe the balloting.

Monitors said the voting was more orderly than last month's. Election officials
were better-trained and more responsive to complaints, security around polling
stations had improved, and voting areas were more clearly defined.

"It's another step toward the road to democracy," said K. Srinivasan, leader of
a monitoring team for the Commonwealth of Britain and its former colonies.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A man votes Saturday in Ikate Elegushi, Nigeria, in state elections,
which experts say bode well for the presidential vote.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              92 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                February 2, 1999

SOONER, notion, Oklahoma's hopes high as hole is deep

BYLINE: John Maher American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1689 words


A collective sigh of relief is sweeping down the Oklahoma plains. After getting
left at the starting line because of a coaching change, the Sooners have rallied
in the annual recruiting race.

Fans' initial fears of a disaster have subsided as Bob Stoops' staff worked at
putting together a decent class that includes Centex defensive player of the
year Derrick Strait of Lanier. This class will be a first step as the
once-mighty Sooner nation, after a divisive decade of defeat, tries to rise
again. Oklahoma fans expect nothing less than a return to the top.

"Barry Switzer used to say that Bud Wilkinson built the monster and he had to
feed it," said Norman sports talk-radio host James Hale. "No one has been
feeding it lately, but the monster is still here."

Still, there are 10 good reasons, including a much-reduced recruiting presence
in Texas, why it might finally be too late for the Sooners. The Sooner teams
that could hang with the best and hang half a hundred on the rest could indeed
be history.

"Very few teams ever enjoy that kind of dominance," said Bobby Burton, editor of
the National Recruiting Advisor, of Oklahoma's glory years. "That's a tall
ladder to climb."

The reasons:

1. It's a long way up

The 38-year-old Stoops shored up Florida's defense for Steve Spurrier. He was
mentioned as a serious candidate when Texas was last looking for a head coach
and is the fourth head coach this decade for the Sooners, who are a woeful
54-46-3 in the 1990s. The numbers are very similar to those compiled by Texas in
its lean years, when the Longhorns were 55-46-1 from 1985 to 1993.

The won-lost numbers, however, only begin to tell of the Sooners' long fall from
grace. Only one school, Notre Dame, has won more than the six AP national
championships the Sooners have amassed. Once, under Bud Wilkinson, the Sooners
went more than four years without losing a game. Switzer went almost three years
before he lost his first contest as Oklahoma's head coach.

In the 1970s, when the Sooners were at their flashiest, they had a gaudy 39
All-Americans. By the 1980s they were down to a still very impressive 18. So far
in the 1990s they've had Joe Bowden, a grand total of one. The only other
athlete to come close to those kind of credentials or abilities is De'Mond
Parker, who has declared for the 1999 NFL draft after three solid seasons.
Oklahoma has had only one NFL first-round draft pick this decade after having 11
in the 1980s. The Sooners, who have been in the AP's final Top 10 nine times in
a couple of decades, haven't cracked it in the 1990s.

2. Oklahoma ain't Texas

When Stoops was named coach, Switzer said Stoops' success would ultimately hinge
on how well he could recruit in Texas.

"You can only get 10-12 players a year out of Oklahoma," Switzer said. Burton
agreed, saying there's probably 15 in-state players that both Oklahoma and
Oklahoma State want.

That's not a knock on the quality of Oklahoma high school football, which has
produced two of Oklahoma's three Heisman Trophy winners, Billy Vessels and Steve
Owens, and a slew of All-Americans. But it's a numbers game. According to the
latest U.S. census estimates, the Texas population is almost six times as large
as Oklahoma's. Texas is closing in on a population of 20 million people, while
Oklahoma has 3.3 million.

Switzer once said that he could win a national championship by recruiting only
in the Houston area. Texas has given Oklahoma such players as Heisman Trophy
winner Billy Sims, Greg Pruitt, Joe Washington, Brian Bosworth, Jack Mildren and
Jerry Tubbs.

But Oklahoma is no longer on the shopping list of many top Texas recruits and
will be lucky to get more than one Fab 55 player this year. Stoops has hired
former Texas assistant Bobby Jack Wright, once named in Sports Illustrated as
the best recruiter on David McWilliams' staff, but Oklahoma will be a tougher
sell than it was a decade ago.

3. Oklahoma ain't even

the anti-Texas

Switzer, in particular, made a living recruiting black athletes in Texas who
didn't particularly want to go to the University of Texas. Oklahoma integrated
its team in 1956 with Prentice Gautt, more than a decade earlier than barriers
fell at UT and other Southern schools. That advantage has faded with time.

Besides, Jackie Sherrill helped make Texas A&M the alternative to Texas. Is it a
coincidence that A&M's rise after decades of dormancy came when Oklahoma finally
went into a decline?

4. The Sooners

aren't alone any more

Oklahoma has always been THE program in its state. Although, in-state, OU
suffers from some of the same elitist image problems that UT has, it has
traditionally been the only choice for Oklahoma blue-chips who wanted to win
big. Country cousin Oklahoma State has played OU 92 times and won only 13 games.
But in the last four tries, OSU has won three times.

In Bob Simmons, the Cowboys have a respected coach and a viable program.
According to Burton, they're now battling pretty evenly with Oklahoma for
talent.

5. It's not the same

old conference

The Big Eight, once known as Oklahoma and the Seven Dwarves, was Oklahoma's
conference much the way the SWC was Texas' league. The Sooners owned everybody,
including Nebraska until later years. Now the Big Eight is gone and Oklahoma is
-- well, it's kind of in the old SWC with the four Texas schools and Oklahoma
State.

The Sooners have lost something in the transition. One thing to go was the
showcase game of the Big Eight, the late shootout with Nebraska. Now the Sooners
play the Huskers only half the seasons, and the game has none of the drama it
once did.

Oklahoma's clash with Texas, its other traditionally huge game, has also
changed. It's still in Dallas, but it's now an early conference game, not a
grand finale to the non-conference schedule for two schools expected to then
dominate their respective leagues. Once, every Oklahoma blue-chip who longed to
beat Texas had to go to OU. Now, Oklahoma State also plays Texas -- and gets the
Longhorns at home every other year.

6. The changing

neighborhood

In 1988, Switzer's final season, Oklahoma was 9-3 after three straight 11-1
seasons . It could emphasize that record over its hapless neighbors during
recruiting.

To the north, Kansas and Kansas State combined to win all of one game in 1988.
Missouri had an all-too-typical 3-7-1 season. Texas was a woeful 4-7 and Texas
A&M was 7-5, with Coach Sherrill on the way out. Colorado was 8-4 after a
Freedom Bowl loss and just four years removed from a 1-10 season. Only at 10-1
Arkansas was there a power in place.

Now, the landscape has changed. Oklahoma is boxed in by bowl teams. Arkansas was
back in a bowl last season. Kansas State was one fumble away from playing for
the national championship. Texas' Heisman season concluded in the Cotton Bowl,
and the Aggies made the Sugar Bowl. Missouri went bowling for the second
straight season after a 13-year drought.

At Colorado, a bowl game

and an 8-4 season are now the expected minimum.

The Sooners, meanwhile, stayed home for the holidays -- again. It's been four
years since they were even able to make the Copper Bowl. Stoops has pledged to
work neighboring states for players, but schools in those states now have better
programs to sell.

K-State is even making a habit of coming into Oklahoma for players, most notably
former All-American Kevin Lockett and his younger brother Aaron. Burton said
that even when K-State doesn't win a recruiting battle it forces Oklahoma to
fight one. That doesn't leave the Sooners much freedom to use their time and
energy to cherry-pick top recruits from other states.

7. The wrong shade

of Sooner red

Oklahoma is used to a sea of red in the stands, but not on the ledger sheet.
After another season of failing to meet the budget, the school's athletic
department reportedly owes $7.9 million in debt to the university. That could
crimp the Sooners' style.

8. Breaking tradition

In Barry Switzer's glory years Sooner football meant wishbone football. Pass was
just another four-letter word at Oklahoma. Even Troy Aikman couldn't break the
mold; he transferred to UCLA rather than sit on the Sooner bench.

After Switzer, the bone was broken, but Oklahoma was still able to attract great
backs for its tailback-oriented offense. Now, after the hiring of Kentucky
offensive coordinator Mike Leach, Oklahoma will be throwing more. One thing the
Sooners could be throwing away is a great recruiting tool with their history of
running backs.

9. Broken family

Not too long ago the Sooners had a former Oklahoma player, John Blake, as a
coach and a former Sooner Heisman Trophy winner, Steve Owens, as an athletic
director. Now Stoops is the football coach and Missouri grad/former Missouri
Athletic Director Joe Castiglione is running Oklahoma's sports. That will all be
just fine with Sooner faithful -- if the football team wins big.

10. Changing climate

When asked if Oklahoma could ever get back, author Robert Heard said, "No. Not
without cheating. And I expect them to start next year."

Heard's book on the Texas-Oklahoma series had a distinct Longhorn slant, but he
does have a point. Somehow, most very successful programs manage not to run
afoul of the NCAA too often. Not the Sooners. Five times the Sooner football
program has been slapped with probation, the last time in 1988, which resulted
in a three-year probation.

Since the Switzer era, the Sooners have tried hard to clean up their image.
Harsher penalties, greater media scrutiny and more institutional responsibility
would seem to make it harder for any program to bend rules, let alone break
them, these days.

You may contact John Maher at jmaher@statesman.com or 445-3956.

fdoOU's decadence

DECADE WON LOST TIED ALL-AMERICANS

1950s 93 10 2 23

1960s 62 40 2 15

1970s 99 16 3 39

1980s 91 26 2 18

1990s 54 46 3 1

NATIONAL TITLES: 1950, 1955, 1956, 1974, 1975, 1985

Top-10 finishes

Top-10 finishes in The Associated Press poll, by decade:

TEAM 1950s '60s '70s '80s '90s

OU 9 3 9 5 0

UT 3 6 5 2 0

A&M 1 0 1 2 3

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The task of improving Oklahoma's football fortunes falls on the
shoulders of new head coach Bob Stoops, formerly the Florida defensive
coordinator. To help the cause, Stoops hired former Texas assistant Bobby Jack
Wright, regarded as the best recruiter on former Longhorn head coach David
McWilliams' staff.; Barry Switzer once boasted that he could win a national
championship by recruiting in the Houston area alone.  But today, the Sooners no
longer have a strong foothold anywhere in the Lone Star State. Fact box/chart at
bottom main hed doesn't have to say Sooner notion, but it needs to be a grabby
label type

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              93 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                February 5, 1999

Looking behind words

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 473 words


In this economic climate, the words "welfare reform" evoke images of welfare
mothers bustling off to work for the first time and zippy announcements pouring
out of human services departments about the incredibly shrinking welfare rolls.

Welfare rolls have plummeted. Nationally, since President Clinton signed the
federal welfare bill in 1996, the number of people on welfare has dropped nearly
one-third, to 8.4 million. (In Texas, the caseload fell to 148,750 in September,
down from 285,632 in January 1994.) People have found steady jobs.  The numbers
are encouraging -- to a point.

Since the inception of welfare reform, advocates for children and low-income
people have been concerned about what happens when the rolls are cut. The
incentives are there for states to chop their caseloads, but the reduction is
not welfare reform in the truest and best sense. The real test is whether
families improve their economic circumstances and whether children's well-being
is assured. At last the important questions are being asked .

First, in December, the Texas Department of Human Services and researchers from
Texas A&M University reported on their survey of former welfare recipients and
people who asked for aid but didn't receive it. They sought to telephone more
than 3,000 people and got through to about half of them. Of those they did
reach, 55 percent were working an average of 34 hours a week for an average of
$6.28 an hour. Many of them said they needed better training, education and
child care . We're left to guess about the condition of the 49 percent who
couldn't be reached or didn't respond.

On the national front, the first report is in from The Urban Institute and
nonprofit Child Trends research groups in Washington. The colossal study seeks
to track family well-being in light of welfare reform and the shift of social
programs from the federal government to the states.  The report issued will be a
baseline from which to judge changes over time.  A few of the highlights about
Texas:

* The state has more parents with housing problems compared with the nation as a
whole. And it has more children in low-income families having trouble affording
food than do low-income parents across the nation.

* It has more residents in poor health and more children and adults with no
health insurance compared to the national average.

* While the level of poverty for children in the United States is 20 percent, in
Texas it's 25 percent.

Kristin Moore, president of Child Trends, calls the national study "the miner's
canary," a way to test for dangerous conditions.  But we don't need a canary's
song to tell us that Texas' low-income children are vulnerable today. Nor should
we wait for the canary to keel over before legislators wake up to the need to
improve conditions for children -- now.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              99 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 20, 1999, Saturday

Fossils claimed on 2 more meteors; NASA scientist says microbial patterns were
found in 'Mars rocks' that fell in India, Egypt

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 559 words


HOUSTON -- The same NASA team that found evidence of microbial life in a Martian
meteor now claims two other meteors contain similar fossilized remnants.

What appear to be bacteria are contained in two meteorites believed to be from
Mars, according to a team led by Johnson Space Center geologist David S. McKay,
who presented his findings Thursday in Houston at the Lunar and Planetary
Science Conference.

McKay's presentation was a cautious one, since more research is required. A
mission is planned next decade to place a lander on Mars that would return a
soil sample to Earth.

The NASA team's latest findings, made within the past six months, were from
samples of a 1.3 billion-year-old meteorite that fell to Earth in 1911 near
Nakhla, Egypt, and a 165 million-year-old meteorite that fell near Shergotty,
India, in 1865.

"My own opinion is that these will turn out to be true microfossils from Mars,"
said McKay, 62. "We're not counting on getting many converts. All we ask,
though, is that people keep an open mind."

The scientist was one of the researchers who in August 1996 announced the
discovery of tiny fossilized structures in crevices of a 4 billion-year-old Mars
meteorite found in Antarctica in 1984.

McKay said some of the Nakhla features resembled Earth bacteria in a
reproductive phase. He also noted the flaking remains of what could have been a
slimy biofilm useful in snaring mineral nutrients from moisture or the
atmosphere.

"It has to be very clear that I have found features which bear a striking
resemblance to known fossilized life, but we have not proven they are fossilized
bacteria, nor have we proven they are from Mars," he said.

For the past three years, rival researchers and other scientists have debated
the significance of the NASA team's earlier findings. Independent analyses of
the Mars rock known as Allan Hills 84001 have failed to yield absolute,
incontrovertible evidence that the potato-sized chunk ever contained life.

But no one has proved that the original research by McKay and others was wrong.

"I think the most objective observation is that the jury is still out," McKay
said Friday. "What you hear is a lot of critics who pick on certain parts of our
story and say they're wrong and therefore that disproves it," he said.

In his latest presentation, McKay offered detailed photographic comparisons of
the fossil-like structures he observed in the Nakhla rock and those observed in
similar terrestrial formations. The remnants found in both meteorites bear a
stronger resemblance to bacteria on Earth than do the smaller structures in the
Antarctic meteorite.

Recent satellite imagery from the Mars Global Surveyor orbiting the planet
suggests traces of an ancient shoreline, and NASA's orbiting Viking probes of
the late 1970s revealed major watersheds and runoff areas.

Scientists theorize that existence of large amounts of surface water would
enhance the prospects that bacteria once developed in bedrock from which the
Antarctic meteorite came. But if Martian bacteria resided in the much younger
Nakhla and Shergotty rocks, then life may have persisted on the Red Planet
despite a drastic and still unexplained climate change.

"If this proves out, we will have shown that life spanned almost the entire
history of Mars, and presumably today," McKay said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              101 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 7, 1999, Wednesday

Kid Twins turn some heads in opener

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 1065 words


MINNEAPOLIS -- For one night, at least, the kids were all right.

Starting four of their 10 rookies against a Toronto team that could contend for
the playoffs, the Twins got a stellar pitching performance from Brad Radke and a
two-run pinch-hit triple by Brent Gates in a season-opening 6-1 win over the
Blue Jays on Tuesday night.

Minnesota's rookies combined for five hits, two doubles and an RBI to support
Radke, who allowed only Carlos Delgado's solo homer leading off the second. Matt
Lawton had three hits, including a two-run double in a six-run seventh, and
rookie Chad Allen was 2-for-4.

That made good on the front-office ploy to "guarantee" a victory. Each of the
45,601 fans, the largest opening-day crowd in Minnesota since 1993, would have
been eligible for a free ticket to another game if the Twins lost, but they went
home happy anyway.

Alex Gonzalez, Toronto's No. 9 batter, went 4-for-4 for Toronto, getting three
infield hits.

Among the rookies the Twins used, only shortstop Cristian Guzman struggled. He
struck out twice before Gates hit for him with two on and no outs in the seventh
after Dan Plesac relieved starter Pat Hentgen.

Gates punched an 0-1 pitch into the right corner. That scored rookie Doug
Mientkiewicz, who led off the inning with his second double of the night, and
Terry Steinbach, who barely slid around Darrin Fletcher's tag.

Rookie Torii Hunter followed with a bloop single that scored Gates. Lawton's
two-run double should have been the third out of the inning, but Shannon Stewart
lost the ball against the roof and it fell in shallow center field. Marty
Cordova followed with an RBI double.

NOTES: Future Hall of Famer Paul Molitor, who finished his 21-year career with
the Twins last season with 3,319 hits, threw out the first pitch. ... Polite
applause was mixed with boos when Gov. Jesse Ventura was introduced during the
pre-game ceremonies. ... Despite their no-name lineup, the Twins' sold 7,619
season tickets for 1999, surpassing last year's 6,043. The $99 season-ticket
deal, which includes an autographed Kirby Puckett bat for every pair of seats,
still is available. ... Tuesday marked the 1,800th career game as a manager for
Jim Fregosi, who was hired March 17 after controversial Tim Johnson was fired.

Elsewhere ...

There has been renewed dialogue between the Mets and the A's for a deal that
would send starting pitcher Kenny Rogers to New York. The Indians prefer to see
a few starts out of Rogers, who is nursing a sore shoulder.

Baltimore manager Ray Miller says that Cal Ripken will be his starting third
baseman tonight. Only Ripken's back has the power to intervene. Ripken exited
Monday's opener early because of lower back stiffness.

An afternoon conversation between player and manager was enough to persuade
Miller that there is no need for another precautionary day of rest following
Ripken's early exit from Monday's season opener because of lower back stiffness.

"I wrote him in the lineup today and I'll make adjustments if I have to," Miller
said.

Miller was forced to adjust in the bottom of Monday's third inning when back
pain prevented Ripken from bending at the waist. Willis Otanez pinch hit for
Ripken and remained in the game until Jeff Reboulet replaced him for defensive
purposes in the eighth inning. Otanez would likely start if the condition flared
anew today.

Others within the organization, including majority Owner Peter Angelos, advocate
a cautious approach. Ripken removing himself from a game would seem to suggest a
serious problem, especially given his refusal to yield to an excruciating
herniated disk during the 1997 season.

"I don't think he should push it. I think he should take whatever time he needs
to get back to 100 percent," Angelos said. "For him to come out of that game,
knowing how he can endure pain like no other player, he must have really been
hurting."

However, it is believed Monday's incident had more to do with a change in
climate, an extended pre-game ceremony and a passing spasm.

"If it tightens up again, or if there's an additional problem, he'll be out of
there," Miller insisted.

Ripken hasn't missed a game due to injury since being beaned May 2, 1982, by
Oakland A's pitcher Mike Moore. Ripken's consecutive-game streak began the same
season on May 30, extending 2,632 games until he took himself out of the lineup
last Sept. 20. Monday marked the first time since The Streak began that Ripken
left a game because of injury.

The Streak's end at least allows the condition to be dealt with in something
other than a circus atmosphere. Ripken left Camden Yards with his wife, Kelly,
during Monday's seventh inning. He was driven to Good Samaritan Hospital, where
he was examined by team orthopedic doctor Michael Jacobs. Ripken apparently did
not return for additional treatment Tuesday.

Ripken could not be reached for comment; however, a difficult spring training
may also have contributed to Monday's spasms. Ripken increased his time spent on
baseball-related activities while decreasing his time spent on exercises
performed almost daily during the previous spring's rehabilitation of his lower
back. Ripken also served as his family's anchor as his father, Cal Sr., lost his
fight with lung cancer. Ripken left the team on March 23, two days before his
father's death, and returned on March 31.

(Optional add end)

The extent of Ripken's discomfort Monday could be proven by a scorebook and his
teammates.

First baseman Will Clark half-expected Ripken to be a late scratch from the
lineup. Center fielder Brady Anderson also noticed his friend's discomfort.
Still, Ripken fully participated in pre-game infield and batting practice,
unlike his worst days during the '97 season.

Orioles starting pitcher Mike Mussina knew something was wrong in the first
inning when the second batter he faced, Devil Rays right fielder Dave Martinez,
dumped a shallow bunt near the third base line. Ripken, who typically charges
the play, hardly moved from his position.

Mussina said he experienced a "flashback" to '97 when Ripken was similarly
immobilized. "If it's a real good bunt, he immediately calls me off the play. It
was a real good bunt. He didn't come like he normally does. You just get that
sense that something's going on."

Distributed by the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              108 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 12, 1999, Saturday

Can't Fight City Hall? Now She Leads It; New Georgetown mayor is not

BYLINE: Brad Reagan

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1269 words


GEORGETOWN -- When MaryEllen Kersch arrived at Monument Cafe after church March
14, she didn't want to be mayor. She wanted brunch.

But she bought a paper on the way in and was startled to read that the city was
planning to offer tax-free bonds to the developer of a local water park. As soon
as she got home, she called Georgetown Mayor Leo Wood, who was up for
re-election. "I said, 'Leo, here's the deal,' " Kersch recalled. "You will win
the election if you come out against this (water park). If you don't, I'll run
against you."

Although at the time it seemed an idle -- and punchless -- threat from a local
gadfly, Kersch filed to run three days later. On June 1 she was sworn in. Her
unlikely candidacy had resulted in an unlikely mayor for Georgetown at a crucial
point in the city's history.

Kersch, a longtime grass-roots activist who once was dubbed the Pig Farm Lady by
a Minnesota newspaper, won primarily based on her opposition to the water park
and her advocacy of open government. Noble ideals, her critics say, but hardly
the resume needed for the myriad responsibilities that come with the mayor's
post in a growing, dynamic community. And they say her open hostility to the
water park and the similar Power Computing deal several years ago have
contributed to a stigma that Georgetown is not friendly toward development.

Her supporters, though, say she is legitimately passionate about the future of
Georgetown and not afraid to speak up when she disagrees with where it is
headed. "She's always jumping up and down and saying, 'By God!' this and 'By
God!' that, but she makes sense," said Harold Steadman, a Sun City resident who
supported Kersch. "She loves this community, and she's willing to work with
anyone who wants to maintain its ambience."

The main question that confronts Kersch, 56, as she begins her three-year term
is whether she can make the transition from agitator to consensus-builder.
Although the city elections were nonpartisan, Kersch is perceived as a liberal
in a conservative county and she can be, newly elected City Council Member Clark
Lyda says, "brutally honest and straightforward." As a result, finding common
ground with council members may not be as easy as finding hot-button issues to
sway voters.

"It's a highly political process if you want to make anything happen," said
Wood, who was Georgetown city manager before serving seven years as mayor. "That
would be a skill that she is going to have to develop."

History indicates she is a quick study.

Entry into politics

Kersch was teaching in Minnesota and hosting a local television show, "Women
Etc.," when she started her career in politics. Alerted that a corporate
hog-farming operation was planned four miles from her home, she led a campaign
to keep it out. She transformed support from small farmers and environmental
groups into the organization Save the American Family Farm. She was pregnant
with her second daughter at the time.

When a critical hearing before the state Pollution Control Agency was scheduled
four days after her daughter was born, she testified via phone from her bed at
home. The circumstances of her testimony helped land the hearing -- and "the Pig
Farm Lady" -- on the front page of the Minneapolis Tribune. The hog farms stayed
out of Minnesota.

In 1981, her husband was transferred to Georgetown, and Kersch quickly got
involved here as well by helping in 1982 to organize a rape services and
education program for the county. "It was obvious that it was needed," she said
recently. "They just needed someone to put it together."

But then-Sheriff Jim Boutwell credited her with "single-handedly" organizing the
program and suggested in 1990 that the county's shelter for battered women be
named after her, although commissioners settled on the more generic Williamson
County Crisis Center.

About that time, Kersch was divorced from her husband, and she began searching
for another career.

In 1992, she ran for Williamson County commissioner, her first try for public
office. Although she had been active in Republican Party politics in Minnesota,
she ran as a Democrat and was narrowly defeated by David Hays.

Kersch then turned her energies toward her career as a real estate agent and
stayed largely out of the political spotlight until 1996, when the political
climate in Georgetown changed dramatically.

She and other taxpayers said they felt the city was not upfront about the
package of incentives Power Computing was being offered to move to Georgetown.
She helped organize a protest that ended with the city agreeing to a set of
provisions before sealing the deal. Power Computing later was sold and left the
city with nothing to show for its generosity. Although no one at the city could
have foreseen the fate of the company, the way the deal was handled left a poor
taste in some residents' mouths.

"The level of public trust just went down the tubes -- and it got worse from
there," Kersch said.

It got worse, according to Kersch and others, because residents were promised
during the Power Computing deal that the city would not use the 4B corporation
-- a tax-exempt economic development arm of the city -- for anything other than
the computer maker.

So on March 14, when Kersch read that the 4B corporation was going to be used
for the water park, she called Wood to express her concern. As the filing
deadline approached and Kersch realized Wood was not going to take a strong
enough stand for her tastes, Kersch left work to weigh her options. When she got
home, she found 17 messages on her answering machine pleading with her to run.
She filed at 4:30 p.m., 30 minutes before the deadline. "How could I not do it?"
she asked. "I love this place."

Although Wood distanced himself from the water park by calling for a referendum
on the issue, many people credit the debate with costing him the election.

The election also left Kersch with the reputation as a one-issue candidate more
interested in causing trouble than making progress.  Kersch says she has worked
"very cooperatively" with the council in the past and does not foresee any
problems. She calls City Manager Bob Hart "a talented administrator."

Modest but realistic

Kersch said she has a modest but realistic agenda . First, she wants to make the
government more accessible. She hopes to have the agenda printed in the local
newspaper, and she rather symbolically switched out the rectangular desk in the
mayor's office for a circular conference table.

Kersch said she also will support plans to revamp the city's development codes.
She said she wants to retain the "community feel" of Georgetown by enacting a
design code for restaurants and other new buildings in the area. "I don't think
we want something that looks like everybody else," she said.

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, she intends to have a say in the city's
industrial recruitment. At a budget workshop Friday, Hart told Kersch and the
council that Georgetown is getting the reputation as a city that is not friendly
to development, in part because of the tenor of the recent election. Kersch,
though, says she wants growth, but not at all costs. She opposes tax abatements
but says she could be persuaded to support one in special circumstances.

The goal is "economic development that pays for itself," she said, adding that
she is willing to change her mind if that is what the public wants. "If we don't
end up there, that's OK. The process is the primary thing."

You may contact Brad Reagan at breagan@statesman.com or 246-0008.

Continued from B1

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Masterson of Georgetown confers Friday with Mayor MaryEllen Kersch
at a City Council retreat. Kersch was sworn in last week.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              111 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 11, 1999, Sunday

Euphoria, anxiety can cause poor investing choices

BYLINE: Charles A. Jaffe

SECTION: Business; Pg. J2

LENGTH: 870 words


t's mid-year review time, and while most people will concentrate on fund
performance, it's a good time to see where you fit into bigger industry trends.

Thus far in 1999, the fund industry has seen the pace of redemptions speed up,
with investors selling the funds they have. While some of the money is being
redistributed to safer havens, a lot of it is presumably going to support the
national increase in consumer spending.

Meanwhile, the pace of new investments is slowing. The only fund companies with
strong cash in-flows this year have been the largest providers of retirement
plans -- Fidelity, AIM, Putnam, Vanguard, and American funds -- plus the
high-flying Janus funds. Money has been flowing out of most other fund groups.

"This market has a high level of investment euphoria and a high level of
investment anxiety, and that's what you see in the industry numbers," says Avi
Nachmany of Strategic Insight, a New York market research company.

"On the euphoric side, you have some people investing in stocks on their own or
just spending some of what they have saved.  . . . The anxious people are going
into money market or bond funds or investing in real estate or something else.
. . . And then there are some people who are just moving money from one fund to
the next."

While not every investor falls into those groups, those behaviors deserve some
attention. In theory, at least, an ordinary investor might want to make one or
all of those moves.

On the euphoria side, individual stocks can add either juice or stability to an
investment portfolio.

"There is a difference between investing some money in a few stocks and taking
the entire nest egg and dropping it into Yahoo and America Online," says David
Haywood of Financial Research Corp. in Boston. "People see these raging returns
and feel they can do it on their own. They can, but they probably don't want to
get too crazy. When the market begins to correct, they will get more cautious.
They should be cautious at all times."

With that in mind, anyone pulling money from funds to invest in stocks might
stop short and ask, "Would I invest this way if the market had been flat or down
for the last six months?"

If you honestly trust your ability to pick stocks -- if you are comfortable
spotting issues that you feel comfortable betting on to enhance your overall
investment performance -- current market conditions don't matter much. Good
stock pickers should feel confident of their ability in all market climates.

In other words, if your primary reason for buying individual stocks is the hot
market, rather than your knowledge or insight, you could be in for a rough ride.
In that case, you would be better off developing a little more investment acumen
than that before allocating significant assets to your stock picks.

On the anxiety side, moves to money market and bond funds are defensive and
smack of market timing and the fear of a possible downturn. While safety is
fine, too much of it is at least as risky as going hog wild into stocks.

Still, if you have allowed your fund portfolio to run for the last few years,
chances are your asset allocations are heavily overweighted to stocks. If that
is the case, a mid-year portfolio review could convince you that it is time to
rebalance and move money into more defensive positions.

Following through won't be easy. Bond funds have been mediocre gainers at best
and interest rate risk is real now regardless of what Alan Greenspan says. Money
market funds are earning in the 4 percent range, which is hardly inspirational.

Review your portfolio to see if it offers the right mix of profit potential and
defensive positioning. And remember, the longer your time horizon, the less
defensive you need be.

As for moving money from fund to fund, try not to do it.

Obviously, when a fund has undergone significant changes in performance,
management, or investment objectives, it becomes a candidate for sale. But until
a fund proves it can no longer keep up, resist the temptation to move; you will
only wind up chasing performance and getting into funds as they cool, rather
than letting a good fund work for you long term.

Lastly, there are the people who are saving less and spending more, moves that
don't always show up in a portfolio review.

Using your money for its intended purpose -- to pay for your financial goals --
is one thing, but experts caution against the temptation to "let the market
save," relying on the above-average returns of the '90s to pay for your
retirement even if you don't save as much as you should.

"People on the consumption kick are running a significant risk that the
top-of-the-line car they bought will be replaced in their retirement by a
third-hand jalopy," says A. Michael Lipper of Lipper Inc., the New York research
company. "What people should look for is equilibrium in savings and investing.
You don't want to get to the time for your goals to happen and find out that
something you did now stopped you from getting there."

Charles A. Jaffe is mutual funds columnist at The Boston Globe. He can be
reached by e-mail at jaffe@globe.com or at The Boston Globe, Box 2378, Boston,
Mass. 02107-2378.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              112 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 12, 1999, Monday

Scores could soar at cranky Carnoustie

BYLINE: Clifton Brown

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 519 words


Winning the British Open at Carnoustie Golf Club is never a breeze, especially
if the wind howls.

When Gary Player won in 1968 at Carnoustie, he shot a 1-over-par 289. That is
the highest winning score in the last 50 years of the tournament.

On a calm day, Carnoustie is no picnic. On a blustery Scottish day, Carnoustie
is a potential nightmare. Players leave Carnoustie with vivid memories, high
scores and horror stories. But for a complete test of championship golf, few
locations in the world offer a greater challenge.

"This is by far the toughest venue we'll play," said Tiger Woods, looking
forward to this year's British Open, which begins Thursday at Carnoustie. "I
remember playing the 1996 Scottish Open there, and the wind conditions were
extreme. I'd hit 4-iron, 4-iron into No. 17, then hit driver, driver the very
next day into the same hole. The wind can wreak havoc."

It can also wreck confidence, which will make this year's Open championship a
terrific test. The Open has not been played at Carnoustie since 1975, when Tom
Watson won the first of his five British Open titles, defeating Jack Newton in a
playoff.

In the 24 years since Carnoustie was host to the Open, it has become even more
intimidating. The course has been lengthened from 7,065 yards to 7,361, the
longest on the British Open circuit, and 14 bunkers have been added. In 1975
Carnoustie played as a par 72. But this week it will be a par 71, with the
479-yard No. 12 converted from a par 5 into a par 4.

Located on Scotland's east coast, in a town of fewer than 14,000 people against
the North Sea, Carnoustie demands different shots from day to day, depending on
the direction and strength of the wind.

And Carnoustie's zigzag layout makes it more distinctive, with no more than two
consecutive holes playing in the same direction. You can forget about playing
five or six consecutive holes with a prevailing wind. Just as you adjust to
having the wind at your back, on the next hole it could blow in your face.

Players thank the golf gods when the wind is calm, the way it was in 1995 when
Wayne Riley shot 12 under par (276) to win the Scottish Open. But at the 1996
Scottish Open the wind blew consistently from 30 to 40 mph. Ian Woosnam was the
winner at 1 over par (289), and there were only four rounds in the 60s in the
entire tournament.

Woods shot an opening-round 81. The average score the second day was 78.8. Nine
over par made the cut. Some players still shudder when they think about that
tournament.

How high will the scores be this year if the wind whips on a longer, tougher
Carnoustie?

"It's the toughest links course you will find anywhere in the world," said Ernie
Els, a two-time U.S. Open champion. "If the wind blows, 300 might be the winning
score."

To prepare for this week's challenge, Woods, David Duval, Lee Janzen, Mark
O'Meara and Payne Stewart spent last week in Ireland, playing golf, fishing and
adjusting to the change in time zone and climate. Everyone will work on lowering
his ball flight, hoping to hit more penetrating shots that bore into the wind.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              114 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            July 22, 1999, Thursday

LETTES

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1012 words


RED TAPE EVERYBODY

We cannot get old cars off the street. We cannot get city employees to answer
phone calls for days. City streets need repair. Red tape everywhere we turn. I
recommend that the president of the AISD school board appoint a blue-ribbon
committee to join with the City Council to solve these problems.

HAROLD E. MASSEY

Austin

More sensitivity please

We greatly mourn the tragedy noted in a July 13 article, "Couple never got home
from church," and send our prayers for the surviving family members of Todd and
Stacie Bagley.

We recognize the American-Statesman's responsibility to accurately report news.
But in this climate of increasing racial tension, we are concerned by the
contrasting photographs of the black "suspects" and white "victims" which may
serve to further racial distrust and division in our community. By placing
photographs with such greatly contrasting quality and color, the newspaper may
unwittingly further racial stereotyping.

Since the American-Statesman is an important informational asset in our
community, we respectfully urge its editors to exercise more sensitivity along
these lines in the future.

JOSEPH C. PARKER JR.

GENO HILDEBRANDT

RICK RANDALL

E.E. TYRON

A.G. CUMBERBATCH JR.

Austin

Stop the greed

Now that Gov. George W. Bush has another $36 million in campaign money to throw
around, I wonder if he plans to exercise a little of his compassionate
conservatism, and reimburse the state for paying people to do his job while he's
off promoting his own self-interests.

Further, I wonder how much is enough. It's beginning to look like the presidency
of the United States is up for sale to the highest bidder.

Does anyone else think it's just a bit obscene for elected officials to be
chasing the bucks instead of doing the job they were elected to do? The concept
of a level playing field has vanished and it causes me to wonder just how much
of a Democracy we've got left.

Isn't it time to put the brakes on this greed?

JUDY WOODARD

Austin

He's got my vote

I notice a lot of people are getting alarmed about a "Bush Dynasty" and
complaining about Gov. George W. Bush's so-called background of privilege. I am
sure that this concern is more because he is doing so well in his run for
president and because he is a Republican. I wonder if these same concerns would
be raised as strongly, if at all, if Gov. Bush was a Kennedy or some other
Democrat.  Gov. Bush has my vote for president. He must be alarming a lot of
people since the dirtdiggers and mudslingers are already going after him like
they did Dan Quayle.

As a political family, I will stand the Bush family against any political family
that the Democrats can come up with, and the country will be the better for it.
To those who can't handle the success of the Bush campaign, get over it.

RAY A. NISSEN

Austin

Loosen up

I'm writing in response to a July 17 letter about the "shameless and disturbing"
activity of collecting donations for a baseball team to go on a trip. Do people
ever stop bantering about absurd things? With severe gang problems and school
shootings, the author of the letter should be glad such parent-child
participation is taking place. These parents go to a very unpleasant, at best,
U.S. 290 and Interstate 35 intersection to help out their children. Way to go!
Next time, the author of the "Shameless exercise" letter should loosen up, stop
whining, open her wallet and help support such a commendable activity.

JEFF McCREIGHT

Austin

Harmful policy

I have read in the American-Statesman that the city library commission believes
that all books on the library shelves, regardless of the content, will be
available for viewing by minors. I believe this is a harmful policy and should
be changed. I have talked with other parents who feel the same way.

I do not understand how a group of adults reviewing these materials could say
with a straight face that they are not obscene and harmful to children. Are
there no parents with any judgment on this committee? Doesn't the distribution
of such material to minors violate state law?

Change the policy and stop wasting taxpayers' resources.

KYLER THOMPSON

Austin

Displaying our flag

While driving around Austin and the Hill Country during the Fourth of July
weekend, I noticed several homes displaying the Texas flag. What got my
attention was the fact that several of these flags were upside down. The fact
that I recently saw our flag displayed upside down on a popular New York TV show
is no excuse. I don't expect New Yorkers to be knowledgeable about the Texas
flag.  However, Texans need to remember that the white stripe goes on top, the
red stripe on the bottom.

KATHLEEN STEGALL

Austin

ksstdancer@aol.com

Bus safety

In response to a July 4 letter, I have been riding Capital Metro buses regularly
for over six years, and even when traveling at night, I have never been
concerned about my safety on the bus. (Walking home from the bus stop was
another matter.) Most people I know who avoid the bus do so because Capital
Metro doesn't run often enough to be convenient or doesn't serve the areas they
need to reach, not because they fear for their lives on the bus.

And I find it very hard to believe that a criminal would use the bus to get away
from the crime scene.  Any criminal who's worried about getting caught would do
better to drive.

SHARON L. CASTEEL

Austin

Yes, he's still there

A July 9 commentary page included a cartoon by Marshall Ramsey . It shows a man
passing four road signs staked along the highway : "Welcome to the Mississippi
Delta"; "Bobby Kennedy was here"; "Bill Clinton was here" and "Poverty is still
here."

The cartoon misses one important sign: Majority Leader Trent Lott (of
Mississippi) is still here.

E.A. GALVN

Austin

CORRECTION

The accident described in Tuesday's editorial, "Accident witnesses, please step
forward," happened on the southbound side of N. Interstate 35, near the Woodland
Avenue exit, and not on South I-35 as stated.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              118 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 1, 1999, Sunday

In torrid Phoenix, lives revolve around the sun

BYLINE: Ted Anthony

SECTION: Business; Pg. J5

LENGTH: 1647 words


SUN CITY, Ariz. -- Long before our grandparents were born, the Sun God smiled
upon the land. And there was warmth.

Trouble was, the Sun God didn't know when to stop smiling. So there was more
warmth -- 300 sunny days a year, so many that they named this place the Valley
of the Sun. By this time the Sun God was grinning like a butcher's dog. Like a
dental ad. Like an Osmond.

And from the desert rose a wondrous civilization called the Phoenix metropolitan
area. But the asphalt and glass only made it more torrid. And people wondered if
the Sun God was one of those demons from the hot place down below.

Just how hot was it? Birds burrowed into cactuses to stay cool. Drivers clutched
potholders while steering. People rose at 4 a.m. to mow and garden and golf,
then retreated from the searing morning before 9. "Are you getting enough
shade?" became a pleasantry.

Finally they found a tool that could keep the blistering deity at bay -- but
only indoors. There came to be two distinct realms in the valley. Outside the
Sun God still prevailed, smiling that infernal smile. But inside, at last it was
cool.

They called their tool air conditioning; by the tens of thousands, they put it
to use. It changed the Valley of the Sun forever.

Beating the heat

On the Loop 101 Freeway, just northwest of downtown Phoenix, it's rush hour. But
less than a mile away from the corridor of climate-controlled cars, the streets
of suburban Sun City on this bright summer morning are utterly, surreally empty
of humanity.

Nobody on the sidewalks of Del Webb Boulevard, named after the guy who laid out
Sun City. Not a posterior planted on any of the 55 outdoor public benches at
Lakeview Center. And in the neighborhoods where so much of the nation comes to
retire, same story. The lawns of Tropicana Circle -- not a soul. The fairways of
Lakes West Golf Course -- deserted.

It was different at 4:30 a.m. Before dawn, walkers crowded the streets,
gardeners the lawns, golfers the links. In the middle of what other people
consider the night, Sun City was alive. Understandably so: It was only about 95
degrees. And dark.

But by 9 a.m. it's 108 degrees, heading to a 116-degree high. And Sun City, like
most of the rest of metro Phoenix, is indoors with its indispensable accessories
-- air conditioners and evaporative "swamp coolers," contraptions that cool the
air by making it moist and work only in low humidity.

"People simply wouldn't live here if they didn't have the tools to keep them
cool," says Ivy Wixson, manager of Sun City's Olive Branch Recreation Center, a
senior center where a sign in the lobby advertises an upcoming "indoor picnic."

From June to August, this is how metropolitan Phoenix exists -- a flurry of mad
dashes from air-conditioned home to air-conditioned car to air-conditioned
office to air-conditioned mall. Determined 15-minute searches for shady parking
spots. And rising thermometers: Phoenix's normal high temperature in July is 106
degrees -- the highest of any major American city.

Well, what do you expect when you build a city smack in the middle of the
Sonoran Desert? Of course the heat -- face-slapping, shirt-drenching,
foot-blistering, sear-your-elbow-on-the-pay-phone heat -- is the arbiter of
lifestyle.

"Everybody understands what it's like to get ready for winter," says Jim Belnap,
owner of a 44-year-old air-conditioning installation and service company called
George Brazil. "Here, we spend our time getting ready for summer."

How hot is it? Hotter than where you are. Car manufacturers use Phoenix to test
the endurance of their paint. Saudi Arabian hospitals recruit foreign staff from
here so they get people who are accustomed to the heat. A few years back, the
Daily News-Sun, Sun City's newspaper, cooked a TV dinner in the back seat of a
car and popped microwave popcorn in the trunk during a 122-degree day.

Arizona, it's worth noting, defiantly doesn't use daylight savings time.
Conventional wisdom says Arizonans want to distinguish themselves from
Californians, but people also joke that it's because the daylight isn't worth
saving.

"But it's a dry heat," insists Phoenician after Phoenician (the term, believe it
or not, for a Phoenix resident), trying to explain what draws so many retired
Americans to this region. There's even a popular T-shirt sold here that shows a
sun-baked skeleton uttering the dry-heat mantra.

"C'mon," snaps David Tatum, curator of collections at the Arizona Historical
Society. "You cook a chicken in dry heat, too."

In the historical society's archive sits a cylinder of pink flannel strips
attached to a tiny fan -- one of Arizona's earliest swamp coolers, built by a
man named Gust Goettl to cool his niece's room. Goettl and his brothers became
pioneers in keeping Arizona cool; their company is still around today.

The society's exhibits show how heat, and fighting it, has defined the region.
The ice-lined coffins that 19th-century Phoenix morticians employed to keep
bodies cool. The adobe huts that insulated Indians. The people who would pick
spots on the buttes and mesas outside Tempe, carry up sheets (or even entire
beds), wet them down, wrap themselves up and go to sleep. The state hospital
that hung soaked cloth in the windows and hoped for wind.

"Every part of our lives is shaped by the desert," a sonorous voice intones in
the society's history film. "We who live here are continually forced by the
desert to think ahead and invent our future."

The future, for Phoenix, would be the air conditioner.

Change is in the air

Years ago, a disgruntled Arizona Democrat, grumbling about how the state's
politics turned toward the GOP after World War II, came up with a theory. Maybe,
he said, air conditioning brought the Republicans in.

He was partially right. You'll hear it over and over here: Air conditioning
brought 'em in. And not just Republicans.

Air conditioning may mean comfort in Boston and safety in Atlanta, but in
Phoenix it's related to existence itself. True, the Southwestern desert was home
to Apaches and settled by pioneers, but it was mass-marketed by artificial cool.

"You just don't go to Phoenix or Dallas or Houston without air conditioning,"
says Chrysanthe Broikos, curator of an exhibit on air conditioning's history at
the National Building Museum in Washington. "You certainly don't make your home
there. And corporations don't decide to go there."

In the years after the war, as air conditioning became cheaper and more
available for homes, people and corporations did decide to go: Between 1950 and
1995, Arizona's population grew by 462 percent.

In 1969, a Phoenix city councilman proclaimed his town "Air Conditioned Capital
of the World." And today's culture of air conditioning defines Phoenix's very
existence as much as the heat itself.

People get arrested for smuggling banned coolants from Mexico. They assault one
another when air conditioners break. Air conditioning has even affectedimpacted
how people build their homes: The high ceilings, deep porches and wide eaves of
traditional architecture, designed to keep occupants cool and hot air rising,
have been replaced by the flat ranch-house homefronts and huge picture windows
of the air-conditioned subdivision. Worried about the glass letting in heat?
Just crank up the a/c!

In the Phoenix phone book are 35 pages of air-conditioning stores, contractors
and repair outfits (Pittsburgh, by comparison, has five pages). In summer, their
employees race around in vans, trying to keep up with the people whose air
conditioners are broken and who are sure it's a life-and-death issue. It can be.

Then there are the electric bills -- up to $300 a month in the hot months.
Virtually all cooling in Arizona -- fan, swamp cooler, air conditioning -- is
electric, and the many newcomers aren't expecting what comes from the power
company in the mail.

"Their first summer here, it's like buying a car. It's sticker shock," says
Scott Harelson, a spokesman for the Salt River Project, a Phoenix power company.

In Sun City five years ago, an elderly woman on a fixed income decided to turn
off her air conditioner during a 120-degree day. She flipped on her evaporative
cooler; it blew out hot air. They found her expired on her bed, her dog dead
beside her.

Such restraint is not exactly common. Most people crank the thermostat and worry
later. On Aug. 28, 1998, between 5 and 6 p.m. the Salt River Project had its
highest usage ever -- 4,666 megawatts at one time. Given that one megawatt is
enough energy to power 100 homes, this was no small affair. No coincidence,
either, that it was at the time when people are getting home from work and
cooling down.

A big chunk of it that evening came from Bank One Ballpark, where the newly
minted Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Milwaukee Brewers, 6-3.

Below the indoor ballpark's third-base line, inside room 1309, sits one huge air
conditioner -- a jungle of consoles, control panels and John Goodman-sized pipes
that carry chilled air to the baseball faithful on triple-digit evenings. In
charge of it is Greg Myrick, who operates the coolers from a personal computer
in a nearby room.

During ballgames, Myrick's men roam the stands with handheld thermometers,
measuring temperatures and barking results into walkie talkies. The target: 74
degrees.

Chillers are turned on five hours before game time to cool the park after its
retractable roof has been open to let the natural grass grow. Outside, across
railroad tracks, sit four cement towers, each filled with water and a 12-foot
fan that cools it before it's pumped into the stadium.

It makes for a better experience than Myrick remembers in outdoor minor-league
parks around here. "We were sweating at 7 p.m.," he recalls on a recent
afternoon. "With this, I think people are really starting to enjoy baseball."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jim Belnap owns George Brazil, an air-conditioning installation and
service company in Phoenix. With a normal high of 106 degrees in July, Belnap
and others in the industry stay busy.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              121 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 19, 1999, Sunday

Would you pay $900,000 for this house?; You might, if Austin's home

BYLINE: Michelle Breyer

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 3829 words


SAN JOSE, Calif. -- We listened to the Watergate hearings on the radio as my Dad
pulled our Ford LTD wood-paneled station wagon up to the house on Chateau Drive
on a warm day in 1974.

IBM had transferred my father from Denver to San Jose, his second move in three
years.  The city seemed very big and sprawling.

After weeks of searching, our real estate agent dragging us from one house to
the next, my parents found the 4-four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom ranch
house in Almaden Valley. It was on the outer reaches of San Jose, two bus lines
away from the shopping mall.

The house had high windows, shag carpeting and a turquoise front door.

It was a two-mile hike to school, up and down hilly streets, past apricot and
plum orchards and horses grazing on sloping pastures.

Our house was built in 1961 for $35,000. My parents bought it 13 years later for
$59,000. That sounded like a lot of money at the time.

What a difference a few decades and a couple of high-tech booms can make.

The cost of the average home in the Santa Clara County today is nearly 12 times
what it was 25 years ago.

These days, the county ranks among the most expensive housing markets in the
nation. The median home price is $410,000 -- a price that less than a third of
Santa Clara County households can afford. A family would need to make at least
$120,000 to buy the median home. And these days, a $410,000 home is a starter
home in many Silicon Valley neighborhoods.

In 1998, 59 percent of Austin-area households had the money to purchase a
median-priced home around Austin, according to the Austin Community Action
Network.

Cushy Palo Alto, in the heart of the Silicon Valley, now has the honor of being
the nation's most expensive housing market, with an average home price of
$843,500. A 26-year-old, four-bedroom, three-bathroom house in Palo Alto sold in
March for $3.2 million -- one of at least three homes that have sold this year
for $1 million more than the asking price.

Silicon Valley is a market with million-dollar tear-downs and $120,000 mobile
homes. It's a place where people rent garages and spare bedrooms because that is
all they can afford. First-time home buyers camp out overnight to vie for
$300,000 tract homes in bedroom communities a two-hour commute away. Tiny condos
that sold for $400,000 last year are on the market for $500,000 this year.

Apartments aren't any more affordable. The average rent for a two-bedroom
apartment in the Santa Clara Valley is $1,800 a month-- more than double the
$880 average in the Austin area, which is the highest in Texas.

Silicon Valley's real estate market is on a roller-coaster that seems to climb
higher and higher after every dip, with no end in sight.

"No one's child will be able to buy a house there," says James Treybig,
co-founder of Tandem Computers Corp., who now counsels young high-tech startups.

Treybig should know. He moved to Austin in 1995 after 30 years in the Los Altos
Hills to be near his son, who couldn't afford to buy a house in Silicon Valley.

Is Silicon Valley a glimpse of what's to come in Austin?

In both communities, high technology has meant rapid growth and a surge of new
wealth.  But it also has meant spiking home prices that are squeezing many
people out of the market and could threaten continued growth.

Austin isn't San Jose -- yet. But what about 20 years down the road?

Prices in some Austin-area neighborhoods have been rising by double digits each
year for much of the 1990s, a trend that shows few signs of slowing. A
two-bedroom, one-bathroom bungalow in Austin's Rosedale neighborhood cost
$20,000 in 1974. Today, it would cost closer to $200,000.

The median single-family home price in the seven-county metropolitan area has
jumped 78 percent over in the past decade, to $130,160.

That may sound dirt cheap by Silicon Valley standards. But in a recent
affordability survey by the National Association of Homebuilders, the Austin
area was 139th in a ranking of 184 metropolitan areas. The city had dropped 40
places since the 1991 survey.

The rapid rise in home and land prices, along with rising property taxes,
already has pushed buyers to communities such as Buda and Cedar Park, where they
can find homes for less than $100,000 in exchange for longer commutes.

But there still are Silicon Valley-style horror stories of teachers and
carpenters who can't afford anything within the Austin city limits and companies
having trouble recruiting workers because of the high cost of housing.

"I think we are on the path of Silicon Valley," said high-tech entrepreneur
Peter Zandan, founder of Intelliquest Information Group Inc. "I think you can
see the future, unless we do something about it."

Redefining 'affordable'

"Pull up all the $100,000 houses in the Santa Clara Valley," I ask broker
Colleen Rose as she sits in front of her computer in a bustling Los Gatos
office.

She laughs. Other than mobile homes, there are no $100,000 houses in the Santa
Clara Valley, she says.

"OK, pull up the cheapest single-family house in Santa Clara Valley," I ask.

It's difficult to find anything below $200,000 in the entire county, which
encompasses much of Silicon Valley. But after some looking, up pops a property
for $150,000 on Willow Street south of downtown San Jose.

It's not actually a house. It's an empty, weed-choked lot in a neighborhood on
the mend, where most longtime residents couldn't afford to buy a house today.

On Harliss Street, a block away from the empty lot, Victor Marquez lives in a
2-two-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bathroom house with his four children. Marquez,
who is getting divorced, is selling his house and moving in with his mother.

He bought his house for $133,500 three years ago. Now, his real estate broker
says he can get $250,000, and that figure seems to rise by the week.

On the other side of the expressway, in desirable Willow Glen, a neighborhood of
tidy bungalows reminiscent of Austin's Hyde Park, the same house could go for
$500,000.

"It's crazy, super crazy -- too crazy," says Marquez, 38, an electrician. "I
couldn't afford to buy again."

"If your wife ain't making $60,000 and you ain't making $60,000, you ain't going
to live comfortably anywhere in the Bay Area," he says.

That's one reason 6,000 Californians a year move to the Austin area -- many of
them from the Silicon Valley, according to Angelou Economic Advisors, an Austin
economic consulting firm.

They include John and Kristen Peregrini, who rented a one-bedroom,
800-square-foot apartment in Pleasanton for $1,000 a month. The 18-mile commute
took him an hour each way.

When John Peregrini was offered a transfer from Fremont to Central Texas with
Scott Semiconductor Gases last year, he grabbed it. The Peregrinis recently
built a 2,500-square-foot house in the Vista Oaks subdivision near Round Rock
for $177,000.

But for others, such as Juan Cabaa, 62, the benefits of Silicon Valley outweigh
the cost.

Cabaa, a product service manager for Compaq Computer Corp., knows he won't be
able to get anything close to the 3,700-square-foot custom house he's selling in
Spring, near Houston, for $350,000. A comparable house in Silicon Valley would
cost at least $1 million, he says. Instead, he's looking at fixer-uppers and
condos with tiny rooms near busy streets that overlook commercial parking lots.

But he's willing to trade the swimming pool and the space for the things
Northern California offers -- culture, a better climate and proximity to his
children. In a day, he can go to the mountains, the beach, the wine country, San
Francisco, Carmel.

"That's the price of entry here," Cabaa says of housing costs. "It's a cover
charge."

Leaving Chateau Drive

I endured the awkward years of middle school and the self-conscious days of high
school in the house on Chateau Drive.

There were weekend sleepovers on the living room floor, gossiping with friends.
Giddy moments before a first date peering apprehensively out the window at a
gawky teen-age boy coming up the front walk. Burying the late family cat,
Moonshine, in his favorite spot under the weeping willow tree in the back yard.

By the mid-1980s, my sister and I had left San Jose, starting our adult lives in
other cities. She got married and moved to a Chicago suburb, and I moved to
Southern California with a college boyfriend.

In 1987, my father took early retirement from IBM to fulfill his lifelong dream
of starting his own business. My parents decided to open that business in San
Diego.

A "For Sale" sign was posted in the front lawn of the house on Chateau Drive.

It was the tail end of Silicon Valley's devastating recession, not the best time
to put a house on the market. It took nearly six nail-biting months to sell.

The buyers-- a lawyer, his wife and their two young daughters -- bought the
house for $293,000, more than five times what my parents had paid for it 13
years before.

"I was more than pleased," recalls my father, Jack.

Recession hits the Valley

El Pueblo de San Jose de Guadalupe, the oldest civilian settlement in
California, was founded in 1777. For much of its history, it was an agricultural
community. But world-renowned Stanford University, in Palo Alto, was an
incubator for innovative ideas that would reshape the fertile valley.

Today, about 1,500 of the nation's 2,500 largest electronics companies are based
in the Valley. The San Jose Metropolitan statistical area has more than 11,400
high-tech firms that employ roughly 241,000 workers.

But the Valley's prosperity hasn't been without its price.

In 1985 and 1986, the demand for computers and semiconductors plunged -- an
event akin to the oil bust and savings-and-loan crisis that crippled Texas in
the mid-1980s. The area lost 10,100 jobs in 1986 alone.

The economy picked up again in 1987, growing steadily until 1989.

Then the Earth started shaking. The temblor that struck the Bay Area in October
1989 -- measuring 7.1 cq/lm on the Richter scale and causing more than $7
billion in damage -- was one of the first in a series of events that rattled
residents and caused the Valley to fall out of favor with companies.

The electronics recession hit the Valley hard, causing the area to lose 35,000
jobs between 1989 and 1991, including more than 10,000 in the electronics
industry. An industry survey conducted in 1992 showed that nearly one-fifth of
the Valley's young workers were looking outside the area for jobs.

Many companies, complaining of high wages, high land costs, high housing costs,
worker turnover and an anti-business attitude, also began looking elsewhere. And
cities like such as Austin, Portland and Seattle were more than ready to welcome
them. Silicon Valley's woes fueled Austin's high-tech boom in the early 1990s.
Between 1993 and 1996, Austin recruited 16 companies from the Valley, among them
Applied Materials and Advanced Micro Devices.

And home prices in Silicon Valley flattened, even dropped, in the early 1990s.

The Valley had to recreate itself -- and recreate itself it did. The 1990s
became the decade of dot com.

Home construction, however, has not kept pace with job growth -- and therein
lies the problem.

According to Ian Stuart of the Advisory Group of Colliers International, Silicon
Valley has added 200,000 jobs but only 38,000 homes in the past five years.

In August, there were enough homes on the market to last less than two months at
the current rate of sales.

"To find out where Austin is going, look at the number of jobs and the number of
new houses being built," said Carl San Miguel, president-elect of the Santa
Clara County Board of Realtors. "If they don't equal each other, your prices
will go up as much as ours have."

"Austin can learn from San Jose," San Miguel said. "If you build new industry,
you better build housing."

And d Demand for housing seems to be outpacing supply in the Austin area, even
though homes are going up at a record pace. There is about a three-month supply
of existing homes for sale. The rule of thumb is that a six-month supply is the
point at which supply and demand are in equilibrium.

But Silicon Valley and Silicon Hills do have major differences.

Silicon Valley is bounded by mountains and water, with little land left to build
on. In some areas, thousands of acres that could be used for housing have been
reserved for industrial or commercial development.

In the Austin area, "there will always be land that can be developed," said Mark
Dotzour, chief economist and director of research at the Real Estate Center at
Texas A&M University.  "You can always develop another Cedar Park."

Both Austin and Silicon Valley have a lot of new wealth created by the tech
industry, with its high salaries and stock options. Builders have followed the
money, with many focusing on the high-end market, leaving low- and middle-income
markets underserved. And in both areas, salaries haven't kept pace with housing
costs.

For longtime Valley residents, rising real estate prices have been a blessing,
providing them with hundreds of thousands of dollars in equity in a relatively
short time.

They also benefit from the much-publicized, often-maligned Proposition 13. The
state law, passed in 1978, limits increases in a property's assessed value each
year. Only when you sell your property do the taxes change. As resultUnlike
Austin, the tax burden is rising much slower than housing prices.

For those not lucky enough to hit the high-tech jackpot or to get into the real
estate market before it soared, Valley real estate is far out of reach. Skilled
workers, in general, are pulling ahead, while unskilled workers are falling
farther behind.

The high cost of housing has become such a critical issue that the Silicon
Valley Manufacturing Group last year teamed up with civic and community groups
to find a solution. They created the Santa Clara Trust Fund, which is working to
raise $20 million within the next two years to help first-time homebuyers with
down payments and closing costs, encourage the construction of affordable
apartments and provide grants to alleviate homelessness. The coalition has
raised $4.5 million so far.

"If we can't deal with this problem, it could affect the capacity of our
companies to grow in this region," said Linda Mandolini, director of
transportation and land use for the manufacturing group, which represents 150
companies. "Housing has a significant impact on our companies' ability to
recruit and retain employees.

"There is this perception out there that everyone is a millionaire," Mandolini
said with a laugh. "It's not true."

Crowded suburbs

Less expensive homes are available for those willing to drive -- both in Silicon
Valley and the Silicon Hills.

These "megacommuters" have fueled building booms to the north, south and east of
Silicon Valley in places like Manteca and Modesto, Stockton and Los Banos.
Roughly 18 percent of the work force in the Valley, about 162,000 people,
commutes daily from outside the Santa Clara Valley.

Tracy, one of Silicon Valley's closest edge cities, is booming.

Commuting the 60 miles from Tracy to Sunnyvale during rush hour each morning
takes about two-and-a-half hours -- a little longer than the drive from Austin
to Waco. It's stop-and-grow go traffic nearly all the way into Milpitas, even at
9 a.m.

A series of strip centers and housing developments off Interstate 205, Tracy
could be Anywhere U.S.A. It looks like it was built overnight. It was.

Until the late 1980s, Tracy was an agricultural community of Italian and
Portuguese immigrants, known for flat fields of tomatoes and dried beans. Now
it's one of Silicon Valley's fastest-growing bedroom communities, said Bob
Konant, a senior planner for the city of 50,000. It has seen its population rise
6 percent a year since 1990.

"In 20 years, it's gone from cow town to modern town," says Joe Delucchi, a
California Highway Patrol zone commander who has worked the roads around Tracy
for 13 years. "That McDonald's over there was a barn."

He sips a cup of coffee in a booth in the back of Lyon's Restaurant. Nearby sits
a group of farmers who gather there early every morning. Some have gotten
wealthy from the Silicon Valley boom, which turned their fields into gold.

"Everyone says Tracy will be another San Jose," says farmer Ed Arnaudu, whose
family has sold thousands of acres around Tracy.

With rising demand, the median home price in Tracy has climbed to $180,000 from
$160,000 three years ago.

For $200,000, you can buy one of the dozens of new three- or four-bedroom tract
homes rising around the city's south side -- stucco boxes on small lots that
look just like the houses on either side.

In August, 40 families camped out at the Hidden Lake subdivision in Tracy in the
hopes of getting their names at the top of the list for the first 235 homes. The
homes there range from the high $200,000s to the high $300,000s.

As cities like Tracy have grown and prices have risen, people have been pushed
even farther out.

"If you were raised in Tracy, you probably can't afford to live here," Konant
says.

You can get more house for your money in Manteca -- if you're willing to drive
three hours to work in the Valley. You can get even more in Modesto or Stockton,
but the commute grows by another half-hour.

"It's just exploded here," says Virginia Forte, a real estate broker and 40-year
resident of Los Banos, another growing bedroom community 85 miles southeast of
San Jose. "It's like an exodus every morning."

'I am not moving here'

The phone rings nonstop on the desk of Debbie Rossetto, one of the most
successful real estate brokers in Silicon Valley.

She has been one of the beneficiaries of the housing boom, with a shelf full of
golden "top producer" statuettes to prove it.  She topped last year's $500,000
in gross commissions by mid-August. This year, she expects to sell $25 million
worth of houses.

While she enjoys her success -- which helped buy four vehicles, two boats and
two Jet Skis -- it's not always easy selling real estate in Silicon Valley.

"We place them where we can," Rossetto says.

But it can be a shock when perception and reality meet in her champagne Jaguar .

Like the time Rossetto went out with a young couple from Tennessee. The husband
had been offered a job with a high-tech company that would triple his salary and
provide a $50,000 signing bonus. The couple were likely to make a hefty profit
on their house back home.

"They thought they'd come here and live lavishly," Rossetto says.

They began looking at houses in their $200,000 price range -- all entry-level
homes in Silicon Valley.

The wife began sobbing loudly in the back of the car. "I am not moving here,"
she screamed at her husband.

Chateau Drive today

The plane touches down in San Jose, my first trip back in nearly a decade.

In the interim, I have bought and sold a few houses of my own. I recently had my
own encounter with the sticker shock of house-hunting in Central Austin,
searching for months before finding a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house near
Shoal Creek, priced much higher than I had expected.

On the drive out to Almaden, I see new shopping centers and office buildings.
Highways have replaced roads. Trees are taller. New subdivisions have supplanted
nearly all the orchards and pastures.

The traffic is a lot heavier. The sky's brown haze is thicker, nearly blocking
out the hilltops.

But Chateau Drive looks pretty much the same.

I pull up to the curb in front of my old house, which is undergoing a major
facelift. A cream stucco faade has replaced the wood siding. Sun shines through
new skylights. An addition will house a bigger kitchen, dining area and family
room. The weeping willow tree out back is long gone, replaced by an expanded
garage. And my old bedroom is now the home office.

"How much is this house worth today?" I ask the owners, who bought the house
from my parents 12 years ago -- a lawyer and a legal secretary, with two
teen-age daughters.

The house next door, roughly the same size, sold for $750,000 a year and a half
ago, he says. The house around the corner recently sold for $825,000.

Before the renovation, he estimates the house could have sold for $800,000. Now
it would be worth more than $900,000.

Within two years, the owner of my childhood home is confident the
2,500-square-foot house on Chateau Drive will be worth $1 million.

Captions:

Empty, but expensive: In Santa Clara Valley, it's hard to find any houses
selling for less than $200,000. This empty lot, above, on Willow Street south of
downtown San Jose, sells for $150,000.  ; You can't go home again: This
four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath ranch house on Chateau Drive on the outskirts
of San Jose, Calif., was built in 1961 for $35,000. But thanks to the high-tech
boom, today's owners could get $900,000 for the house. ; Home, sweet home: When
the reporter's father, Jack Breyer -- shown with his mother, Mary Breyer --
moved onto Chateau Drive in 1974, the house had a turquoise front door and shag
carpeting. ; Fewer and fewer trees: Houses are sprouting up all around San Jose
-- but not fast enough. In the past five years, Silicon Valley has added 200,000
jobs and only 38,000 homes, causing rents and sale prices to skyrocket. In
August, there were enough homes on the market to last about two months at the
current rate of sales. than $200,000. ; Trading down: Juan Cabana tours a condo
in Sunnyvale with real estate broker Debbie Rossetto. Cabana knows he won't be
able to afford anything comparable to his 3,700-square-foot Texas home. ; Late
for work, again: Less expensive homes are available for those willing to drive
-- and 'megacommuters' will do just that, despite getting stuck in traffic on
Interstate 880 about 20 miles outside San Jose. About 162,000 people commute
daily from places such as Manteca, Modesto, Stockton and Los Banos. ; Crowding
into farmland: 'Everyone says Tracy will be another San Jose,' says farmer Ed
Arnaudu, a longtime resident of Tracy. The town's population has risen 6 percent
a year since 1990.; Smiling for good reason: Victor Marquez, who lives in this
two-bedroom house on Harliss Street, bought the house for $133,500 three years
ago. Now, his broker says he can get $250,000.

Silicon valley vs. Silicon Hills

While folks in Silicon Valley do make more money-- the median household income
in San Jose was $53,221 compared with $40,500 for the Austin area--- many
residents still can't afford the saoring housing costs.

If you make $100,000 in Austin you would have to earn $181,261 in Sunnyvale to
maintain your satndard of living.

(See microfilm for graphs.)

Sources: Money.com, Intelliquest Information Group, Inc., U.S. Dept. of
Commerce, Austin Board of Realtors, Texas A&M University, Santa Clara County,
Multiple Listing Service

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: R. Michelle Breyer

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              122 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 19, 1999, Sunday

Lagging indicators

SECTION: Business; Pg. H2

LENGTH: 130 words


Statistics that reflect change after the economy has started to move up or down
are lagging indicators. These include the unemployment rate, labor costs,
business spending, bank interest rates, and the book value of manufacturing
activities.

Typically, these indicators confirm an economic trend previously spotted in the
leading indicators, statistics that are used to forecast the ups and downs of
the business cycle.

Included among leading indicators are consumer sentiment, the money supply,
stock prices, new orders for consumer goods, unfilled orders for durable goods,
and weekly claims for state unemployment. Coincident indicators -- those
statistics that tend to move right along with the economy -- include industrial
production and manufacturing sales.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              125 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 1, 1999, Friday

Without Gretzky, NHL needs new flavor

BYLINE: Mark Purdy

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 782 words


The Great One is gone. The NHL is puzzled. Wayne has waved goodbye. So how do
you make up the Gretzky gap? How do you lure more fans to a sport that --
despite a loyal cult of fans that fills arenas nightly -- has slipped in
television ratings and public perception?

The NHL needs either Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Phil Esposito or Mike "Shaky"
Walton.

At this late date, it's doubtful that McGwire or Sosa can switch from baseball
to hockey. It's also doubtful, given today's defensive bent, that any player can
score 76 goals in a season the way Esposito did in 1970-71 for the Boston
Bruins.

That leaves "Shaky" Walton. You probably have never heard of him. He played for
five NHL teams in the 1960s and 70s. But if he were playing today, he would be
much more famous. Why? Because he had an actual personality, something the
league sorely lacks right now.

Walton once jumped off a moving train between Toronto and Montreal because he
was so angry about a loss. Fortunately, he survived, only to further infuriate
his head coach, Punch Imlach, by wearing a tacky Beatles wig to one game.

The topper, though, occurred in 1973 when Walton jumped from the NHL to the
rival World Hockey Association's Minnesota franchise. During a playoff game,
Minnesota was losing big. Halfway through the third period, Walton told an
equipment man to pull up Walton's car to the dressing room door.

After his next shift, Walton came off the ice, went to the locker room and
walked out the door in full hockey gear. He drove to his favorite downtown
saloon, where he sat down, had a drink and ordered a sandwich. Still in uniform.

The NHL of the new millennium could use a healthy dose of "Shaky" Walton.

Gretzky was far from being the league's best player by the time he retired. But
he influenced hundreds of young players with his creativity, and no one was
close to him in being the sport's best ambassador.

"He changed the league in a lot of ways," New York Rangers General Manager Neil
Smith said. "And I think now it's moving into a different climate, a different
shape. What that shape is, I can't really describe. But I think it's going to
take on a different flavor than it had while he was there."

If the NHL isn't careful, that flavor will be plain vanilla.

Looking ahead at this season, let's try to rate each flavor as a potential sweet
or sour taste:

SWEET TASTE: MODERN MOCHA.  The league's three best players -- Jaromir Jagr of
Pittsburgh, Peter Forsberg of Colorado and goalie Dominik Hasek of Buffalo --
all happen to be European. This is seen as a negative by some Canadian thinkers.
It should be viewed as a positive, in the same sense that Sosa's Latin American
heritage brought extra oomph and energy to the home run chase.

SOUR TASTE: YASHIN MADNESS. The Ottawa Senators' talented young center, Alexei
Yashin, is in the midst of a bitter contract holdout, with his agent accusing
Ottawa's front office of anti-Russian bigotry.  For a league still seeking wider
acceptance, this can only hurt -- as can the contract holdouts created by the
NHL's restricted free agency .

SWEET TASTE: FOURSOME FANTASY. In overtime, teams will now skate four-on-four
instead of five-on-five. This will give a team's better skaters more room on the
ice and theoretically will lead to fewer ties. "I like it," San Jose goalie
Steve Shields said. "The game needs something like this. I'm sure I won't like
it when we're playing Anaheim and it's Paul Kariya and Teemu Selanne out there
in overtime, but it should be entertaining to watch."

SOUR TASTE: STANDINGS SWIRL. In addition to the four-on-four change in overtime,
the league's scoring system will be altered. Teams will now receive two points
for a victory, either in regulation or overtime. But teams that lose in overtime
will still receive one point. This will lead to an extra column in the league
standings for "regulation ties." That's confusing terminology -- shouldn't the
column be called "overtime losses?" -- and may end up confusing casual fans.

SWEET TASTE: CREASE CRANBERRY. After watching too many goals be overruled
because skates drifted innocently into the goalie crease, the rules committee
made a wise move in the off-season. Now, instead of going upstairs for instant
replay to see if a goal should be taken away, the on-ice officials will be able
to make a determination on their own.

SOUR TASTE: THRASHERS 'N' SCREAM. Yet another expansion team joins the league
this season when the Atlanta Thrashers come on board. This might create
enthusiastic yells in Georgia. But overall, there will be shouts of frustration
as the talent level keeps getting watered down.

Continued from C1

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Gretzky has waved goodbye to the National Hockey League, leaving
a void to be filled in his sport. Gretzky was far from being the NHL's best
player by the time he retired, but he remained hockey's best ambassador

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              131 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 17, 1999, Sunday

Sex and the sea; Why coral reefs off the coast of Texas may be

BYLINE: Taylor Johnson

SECTION: Life and Arts; Pg. K1

LENGTH: 1738 words


BOARD THE M/V SPREE -- Wind-driven waves surge across an agitated ocean 110
miles off the Texas coast. Out beyond the fluorescent glow from our little ship,
the sea's inky black surface is covered with sex.

Right on cue, eight days after the full moon in August, the resident reef corals
at the Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary are spawning. One of
nature's mysterious spectacles is transforming the water into what looks like a
blizzard of reproductive snow.

I've got myself wedged up against a steel bulkhead to keep from getting thrown
around by the quick, rolling motion of the M/V Spree. Armed with a powerful dive
light, I watch tens of thousands of tiny pink packets the size of BB's swirl
around in the dark water. These soft round balls contain eggs and sperm, the
genetic material that links the past with the future.

For reasons not yet fully understood by scientists, the coral reefs in this
350-acre sanctuary perched on the continental shelf in the northwest Gulf of
Mexico host an invertebrate orgy each summer -- a mass spawning event that
includes at least 10 species of corals, worms, sea stars and sponges. And this
sex in the sea has lured a boatload of research scientists from places like the
University of Texas, graduate students and photographers to the Flower Garden
Banks National Marine Sanctuary for a one-week research expedition. Scientists
are working to understand the basic reproductive biology of corals, and the
Flower Garden is an excellent research site. The reefs are isolated and
insulated from many destructive human practices -- pollution, runoff,
overfishing and dense coastal development -- that have seriously damaged almost
a third of the Earth's reefs. The health of a coral community is an excellent
indicator of the health of an entire reef ecosystem.

"Corals are like the canary in a coal mine," explains Carl Beaver, a graduate
student at the Center for Coastal Studies in Corpus Christi. Reefs are like
submarine animal forests and are immensely diverse ecosystems. Hundreds of
species, from microscopic plankton to large, top-of-the-line predators like
sharks, live on the reef and help maintain a natural balance. When corals die,
the system is thrown out of balance -- much like when a forest is clear-cut.

"When the balance is upset we have no idea what will happen," Beaver says. "It's
like you kick one leg off your coffee table, you don't know if the whole thing
will topple over."

The Spree, a commercial dive boat out of Freeport, has been chartered for the
research cruise to the Flower Garden Banks. The 100-foot former oil field supply
boat serves primarily as a platform for scuba operations. Scientists from UT and
Texas A&M University are here to observe and collect samples from the coral
spawn and deploy instruments to monitor the sea conditions within the reef
habitat. A group of independent filmmakers working for National Geographic's
"Sea Stories" is here to film the annual spawning and the researchers at work.

And a second ship, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration research
vessel called the Ferrel, is also on site at the Flower Garden with three
mini-submarines called DeepWorker 2000 s.  Using these mini-subs, scientists
will for the first time explore the deeper regions of the Flower Garden Banks .
The subs can transport one person to depths well beyond the 100-foot practical
working limit for scuba divers . The DeepWorker can dive to 2,000 feet and
remain submerged for up to eight hours. All this research in the Gulf is part of
a bigger effort called the Sustainable Seas Expedition to explore all 12 of the
United States' national marine sanctuaries.

Earlier in the day, before the weather turned nasty, hopes were high for getting
wet. Each group had its plan for the long-anticipated reproductive show. Nick
Calotinas, a filmmaker working for National Geographic, waves his hands
explaining his ultimate shot: "We need to shoot the subs on their night dive.
They will approach from the left as the coral is spawning -- we can back light
the scene with the big TV lights."

"Has anyone consulted the coral?" quips G.P. Schmahl, manager of the Flower
Garden sanctuary.

"Well, I checked in with them this morning and they are not giving out any
information," shoots back Emma Hickerson, the mission coordinator.

"We should do something to get them in the mood, play some music, " adds Sylvia
Earle, former NOAA director and National Geographic Society
explorer-in-residence.

Several hours later, as the daylight fades and the boats' motion grows more
radical, Capt. Ken McNeil makes an unpopular pronouncement: "Nobody is getting
off this boat tonight." The 7-foot swells made just walking around the boat
tricky and a night dive dangerous. It's easy to get off the boat -- you just
step off the side. It's getting back on that's tough. You have to swim up to the
back of the boat, take off your flippers, and then grab onto a large aluminum
ladder hanging down into the water. The problem is that the ladder is attached
to 97 tons of corkscrewing crew boat. It's like shaking hands with a pile
driver, and it can be deadly.

So instead of swimming through the black ocean with my underwater cameras,
searching for sexually active invertebrates, I'm hanging out with a boat full of
bummed-out scientists, eating Chips Ahoy! cookies, and watching "Blade," the
Wesley Snipes bloodbath.

A secret world

As terrestrial creatures living inland, say, stuck in traffic on our way to the
Mega Mart, it's hard to remember that our Earth's surface is more than 70
percent water. What is crucial to understand, is that this vast liquid body
contributes daily to our quality of life.

"The living ocean drives planetary chemistry, governs climate and weather, and
otherwise provides the cornerstone of the life-support system for all creatures
on our planet, from deep-sea starfish to desert sagebrush. That's why the ocean
matters," Earle explains in her book, "Sea Change" (G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1995.)
"If the sea is sick, we'll feel it. If it dies, we die. Our future and the state
of the oceans are one."

The Flower Garden's coral reefs are composed of millions of tiny anemone like
creatures. The primary reef builders are star and brain coral varieties. These
delicate animals, not much bigger that a pencil eraser, slowly but surely build
upon each other, forming giant calcium condos.

There are several questions researchers with the Sustainable Seas Expedition are
trying to answer about coral development. They are working to understand how
larval corals, which form after the spawning event and are floating around in
the water, attach themselves to rock and begin a new colony. If these
researchers can determine exactly what the coral needs to start a colony, they
will be better able to protect existing reefs and even reseed damaged ones.

Scientists know the Flower Garden reefs are reproductively active and that
millions of these homeless infant corals circulate on the currents of the Gulf
of Mexico. By gathering samples of the coral spawn, they can take a DNA
fingerprint and try to determine if the local corals are dependent on other
coral communities in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean for survival.

While the overall health of the Flower Garden is excellent, its nearest reef
neighbors, 400 miles to the southwest near Veracruz, Mexico, have been destroyed
in the past 10 years. The reefs located close to the shore were smothered by
silt, caused by intense runoff from new development.

An ancient ritual

The ocean and sky are merging into one seamless violet curtain. It's just after
dusk on our last evening at the Flower Garden . Only one species of coral, the
giant brain coral, is predicted to spawn tonight. Dr. Peter Vize, a UT cellular
biologist, gives me a look that means, "Let's go."

"The window for the Colpophyllia (coral) is extremely narrow, maybe 15 minutes,"
says Vize. With close to 150 pounds of diving gear hanging off his compact
frame, Vize looks like someone out of a James Bond flick. He clicks on his
massive underwater flashlight dubbed the "photon beam" and leaps over the side.

I am parked on the edge, looking down at my yellow flippers and the surging foam
six feet below. I bite down on my air regulator and wonder to myself, Am I
crazy, to be jumping off a perfectly sound ship into the ocean at night wearing
lead weights . . . don't think, just jump!

Bubbles explode around my head when I hit the water. Sinking into a quiet
velveteen world, I start my headfirst dive to the sea floor, about seven times
the distance a moderately motivated teen-ager would dive to retrieve his Oakley
sunglasses from the bottom of Barton Springs.

Vize's light slices through the water column and highlights the terrific coral
topography.  Our timing is perfect. The Colpophyllia natans (that's Latin for
giant brain coral) have just begun their spawning. Tiny white balls rise slowly
from a small brain coral head, like champagne bubbles in slow motion. The whole
experience is intoxicating, making it hard to think about f-stops and lighting
ratios. I am trying to hurry up and slow down at the same time.

A blast from the photon beam signals it's time to swim on through this black
magic world. I glide over a ridge, taking care not to drag my fins across the
living reef. A pair of stoplight parrotfish continue feeding, unconcerned with
their bubbling visitor. Sinking into a large sand flat more than 90 feet down, I
spot a magnificent brain coral about the size of a refrigerator, covered with
spawn packets. Even Vize looks excited waving his light. I ease into position
slowly. I feel like I am in deep space, in some other galaxy, attempting some
delicate docking maneuver. Moving to within 10 inches from the coral surface I
take several photos. At this distance I can see the mouth of each swollen polyp
expelling it s gelatinous gelatainous orb. Within a few minutes my Nikonos
camera is out of film and my air supply is running low. Easing back several feet
my brain clicks out of gear. Then I just hover, transfixed, watching another
generation of life begin, part of a 500-million-year-old tradition.

You may contact Taylor Johnson at tjohnson@statesman.com or 445-3685.

See Watching life, K8

a

Continued from K1

K8

Sunday, October 17, 1999

K9

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ninety feet below the surface of the Gulf of Mexico, a giant brain
coral at the Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary spawns by releasing
packets of eggs and sperm./ Filmmakers working for the National Geographic
Society join researchers to document the story of the isolated reefs off the
Texas coast, 110 miles into the Gulf of Mexico./ Cameraman Nick Calotinas,
bottom left, and other crew members working on the National Geographic
documentary, film a reef habitat / Our future depends on the condition of our
seas, says Dr. Sylvia Earle. The author and former NOAA director was one of the
scientists on the Flower Garden expedition. / Dr. Peter Vize, a cellular
biologist at the University of Texas, climbs into a submersible in preparation
for a dive to the reefs. The subs let scientists stay underwater up to eight
hours./ Underwater video, shot by Franklin Viola, gives a close-up view of brain
coral spawning, a crucial part of life in the ocean./ The NOAA ship Ferrel
brings scientists to the reefs

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              132 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 19, 1999, Tuesday

Gun lawsuits afailure of politics

BYLINE: Tom Teepen

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 520 words


If Colt's Manufacturing, legendary gunmaker to the Wild West, goes through with
its reported plan to quit the retail handgun business after 144 years, it may be
doing the right thing, but it will be doing it for the wrong reason.

Colt's will be acting because lawyers scared the company into it. Litigation --
whimsical, blunt and often profit-minded -- is a poor substitute for politics as
an instrument of public policy, even when the fallout is in the public good, as
is the case here.

Colt's has indicated that in the future it will produce firearms only for law
enforcement and the military. It is reacting to the growth industry in municipal
lawsuits against gunmakers and in private lawsuits seeking to hold manufacturers
to costly account for gun deaths.

At the same time, Colt's and several other gunmakers have begun toe-in-the-water
talks with some of the suing cities that could lead to lawsuits being dropped in
exchange for improved gun safety features and a commitment from manufacturers to
take some responsibility for the way their guns are distributed and sold.

All this is to the good, after its fashion. Any restraint in the current
what-the-hell manner of firearms production and sale is welcome, but this flurry
of activity is more motion than change.

Manufacturers that cynically produce firearms mainly for the junior-high and
street-thug trades are not involved. They presumably will just write off any
civil judgments against them as business costs and go on arming street violence
and suicide. The danger of crippling court findings is distant anyway.

Much anti-gun litigation mimics lawsuits against the tobacco industry, but the
courts have not yet bought into the dubious argument that there's a liability
equivalent between a product that, despite its body count, has lawful and
legitimate purposes and one that sickens and kills in its intended use.

The nation has fallen into this sloppy business of making half-baked gun policy
by legal threat because the political system has defaulted.

The gun lobby has forbidden the creation of a coherent, purposeful control
program. It has even spiked any political discussion that might precipitate one.
The National Rifle Association crybabies about all the gun laws on the books
now, but the patchwork suits control opponents nicely. It is a busywork illusion
of control, more holes than material.

Perhaps the best the current lawsuit fad could produce is so much
unpredictability in the business environment that at least the more sober
gunmakers rethink their habitual alliance with the gunners lobby.

Does their industry's best future lie in continuing to pal around with every
gun-nut paranoia and hysteria the NRA can crank out? Or might it lie in engaging
with the political system in the development of a stable, national system of
common-sense controls?

The Wild West shut down a century ago. Maybe even Colt's can see that it's time
to stop hanging around with the gunslingers.

Teepen, based in Atlanta, is national correspondent for Cox Newspapers. You may
contact him at teepencolumn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              139 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 28, 1999, Sunday

One reality, different opinions?; Racial views disparate even in

BYLINE: Steven A. Holmes

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 971 words


WASHINGTON -- At first, the survey results seemed depressingly familiar: Nearly
two-thirds of those who responded said they had had a racially offensive
encounter with a colleague during the 12 previous months, and there was a wide
disparity in how blacks and whites saw the state of race relations.

What is startling is the setting in which the answers occurred. This was not
Simi Valley, Calif., or Decatur, Ill., or even a typical college campus. This
was the military, which has been held up as the paragon of racial integration,
tolerance and equal opportunity.

The findings are contained in a 265-page report issued last week on how the
nearly 1.4 million men and women in the armed forces view the racial climate
there. More than 40,000 enlisted men and women and officers responded.

Nearly 20 percent of black members of the military -- a rate five times higher
than among whites -- said they believed they had received a worse evaluation
than they deserved because of their race. And while only 17 percent of whites
said the military was paying "too little attention" to racism and discrimination
in its ranks, 38 percent of Hispanic military personnel and 62 percent of blacks
felt that way.

This racial Rashomon is nothing new in the civilian world. From the O.J. Simpson
trial to opinions about the police to the need for affirmative action, whites
and minorities, especially blacks and Hispanics, have seen things through such
different lenses as to make one wonder if they are on the same planet.

"If this is going on and those incidents are being experienced in an environment
that we think is doing pretty well on race, it gives you pause to wonder what
might be happening on the factory floor or in offices around the country," said
Edwin Dorn, a former undersecretary of defense for personnel and readiness and
now dean of UT's LBJ School of Public Affairs.

Indeed, the report's findings raise the question of whether any institution can
ever do enough to bridge racially divided perceptions, or whether racial
attitudes are so deep-seated that nothing can root them out.

"Lesson number one is that blacks will always see race relations in a more
pessimistic way than whites," said Charles Moskos, a Northwestern University
sociologist who has studied the military. "This cuts across gender and rank and
is not likely to change in the foreseeable future. But it also shows that blacks
and white do not have to hold identical views of the racial situation in order
to succeed together. That's why we don't care about attitudes. We care about
behavior."

Such a notion would, no doubt, cause jitters among liberals, since many of their
favored ideas, like producing minority role models and diversity training, focus
on influencing racial attitudes rather than discriminatory behavior.

There is little question that the military, especially the Army, is far and away
the most racially integrated institution in American society. Black, Hispanic,
Asian and Native American men and women make up 32 percent of the armed forces,
although as in civilian society they are more heavily clustered at the bottom
ranks than at the top.

In the Army, the military's largest branch, blacks make up nearly one-quarter of
the staff sergeants, master sergeants and first sergeants. More than 15 percent
of all military officers are members of a minority group.

As Moskos and John Sibley Butler, co-authors of "All That We Can Be: Black
Leadership and Racial Integration the Army Way," point out, at some point in
virtually every white soldier's career, his or her boss will be black; this is
something that few, if any, other institutions in the country can claim.

The high level of racial integration has flowed into other areas. Studies
indicate that the most racially integrated cities in the country -- places like
Fayetteville, N.C., Lawton, Okla., and Jacksonville, N.C. -- are military towns.
The armed forces also devote a tremendous amount of time and effort to promoting
good race relations and equal opportunity. Incoming military personnel undergo
intensive training in race relations. Military units have a race relations
adviser to make sure things are going well.

Yet widely different perceptions remain about the state of race relations and
the military's efforts to improve things. Such a finding leads to questions over
whether whites understate the problem from guilt or the charge of racism and
minorities overstate it out of peer pressure .

Last March, Cooper & Seacrest, an Alexandria, Va., polling company, inquired
into racial attitudes in Fayetteville, N.C. In their survey, 53 percent of black
respondents who were interviewed individually by black questioners and told that
their answers would be confidential agreed with the statement that "as a country
we focus too much on issues of race." When African Americans were asked the same
question in a focus group, nearly everyone disagreed.

But before Pentagon officials take comfort in a notion that the study merely
reflects the grousing that normally goes on in the ranks they should contemplate
one other finding. About 85 percent of white, Hispanic and Asian respondents,
and 79 percent of blacks, said they did not officially report a bothersome
racial incident in the previous 12 months. The leading cause was that they
didn't think anything would be done.

Looking at such a finding, Pentagon officials might well recall the words of the
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Colin Powell, the most
successful African American ever in the military. "The day soldiers stop
bringing you their problems is the day you have stopped leading them," Powell
wrote. "They have either lost confidence that you can help them or concluded you
do not care. Either case is a failure of leadership."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Many see the American military as the paragon of racial integration,
tolerance and equal opportunity. Can it be the same organization where
two-thirds of those surveyed say they've recently experienced a racially
offensive encounter?

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              140 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 13, 1999, Monday

Techpeople

BYLINE: Lori Hawkins and Andrew Park

SECTION: Business; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 304 words


Startups are used to being ripped apart when they present their companies' plans
to industry analysts.  But Austin startup Exterprise Inc., which sells software
that helps companies collaborate with other companies to market themselves,
recently had the opposite experience. Tim Harmon, a well-known analyst with META
Group, was so impressed by Exterprise's pitch in October that he sent them a
resume. "The gears just seemed to click into place when I met you and your
team," he wrote in a letter to the company. "It was like a synchronization of a
real, live technology solution with my own pulpit pounding of the last year."
Exterprise, which had interviewed 18 candidates for its vice president of
marketing position, snapped up Harmon for the job. Harmon is moving from the San
Francisco area to Austin and starts at Exterprise on Jan. 1.  * He's not exactly
coming in from the cold, but longtime intelligence and national security hand
Frank Carlucci will be spending some time in a warmer climate -- Austin.
Carlucci, secretary of defense under President Reagan, former deputy director of
the Central Intelligence Agency and former ambassador to Portugal, has been
appointed chairman of the board of Infraworks Corp., a 2-year-old Austin
software developer that specializes in applications for protecting digital
information. Carlucci isn't new to the corporate boardroom. He also serves as
chairman of Nortel Networks Corp., the Canadian telecommunications and
networking giant, and the Carlyle Group, a Washington merchant bank. He is also
a director of at least six other major corporations, including The Quaker Oats
Co. and Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc. Sherman Lewis, vice chairman of New York
investment house Lehman Brothers, has also been appointed to the Infraworks
board.-- Lori Hawkins and Andrew Park

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tim Harmon, META Group, Frank Carlucci, Infraworks Corp., Sherman
Lewis,Infraworks Corp.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              142 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 19, 1999, Sunday

Life's labor; Unions, while weak in Texas, still made a

BYLINE: Bruce Hight

SECTION: Business; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 2019 words


Rebecca Harrington's journey from picking cotton and vegetables with her family
in the sun-scorched fields of South Texas to the cool, sunlit office in downtown
Austin has taken half a century. In many ways, it is the same journey that
society has taken toward a more humane workplace this century.

Despite her name, Harrington is not an Irish lass but an Hispanic woman, 56
years old, whose upbringing in a poor but determined family prepared her well
forstruggles in the long haul. After years of recruiting for the United Farm
Workers union, she's now the director of the national AFL-CIO in Texas, where
about 5 percent of workers are union members.

At the end of this century, well-paid workers in Austin's chip factories, many
of them working in the hyper-clean rooms necessary to manufacture flawless
computer chips, may never imagine dank, dangerous factory floors and subsistence
wages as anything more than a relic of the past.

But Harrington remembers the fight it took, as recently as the 1980s, to get
farm workers in Texas such minimal protections as workers' compensation
insurance, notification when pesticides were to be sprayed and toilets for
workers in the fields. There was even a fight to ban the short-handled hoe,
which forced workers to stoop all day.

"When you look back at the first part of the century," Harrington said,
"obviously you had huge problems in terms of workers . . . I think we started
off in really bad shape in this country."

Reform laws, such as those stopping child labor and limiting the numbers of
hours workers could be required to toil, did much to improve workers' lot, she
said.

"Those, of course, we accept as part and parcel of how we work and live in this
country right now," Harrington said. "And then of course we appreciate the fact
that we are able to support our families with a decent wage and hand off to our
families something better, for our children so that they can live better lives,
too."

Benefits of labor laws

The laws that today are regarded as "part and parcel" of a decent society were
passed only after long and bitter battles -- some literally involving bloodshed
as management and labor struggled against one another.

Workers also benefited from a change introduced by corporations during World War
II. Unable to give employees pay raises because of wage and price controls, many
corporations began providing a new benefit -- employer-paid health insurance.
Some also provided pension plans to supplement Social Security. Though these
benefits are not legally required, laws govern health and pension plans.

To be sure, not every worker is covered by all of these laws, and the laws
themselves are no guarantee of a living wage. Earning $5.15 an hour, the minimum
wage since 1997, will put a single worker above the federal poverty guidelines,
but it falls about $6,000 short of supporting a family of four if no one else is
employed.

Also, in Texas an employer can hire and fire an employee at will -- as long as
it is not based on race, national origin, sex, religion, or age if the employee
is 40 or older; or for union-related activities.

Together, however, these laws provide a safety net for most workers most of the
time that wasn't in place when the calendar turned to 1900.

Fire sparks labor laws

The first flowering of pro-worker laws came just after the turn of the century
and lasted until the onset of World War I in 1914. While Texas was affected by
that movement, it, like other Southern states, has tended to act more slowly and
less completely on workers' legislation than states in other parts of the
country.

One of the seminal worker events of the century was the 1911 Triangle Shirt
Waist Factory fire in New York City, which killed about 140 low-paid young
women, many unable to escape because the owner had locked the doors to prevent
them from leaving during the workday.

That fire led to new legislation establishing safety standards in factories and
mines. It helped mobilize the Progressives of the era to do something about
compensating workers injured on the job. At the time, there was no system of
insurance for injured workers; each was on his own to sue the employer -- and
tough luck for workers who could not get a lawyer or whose own mistake caused
the injury.

The Progressives favored an insurance system in which employers would buy
coverage to compensate workers injured on the job. The worker could be assured
of compensation without resorting to the courts. Business came to support the
measure as a way of avoiding lawsuits.

Wisconsin passed the first workers' compensation insurance law that survived
court scrutiny in 1911; Texas followed in 1913. Even today, however, Texas is
different -- it is the only state in which workers' compensation insurance is
optional. A state study in 1996 found that about 61 percent of the state's
employers carry it.

In 1919, the Legislature created the Texas Industrial Welfare Commission to
investigate working conditions and set minimum wages. The commission set $12 a
week as minimum pay for a 48-hour week to take effect in February 1921.

But the business community revolted, and persuaded the Legislature to repeal the
law. Although lawmakers approved substitute legislation, the governor vetoed it.
That was the end of the commission and most pro-worker laws in the highly
anti-union climate of the 1920s.

The Depression and the New Deal created another round of pro-worker laws in the
1930s, especially Social Security, minimum wage and new protections for unions.

George Green, a professor of history at the University of Texas at Arlington,
said anti-labor sentiment still ran deep in Texas.

"Some political scientists say the South was settled by folks who were more
individualistic and peculiarly more accepting of paternalism than people in the
North, who were much more involved in allowing states to perform services," said
Green.

To this day, Texas is a "right-to-work" state. That doesn't mean that everyone
has a right to work, but that no employer can agree to hire only members of a
union. Many Texas union officials oppose the right-to-work law, because it
undercuts their ability to recruit workers and bargain with employers, since
non-union workers at a plant will reap the same benefits from the union contract
as dues-paying union members.

The right-to-work law in Texas was passed by the Legislature in 1947. Bad as it
was for unions, Green says in his 1979 book, "The Establishment in Texas
Politics: The Primitive Years 1938-1957," it could have been worse.

One member, Green wrote, sarcastically offered an amendment to one anti-labor
bill "to abolish unions, confiscate union members' property, line all union
members up against a wall and have them shot, and send their families to
concentration camps."

The amendment failed -- on a vote of 63 to 8.

The next burst of pro-worker legislation came in the 1960s and 1970s with the
civil rights bills and the creation of federal agencies to safeguard worker
safety. In the 1990s came the laws to help workers with disabilities as well as
those wanting time off from work for major family situations.

During the 1980s, the Texas Legislature passed laws to improve the workplaces of
farm workers. Even then, Harrington said, "any piece of legislation we ever won,
we barely won."

Global obstacles

Harrington casts her brown eyes toward some distant place. She smiles a little
when she talks about her own days in the fields and how her parents made sure
she, her four sisters and her brother earned an education. Harrington went to
St. Mary's University in San Antonio and the University of Michigan.

Like so many other American workers this century, Harrington, who with her
lawyer husband, Jim, has built her own family, has moved up.

Still the dedicated union activist, Harrington worries and works to recruit new
union members in the face of low unemployment, hostile management and
indifferent or frightened workers.

The 21st century will bring new challenges, she said: preserving the gains of
workers at home -- where an increasing number must absorb more and more of the
cost of their health insurance and retirement pay -- and extending them to
workers in other, much poorer countries.

Unions in Texas, she said, have failed to keep up with the move of manufacturing
jobs overseas, to recruit workers in the high-tech industry here ("none of it is
organized, none of it") and to find ways to represent individuals, such as
health-care workers going into homes or independent contractors.

Free-trade advocates say that globalization has created far more jobs in the
United States than have been abolished.

But as Harrington and many other union members see it, "The U.S. is losing
employment because of the global economy. And yet U.S. unions can't follow that
industry; we're really stopped by our borders."

That's why organized labor, she said, is so critical of the World Trade
Organization, which referees trade disputes between nations. Such issues as
wages and working conditions for laborers should be taken fully into account
when deciding whether a nation is competing unfairly, say union members.

As Harrington put it, in the same way that worker advocates have put it for a
century:

"You can't just do business for business. You have to also do business and
recognize that workers are inherently part of your business. Labor creates the
wealth that business gets."

You may contact Bruce Hight at bhight@statesman.com or 445-3977.

(from box)

Important worker laws

* Employer-paid workers' compensation insurance.

* Child labor laws, limiting children under 14 from working and limiting hours
worked by those between 14 and 18.

* Minimum wage of $5.15 at the federal level; $3.35 at the state level. (The
state minimum wage has not been raised since 1987.)

* Unemployment insurance.

* Safety requirements for workplaces and a federal agency, and the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, founded in 1971, to investigate complaints and
fine violators.

* Giving unions the right to organize workers, and to bargain collectively (the
federal Wagner Act, 1935).

* Social Security.

* Barring employers from discriminating against people in hiring, paying or
promoting people because of their race, national background, religion or sex
(the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964) or age, if 40 years
old or older (Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967). The U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission and the Texas Commission on Human Rights serve
as enforcers.

* Prohibiting employers from discriminating against hiring or keeping employees
with disabilities (the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990).

* Giving workers the right to take unpaid leave to spend time with their
families for such reasons as the arrival of a child or severe illness (the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993).

Texas labor laws

In his 1967 book, "Labor in the South," Ray Marshall summed up some of the laws
passed by the Texas Legislature to help workers at the start of the 1900s:

* Outlawing company scrip, or payment redeemable only at company-owned stores
(1901).

* Child labor law (1903).

* Eight-hour work day for railroad telegraphers (1907).

* Nine-hour workday and 54-hour work week for women in manufacturing (1913).

(from box)

Federal minimum wage history

Effective date Hourly minimum (in 1996 dollars)

Oct. 24,1938 $0.25

Oct. 24,1939 0.30

Oct. 24,1945 0.40

Jan. 25,1950 0.75

Mar. 1, 1956 1.00

Sept. 3, 1961 1.15

Sept. 3, 1961 1.25

Feb. 1, 1967 1.40

Feb. 1, 1968 1.60

May 1, 1974 2.00

Jan. 1, 1975 2.10

Jan. 1, 1976 2.30

Jan. 1, 1978 2.65

Jan. 1, 1979 2.90

Jan. 1, 1980 3.10

Jan. 1, 1981 3.35

Apr. 1, 1990 3.50

Apr. 1, 1991 4.25

Oct. 1, 1996 4.75

Sept. 1, 1997 5.15

Source: U.S. Department of Labor

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rebecca Harrington, director of the national AFL-CIO in Texas, was a
participant at an Austin rally in November protesting the World Trade
Organization. Harrington continues to work to recruit union members in the face
of low unemployment, hostile management and often indifferent workers.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman


                              144 of 144 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 28, 1999, Tuesday

Investment advisers will be put to the test

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 588 words


Beginning with the new year, investment advisers will have to take competency
exams to demonstrate they know what they are telling customers, the State
Securities Board said Monday.

Advisers licensed next year will have to pass a 130-question exam that quizzes
them on economics, investments and ethics. "The No. 1 goal is to achieve a
higher level of investor protection," said Securities Commissioner Denise Voigt
Crawford.

"We test barbers and hairdressers to make sure they know how to cut and color
hair. We should require financial advis ers to prove they know the difference
between stocks and bonds," Crawford said.

Previous tests focused mainly on securities law.

Summers: Keep economy rolling

WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers says he feels "very good"
about the U.S. economy but warned that it must not rest on its laurels after
nearly a decade of robust performance.

"I feel very good about where the economy is, though I always worry about the
dangers of our becoming overconfident, too proud of ourselves, complacent,
imprudent in our lending and borrowing decisions," Summers said in a taped
interview that aired Monday on PBS' "Nightly Business Report."

In February, the economy will complete 107 months of unbroken expansion after
the last recession ended in March 1991. That will mark the longest economic
expansion in U.S. history.

Italian publisher expands online

PARIS -- Seat Pagine Gialle SpA, the Italian publisher of yellow pages that has
expanded into online businesses, reached an agreement Monday to buy Buffetti
SpA, which operates a chain of office supply stores, for $718 million in cash
and stock.

Seat's move, if successful, would create a big European company in the growing
market for electronic sales, focusing not only on individual retail purchasers
but also on professionals, like doctors and lawyers, and small and midsize
companies, which abound in Italy.

It would be the latest step in the accelerating spread of electronic commerce,
as companies pick partners to gain products, expertise and capital.

Tiscali SpA, an Italian company that, like Seat, helped to pioneer free Internet
access in Continental Europe, said last week it was spending $101 million to
acquire control of two French telecommunications companies: Nets SA and A
Telecom SA .

Northwest criticized for delay

ST. PAUL, Minn. -- Northwest Airlines passengers on a Washington-bound plane
were stuck for four hours this weekend before their flight was canceled,
sparking memories of a controversy earlier this year that led to a national
passenger rights bill.

Three passengers on Flight 1020 separately offered similar accounts of the
Sunday delay, which the Eagan-based carrier said was caused by snow at
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, one of Northwest's three hubs.

"It's memorable in a sense that it's ridiculous that everything that could have
gone wrong did go wrong," said Amber Hepp, who was in Minneapolis to spend
Christmas with her family, on Monday.

Call to keep your busy signal

Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. recently replaced the traditional busy signal
with a recorded message that offers to automatically redial the number for a
fee. But a company spokeswoman, Audrey Ponzio, said Monday that customers who
prefer the old busy signal -- for example, those who use their line for dial-up
Internet access -- can keep it by calling the company at (800) 464-7928 and then
following the prompts. There's no charge for the change.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lawrence Summers: Worries about Americans becoming overconfident.

                  Copyright 1999 The Austin American-Statesman
