
                               2 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 24, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Gore lauds Georgetown's use of renewables

BYLINE: Bob Sechler American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 584 words


GEORGETOWN - Former Vice President Al Gore delivered more warnings about the
threat of global climate change at a renewable energy conference in Georgetown
on Monday, before holding up the Central Texas city as an example of the
progress being made to alleviate the crisis.

Georgetown is the only city in Texas to operate solely on renewable energy. It
had been the biggest city in the U.S. to get its power entirely from renewable
sources, such as wind and solar, until being displaced recently by Las Vegas.

Gore, speaking at the GridNEXT renewable energy conference, used a litany of
data points to paint a picture of climate change induced by the burning of
fossil fuels and other human activities that he said is fueling global
catastrophes, from storms and droughts to fires and famines.

The earth's atmosphere "really is a very thin shell around the planet," Gore
said. "That is what we are kind of using as an open sewer now for seven and a
half billion people."

Gore linked Hurricane Harvey and the destruction that it recently wrought in
Houston and along the Texas coast to climate change, saying warmer-than-normal
ocean water boosted the storm, as well as hurricanes Irma and Maria in the
Atlantic.

"Hurricane Harvey crossed waters in the Gulf that were 7 degrees warmer than
normal," said Gore, who has produced two high-profile documentaries on climate
change. "This is a new reality that we are having to deal with - again because
of all this extra heat energy" locked in the atmosphere.

Instead of dropping in intensity and tapering out, Gore said Hurricane Harvey
was replenished with warm Gulf water and ended up dumping as much rain on the
United States as more than 500 days of "the full flow of Niagara Falls."

Gore voiced optimism about potential solutions, noting that the U.S. remains on
track to meet its objectives under the Paris climate agreement - even though
President Donald Trump has vowed to pull out - because many municipalities and
corporate leaders nationwide are committed to doing something about it.

Gore applauded Republicans in particular who have opted to try to fight climate
change and have bucked the prevailing sentiment in their party.

"The courage that a great many Republicans are showing on this is something that
should be noted," he said. "This is the way we're going to solve this, by just
following the facts and saying, â  OK, we're not going to put blinders on.'
Let's just follow the facts."

The former vice president cited Georgetown Mayor Dale Ross, a Republican with
whom he has struck up a seemingly unlikely friendship, as an example. Ross
introduced Gore at Monday's event, and he also appeared in Gore's most recent
documentary on climate change, called "An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power."

Gore joked Monday that Ross has quickly become something of a climate celebrity
in the wake of his appearance in the documentary.

"I don't know of a bigger breakout star since Jack

Nicholson got on that motorcycle in â  Easy Rider,'" Gore said.

For his part, Ross said Georgetown opted to move to renewable energy because it
was the best choice for the city economically, although he said he considers
climate change to be real and a serious threat.

"It was first and foremost a business decision," Ross said. "If you win the
economic argument, you are going to win the environmental argument by default."

Overall, "clean energy and good business decisions based on fact are American
issues and not partisan issues," he said.

Contact Bob Sechler at 512-445-3645.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 28, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

France boosts UT biologist

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 906 words


Camille Parmesan, a biologist at the University of Texas and the United
Kingdom's Plymouth University, has been studying the effects of climate change
on plants and animals for years - a pursuit fraught with highs and lows.

An example of the former: She served for a time as lead author on a United
Nations climate panel that shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former Vice
President Al Gore, a recognition so thrilling that "it feels good, even if it's
1/2,000th of a Nobel Prize," Parmesan quipped at the time.

Among the lows: President Donald Trump's declaration in June that he would pull
the United States out of the Paris climate accord, which aims to reduce
emissions of carbon dioxide and other planet-warming greenhouse gases.

Parmesan is now feeling great again: On Dec. 11, French President Emmanuel
Macron awarded her and 17 other researchers grants to work in France for three
to five years. Macron calls it his "Make Our Planet Great Again" initiative, a
riff on Trump's "Make America Great Again" campaign slogan.

It felt "fantastic" to be chosen for the award, Parmesan told the
American-Statesman by email.

"As well as providing five years of good funding, it has provided an important
psychological boost for those of us in the climate change field," she said.
"It's so fabulous for the head of state of a major economic power to say that he
won't let Trump pulling out of the Paris accords derail forward momentum on
climate change, and that supporting the science is fundamental to developing
solutions."

Parmesan explained her work in a video posted on the Facebook page of UT's
Jackson School of Geosciences, where she is an adjunct professor.

"My research has documented how plants and animals have been moving towards the
poles and up mountains and towards early breeding in spring as they attempt to
track a shifting climate," she said. "This research has been important
independent support of what the climate scientists have found in the temperature
data. The research has also been important in shaping the international policy
determining that 2 degrees centigrade is the threshold for dangerous climate
change."

Her research in France will take place at an ecological station in Moulis, in
the Pyrenees.

"I plan to study how these movements of animals from the tropics into Europe may
be bringing tropical diseases into countries and medical systems that have not
historically had them," she said.

"I'm also a conservation biologist, and I've been working with modelers to adapt
approaches from the field of economics that help us to make decisions when we
don't know what the future is going to bring," Parmesan said. "So by applying
these economic approaches to conservation, we hope to come up with a set of
concrete management actions that can be taken now that will help preserve
biodiversity even in the face of rapid and highly uncertain climate change."

She told the Statesman that the amount of her French grant "is still being
worked out, but it will be sufficient for me to start a new team," with
postdoctoral researchers and graduate students, "and get some real work done."

Originally from Houston, Parmesan earned a bachelor's degree with special honors
in zoology and a Ph.D. in biological sciences, both at UT. She has taught and
conducted research at UT for many years, becoming a tenured professor in 2006,
but dialed back to adjunct, or part-time, status in 2014 to become a professor
at Plymouth University.

She lives mainly in Plymouth these days but still has a house in Austin and an
office at the university.

"I just finished my last Texas Ph.D. student last summer," she said. "So I'm
there a couple of times a year for one to two months. I'll be in Austin all this
January."

Jay L. Banner, director of UT's Environmental Science Institute, said Parmesan's
discoveries have provided a benchmark for many other researchers.

"She is among the most highly cited climate scientists in the world," Banner
said. "One may feel a bit discouraged by this recruitment of talent away from
our shores, sort of like when a successful football coach is hired away by a
rival university. In the present case, however, the results may provide new
insight into how we as a society may best mitigate against and adapt to the
impacts of changes in our climate, and that would be a win all around."

Parmesan said she hasn't decided where she will work after her stint in France.
"I'm certainly not keen to return to the USA as long as

Trump is president," she said.

Macron came up with the idea for a competition for climate-related research
grants soon after Trump said he would withdraw from the Paris accord. A total of
1,822 people applied, nearly two-thirds from the United States. Thirteen of the
18 recipients are U.S.-based.

The awards were an- nounced a day before the opening of the "One Planet Summit"
in Paris co-hosted by the U.N. and the World Bank. More than 50 world leaders,
not including Trump, gathered to re-energize the Paris accord.

Mayors from the U.S., Canada and Mexico convened in Chicago during the previous
week to affirm their support for the accord and to emphasize the impact cities
can have in fighting climate change.

"Austin will not stop fighting climate change," Austin Mayor Steve Adler said.
"Worldwide, cities will lead in achieving climate treaty goals because so much
of what's required happens at the local level."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Lamar Smith seeks reshaping of EPA

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 919 words


For years, U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, who represents parts of Central and South
Austin, wandered in a kind of policy desert, his proposals to box in the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency often failing in fights with the Obama
administration.

But now, energized by a suddenly simpatico White House, Smith, the Republican
chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, will launch a
fresh effort to reshape the agency he has long vilified.

The "Making EPA Great Again" hearing in Washington on Tuesday comes as climate
scientists are anxious about the future of government support for their
research.

"EPA has long been on a path of regulatory overreach, and the committee will use
the tools necessary to put EPA back on track," Smith said in a news release
Wednesday.

Most scientists say emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases help
trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere, leading to a warming planet. Smith, who
wasn't available for an interview Wednesday, has told the American-Statesman in
the past that evidence scientists provide is "wishy-washy."

Smith relished doing battle with the Obama administration, gaining notoriety for
accusing federal scientists of altering data as part of an "extreme climate
agenda" and in some cases issuing subpoenas.

Advocacy organizations for scientists said he was on a politically motivated
witch hunt.

Smith - who gets more campaign money from oil and gas than any other industry -
also went after Democratic state attorneys general, supported by environmental
groups, for attacking ExxonMobil over the company's representation of the
threats of climate change.

New administration

Still, even as he was climbing onto newspaper front pages, some of Smith's key
bills targeting the EPA languished. One would have remade the agency's science
advisory board, opening it up to industry representatives. Another Smith
measure, the Secret Science Reform Act, would have barred the agency from using
any confidential health data or medical records; government watchdog groups said
it would have hampered the agency's ability to look at data to make policy
decisions.

Neither made it into law.

And in spring 2015, in an effort to defund climate research, his committee voted
to cut NASA's budget for Earth science. (In an end-of-year budget deal, much of
the money was restored.)

But Smith threw early support to President Donald Trump, and the longtime San
Antonio-based lawmaker now finds himself at the apex of his powers, with allies
aplenty in the White House.

Trump has said he wants to strip away environmental regulation, and shortly
after the inauguration, his administration froze EPA grants and contracts,
alarming some government watchdog groups and environmentalists.

"If you have a signed contract (with the EPA), you want to keep a low profile
lest you become a target," one scientist, who does work in Texas but didn't want
his name used because he is the recipient of EPA money, told the
American-Statesman this week.

"Basic research has been stalled because the far right wing of the Republican
Party doesn't like what the EPA was doing on climate change," said Al
Armendariz, a former regional EPA administrator who now works on an anti-coal
campaign for the Sierra Club.

EPA officials said the move amounted to quality control. This week, EPA
spokesman David Gray said the review was finished and "nothing has been
delayed."

Last month, Smith said Trump's pick to lead the agency, Scott Pruitt, who gained
a reputation as an anti-regulatory advocate as Oklahoma's attorney general,
would put the EPA "back on track."

'Panic attack'

Fed up with Smith's climate-change naysaying, a few dozen Austinites descended
on his South Austin field office in 2015 to present him with a "Flat Earth"
award.

"Climate change is one of the most politicized issues in the U.S., up there with
immigration, gun rights and abortion," said Katharine Hayhoe, a Texas Tech
University researcher who will give a talk Friday at the Paramount Theatre in
downtown Austin titled "Climate and Faith, Money and Politics: Can We Build a
Sustainable Future?"

"Even though lot of objections to climate change are framed in terms of science
- â  it's a natural cycle' or â  we don't know a lot about it yet' - dig down
and maybe 99 times out of 100 it has nothing to do science," she said.

"Right now, anybody who cares about climate change is not just concerned, but is
practically having a panic attack when they look at what's happening at the
federal level," Hayhoe said.

Her talk, part of an event organized by University of Texas' Environmental
Science Institute, will be followed by a panel discussion examining the future
of climate science.

It will be different in one major way from the "Making EPA Great Again" hearing
in Washington next week: The panelists will all be scientists.

Witnesses at Smith's hearing in Washington will include an industry lobbyist; an
official with the American Chemistry Council, an industry trade association; the
chief executive of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
which publishes the journal Science; and a University of Virginia law professor
who has criticized the Obama administration's climate change policies as leading
to failures of coal companies.

"The purpose of this hearing is to examine the Environmental Protection Agency's
process for evaluating and using science during its regulatory decision making
activities," said a committee announcement for the hearing.

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 15, 2017 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Climate-change skeptic Smith toured a warming Greenland

BYLINE: Nolan Hicks and Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 609 words


Central Texas congressman and noted climate-change skeptic Lamar Smith saw the
effects of the warming Arctic first hand on an unpublicized tour of Greenland
and Alaska in May.

Smith, R-San Antonio, was accompanied by at least eight of his colleagues from
the U.S. House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, which Smith chairs.

The trip, which was first reported by BuzzFeed News on Friday, included
closed-door meetings between the lawmakers and scientists to learn about
federally funded research that tracks climate change there. It included an
aerial tour, where the representatives could see the melting ice cap in person.

When reached by the American-Statesman, Smith's office referred all questions to
the committee; the committee's spokeswoman didn't respond to requests for
comment Friday.

Austin-area environmentalists and politicians - long at odds with Smith -
quickly pounced on the news.

"The climate denier in chief went to Greenland?" said Roy Waley, the
conservation chair of the Sierra Club's Austin Group. "I would hope for this to
be a kind of reverse road to Damascus, only instead of being struck blind like
the Apostle Paul was, he's struck and finally sees."

Jason Stanford, a spokesman for Austin Mayor Steve Adler, said, "I think it's
great that the congressman found a way to beat the heat by checking out the ice
caps," adding, "I'm glad he had the opportunity to see them while they're still
there."

Adler has long backed efforts to slash greenhouse emissions.

He attended both the Paris climate accord summit - where 195 countries signed
the nonbinding agreement to curb carbon emissions - and the 2016 Mexico City
summit, where big-city mayors pledged to take action on climate change,
regardless of the actions of their respective federal governments.

Smith, on the other hand, is among the most vocal skeptics of climate science in
Congress.

The Republican - whose district stretches across the Hill Country and includes
parts of San Antonio and Austin - has referred to "so-called self-professed
climate scientists," labeling the evidence those scientists provide as
"wishy-washy," has subpoenaed the scientists' emails, and has sought to slash
funding for programs researching climate change.

Greenland is among the places on the planet that have been hardest hit by
warming temperatures.

The retreating ice caps are affecting many aspects of life there, including
local insect populations.

Scientists say that if the Greenland ice cap were to entirely melt, it would
raise sea levels around the world by 20 feet, potentially putting chunks of many
major coastal cities - like New York, Miami and New Orleans - underwater.

A recent investigation by Reuters found that rising sea levels are already
causing significant flooding in many towns and cities along the East Coast.
Various studies have also concluded the Texas coast could be in for a rough time
as a result of climate change.

Just two months after Smith's Arctic trip, a Delaware-sized chunk of the
Antarctic ice shelf split off into the ocean, which some climate scientists say
was at least partly a consequence of human-caused climate change.

Others have disputed that, seeing a large role for natural variability and
noting

that icebergs have been breaking away from ice shelves for many millions of
years,

The New York Times reported this week.

But, the Times added, the two camps agree that the breakup of ice shelves in the
Antarctic peninsula might be a preview of what is in store for the main part of
Antarctica as the world continues heating up as a result of human activity.

Contact Nolan Hicks

at 512-445-3617.

Twitter: @ndhapple

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 3, 2017 Friday
                                 State Edition

Bill aims to help ExxonMobil fight lawsuits

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 878 words


Concerned about what he calls the "overcriminalization" of society, an East
Texas lawmaker has drafted a bill that would protect one potential defendant not
conventionally considered a marginalized victim of injustice: Exxon Mobil.

State Rep. James White, R-Hillister, has proposed barring a defendant's theories
on climate change from being used as evidence in a fraud or deceptive practice
case.

White told the American-Statesman he had in mind Irving-based ExxonMobil, which
Democratic state attorneys general targeted last year, claiming the company had
lied to investors and the public about the threat of climate change.

"There have been some instances where people could get thrown into court or even
potentially threatened with some kind of criminal punishment based on their
belief or scientific take on global warming," he said. "I don't think that's how
science should operate."

He continued: "What would it look like if Copernicus was sued based on his
belief that Earth and other planets were circling the sun?"

"If your business model is selling gasoline, and your thing is you don't think
it's that big an impact on global warming - OK," he said. "I don't see candy
companies doing advertisements for dental offices, and I don't see that as a
conspiracy."

Attorneys general from New York, Massachusetts and elsewhere, supported by
environmental groups, announced their investigations after the news
organizations Inside Climate News and the Los Angeles Times showed that
ExxonMobil played down the risks of climate change despite the company's
scientists having raised red flags about it. Reporters found that even though
the company's researchers as long as ago as the 1970s warned that the burning of
fossil fuels would contribute to climate change, the company for decades sowed
doubt about climate science by stressing uncertainty.

Environmentalists have framed the actions of ExxonMobil and other oil companies
as echoing the disinformation campaigns of cigarette companies about the dangers
of tobacco.

But White, who represents five East Texas counties, said if the attorneys
general could win in the ExxonMobil case, "then there are other types of
shakedowns" to come.

That opinion echoes that of other Texas state officials who have come to
ExxonMobil 's defense, including Attorney General Ken Paxton, who had sued his
U.S. Virgin Islands counterpart over his investigation involving ExxonMobil and
climate change.

Last summer, Paxton withdrew a lawsuit against the Virgin Islands official after
he agreed to suspend his investigation, which had included a far-reaching
subpoena for ExxonMobil records that Paxton had argued was unconstitutional.

Paxton said last month that he sued after talking the matter over with other
members of the Republican Attorneys General Association.

Paxton said the ExxonMobil investigation had amounted to a fishing expedition
that impinged on the company's free speech protections.

The Republican Attorneys General Association has received at least $110,000 from
Exxon Mobil since 2014, according to records compiled by the Center for
Responsive Politics, and at least $2 million from the fossil fuel industry.

A 2014 New York Times investigation focusing on then-Oklahoma Attorney General
Scott Pruitt outlined how energy executives had benefited from their
relationships with state attorneys general - and how the attorneys general had
won campaign contributions from the companies.

On Thursday, a U.S. Senate committee approved Pruitt's nomination to head the
Trump administration's Environmental Protection Agency.

White's House Bill 420 would apply to Texas state law, but at least one case
against ExxonMobil is moving forward elsewhere. Last month, a Massachusetts
judge refused to excuse Exxon Mobil from a demand by that state's attorney
general to hand over years of documents on its views on climate change.

But on Wednesday, Exxon sought to move the case to Texas, arguing in federal
court in Dallas that the attorneys general had abused the company's free speech
rights and that their probe amounted to an unreasonable search and seizure of
corporate documents.

Asked during his confirmation hearings last month to become U.S. secretary of
state whether humans contributed to global warming, former ExxonMobil CEO Rex
Tillerson said: "The increase in greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere
are having an effect. Our abilities to predict that effect are very limited."

Money from oil and gas interests accounts for about 2 percent of contributions
to White's campaign since 2010, according to an analysis by Texans for Public
Justice, a nonprofit that tracks money and politics. And state campaign finance
records turn up no contributions from ExxonMobil to White, who said he thought
climate change was, to some degree, ascribable to human activity.

"What degree that is, and to what degree that we have to make changes in our
lifestyle - that's open to vibrant, vigorous debate and research," he said. "To
the extent that we have to get into all sorts of intrusive processes, like
carbon taxes that drastically place regulatory regimes on our people that other
parts of the world would not put on themselves, thereby making our economy less
competitive?"

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 24, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Texas mayors focus on costs of climate change

BYLINE: Philip Jankowski American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 441 words


Images of glaciers disintegrating or a solitary polar bear swimming in the
Arctic are no doubt evocative, but when it comes to discussing climate change
with their local constituencies, for Texas mayors it's about dollars and cents.

That was one of the main takeaways from a panel discussion Saturday at the Texas
Tribune Festival on how cities affect and cope with climate change. The speakers
were Austin Mayor Steve Adler, San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, former Houston
Mayor Annise Parker and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, all Democrats
or, in Nirenberg's case, a nonpartisan progressive.

"This is a local issue," Adler said to a packed room in Calhoun Hall at the
University of Texas. "Now that the U.S. seems to be pulling back from that, it
just means that cities need to step up."

Adler was one of several mayors across the country to vow to follow the Paris
climate agreement after President Donald Trump said he would back out of the
2015 accord. Adler also recently spoke on behalf of Austin as a "pioneering"
city delivering on the Paris agreement this month in New York City as part of
the influential C40 talks

For Parker, she said that amounts to something she called "paradiplomacy," a
local jurisdiction's ability to negotiate and enforce its own prerogatives. For
Houston, that means leveraging its $5 billion budget's purchasing power to
create markets. For instance, during Parker's tenure, the city replaced about
168,000 streetlights with LED bulbs.

That reduced energy consumption. But to Houston residents, it was sold as a way
to save money, Parker said.

Austin leaders updated the city's energy plan last month to generate 65 percent
of the city's electricity from renewable sources by 2027, with an aspirational
goal to no longer use fossil fuels by 2030.

Adler was quick to say that much of that is made possible because Austin owns
its electric utility, unusual among large U.S. cities. But by creating these
mandates, cities can manufacture demand and make renewable energy a more
attractive venture for energy companies.

Of course, it helps if you live in Texas, the wind power capital of the world,
which makes wind power less expensive than in other places, Parker said.

In South Bend, the city has taken a step into advocacy. In June, after the
federal government scrubbed climate change data from its website, the city took
the unusual action of archiving the Environmental Protection Agency's online
data and posting it on the city's website.

"We can no longer rely on the federal government to be a fact-based arbiter when
it comes to climate change," Buttigieg said.

Contact Philip Jankowski at 512-445-3702.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 21, 2017 Friday
                                 State Edition

Paxton sides with ExxonMobil in brief for climate change case

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 422 words


Coming to the aid of a powerful Texas oil and gas company in a case involving
climate change science, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton on Thursday filed a
brief in federal court in New York supporting ExxonMobil's efforts to stave off
an investigation by attorneys general in New York and Massachusetts.

Paxton's friend-of-the-court brief in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York argues the ExxonMobil investigation has amounted to a
fishing expedition that impinges on the company's free speech protections.

Attorneys general from New York, Massachusetts and elsewhere, supported by
environmental groups, said last year they would investigate whether the company
lied to investors and the public about the threat of climate change.

Exxon is trying to block efforts by the Massachusetts and New York officials to
subpoena company documents related to the marketing and sale of its products.

In their friend-of-the-court brief, Paxton and 10 other state attorneys general
ask the court to side with Exxon.

"The Constitution was written to protect citizens from government witch-hunts
such as this one, where officials use their authority and the threat of criminal
prosecution to try and suppress speech on a viewpoint they disagree with,"
Paxton said.

In his suit, Paxton writes: "Defendants falsely presume that the scientific
debate regarding climate change is settled, along with the related and equally
important debate on how to respond to what science has found."

In fact, the vast majority of scientists who study the issue have said the
climate is changing and industrial emissions play a part. The other states who
joined the amicus brief are Louisiana, South Carolina, Alabama, Michigan,
Arizona, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Utah and Arkansas.

The case marks at least the second time Paxton has intervened in the case on
behalf of Exxon. Last year, Paxton withdrew a lawsuit against the U.S. Virgin
Islands attorney general after he agreed to suspend his investigation, which had
included a far-reaching subpoena for ExxonMobil records that Paxton had argued
was unconstitutional.

Earlier this year, Paxton said he had sued after talking the matter over with
other members of the Republican Attorneys General Association.

The Republican Attorneys General Association has received at least $110,000 from
Exxon Mobil since 2014, according to records compiled by the Center for
Responsive Politics, and at least $2 million from the fossil fuel industry.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 30, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Austin rally calls out politicians on climate change

BYLINE: Taylor Goldenstein American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 389 words


As tens of thousands of demonstrators marched in Washington, D.C., Seattle,
Boston, San Francisco and other U.S. cities to demand action on climate change,
a smaller but just as fervent group of protesters gathered at a sister rally on
the steps of the Texas Capitol.

Organizers of the Austin event - which drew at least 2,000 people, according to
a Texas Department of Public Safety head count - was ostensibly a sequel to last
week's much larger March for Science. But while the science rally organizers had
sought to avoid partisan side-choosing, the climate rally featured local
Democrats, including Austin's U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who unabashedly took a
shot at the Republican-led Texas Legislature.

"We have a state leadership just like Donald Trump - that doesn't believe in
evolution, they deny the climate (change), and I'm not real sure where they are
on gravity," Doggett said. "Science seems to be alien to them."

Austin Mayor Steve Adler also spoke, touting the city's efforts toward "a zero
carbon footprint" by 2050 and its goals of saving electricity.

The event drew not only politicians, but also parents worried about the planet's
future and the world they would leave to their kids.

Stacy MacDiarmid of Austin, who works for the Environmental Defense Fund,
brought her two young sons to the rally because she said she wanted them to see
what political activism looks like.

MacDiarmid said she was disturbed by the use of the Congressional Review Act to
repeal Obama-era environmental regulations and by actions taken by President
Donald Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, to undermine
the Clean Air Act.

"We believe in policies that will work to combat the worst effects of climate
change," MacDiarmid said.

Wearing the pink cat-eared cap popularized during the Women's March and holding
a sign that read "I'm With Her," with an arrow pointing to an image of Earth,
66-year-old Norman Bean came to the rally from Martindale.

Bean said he worries about the environment because he thinks lawmakers are more
concerned about the interests of large corporations.

"This is a local thing right here to let our local, state representatives and
senators know that we have a conscience and that they can't just gloss over us,"
Bean said. "I hope it makes a difference."

Contact Taylor Goldenstein

at 512-445-3972.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 22, 2017 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

An unlikely climate hero

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2852 words


GEORGETOWN - In the 14 months since Al Gore came to Georgetown to see for
himself the story of this red Texas city's conversion to solar and wind power,
Mayor Dale Ross has become something of an international sensation.

On Tuesday, journalists from "Weltspiegel," a popular German foreign affairs TV
program, were interviewing Ross, the latest reporters to have trekked to this
charming city of 65,000, the first and still only Texas city to operate entirely
on renewable energy.

On Monday, Ross, a conservative Republican, will be introducing Gore, the former
Democratic vice president and climate change guru, who will be the keynote
speaker at the Texas Renewable Energy Industries Alliance's third annual
GridNEXT conference being held in Georgetown, 30 miles north of Austin, for the
second consecutive year.

Ross is just back from an appearance with Gore at the National Clean Energy
Summit in Las Vegas (a "Weltspiegel" crew was there to record it), and a
screening in San Francisco of a new documentary - "Happening: A Clean Energy
Revolution" - directed by Robert Redford's son, Jamie Redford, that will air on
HBO in December.

In "Happening," Ross reprises his uplifting role as himself that he already
played in Gore's "An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power," which was released in
July, and the anti-coal documentary, "From the Ashes," which premiered at the
2017 Tribeca Film Festival and the National Geographic Channel earlier this
year.

"Being in three movies this year, especially Vice President Gore's â
Inconvenient Sequel,' that has just taken it to a new level internationally,"
Ross said. "It slowly built up, and now it's just this big media machine, doing
interviews in South America, Beijing, Japan, England."

Ross estimates he has reached more than half a billion viewers on five
continents.

"How many viewers do y'all have?" Ross asks Claudia Buckenmaier, the Washington
correspondent for ARD German TV and radio, playing the part of the jaded
celebrity. "Only a million?"

"You know how many Japan's going to have? Thirty-seven million," Ross says of
the reach of NHK, Japan's largest broadcaster, which will be paying Georgetown a
visit Monday.

"Two million," Buckenmaier says of "Weltspiegel's" viewership. "Two million's a
lot."

"You set this up for 2 million?" Ross asks. "Really?"

By now, Ross knows his part well.

He is just what the environmental movement needs, straight from against-type
central casting - a Texas Republican CPA with a blue suit and a comic
likability.

"You look very, very good," Buckenmaier assures him as the camera is ready to
roll.

"Oh, yeah," Ross replies. "Short and fat is in."

"Mayor," Buckenmaier, "why did you take the position to rely on renewable
energy?"

"This is a fact-based decision we made in Georgetown, and first and foremost it
was an economic decision, and what we were able to accomplish was to meet two
objectives," Ross says.

"The first objective was to mitigate price volatility in the short term, and the
second thing was to minimize or mitigate regulatory or governmental risk, and so
we were negotiating with wind and solar companies, and natural gas," he says.
"We were able to secure 20- and 25-year contracts with wind and solar, and the
natural gas providers would only give us a guaranteed contract rate for seven
years."

"Now this is the deal, we are paying the same amount per kilowatt hour in year
one than we are in year 25 with no cost escalation, so that meets the objective
of cost certainty," Ross says. "And then in terms of regulatory risk - the
knuckleheads in D.C. - what's there to regulate with wind and solar? It's clean
energy. So this as the perfect solution for the citizens we were elected to
serve."

So what, Buckenmaier asks, did he think of President Donald Trump taking the
United States out of the Paris climate agreement?

"You know, I did go to Trump's inauguration," Ross said.

But, he said, "President Trump and I do not agree on environmental issues."

"It was a huge mistake to withdraw from the Paris climate accords, although it
really doesn't take effect until after Trump is out of office," Ross says,
assuming Trump will not be re-elected. "And we also don't agree on coal energy.
There is no such thing as clean coal, and there is no future for coal miners.
It's a very cost-prohibitive energy source, and wind and solar is
cost-effective, and in the long term, wind and solar are going to win the
economic battle. If you win the economic battle, you are going to win the
environmental battle."

"Is this not putting you at risk with your Republican Party?" Buckenmaier asks.

"No," Ross replies, "because what I do, I make decisions based on facts, and
this was the best decision for the people who we were elected to serve in
Georgetown because, unlike the president, in Georgetown, we want to make our
decisions based on the facts."

Trump, he says, "bases his, especially on the environment... on partisan
national politics."

"I think the lesson in Georgetown is to make decisions on the facts and not
partisan politics, and you end up with great decisions," he says.

But cozying up to Al Gore?

"My tea party friends are not so sure about me anymore and this is what I tell
them," Ross says. "Al Gore has done more in one day to make the world a better
place than you have probably done in your whole life."

"What reasonable person can't weigh the evidence and come to the conclusion that
climate change is real and it's happening. When you say, â  No, it's not.'
Really? Well what are you basing that on? You think Irma and Harvey were just
coincidences? Really?" Ross continues.

"Remember in Gore's first movie, they ridiculed him so bad about (predicting)
New York being flooded. What happened (with Hurricane Sandy)? New York got
flooded, right? You have fish swimming in the streets of Miami," Ross says. "You
think all of that is coincidences? I don't believe in coincidences. I really
don't."

Plank 39 of the 2016 Texas Republican Party Platform is devoted to "Protections
from Extreme Environmentalists." It reads, in part, "â  Climate Change' is a
political agenda promoted to control every aspect of our lives. We support the
defunding of â  climate justice' initiatives and the abolition of the
Environmental Protection Agency and repeal of the Endangered Species Act."

But Bill Fairbrother, the Williamson County GOP chairman, said, "Contrary to the
popular myth in some places, Republicans are all for clean, breathable air. We
just don't want the federal government overregulating and forcing needless
bureaucracy on business and local governments, and if Georgetown has found a
solution that meets the needs of its citizens in a fiscally responsible manner
that just happens to be green, or whatever term you want to apply to it, I'd
like to think that Republican elected officials are smart enough to find the
answer wherever it is."

"Mayor Ross is a CPA," Fairbrother added. "I doubt he'd do anything that doesn't
make financial sense, and the fact that is pleasing to as diverse an audience as
the former vice president is interesting, but fine with me."

Ross was elected to a second term as mayor in May with 72 percent of the vote.
In November, Trump carried all but three Georgetown precincts.

â  You really haven't

done anything'

In "Inconvenient Sequel," Ross is seen telling a delighted Gore in his August
2016 visit to City Hall, "You are in Georgetown, which is the reddest city in
the reddest county in Texas, and I'm a conservative Republican." That part about
Georgetown and Williamson County being the "reddest" is, inconveniently, not
true.

"I was trying to make a point," Ross said. "I'm telling him we're bright red."

Ross, a big-picture guy, doesn't sweat the details.

"I like Chris being around because some interviewers like all the technical
questions and my eyes just glaze over," Ross tells the German crew.

Chris is Chris Foster, the city's manager of resource planning and integration,
who has been working with Georgetown's municipal utility since 2008.

While Ross was on camera for "Weltspiegel," Foster was offering a reporter a
sotto voce tutorial on how Georgetown's municipal utility fits into the Texas
grid. There are three electrical grids in the Lower 48 - the Eastern
Interconnection, the Western Interconnection, and the Texas grid, which is
managed by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.

"So the coal plants historically in order to run cheaply, they had to run 24-7,
all the time," Foster says. But, as the city was searching for new energy
sources years ago, its officials noticed that the shape of the wind supply from
the Panhandle and the solar supply from West Texas actually matched the profile
of energy use in Central Texas.

"So we said, if we started to put them together, we would have an energy profile
that's better for the city, and it's cheaper to operate than the coal plants,
and eventually it will cause the coal plants to go off line because they won't
be able to compete," Foster says.

Luminant just announced the closing of three coal plants in Texas, and it is
projected that wind capacity will soon exceed coal capacity on the Texas grid.

"They can't compete with renewables," says Foster. "Yeah, we told you that was
going to happen."

Not everyone thinks that is good.

"It's not kind of misleading, it's very misleading, and it is for political
gain," Charles McConnell, executive director of the Energy and Environment
Initiative at Rice University, said of Georgetown's claim that it's using 100
percent renewable energy. "It's almost like you can't wait to pat yourself on
the back for something that you've done, and you really haven't done anything."

"Renewables and the drive toward renewables in our portfolio is a worthy
effort," McConnell said, "but declarations like this give people false belief
that 100 percent renewables is a realistic target for other cities and other
organizations to pursue, because if they can do it, why can't we?"

McConnell, an assistant secretary of energy from 2011-13, worries that the zeal
for renewable energy, buttressed by federal tax credits, is hurrying the grid to
an unhealthy reliance on less than 24-7 renewable energy sources, leading to
brownouts and higher costs in the long run.

Like Trump and Energy Secretary Rick Perry (who as governor played an
instrumental role in the development of wind power, transmission lines and the
grid), McConnell believes coal is essential to America's energy future.

"Coal is the bedrock of affordable electricity, and it will remain so, no matter
how much wishful thinking by environmental activists," McConnell wrote in an
August opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal. "City Pledges for â  100%
Renewable' are 99% Misleading: The power grid is built on fossil fuels, and
there's no way to designate certain electrons as guilt free."

But Fred Beach, assistant director for energy and technology policy at the
Energy Institute at the University of Texas, believes McConnell is wrong on all
counts.

"Advances in technology and market drivers are combining to push coal out of the
market, inevitably and permanently," he said.

Beach said the Texas grid can handle a large increase in renewable energy,
"because we built a vast fleet of peaking power plants 10 to 15 years ago to
accommodate our high demand in the summer."

"If everyone tried to do what Georgetown did tomorrow, the grid would have
predictability problems," Beach said, but that's not going to happen, and in the
meantime, the cost of utility batteries that can store electricity from any
source are dropping.

Beach also noted that the federal production tax credit for wind generation is
being phased out in 2020 - unlike breaks for fossil fuels - having launched a
thriving industry that no longer needs it.

As for McConnell's first assertion, that Georgetown isn't really powered 100
percent by renewable energy, Beach said that it is technically true that, unless
Georgetown were to get off the grid, the energy it receives is a fungible mix
from all sources, but that's not the point.

"Nobody knows where their electrons actually come from, not that it really
matters," said Beach, who lives in Georgetown. "It just meant on an annual basis
we were procuring enough wind energy that we could say we're being covered on a
net basis."

In 2015, Georgetown contracted with Spinning Spur 3, a wind project 50 miles
west of Amarillo, for wind power, and with the NRG solar farm under construction
near Fort Stockton. The solar farm will begin providing power next summer and
account for 40 percent of Georgetown's energy.

On days its supply falls short, Georgetown can buy energy. On days it has more
than is needed, it can sell the excess.

If Georgetown had not bought wind power, Foster said, "Spinning Spur 3 would not
exist today, and in its place Georgetown would have gas contracts. The entire
state portfolio would have less renewables, and more fossil fuels. Georgetown
pays for, and thereby deserves, full credit for the renewables it caused to be
built in the market."

Foster also doesn't feel guilty about Georgetown raising expectations for
renewable power.

"You know what will happen if you set the expectation that you will reach Mars
by 2025, right?" Foster said. "Well, you might not get to Mars, but you will
significantly advance your capability of traveling throughout the solar system."

â  People do want renewables'

Georgetown didn't set out to meet some kind of renewable energy goal, it just
happened, Beach said.

"This was never the intention," he said. "This was never, â  Hey, we want to be
100 percent renewable by a certain date.'"

"It's true that Georgetown is a very Republican, very conservative town, and
yet, inadvertently, we backed into this situation where now, truly, 100 percent
of our electricity on an annual basis comes from renewables, primarily for
economic reasons," Beach said.

"I was on the utility board from 2008 to 2012-13, when we actually did all the
work that made this possible," Beach said.

Georgetown had been getting its power through the Lower Colorado River
Authority.

"With LCRA we had no control over the mix whatsoever, and didn't care to," Beach
said. "It was 75 to 80 percent coal with a natural gas fill."

But Georgetown, one of the fastest-growing cities of its size in the country,
was loath to renew with LCRA.

"We felt the combination of committing long-term to LCRA, which was doubling
down on coal, and the first term of Obama, when he was seriously talking about a
carbon tax, did not bode well for electricity prices if we committed to LCRA,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Beach said, "the renewables just kept getting more and more cost
attractive. We were being offered contracts, at extremely competitive prices,
that were locked in for 20 years with zero volatility." Georgetown entered into
its first wind contract to satisfy Southwestern University, one of its biggest
customers, which wanted to operate exclusively on wind power.

"Can other cities in Texas do what Georgetown has done? The answer is â  yes,'"
Beach said. "Can everybody in Texas do what Georgetown has done? The answer is,
â  hell no.'"

"You can't really have 100 percent of anything without having problems, but to
say there's a limit or some theoretical limit on how much renewable energy you
can have in the grid is not true," Beach said.

"Originally people said if you hit 10 percent renewables, the grid will crash.
We hit 10 percent. It didn't. â  Well, if it's 20 percent renewables the grid
will crash.' We hit 20 percent. â  If you hit 30 percent, the grid will crash.'
We hit 30 percent," Beach said. "We've had days here in Texas when wind was 50
percent of the grid, and it didn't crash."

Altogether, in 2016, about 44 percent of energy used on the grid was natural
gas, 29 percent was coal, 15 percent was wind, 2 percent was nuclear, and a
fraction of a percent was solar, according to Electric Reliability Council of
Texas.

"What Georgetown has done for whatever reason has had some impact in that it has
sent a market signal," Beach said. "It has sent a signal to the utility market,
at least in Texas, that people do want renewables, for whatever reasons, whether
it's the price reason or environmentalist reasons, and in Texas it's primary for
the price reason - cost."

Perhaps, but of such dollars and cents, environmental heroes are made, and, as
he prepared for Tuesday's interview with the German news crew at the former post
office that is now City Hall, Ross made a request of Buckenmaier, his
interviewer, standing on the opposite side of a counter over which clerks once
sold stamps.

"Can you take one step back?" Ross asked Buckenmaier.

"Ja," she said, German for "yes," without budging.

"That way," said Ross, waving her away from him.

"Ja," said Buckenmaier, not sure what Ross was up to, and still not budging.

"Now," Ross insisted.

"Ja," said Buckenmaier, stepping away from the counter. "Are you going to jump
over?"

Everyone laughed, but Ross finally had Buckenmaier right where he wanted her.

"You're standing in the exact space that Vice President Al Gore stood in when he
came to visit," Ross said. "Are you feeling the Gore aura?"

Contact Jonathan Tilove

at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: A front-page story Sunday about Georgetown Mayor Dale Ross
incorrectly reported that nuclear power made up 2 percent of the energy used on
the Texas grid in 2016. The correct figure is 12 percent.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 30, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Perry speaks his mind during visit to plant

BYLINE: Dylan Baddour Houston Chronicle

SECTION: METR; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 378 words


U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry stopped by Waller on Friday for a tour of the
massive new Daikin facility, where the former Texas governor took questions from
reporters.

Perry discussed energy-related policy such as nuclear waste, climate change and
grid security but also addressed hot topics such as health care and foreign
investment.

"If I have an opinion about it, I'm not going to be quiet about it," he said.
"I'm going to talk to the American people about things outside the Department of
Energy."

He praised Daikin as "another international company that's putting Texans to
work" and said competitive U.S. policies on taxes, regulations, laws and
education were key to attracting such foreign investment. Education in
particular, he said, helps build a skilled workforce.

Goodman Manufacturing CEO Takeshi Ebisu, who oversees the new Daikin plant, has
cited the Houston area's skilled engineering workforce as a prime reason to
build the plant, the nation's second-largest industrial building, outside
Houston. Waller is about 43 miles northwest of Houston.

The deal was among the biggest in recent memory for Houston. The $417 million,
94-acre manufacturing and distribution facility will employ 5,000 people.
Daikin, a 93-year-old, $24 billion Japanese maker of heating and air
conditioning units, opened its North American headquarters in Waller this year
after buying Houston-based Goodman Manufacturing for $3.7 billion in 2012.

Perry said that as governor he helped to create the regulatory climate that's
attracted this kind of foreign investment in Texas.

Perry addressed some other subjects as well:

On climate change: "The climate is changing; it's been changing for centuries,"
he said, and human activity has driven some of that change. But he rejected the
idea that "the science is settled."

On transgender people in the military: Perry said he supported President Donald
Trump's proposed ban on transgender military personnel because the military
shouldn't have to cover gender-reassignment surgeries.

On nuclear waste storage: Perry called for a new solution to nuclear waste
storage, saying 38 states have storage facilities, including some that aren't
well-protected. "Let's get on with this," he said. "We need to stop kicking the
can down the road."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 14, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hurd fights to survive in tough Texas district

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1788 words


ALPINE - On the second day of a weeklong, 20-event town hall tour of his massive
West Texas district, U.S. Rep. Will Hurd was met by dozens of constituents
packed into a lecture hall at Sul Ross State University.

The crowd in Alpine, a relatively liberal college town, had the potential to be
one of the most hostile to the second-term Republican during the trip, which
came as Democrats' criticism of President Donald Trump was reaching a fever
pitch and as Republicans' frustration with congressional inaction was mounting.

One of the first questions came from two women: a geologist and a biologist who
gave a well-prepared speech about global warming and asked him to join the
Climate Solutions Caucus.

Hurd said he wasn't familiar with the group but acknowledged the reality of
climate change. "Here's the deal: Humans are having an impact on the
environment. Period. End of story," he said. "And so what we do about it is the
conversation that we have to have." He promised to look into the caucus's work.

Aimee Roberson, the biologist, said after the event that she doesn't usually
vote for Republicans but would consider Hurd, depending on his opponent.

"He really seemed like he was listening," she said. "I want to believe him. I
want to give him the benefit of the doubt."

Minutes later, Randy Engh, a conservative who works in information technology at
Sul Ross, asked a more succinct question: "Sir, tax reform - when?" Late fall,
Hurd said, before expounding on what taxes need to be cut.

After the event, Engh said he's losing patience with the GOP-controlled
Congress, which has so far failed to enact much of its agenda. But despite the
fact that Hurd was the only Texas Republican to vote against the House GOP's
health care bill and has regularly criticized Trump, Engh spared his own
congressman that criticism.

"He's one of the ones that has a little more common sense," Engh said of Hurd.
"He's being true to himself. That's the key to Mr. Hurd for me."

Hurd, 39, isn't an awe-inspiring public speaker, but his matter-of-fact style
gives many the impression that he might actually mean what he says. In town
halls, Hurd primarily speaks off the cuff, but even his rehearsed lines -
"Building a wall from sea to shining sea is the most expensive and least
effective way to secure the border," was a common one on the trip - come out
naturally.

It's an important trait for a politician trying to build a brand as a
nonideological pragmatist in a time of hyperpartisanship, and it helps explain
why Hurd has so far defied the odds in defending his overwhelmingly Hispanic
district, the only true swing seat in Texas.

A mixed-race and mild-

mannered former CIA operative with blue-collar roots, Hurd is one of the least
Trump like Republicans in national politics. But he's having a moment in the
limelight right now thanks in no small part to the way his style and stances
contrast with the fire-breathing president.

Hurd this year has attracted the attention of Politico and The Washington Post
and will soon be featured on NPR's "This American Life." The Helotes native was
trailed by national and local media during his "DC2DQ" town hall tour, so named
because most of the stops were at Dairy Queens in his district.

With protesters disrupting town halls across the country, about two-thirds of
the 38 Texans in Congress are forgoing open events during the August recess,
according to The Dallas Morning News. Hurd largely escaped the drama, although
not all his stops went as smoothly as in Alpine. Several Hurd critics Friday
caused an ugly scene at a Dairy Queen event in Devine, southwest of San Antonio.

â  Rising star'

Mark Jones, a Rice University political scientist, said Hurd is "seen as a
rising star" in some Republican circles. Whether he fulfills that destiny
depends on whether he can survive in Texas' toughest congressional seat and on
the direction of the GOP.

If the party continues its rightward march, there would be little room for
moderates such as Hurd in a statewide race. But if Texas Republicans change
course to appeal to the state's increasingly young and diverse population - or
if a "wake-up election" forces them to - Hurd could be their man, Jones said.

"If Republicans alienate Latinos and millennial Anglos," Jones said, "then
they're really going to need the Will Hurds of the world to pull them out."

Hurd said he's comfortable in that role.

"I'm the one that's the vanguard in trying to change and expose more people to
our thinking and our philosophy," he told the American-Statesman during one of
the long stretches between stops on his tour. "The rest of the state of Texas is
going to start looking more and more like the 23rd District, so I'm trying to
show a way that we can continue as a force in the state."

A Democratic challenger hoping to unseat Hurd next year has already emerged:
Gina Ortiz Jones, who, like Hurd, is from the San Antonio area and is leaving a
career in intelligence, for the Air Force, to run for Congress.

Other Democrats reportedly considering a run include former U.S. Rep. Pete
Gallego, who lost the last two races to Hurd; federal prosecutor Jay Hulings;
and Judy Canales, who served in the U.S. Agriculture Department during the Obama
administration.

A pending federal court case over whether Texas' district maps are racially
discriminatory could change the game at any moment. Any change to the 23rd
Congressional District, Jones said, would almost certainly be to the advantage
of Democrats.

â  How you woo people'

Nearing the end of a long drive to Presidio, a border town south of Marfa, Hurd
emerged from the cabin of an RV, asked a staffer to play a song on a portable
speaker and set up an iPhone on a small tripod.

"Morning, everybody. Happy Monday," Hurd said into the camera, bopping along to
the music. "That's my boy Robert Earl Keen, â  I Gotta Go,' because we got to.
Day 2, DC2DQ, thanks for everybody who joined. Make sure you like and share
this."

Hurd's prodigious use of social media is a new trick to aid an old strategy:
personally connecting with as many voters as possible.

The 23rd Congressional District, which stretches over two time zones, 29
counties and 820 miles of Texas-

Mexico border, doesn't make it easy. But its near-50/50 partisan split makes it
necessary.

Thanks to gerrymandering, most House members represent districts that are
overwhelmingly Republican or Democratic, leading them to worry less about
persuading centrists who vote only in November and more about appealing to the
smaller number of party die-hards who dominate primaries.

Hurd doesn't have that luxury. He credits his success in 2016 to his constituent
outreach efforts.

"Everybody said, â  It takes a Hispanic to beat a Hispanic.' Then they said,
after I won the first time, â  There's no way a black dude could win in a
Hispanic district.' And then they said, â  You shouldn't spend time in areas
where you're never going to change people's hearts and minds,'" Hurd said. "When
you get down and you talk to people and you talk about issues they care about
and they come to trust you, that's how you woo people."

Why has so much of that wooing occurred in Dairy Queens? "In every rural town,
there's a Dairy Queen, and so it's nice. They're always big places," Hurd said.
"And who doesn't like a cool treat on a hot day?" (His order: A Hungr-Buster
with cheese and a small dipped cone.)

Hurd said that although he works well with the administration in Washington,
Trump's words make it more difficult for him to reach constituents in West
Texas.

"There is a level of cooperation and action that is really good. Some of the
rhetoric is unhelpful because it puts up further barriers," he said. "We should
be talking about what unites us, not what divides us, because way more unites
us."

â  Not just our congressman'

Introducing Hurd at the Bean Cafe, Presidio County Judge Cinderela Guevara
gushed over the congressman for his help securing a presidential permit to
rebuild the Presidio-Ojinaga International Rail Bridge, which has been closed
since a 2008 fire damaged it.

"You're like family to us. You're not just our congressman," Guevara said.

She was followed by Mayor John Ferguson, who was similarly enthusiastic.

"We want to work, but we just need a few tools," Ferguson said of what the
bridge reopening could do for his city.

The praise from two Democratic officials harked back to the politics of
yesteryear, when congressmen were eager to tout the slice of pork-barrel
spending they were able to bring home and small-town officials were happy to
thank the rainmaker, regardless of party.

After winning a majority in 2010, U.S. House Republicans banned the practice of
doling out earmarks - special projects that often went to the districts of
powerful representatives or those the leadership needed to win over for tight
votes - after they had become a symbol of Washington corruption and waste. (The
bridge reconstruction, funded by a U.S. Transportation Department grant, is
technically not a budgetary earmark, and Hurd was primarily involved in securing
the White House green light for the project, not the funding.)

Jones, the political scientist, said it's no accident that Republicans have
largely held off on attacking Hurd for such behavior.

"Many Republicans grudgingly accept his freelancing in the center of the
political spectrum because they realize if he doesn't do it, it will be a
Democratic seat," Jones said. "Texas Republicans and activists cut him quite a
bit of slack. They would not cut a Republican in a ruby-red district so much
slack."

One of those activists was at the Bean Cafe that morning. Todd Beckett, the
Presidio County GOP chairman, came with a printed-out message for Hurd to
deliver to his "peers in Washington."

"The spurious attacks on President Trump must stop," he wrote about the
investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 election. "We have been patient
and we have been law abiding and we have cast legal votes to elect a Republican
Congress, then a Republican Senate and finally a Republican President."

Beckett declined to say whether he thought Hurd was part of the problem but said
he was suspicious of everyone in Washington.

"I don't have a lot of faith in Republicans right now," he said.

As a former CIA official, Hurd hasn't shied away from agreeing with his former
employer's conclusion about the election - that Russia intervened to aid Trump -
and he doesn't plan to shy away from criticizing Trump when the president's
needs clash with those of his district.

"The way I look at this, we don't elect an emperor, we elect a president," he
said. "Just like under the last administration, I agree when I agree, and I
disagree when I disagree."

Contact Sean Collins Walsh

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Austin tech leaders join forces to help direct the future of AI

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1680 words


Bryan Johnson looked across the ballroom at the hundreds of South by Southwest
interactive enthusiasts listening to him and wondered why they'd settled for
something so inefficient.

With such a collection of brainpower and knowledge in one room, he mused, why
should everyone listen only to one person at a time? What might happen if, with
a neural-interface chip implanted in their brains, the entire crowd could engage
simultaneously in the same conversation?

"Before, we were subject to our environment," said Johnson, who is chasing that
sort of augmented intelligence and cognition at his startup, Kernel. "Now we're
in a place where we can program almost any kind of world we want, in biological
and computational forms."

Johnson's vision and comments drilled directly to the core of the excitement -
and the concern - that swirled around the heavily attended SXSW sessions on
artificial intelligence, robotics and automation.

For all the promising capabilities a brain chip or the myriad other AI-related
advances might produce, it's not hard to imagine dangerous or dystopian
scenarios they could also bring. At SXSW, virtually every amazing possibility
came paired with a statement of caution - a caveat about the need to discuss an
ethical, transparent and beneficial approach to AI development.

A new Austin-based initiative joined that chorus in March, becoming the latest
in a global emergence of organizations designed to chart that responsible path
forward. The local effort, called AI Austin, was formed and partially funded by
a trio of the region's tech-business heavyweights - Michael Stewart, Manoj
Saxena and Tom Meredith - who hope to bring a more human-oriented and
Austin-flavored perspective to the conversation.

AI Austin organizers hope to raise the profile of local artificial intelligence
work and build more connections with researchers, businesses and governments
around the world. To that end, they brought in Kay Firth-Butterfield, one of the
world's top experts on the legal and ethical considerations of AI and autonomous
systems, to lead the effort.

But as she, Stewart and Saxena noted in interviews after SXSW, AI Austin also
plans to launch local initiatives that use artificial intelligence to enhance
the education, health and welfare of the Austin community.

"AI is going to change everybody's lives, and we definitely want to change
everybody's lives for the better," Firth-Butterfield said. "We're all passionate
evangelists for the ability of AI to really help humanity over the next problems
that we will be facing, for example in climate change, health care issues, some
of the issues we find in the developing world."

At the outset, AI Austin will focus on four primary topics. The first, a law and
ethics piece, will reside at the University of Texas Robert S. Strauss Center,
where Firth-Butterfield is a senior fellow. The group also will look for ways AI
can improve education, health care and social justice.

"If we grow it correctly and responsibly - and I'll keep using the word â
responsible' - then we can lift everybody's boats at the same time,"
Firth-Butterfield said.

The timing for the emergence of AI Austin and of similar groups in Silicon
Valley and at leading universities around the world is vital, local and visiting
experts said throughout SXSW. Already, narrow uses of artificial intelligence
have pervaded everyday life through smartphone apps, self-driving vehicles,
digital personal assistants and other increasingly mainstream technologies.

Even absent an existential threat posed by a super-intelligent machine - and
that notion has its share of skeptics, even among AI scientists - uses of
artificial intelligence will become only more commonplace in the future. So the
discussions needed to guide that development and shape a future that's
beneficial to humanity need to happen today, experts say.

"Artificial intelligence is going to be a technology that will be as pervasive
if not more pervasive than the internet was, and even more than electricity
was," said Saxena, CEO of Austin-based Cognitive Scale. "It has a lot of power
to do good, but also a lot of power to do harm."

Out of the â  AI winter'

As a former general manager of IBM Watson, Saxena has seen the ups and downs of
artificial intelligence. During one SXSW session, he quipped that AI stands for
two things - "absolutely incredible" or "artificially inflated."

Artificial intelligence has a decades-long history of big hype cycles followed
by "AI winters," when investment and interest all but froze. Today, however, AI
applications have embedded themselves deeper into everyday life - whether in the
algorithm Netflix uses to learn your preferences and offer better movie
suggestions, or in Google's self-driving cars cruising Austin's streets.

This latest wave of AI is changing how we work, how we live and how we connect
with others, Saxena said. And because of that influence, he said, AI Austin will
focus more on the human perspective.

"I think we need to keep Austin AI weird," he said. "Most cities are coming at
it from a technology lens, building companies, standards, whatever. Austin can
add a human lens to AI."

Austin can approach AI's challenges from this different angle because it comes
from a different mindset - one that emerges from its blend of a diverse creative
community, a collaborative spirit and a mature high-tech industry
infrastructure, Saxena said.

Yet Central Texas also has a robust, if often under the radar, history of
technical expertise in artificial intelligence. The UT computer science
department, for example, is ranked among the top 10 in the country, and a
significant portion of IBM's Watson initiatives are based here.

However, few locals have been at this game longer than Doug Lenat, who launched
Cycorp in 1984. Lenat and his Austin-based firm have spent decades developing a
huge knowledge base that instills machines with something akin to common sense -
to understand, without an exhaustive set of instructions, that a full-grown blue
whale won't fit in your backyard pool.

Stewart said he got to know Lenat and his work early on, when both were
affiliated with the Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corp. (MCC), a
significant precursor to Austin's high-tech boom.

"It was obvious to me that what (Lenat) was working on was not just a form of AI
that might be interesting... but actually working on how humans think with
knowledge, inference and the common sense we develop over the years," Stewart
said.

Stewart hoped to help commercialize Cycorp's technology under a newer firm he
created, called Lucid. Alongside that effort, Lucid developed one of the AI
industry's first ethics teams to contemplate future development and use of its
technologies.

The deal never came to fruition, and Stewart and his colleagues realized they
would never attract broad industry participation in ethical deliberations if
they embedded that team at Cycorp.

"We would not get competitors to cooperate if we did it in-house," he said. "It
needed to be pluralistic, to include the whole society."

The idea of AI Austin was born. Meredith and Saxena jumped on board last fall.
USAA became the first major corporate sponsor a short time later.

And they all held an informal launch party at Meredith's home March 9, less than
six months later.

Inside the black box

USAA might not be the first company to come to mind when one mentions artificial
intelligence, but insurance and risk assessment could exert a powerful influence
on future AI deployments.

One of the key challenges today is understanding how an AI system reaches its
conclusions. For example, advanced machines can pick the image of a cat out of a
video, but they can't explain how or why they managed to do it.

So how does an insurer assess risk in a self-driving car controlled by
artificial intelligence? If such a vehicle gets into an untenable position and
steers itself into a fatal accident, there's no way to know why it made that
decision. Perhaps it chose that unfortunate path to avoid a worse fate; perhaps
it simply erred.

Finding a way to gain more insight into the AI black box remains a key concern
for many in the industry, and transparency emerged in multiple panel discussions
at SXSW.

AI Austin won't shy away from the complex technical issues, but the founders
have seeded a more humanistic perspective, as well.

"Don't we want AI to be transparent, fair, honest and with just outcomes?"
Meredith asked during a SXSW panel. "Those words have values behind them, and we
have to realize there are going to be bad actors. So we have to make sure the
leaders of companies and a strong community are behind ethical use."

Meredith said he sees the initiative supporting practical and ethical AI
applications that help bridge divides, promote equity, combat climate change and
help workers prepare for a future in which machines replace humans in more and
more jobs.

Education and job training could have some of the most immediate applications. A
recent Oxford University study found that artificial intelligence, robotics and
other automation technologies could replace as much as 47 percent of current
U.S. jobs in the next 20 years.

Because such pervasive economic, societal and personal changes that could arise
- and, in many cases, are already underway - AI Austin and similar groups hope
to collectively produce what Saxena calls "AI for good."

Rather than machines simply replacing humans, they hope to design a future in
which machines augment and scale human intelligence and capability - much as
Johnson envisioned with the brain implants he described to the crowd at SXSW.

And that human side, Saxena said, is where Austin should lead.

"Berlin today is known for design in the IT world," he said. "Silicon Valley is
known for tech innovation. Austin's AI can be known for enabling humanity....
That's a wide-open space, and frankly that's where 90 percent of the AI
opportunity lies."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

home for Austin tech
  See the site
  www.512tech.com
  Follow on Twitter
  twitter.com/512tech
  Like on Facebook
  facebook.com/512tech


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 20, 2017 Friday
                                 State Edition

'Couch' remark unlikely to cost Perry new job

BYLINE: Ken Herman American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 874 words


WASHINGTON - Rick Perry, who for so many years was large and in charge, found
himself in a tables-turned situation Thursday with a bunch of folks who always
think they're larger and more in charge than anybody else.

Mr. Ex-Gov, meet the duly elected members of the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, the first round in Perry's effort to get confirmed as
President Donald Trump's energy secretary.

All in all, the confirmation hearing went about as well as it could for Perry as
he collegially agreed with Republicans and faced off, largely deferentially
though not without a finger wave, with Sens. Al Franken, D-Minn., and Bernie
Sanders, I-Vt.

Perry managed to work the room for some laughs, including once unintentionally
with an inartful response that could have been interpreted as meaning he had
rolled around on a couch with Franken.

Perry began with an opening statement in which he said he now regrets calling
for the Energy Department's abolition five years ago when he was a presidential
candidate. That was dumb, Perry sort of said, announcing a change of heart
"after being briefed on so many of the vital functions of the Department of
Energy."

You'd think a guy might want that kind of briefing prior to calling for the
elimination of an agency.

At the hearing, Team Perry included wife, Anita, daughter, Sydney and a
sprinkling of longtime aides and some who've been helping him learn in recent
weeks the vital importance of the agency he once wanted to eliminate.

"Oh, every day," Anita Perry said when I asked how her hubby had been preparing.
"He's hitting the books. He studied hard. He's well-prepared."

What could possibly go wrong? I asked of a woman who had watched her husband's
presidential aspirations die in an "Oops."

"Nothing," she said. "Nothing's going to go wrong."

And it didn't, at least not in a way that might derail Perry's efforts to get
into the Trump Cabinet. So confident was Team Perry that members of it, led by
Perry adviser Jeff Miller, took time for a quick high-five just prior to the
hearing.

Moments later, emerging from a holding room, Perry strode confidently in for the
session. He glad-handed with folks he knew and sat in the front row next to his
wife and near his daughter and his longtime friend and former Navy SEAL Marcus
Luttrell.

After raising his right hand and swearing not to lie, Perry took his seat at the
table where he'd be encamped for the next three and a half hours, occasionally
taking notes and repeatedly clicking his pen. As is his custom, he deviated a
bit in reading his prepared opening statement, folksying it up a bit as he
walked the line between formal testimony and more casual conversation.

In introducing his wife at the hearing, Perry saw fit to mention he met her at a
piano recital. He directed the answer to Franken and said, "You didn't know I
was a pianist. I wanted to bring that to your attention, sir."

There is no known downside to a piano-playing energy secretary.

I've got a feeling, based on three decades of covering Perry, that he felt
connecting early with Franken, a sharp-tongued Democrat, might be a good idea.

Hours later, Franken, a former comedian, opened his questioning of Perry with a
line riffing on nominees' usual opening comments about how much they had enjoyed
meeting the senators in private in the days leading up to the hearing:
"Governor, thank you so much for coming into my office. Did you enjoy meeting
me?"

It seems that Perry did.

"I hope you are as much fun on that dais as you were on your couch," Perry
replied, drawing laughter Perry didn't intend to draw.

"May I rephrase that, sir?" Perry asked a receptive Franken.

"Please, please, please. Oh my Lord. Oh my Lord," Franken replied, apparently
troubled by how Perry couched the response.

"Well, I think we've found our â  Saturday Night Live' soundbite," Perry said,
laughing, though plugging a TV show hated by the man who nominated him for the
job.

Franken proceeded to challenge Perry on several energy-related topics.

A bit later, Sanders was even more aggressive in challenging Perry on climate
change. Sanders read a 2011 Perry quote in which Perry questioned scientists'
motives in declaring climate change a human-made problem of huge proportions.

"You don't have to agree with me," Sanders said after cutting short a Perry
answer. "The scientists that I talk to, I think the majority of the scientists
who study this issue, feel that climate change is a global crisis.... It is a
global crisis which requires massive cuts in carbon and transformation of our
energy system. How do you respond to that?"

Perry responded with statistics about how polluting emissions have been cut in
Texas. "Don't you think that is a good thing?" he said, waving his left index
finger at Sanders.

"Well, I think what would be a better thing," Sanders said, "would be for you is
for you to say right now that you recognize that we have a global crisis..."

Perry said no such thing.

When it was over, Team Perry seemed happy with how the hearing went.

"Governor, fun?" I asked Perry as he collected his papers when the hearing
ended.

He gave me a thumbs-up. Indeed, as Franken said during the hearing, it looks
like Perry is going to be energy secretary.

kherman@statesman.com; 512-445-3907

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 16, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Banning suspensions for youngest debated

BYLINE: Melissa B. Taboada American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1364 words


Hundreds of students in prekindergarten through second grade - some as young as
4 - are suspended from Austin schools each year.

The vast majority removed from school for discipline are boys. Black children,
who make up only 7 percent of the district's students, were 38 percent of all
lower-grade suspensions during the past four years. In the same time frame,
Hispanics were 48 percent of the suspended students, on average.

Austin school board members are debating whether to place a ban on suspensions
of the youngest students starting this fall. The policy change would affect all
students in prekindergarten through second grade, and it would ban schools from
discretionary suspensions, expulsions, or placements in a disciplinary
alternative setting except when required by law.

Citing growing research from local and national studies, including by the U.S.
Education Department, district administrators said suspending young children is
ineffective and leads to higher rates of academic failure and dropouts. The
suspensions also are punitive and don't address underlying causes of
misbehavior, district administrators said.

But some trustees have raised concerns about the policy change, saying the
district can work toward the goal without putting strict limits on the ability
of campus administrators to discipline students who disrupt class and keep
others from learning. A pilot program to examine the effect of a ban begins this
month in a handful of schools.

"When the research says clearly this is the right direction we need to move, we
have to move in that direction," said Edmund Oropez, the district's chief
officer of teaching and learning. "I know that makes people feel uncomfortable,
but that's part of changing the climate and culture of an organization, and we
fundamentally believe that."

The Houston and El Paso school districts have passed policies banning
suspensions for the youngest students. The Dallas school district is weighing a
similar policy.

Austin school board President Kendall Pace said she has consistently heard from
a dozen current and former principals about the policy, and they are "terrified
of this."

"This is not the average disruptive student," she told administrators at a
recent board meeting, questioning whether the district has the resources for the
training it would require. "I'm talking about the student that is clawing,
punching, hitting teachers, throwing chairs.

"You're now asking assistant principals to be basically mental health
counselors."

â  Just a Band-Aid'

Statewide, 88,310 elementary school students received out-of-school suspensions
in 2013-14, about 45 percent in pre-K through second grade. As in Austin, boys,
black students and special education students were suspended at
disproportionately higher rates: 84 percent were boys (who make up 51 percent of
the overall elementary population), 42 percent were African-Americans (who make
up 13 percent of the students), and 22 percent were special education students
(9 percent).

"If the child does not make a connection with someone on that campus, it is
going to be very difficult to change that behavior," said Beverly Odom,
principal of Linder Elementary in Southeast Austin. "Our children need more than
just suspensions, and they need more than just (being) sent home. That's not
going to solve the problem. It's just a Band-Aid. And sometimes it gives you
time to think, but it's not the right thing to do. At 4 or 5, they're not really
capable of expressing themselves and letting you know exactly what's going on in
their little world."

Austin district parent Natasha Jackson couldn't agree more. Her 6-year-old son,
who is black, has been suspended eight to 10 times since he entered kindergarten
last year. Once a student tried to take away his snack, and when he snatched it
back, Jackson said he accidentally hit her with his elbow.

Sometimes it started with the child not following direction, but his behavior
would escalate upon getting sent to the principal's office, Jackson said. The
most recent time, the principal physically removed him from the classroom, she
said. He hit the principal when she tried to restrain him. Jackson was told by
another administrator that the principal later called the police as required by
the district after a student strikes a staff member.

"I feel like there's misunderstanding, and a lack of training and skill when
dealing with certain types of kids," said Jackson, who often had to take off
work or place her son in a child care center when she couldn't take time off.
"There has to be other options besides suspension. The answer can't be to always
to keep him out of school."

Jackson said a counselor this school year told her that her son acts like an
average child. While there was no formal diagnosis, Jackson said, an
occupational therapist suggested her son might have sensory issues that cause
him to act out when he is overstimulated. But the counselor also said such
issues aren't uncommon among young children learning to manage their emotions,
Jackson said.

Jackson said she couldn't pinpoint one thing that triggered her son's outbursts,
but she felt the administrators' responses escalated the situations. Fearing the
issues would cause long-term negative consequences for her son, last week she
transferred him from his elementary school in South Austin to a school closer to
her work in East Austin.

Jackson said her daughter, who is in third grade, has had no disciplinary
issues.

"I'm not pointing the finger at anyone, but the current system can result in
criminalizing young boys who are just being themselves," she said. "It's more of
a lack of communication or connection that is creating these issues."

District officials don't comment on disciplinary actions of individual students,
but in a recent school board meeting administrators said they want to provide
more training to help schools' staff de-escalate situations. The district in
recent years has taken steps toward such work, adopting a social emotional
learning curriculum that teaches children to self-regulate, verbalize their
issues, learn empathy and better get along. Administrators also have worked to
lower the number of suspensions districtwide, officials said.

Trustees split

Trustee Yasmin Wagner said the district needs to do more, pointing to the
percentage of students sent to the Alternative Learning Center, the district's
disciplinary campus, where 83 percent of students are of color and 24 percent
are special education students.

"I'm incredibly thrilled that we're taking this step," Wagner said about the
proposed suspension ban. "I think that it's a great step, but I want to be sure
that we acknowledge it as a first step. There is a lot more that we can still
do.... When we start seeing that level of overrepresentation, it's simply not
acceptable."

Others said a decision should wait until they see the results of the pilot
program.

Trustee Amber Elenz said she won't be ready to vote on the matter later this
month when it goes before the board. She said zero-tolerance policies that dole
out suspensions for certain types of behavior led to the suspensions of younger
students. But the district's push to reduce its disciplinary numbers has already
created an unintended consequence of further limiting the discretion of school
staffers, she said: "I feel like we're doing the right thing; we just may not be
doing it exactly right."

Others continue to call for an end to suspensions, at least in the early years.
District administrators said if trustees approve the policy change, the first
step would ban suspensions in the early grades, and call for suspensions to be
used only as a last resort in the third, fourth and fifth grades.

"Ending these classroom removals is an important step for AISD to take,
particularly if they are focused on equity issues and keeping kids in class,"
said Morgan Craven, director of the school-to-prison pipeline project at Texas
Appleseed, a nonprofit legal advocacy group pushing the Austin district to
change. "It's certainly not the last step, but we are supportive of them making
these changes to their practices."

Contact Melissa Taboada

at 512-445-3620.

Twitter: @melissataboada

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 4, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Unusual warmth expected to pass

BYLINE: Roberto Villalpando and Katie Hall American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 741 words


This November turned out to be Austin's second warmest ever and the 12th driest
on record, according to National Weather Service data from Camp Mabry. But with
the arrival of December, weather patterns could be changing in the coming days.

The average temperature for the month reached 66.2 degrees, the warmest average
in 90 years, but still 2 degrees shy of the November record.

The heat hit early and lasted for most of the month. We hadn't even made it a
full 72 hours into November before temperatures broke a daily heat record,
hitting 88 degrees on Nov. 3 and two more times in the next three days.
Temperatures reached 80 degrees or higher on 11 of November's 30 days, weather
service data show. All but six days were warmer than 70 degrees.

Troy Kimmel, a University of Texas meteorology lecturer and forecaster, said
several factors contributed to the unseasonable warmth and dryness. But Texas
and many other parts of the United States were clearly experiencing the effects
of La Niña, the seasonal cooling of the waters in the eastern Pacific that can
influence weather patterns in the Northern Hemisphere.

A La Niña can shift jet stream patterns - rivers of air in the upper levels of
the atmosphere - and cause parts of the Pacific Northwest to be colder and
wetter than normal in winter, for instance, and most of the southern United
States to be warmer and drier than usual, Kimmel said.

"That water in the Pacific is colder than it is usually," he said. "And since
it's colder, there's less moisture to be exported out of that area."

However, Kimmel and other meteorologists say these jet stream patterns will
begin to shift as early as this week.

"We're going to see a sizable change in the global North American jet stream
pattern, and that's the first time we've seen that this year," Kimmel said.
"That's why we're anticipating a touch of winter weather."

Austin could see its first significant precipitation in months late Monday or
Tuesday, when forecasters are calling for a 50 percent chance of rain with the
arrival of a strong cold front.

November - which might be remembered more for how much of it was spent wearing
shorts and sunglasses - definitely was not the month for umbrellas. In a month
that normally gets almost 3 inches of rain, gauges at Camp Mabry reported 0.12
inch - and two-thirds of that measly total fell on Nov. 8.

The city's other major weather station at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport
recorded a similarly unimpressive rainfall amount for November: 0.42 inch. The
month was the airport's ninth driest since record keeping began there in 1942,
the weather service said.

With previous Novembers producing 3.43 inches of rain in 2013, 5.78 inches in
2014, 3.73 inches in 2015 and 3.11 inches last year, Austin hasn't had a
November this dry since 2012, when Central Texas remained in the throes of a
major drought. That year, Camp Mabry recorded zero rainfall and the airport
reported only a trace of precipitation in November.

The largely rain-free month has left Central Texas under "abnormally dry" or
"moderate" drought conditions as of Thursday, according to the U.S. Drought
Monitor, a consortium of academic and government researchers. But the arid
conditions aren't limited to the Austin area: About 60 percent of the state,
mainly in the eastern half, is in drought, data show.

You might think that November's dry spell posed a threat to the Highland Lakes,
where reservoirs such as Lake Travis rely on rainfall for replenishment. But as
of Nov. 30, Lake Travis was 82 percent full and the water elevation at Lake
Travis stood at 669.5 feet above mean sea level - a little more than 3 feet
above the historical average for November.

With November behind us, forecasters have their eye

on winter, which for meteorologists started Dec. 1 (rather than on the winter
solstice).

Kimmel said Central Texans might see a slighter cooler winter in the next few
months than they did last winter because that season was the city's warmest
winter on record.

"I don't think it'll be as warm as it was last year, but that's a pretty easy
hit," he said.

Yet Kimmel doesn't rule out the influence of a warming global climate on how the
weather turns out in Austin.

"Is it totally responsible? No. The atmosphere is way too complex to tag it to
only one thing," he said. "It's usually many things. But a warming of the
climate is a factor."

Contact Roberto Villalpando at 512-445-3881.

Contact Katie Hall

at 512-445-3707.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 17, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

FEDS UPDATE DATA FOR WETTER TEXAS

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1337 words


Onion Creek on Halloween 2013. Wimberley on Memorial Day weekend 2015. Houston's
Tax Day flood in 2016. Hurricane Harvey.

If you feel like Texas has had a constant stream of 100- or 500-year floods in
the past few years, you're not wrong.

Texas rainfall estimates, the federal data used to describe flooding, were last
updated in the 1960s and 1970s, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration is updating them to reflect the increased frequency of heavy
rainstorms documented over the past two decades.

The data are not just for forecasting the weather and describing storms. Once
adopted, the new numbers will be used in engineering standards for roads and
buildings and in the National Flood Insurance Program's mapping of flood risk,
potentially forcing more people to buy flood insurance or to build their homes
to higher elevations.

"A lot of people are anxious about this," said Nick Fang, an engineering
professor and flood expert at the University of Texas at Arlington whom NOAA
invited to review the data. "It's going to change or affect a lot of people's
personal lives and also the design criteria."

A preliminary version of the estimates has been released for peer review. It
shows major increases in expected rainfall for the Houston area, Hays County and
the area along the Rio Grande near Del Rio - and huge leaps in how often severe
rainfall is expected to hit those areas.

Compared with current data, a 24-hour rainfall in Houston would have to drop an
additional 4 to 7 inches for it be considered a 100-year event, meaning it has a
1 percent chance of occurring in any given year. In most of Hays County, the
threshold would increase 3 inches, while Austin would see a 2-inch jump.

Despite the big changes, some experts say the maps don't go far enough in making
sure Texas is prepared for flooding because they look only at past events and
don't project forward using emerging trends, especially an increase in storm
severity that climate scientists attribute to global warming.

"While (the new data) is an improvement over the statistics we're using, that
does not take into account really the trend lines that we're seeing within the
most recent 15, 20 years," said Jim Blackburn, an environmental lawyer and Rice
University professor. "It's about human life. It's about human property. It is a
very, very serious public safety issue."

The Houston area, he noted, has seen four 500-year floods in just the past 23
years.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which oversees the flood insurance
program, said it will examine the data once completed.

"FEMA is aware of the new preliminary rainfall frequency data and will utilize
that data once it is finalized," FEMA spokeswoman Deanna Frazier said in a
statement. "We are evaluating how this data impacts our understanding of the
flood hazard, and will discuss with state and local partners the need to update
NFIP flood risk data."

In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Harris County officials are not waiting
around for new data to change FEMA's maps.

The county commissioners voted unanimously Dec. 5 to require more people to
build to minimum elevations or buy flood insurance if they have federally backed
mortgages. Previously, only property owners in FEMA's 100-year flood plain had
to follow those rules. The commissioners applied those regulations to the
500-year flood plain, a broader flood risk designation that is mapped by FEMA
but usually does not carry special rules.

Waiting in Wimberley

When the Blanco River jumped its banks and tore through Wimberley's Flite Acres
Road in May 2015, it destroyed one of Phil Collins' houses and poured 4 feet of
water into another.

The deadly flood convinced many that it was time to rethink how Wimberley
handles flooding and development along the river. FEMA, which had already been
working on a rewrite of the area's flood plain maps, pounced on the opportunity,
pushing out the new maps on an advisory basis.

Wimberley's City Council declined to immediately adopt the maps, which would
greatly expand the number of property owners required to obtain flood insurance
or build to higher elevations. Instead, it established a plan to present the new
maps to the public for feedback and, in the meantime, allow owners to rebuild
their homes as they were before the flood - so long as they sign affidavits
saying they are aware of the coming changes.

Collins, a retiree who owns several properties in Wimberley and rents out some
to vacationers, was one of the few who signed the affidavit, according to City
Council Member Steve Thurber, who was mayor when the flood occurred.

Collins said he is trying to sell the property where he lost the house. (The
other was quickly repaired.) If it doesn't sell, he will rebuild to the old
standards, not the new minimum elevations recommended by FEMA, he said.

"I wish there was just more flexibility for rebuilding in the flood zones,"
Collins said. "I'm concerned that if we have an entire neighborhood built up on
stilts, it's not good for the neighborhood property values."

Two and a half years after the flood, the City Council still has not adopted the
new maps. Thurber said he expects that to happen in the fall of 2018.

But the longer governments wait to act after a disaster, the more likely their
constituents are to develop what's known as "disaster amnesia," as the
enthusiasm for safety measures wanes over time and individual concerns take
over.

Thurber said that, while he expects the council to adopt the maps, the process
might be complicated by Texans' aversion to regulation and owners' concerns
about their property values.

"It's the Texas desire for no regulations. It's money that developers have, a
way of lobbying. It's about population growth in some areas," Thurber said.
"It's a mixed bag. People that are on the river like to live on the river, and
they don't want to have to build up. And people who don't live on the river
don't really care."

Collins said he would prefer the city focus on safety measures such as improving
flash flood alarm systems than on regulations aimed at property owners.

"I wish there were more opportunities for people to make decisions on their
own," Collins said.

Onion Creek buyouts

While newer data will likely improve flood plain mapping, it won't be a panacea
for the many problems facing the National Flood Insurance Program, which is
nearing $30 billion in debt and has in the past been criticized for subsidizing
property owners to rebuild in risky areas over and over.

Bob Gilbert, a UT-Austin engineering professor, said there is a natural
incentive for property owners to fight being included in flood-risk zones where
they will have to pay more in insurance and could see their values decrease.

"That's part of the flood insurance being broken, because it's like a scarlet
letter on you," Gilbert said. "It's crazy if you think about it: If you're 1
foot outside that flood plain, you don't have to do anything. And if you're 1
foot inside, you have to do everything."

Relying so heavily on flood plain designations also gives residents the
impression that they don't have to worry about flooding if they're not in a risk
zone, Gilbert said. Because flooding is ultimately unpredictable, he said,
everyone needs to be prepared.

One instance of good flood risk management, Gilbert said, is the city of
Austin's handling in recent years of the flood-prone Onion Creek area, much of
which has been included in FEMA's flood plains for years. After the deadly 2013
flood, the city amped up its buyout program to remove families from harm's way
and improved its waterway monitoring system to warn or evacuate residents when
flash floods approach.

"They've been buying out property in a way that's working with the community, so
you don't hear a lot of complaints about it. It takes time," Gilbert said. "A
lot of people were impacted when we lost lives on Onion Creek, impacted in a way
that they decided we can do better, and they are doing that."

Contact Sean Collins Walsh

at 512-912-2939.

Twitter: @seancwalsh

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Texas service sector's growth dips in January

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 583 words


Slower sales growth and some layoffs at Texas retailers cooled the ongoing
expansion of the state's private service sector in January, but the energy
sector's stability and a more business-friendly environment in Washington
sustained generally optimistic outlooks, according to a report released Tuesday
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state revenue index, a key measure of activity at private service-providing
firms, dropped to a reading of 16.2 in January from 21.3 the prior month,
according to the Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey. The lesser, positive
figure indicates that the sector still grew during the month, but at a slower
rate than it did in December.

Part of the sector wide deceleration stemmed from slower sales growth at Texas
retail stores. The state sales index dipped to a reading of 7.4 in January from
19.8 the prior month, according to the Texas Retail Outlook Survey, a subset of
the broader sector report.

"The retail climate remains difficult," a manager at a clothing and accessories
store noted in anonymous comments compiled in the report. "Border stores and oil
patch stores in small cities continue to suffer."

The company noted the likelihood of lower spending and layoffs during the first
half of the year.

While the retail survey indicated some layoff activity in January, employment
across the entire service sector continued to expand. The survey's employment
measure remained positive for the 83rd consecutive month, although it remained
at modest levels.

Private service-providing companies account for about two-thirds of the state's
nonfarm jobs, according to the Texas Workforce Commission. Companies account for
about 60 percent of the state's economic output, according to the Dallas Fed.

Despite softer demand in some industries and in certain parts of the state -
most notably the border region and still-recovering oil patch areas -
service-sector firms continued to note generally optimistic, if somewhat
cautious, outlooks for current and future business conditions.

In the comments compiled in the report, many companies noted some lingering
uncertainty about what might happen in Washington given the post-election
tensions there. In particular, companies in or related to the health care
industry said their current outlooks are especially cautious because of
potential changes to the Affordable Care Act.

Yet most respondents also noted hopes that the Republican-led Congress and White
House would ease regulatory burdens on businesses.

"I think the overall climate is a bit more positive with a change in tone in
Washington (that is) friendlier to the private-sector business environment and
more aware of the unintended effects of legislation," said a manager of an
educational services firm.

Back in Texas, the rebound in the energy sector has provided a little more
certainty of late. While the modest recovery of oil and gas prices and the
resumption of drilling activity hasn't sparked a large uptick in demand, it has
alleviated the downward pull on manufacturers and service-sector firms alike.

On Monday, the Dallas Fed noted that Texas manufacturing activity expanded for a
seventh consecutive month in January.

"The energy sector is experiencing a modest recovery, and many service sector
companies are going back to work," said a manager at a firm that provides
management services to other companies. "Not a landslide of business, but steady
and increasing activity is helping put people back to work."

Contact Dan Zehr at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 1, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

UT inventor Goodenough on verge of revolution in battery tech

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 882 words


John Goodenough, the University of Texas physicist whose lithium-ion battery
research ushered in the era of modern portable electronics, says he and his
colleagues think they have just made a similarly important breakthrough.

The research team has developed the first "all-solid-state battery cells," which
could enable an all-electric car to cover many times the distance it now can, as
well as charging in minutes instead of hours. The new technology could also mean
significantly better batteries in everything from cellphones to large-scale
energy storage, according to a peer-reviewed paper published in the journal
Energy and Environmental Science.

"We believe our discovery solves many of the problems that are inherent in
today's batteries," said Goodenough, a professor in UT's Cockrell School of
Engineering.

Many on-the-cusp technological innovations have been limited by battery
technology. Beyond the ubiquitous kvetching about iPhones and laptops running
out of juice at bad times, many experts say battery technology is the key to
solar, wind and other renewable sources becoming the dominant forms of energy
production.

As things stand now, there is no large-scale way to store electricity, giving
wind and solar limited utility. They are now cheap but not available all the
time, and the electricity they generate must be used immediately or lost
forever. Other power sources - mainly natural gas, coal and nuclear, the
dominant sources of electric generation - must be used when solar and wind
aren't available.

Much of the research into the problem is focused on "distributed generation" -
batteries spread across a community. In that vision, electric cars with better
batteries could allow people to store renewable energy when it's generated, then
use it for transportation or to power their homes, significantly supplementing
fossil and nuclear fuels.

More generally, the new battery could also help on the business side, for
instance by enhancing the range of trucks.

"It's a plus across the board," said Scott Hinson, engineering director for the
Pecan Street Project, an Austin-based consortium trying to introduce new water-
and energy-use technologies into everyday life.

Goodenough has been working on a next-generation battery for a quarter-century.
He came to prominence in the late 1980s, when he was the co-inventor of the
lithium-ion battery. That is a type of rechargeable battery used for cellphones,
iPads and laptops.

Now 94, Goodenough has been working on a new type of battery because pricewise,
he has said, the electric car still cannot compete with cheaper gas-powered
vehicles using internal combustion engines. Without a new battery, wars for
increasingly limited oil supplies could become more common, he reasons; also,
gasoline emits gases that the vast majority of climate scientists say contribute
to global climate change.

Two years ago Goodenough met Maria Helena Braga, a Portuguese material sciences
researcher who had been working on a long-standing problem: the short-circuiting
that can cause explosions and fires when a battery is charged too quickly.
Braga, now at UT, developed a solution with Goodenough and UT researcher Andrew
Murchison.

One advantage of their new design is that it is more environmentally friendly,
substituting lithium with sodium that can be extracted from seawater, Braga
said.

Goodenough cannot say exactly how much the research will enhance battery
technology. That will depend partly on how companies incorporate the research
into new battery models (much as Sony did in 1991 when it commercialized the
lithium-ion battery research). But Goodenough said the batteries should enable a
comfortable driving range of at least 300 miles on a single charge - about three
times farther than the 2017 Nissan Leaf.

Hinson, who read the academic journal article, said that, in talking it over
with his Pecan Street Project colleagues, "we had a hard time coming up with a,
â  wow, we really have to be cautious about this'" angle.

The main limitation will probably be the charging capacity of a house. Without a
near-total overhaul, a home can generally charge a vehicle only so quickly
without blowing the fuses. But the private sector will probably work around that
limitation more quickly, Hinson said.

Even if a house's wiring limits how quickly a car can charge, an owner can
simply let a car charge overnight for a longer period and then be able to drive
it farther in the morning, Hinson said.

"Even if you can't charge it faster, there are all these other benefits," he
said.

As another example of how an improved battery could be useful, Hinson mentioned
the "residential microgrid" the Pecan Street Project is now developing. That
device, about the size of a refrigerator, has batteries and circuitry and is
hooked into solar panels and a house's electrical system. The device is also
hooked into the city's electric grid for times when the sun doesn't shine, but
it is now capable of running an entire regular-size household on a sunny day,
plus storing perhaps three to 10 hours of electricity for the night, Hinson
said.

A better battery, he said, means the system can either be smaller, or it could
power a home for longer - reducing the need to tap into the grid, potentially
entirely.

Contact Marty Toohey

at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 9, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Rep. Smith supports EPA advisory change

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 615 words


Making good on the aims of a Texas congressman who represents parts of Austin,
President Donald Trump's administration has dismissed scientists who advise the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, opening the way to replacing them with
industry representatives.

On Friday, Trump's EPA administrator ousted members of the EPA's Board of
Scientific Counselors, which advises on work by agency scientists. An EPA
spokesman told The New York Times that the administration "believes we should
have people on this board who understand the impact of regulations on the
regulated community."

The move - which has been criticized by government watchdog groups and
associations of scientists - is out of the playbook of U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-San Antonio, who represents parts of Central and South Austin and who chairs
the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology.

Smith told the American-Statesman that he supported the move by EPA
Administrator Scott Pruitt for "being proactive in addressing issues related to
EPA's science advisory bodies."

"This decision increases transparency, reduces conflicts of interest and ensures
balance on expert panels," he said, adding the EPA's science advisory boards
serve as "echo chambers to rubber stamp costly and burdensome regulations."

The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, which Smith co-sponsored and which
passed the House in late March, bars anyone who has an ongoing EPA research
grant from serving on the Science Advisory Board, another board that helps
oversee work at the EPA, and prohibits board members from applying for grants
for three years after they step down from the panel.

The measure would effectively prevent many scientific experts from serving on
the oversight board.

"This valuable bill opens the door to increased outside input, wider expert
opinions and more balanced recommendations in EPA's Science Advisory Board,"
Smith said at the time of its passage in the House. The legislation is awaiting
Senate action.

Smith has long vilified the EPA, accusing federal scientists of pushing an
"extreme climate agenda."

The Statesman reported in February that Smith has called far fewer scientists to
testify before his committee than people associated with the types of industries
the EPA is charged with regulating.

In February, Smith convened a hearing called "Making EPA Great Again."

"EPA has long been on a path of regulatory overreach, and the committee will use
the tools necessary to put EPA back on track," Smith said at the time.

Most scientists say emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases help
trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere, leading to a warming planet. Smith has told
the Statesman in the past that evidence scientists provide is "wishy-washy."

All of the people dismissed by Pruitt - as many as half of the 18-member Board
of Scientific Counselors, according to the Washington Post - were at the end of
serving at least one three-year term, although those terms are often renewed.

The decision by the EPA "is discouraging, but not unexpected, and, given the
expected lack of climate action by this administration anyway, it will likely
not have a major impact on policy," said Peter Beck, who teaches environmental
science and policy at St. Edward's University. "Perhaps more significant is the
signal it sends about the politicization of science, which will likely
exacerbate mistrust and cynicism of the federal government."

"Today, I was Trumped," Robert Richardson, an ecological economist at Michigan
State University, wrote on Twitter on Friday. "I have had the pleasure of
serving on the EPA Board of Scientific Counselors, and my appointment was
terminated today."

Contact Asher Price

at 512-445-3643.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 9, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Letters to the editor

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INST; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 774 words


Dyslexic students get services they deserve

Re: July 5 article, "AISD expands its services for dyslexic students."

I was overjoyed to learn from Melissa Taboada's article of the commitment Austin
Independent School District is making to advance identification - as well as
services - for students with dyslexia.

For so long, this less-than-obvious learning difference was allowed to slip
through the cracks. Parents of such students, like myself, began to suspect that
the reluctance of districts to identify this population helped them avoid the
responsibility to provide services mandated by the Americans With Disabilities
Act.

As with most things in life, persistence pays - and my hat is off to all those
working so hard to ensure that the present generation of schoolchildren receives
the education that is rightfully theirs.

ROBIN DURR, AUSTIN

CodeNext does not heed Imagine Austin

CodeNext's proposed higher density transect zoning in the interior of Austin's
central city neighborhoods contradicts both the development rationale of Imagine
Austin and neighborhood plans that call for additional density along the major
arterials while preserving the existing lower density in the neighborhood
interior.

Please rewrite CodeNext to be consistent with Imagine Austin and the Bouldin
Creek Neighborhood Plan.

Don't kill the "golden goose" of the central city housing stock and character by
jamming significantly more density in the interior of these neighborhoods, which
will destroy the neighborhoods' traditional character , add flooding problems
that threaten the natural creeks, and cannot be sustained by existing water and
wastewater infrastructure.

STUART HAMPTON, AUSTIN

Why can't Texas protect residents?

Re: July 2 article, "Trump upset with states unwilling to release voter info."

Say it isn't true that the officials in Texas are just going to hand over part
of our Social Security numbers, our political affiliation and other very
personal information to Donald Trump! Who is responsible for keeping this
information from getting in the wrong hands?

This kind of overreach by the government will suppress voter's registration and
is just wrong. I have experienced identity theft twice - and I am very careful.
Why can't Texas stand up for its residents like so many other states? Trump is
spending millions in taxpayer money on this hoax because he can't get over
losing by 3 million votes. He needs to grow up.

LISA MESTER, BUDA

Let's focus on what SB 2 accomplishes

Re: June 25 commentary, "Viewpoints: Legislature should end illusion and provide
real tax cuts."

Your recent editorial on property tax relief was laughable for the fact that you
used the same magic of misdirection you were accusing Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick of
using in his support of Senate Bill 2. Instead of arguing for or against SB 2,
your editorial diverted attention away from what SB 2 does to what it doesn't
do: include school taxes. The wheels of politics sometimes grind slowly and
incrementally.

Just because SB 2 does not include school taxes is not an argument against what
the bill does accomplish. What is wrong with making 5 percent tax increases
subject to voter approval at a time when inflation is half of that?

Too often, local government spending is dictated by political activists and not
the majority of voters. You seem to argue that the inclusion of school taxes
would be something the editorial board can support, calling them "real tax cuts"
in the headline.

I'm not sure why you would support capping school taxes but not local taxes.
You've got to start somewhere.

DAVID LEFFLER, AUSTIN

Examine the reasons for Perry's skepticism

Re: July 1 letter to the editor, "What's wrong with being skeptical of
scientists?"

The letter defends Energy Secretary Rick Perry's challenge to U.S. Sen. Al
Franken concerning the science of climate change: "What's wrong with being a
skeptic?"

Whether being skeptical about science is right or wrong depends on one's
reasons.

Good reasons: You can show that the science is inconsistent with verified
observations or with accepted scientific laws - or you have an interpretation
which is simpler or more comprehensive. This kind of skepticism, which is what
science is all about, has led to current climate science, which concludes that
most of the climate change we observe is caused by burning fossil fuels.

Bad reasons: The science is inconsistent with your religious beliefs or
necessitates action that you would find inconvenient, unpleasant or expensive.
This kind of skepticism is expressed by nonscientists - or by scientists whose
skepticism has been bought.

Which reasons do you suppose are Perry's?

HAMILTON RICHARDS, AUSTIN

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 26, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Statesman probe prompts reviews of dams' safety

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 910 words


Key members of the Legislature and the mayor of Austin say they are looking into
the safety and regulation of dams after an American-Statesman investigation that
revealed shortcomings.

"We will revisit the issue dealing with dam infrastructure and make sure we're
not putting people at risk," said state Rep. Lyle Larson, chairman of the House
Committee on Natural Resources. "We need to look if there's a real and present
danger to people and take corrective action if we've got dams that are
substandard."

Austin Mayor Steve Adler said the Statesman's report "raised a lot of good
questions." He added, "Dam safety is not a policy area that this council has
tackled thus far. The (interim city) manager is going to look into it and tell
us whether any council action is needed and, if so, make a recommendation to
council."

The Statesman found that several hundred dams upstream of populated areas,
including six in Austin and others in Central Texas, could be breached in a
worst-case flood, putting lives and property in peril from massive amounts of
previously impounded water rushing downstream.

And in a sharp departure from national norms, the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality applies stricter safety standards to dams whose failure
would be expected to cost seven or more lives than it does to those whose
collapse could possibly kill up to six people.

What's more, the Legislature in 2013 exempted more than 3,200 privately owned
dams in rural areas from safety requirements, including 231 in the
up-to-six-deaths category.

Larson, a Republican from San Antonio, said of the differing standards based on
the number of possible deaths: "Obviously, we need to revisit that. The
standards should be looked at from the standpoint of minimizing loss of life."

State Sen. Charles Perry, R-Lubbock, who leads the Agriculture, Water and Rural
Affairs Committee, agreed. "I didn't know that standard existed," he said. "I'm
going to get to the heart of it. No one life is more valuable than another.

"I don't think the state has prioritized (dam safety) at the highest level,"
Perry said. "I think Hurricane Harvey has gotten attention to it. The urgency is
there."

Rep. Garnet Coleman, D-Houston, who chairs the House Committee on County
Affairs, agreed that Harvey, which dumped 50 inches of rain on parts of Texas
and damaged 20 dams, was a wake-up call.

"We as a state have to learn that it's not business as usual when it comes to
flood events," said Coleman, adding that the exemptions and the weaker standards
for some potentially deadly dams are disturbing and warrant review. "If the
infrastructure cannot protect people, it's something that must be fixed."

Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, said he often feels like "the senator in flood
alley" because of the propensity for massive deluges along the edge of the Hill
Country. "Harvey creates a highlighted awareness of certain types of needs if we
pay attention," he told the Statesman. "Your article helps us pay attention."

Watson said "it kind of turned my gut" when he read about the different
standards depending on the number of potential deaths. "Without casting
aspersions on past decisions, let's talk about the sort of standards we want in
the future," he said.

In addition, Watson said, storm standards and "creative mechanisms" for
protecting life and property should be part of a wide-ranging review. One such
mechanism might be a revolving loan program for dam improvements similar to an
existing one for flood planning.

"We ought to be asking, â  Do we let people move in below certain types of
infrastructure? Does that mean we'd be giving land-use authority in places we've
never allowed it in the past?' " Watson said.

At a minimum, Perry said, people who buy homes and other property should be
advised beforehand if they would be in the potential inundation zone if a dam
failed. "Developers can't keep putting people in harm's way without a huge
education program," he said.

The city of Austin has 32 high-hazard dams. Of those, 11 meet state standards
and did not need upgrading. The city spent about $5 million to upgrade four
others in recent years and is designing improvements on two more. Four are
scheduled for preliminary engineering work beginning in two to six years. But 11
others have yet to be evaluated.

Adler said he has asked the interim city manager, Elaine Hart, "to let me and
the council know whether we should be doing something differently than we're
doing now."

What constitutes a worst-case flood for dam-design purposes might be a moving
target as a result of global warming, said John Nielsen-Gammon, the state
climatologist and a Texas A&M University professor of atmospheric sciences.

"And as the climate continues to warm, the amount of moisture that can go into a
storm is going up," Nielsen-Gammon said. "So climate change is making current
estimates of probable maximum precipitation obsolete in the future. That's
relevant for dams because when you're designing a dam you want it to last a long
time. You want it to withstand future rains and not just past rains."

Contact Ralph K.M. Haurwitz at 512-445-3604.

Twitter: @ralphhaurwitz

What we reported
  An American-Statesman investigation this month found that several hundred
Texas dams upstream of populated areas, including six in Austin and others in
Central Texas, could be breached in a worst-case flood, putting lives and
property in peril from massive amounts of previously impounded water rushing
downstream.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                                 State Edition

THE PLANNER

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 495 words


Art

¦"#solidfriends" at Dimension Gallery. This solo show displays the figurative
sculptures created by Austin artist Dana Younger, who seeks to explore the depth
and nature of relationships in the digital age. Through process and form, his 30
sculptures play on the superficial or fleeting nature of some modern friendships
in contrast to the more complex, longer-lasting cases of others. Opening
reception 6 to 9 p.m. Jan. 5. 12 to 6 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays through Jan.

22. 979 Springdale Road. Ste. 99.dimensiongallery.org.

¦"Lumens & Currents." The Grayduck Gallery show from Elizabeth Chiles and John
Swanger comes out of several years of dialogue between the artists regarding
their work and inquires into life. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, noon to
5 p.m. Sunday through Jan. 15. 2213 E. Cesar Chavez St.
512-826-5334,grayduckgallery.com.

Comedy

¦"Have a Jocular Journey" at Esther's Follies. Esther's Follies enters 2017 with
a bang and lots of new sketches, including "Trump's Inaugural Party" at the
glittering Trump Tower, where the president-elect entertains his newly appointed
cabinet as well as his surprise guest, Putin - until Hillary Clinton pulls a
Kanye and shows up to challenge them all. Plus, magician Ray Anderson unveils a
new sultry illusion, "Tango!" 8 p.m. Thursdays, 8 and 10 p.m. Fridays-Saturdays
in January. $25-$35. 525 E. Sixth St. 512-320-0198, esthersfollies.com.

¦Gutbusters Free Comedy Night at Hops & Grain. Every Thursday Hops and Grain
brings you comedy to go with your favorite beer in the taproom. This week,
theEastAustinbreweryhasalaughinducing lineup of local favorites, including Kerri
Lendo, Nick Saverino, Rachel Streitmann and Ashley Overton. 8 to 10 p.m. Jan. 5.
Free. 507 Calles St. facebook.com/events/167596207052540/.

Film

¦"Honky Tonk Heaven: Legend of the Broken Spoke." The Bullock Museum's Texas
Focus Series is presenting this documentary that explores the history of and
talent behind the well-known Austin dance hall the Broken Spoke. Along with
country music legacy, the film focuses on how the owners have independently
operated a business in an ever-changing climate. Interviews in "Honky Tonk
Heaven" include Dale Watson, James Hand and Willie Nelson. Plus,directorsBrenda
Green Mitchell and Sam Wainwright will be in attendance. 7 p.m. Jan. 5. $3-$5.
The Bullock Museum, 1800 Congress Ave. 512-936-4629, thestoryoftexas.com.

Gardening calendar

¦Guided Garden Tour at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center. Tour the
wildflower center'sgardensandtrailswithaknowledgeable volunteer docent, learning
about native plants and the history and architecture of the center. Each of the
docents bring their own special knowledge and interests to the tour, and sites
change throughout the seasons. 11 a.m. Jan.

5. $4-$10. 4801 La Crosse Ave. 512-232-0100, wildflower.org.

Have a listing forthe planner? Send it to bestbets@statesman.com

Contact: features@statesman.com;512-445-3690 Subscribe: statesman.com/subscribe

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

OBIT: PITTMAN, Paul

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: METR; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 305 words


PITTMAN, Paul

Paul Edward Pittman, age 61, was born in Parsons, West Virginia on September 23,
1955 to parents Charles E. Pittman and E. June Rudd, and died in Austin, Texas
on January 8, 2017. As a small child, he became fascinated by chemistry and its
study was his lifelong pursuit. In his early teens, Mr. Pittman sustained
disabling injuries in an accident, and had a long recovery. Resuming his studies
after recovery, he earned a Bachelor of Sciences degree in Biochemistry from the
University of California at Berkeley in the early 1980s, followed by
post-graduate study in Biochemistry at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
He then moved to Austin, Texas where he continued his studies focusing on
bio-fuels, and ultimately turning to bio-chemical feedback dynamics involved in
climate change.

Mr. Pittman is survived by his mother E June Rudd; father Charles E. Pittman
(Elaine); sister Glenda L. Pittman (Robert), nephew Yarrow P. MacDonald and
niece Katherine P. MacDonald; and step-brother Christopher Piazza (Lynna); as
well as aunts and uncles and numerous cousins.

We will miss his extraordinarily kind heart, his generosity and compassion, his
astute wit and unmatchable sense of humor, his commitment to truth and facts,
and his gentle, sturdy strength.

A Memorial Service to celebrate Mr. Pittman's life will be held at 10:00 a.m. on
Thursday, January 19, 2017 at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home, at 3125 N Lamar
Blvd, Austin, TX 78705.

In reflection of his interest in exploring environmental sustainability, in lieu
of sending flowers, those who wish to may contribute to the Rainforest
Partnership, Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council or other
environmental organizations working toward sustainable means of powering our
civilization.

Obituary and memorial guestbook available online at

www.wcfish.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 16, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

THIS WEEK IN LIFE & ARTS

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 427 words


"It's Your World"

Recommeded reading

"It's Your World" by Chelsea Clinton (Philomel Books). It's going to be pretty
interesting to see how the next few decades shake out for one Chelsea Victoria
Clinton, formerly of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, now of a really nice apartment in
New York City. Will she become a deeply private citizen? Probably not. Will she
run for office? Well, it's worked out OK for her folks (except recently). Right
now, she is here discussing her book, "It's Your World," aimed at
middle-schoolers who are looking to get (or whose parents and teachers are
looking to get them) a little more woke. Topics covered include global poverty,
education and global climate change. Since it is 402 pages, it also might help
build developing biceps.

The former first daughter speaks and signs at 6:30 p.m. Saturday at BookPeople,
603 N. Lamar Blvd.

- JOE GROSS

Book events this week

Yarrow Paisley. The author speaks and signs "I, No Other." Malvern Books, 613 W.
29th St.

Jenna Martin Opperman, Andrea Eames and Aaron Glover. 7 p.m. Monday. The poets
speak and sign "Shattering is Gradual," "New Monsters" and "Bio Logic."
BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Greg Iles. 7 p.m. Tuesday. The New York Times bestselling author speaks and
signs "Mississippi Blood." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Allan Wolf. 6 p.m. Wednesday. The young adult author speaks and signs "Who
Killed Christopher Goodman?" BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Margaret Peterson Haddix. 7 p.m. Wednesday. The young adult author speaks and
signs "In Over Their Heads." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Roger Stone. 6:30 p.m. Thursday. The political strategist speaks and signs "The
Making of the President 2016: How Donald Trump Orchestrated a Revolution."
Barnes & Noble La Frontera, 2701 Parker Road, Building A, Suite 200.

Megan Miranda. 7 p.m. Thursday. The author speaks and signs "The Perfect
Stranger." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Tsh Oxenreider. 7 p.m. Friday. The memoirist speaks and signs "At Home in the
World: Reflections on Belonging While Wandering the Globe." BookPeople, 603 N.
Lamar Blvd.

LizGartonScanlonandAudrey Vernick. Noon Saturday. The children's book authors
speak and sign "Bob, Not Bob! *To Be Read as Though You Have the Worst Cold
Ever." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

David M. Buss. 2 p.m. Saturday. The psychologist speaks and signs "The Evolution
of Desire: Strategies of Human Mating." Barnes & Noble Arboretum, 10000 Research
Blvd. #158.

Deborah Clearman. 7 p.m. Saturday.Theshortstoryauthorspeaks and signs
"Concepción and the Baby Brokers." Malvern Books, 613 W. 29th St.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 28, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Revisiting some past claims about storms

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1061 words


As far back as 2008, the PolitiFact Truth-O-Meter has gauged the accuracy of
factual claims about hurricanes. With the remnants of Harvey hitting Texas, we
thought it was an apt time to put hurricane claims to the test.

In 2008, Sen. John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was challenging Democrat
Barack Obama for president, said his support for offshore oil drilling made
sense. "I would remind you that off the coast of Louisiana and Texas, they both
had hurricanes that did not cause any real difficulties," McCain said, referring
to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which had slammed Louisiana and Texas within
weeks of each other in 2005. "So, the environmental side of it I think is pretty
well OK."

PolitiFact in Washington confirmed that safety valves under the ocean floor
intended to prevent spills even if an oil rig is damaged had worked as intended.
(Keep in mind that analysis came out before the disastrous April 2010 BP oil
spill.)

But McCain's claim was rated Half True in that it was not correct that the
storms caused "no real difficulties." Spills had occurred offshore in the wake
of Katrina and Rita. Studies commissioned by the Minerals Management Service, a
division of the U.S. Interior Department, concluded that just over 741,000
gallons of oil spilled on the outer continental shelf due to the hurricanes.

Another study by the service found the hurricanes crossed the path of about
3,000 offshore platforms, destroying 117 platforms that either became unmoored
or fell into the sea.

"We have not said that there were no spills," the service's David Smith said.
"We've said that there are no reports of oil from federal waters reaching shore
or causing environmental damage."

In 2010, a group claimed Gov. Rick Perry had shifted hurricane aid from intended
beneficiaries to help rebuild the Governor's Mansion.

A Back to Basics ad said Perry is "taking money away from hurricane victims" and
diverting it to "remodel the Governor's Mansion," which had been heavily damaged
by a 2008 arson fire. "After begging for federal hurricane aid," the narrator
said, "Perry is taking millions of it to remodel the Governor's Mansion so he
can move in faster. Diverting disaster funds for himself."

Not so much, PolitiFact Texas concluded, rating the ad claim False.

Whether FEMA reimbursements to Texas amounted to federal aid or not, the
statement that Perry was "taking money away from hurricane victims" and
diverting it to the mansion project was wrong on two fronts. First, FEMA set
aside the money to cover agency costs already incurred in response to the
hurricane; no victims were bereft as a result. Second, the assignment of the
funds to the mansion work was made by state lawmakers; Perry didn't earmark
money alone.

Four more hurricane-related fact-checks:

* In 2011, Perry described the state's so-called rainy day fund as "our
insurance policy against a major natural disaster." Suggesting lawmakers
shouldn't tap the fund unless vitally necessary, Perry said in a conference
call: "One of the things that I remind people, in why it is so important to
protect that (fund) is â ¦ it is our insurance policy against a major natural
disaster" such as a huge hurricane barreling up the Houston Ship Channel. "And
for Texas to be caught in a situation where (it) did not have a substantial
buffer in that (fund), it could be catastrophic" to the economy, he said.

We looked at whether the fund, in place since 1988, adds up to the state's
insurance policy against a major natural disaster. Its purposes proved to be
broader. Billy Hamilton, a former deputy state comptroller, then told KUT News
the Economic Stabilization Fund, based on banking some state oil and gas tax
revenue, was formulated by legislators and approved by voters to "protect
ourselves from future economic shocks."

We rated Perry's claim Mostly False after noting a provision in the adopted
constitutional amendment giving lawmakers permission to "appropriate amounts
from the economic stabilization fund at any time and for any purpose."

* In 2016, our colleagues at PunditFact rated Pants on Fire conservative
commentator Rush Limbaugh's claim that "11 straight years of no major hurricanes
striking land" in the U.S. "bores a hole right through the whole climate change
argument."

It doesn't. Among flaws: Looking only at major hurricanes that hit the United
States ignores storm activity around the world. Second, storm frequency doesn't
strictly correlate with rising temperature. Third, many other data points prove
climate change is real.

* In 2013, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie told late-night host David Letterman
that in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, federal lawmakers "approved $60 billion"
in aid "within 10 days of the storm on a voice vote."

PolitiFact New Jersey rated Christie's recap Half True.

All the described funding wasn't approved by federal officials shouting "yea" or
"nay" on the House and Senate floors. Still, Congress signed off on $10.5
billion in Katrina aid without recorded votes - with the remaining $51.8 billion
approved by recorded votes.

But Christie's point was valid. While Hurricane Sandy victims waited three
months for federal aid to be approved, Congress had authorized $62.3 billion in
the 10 days after Hurricane Katrina made landfall in Louisiana.

* In 2014, PunditFact found Mostly True a claim by liberal commentator Lawrence
O'Donnell that Christie "helped funnel $6 million in federal Hurricane Sandy
money to a senior center in Belleville, N.J., a place that suffered no damage."

Christie had helped steer $6 million in Sandy-relief money to a senior center,
and Belleville fared much better than other places in New Jersey.

But to say "no damage" was an exaggeration. Most if not all of New Jersey felt
something, even if it wasn't as severely pummeled as the Jersey Shore. All 21
counties were declared major disaster areas.

A Rutgers University study found that Belleville ranked 255th out of 553
municipalities in what researchers called the Sandy Community Hardship Index.
The index measures the residential, commercial and municipal damage to each New
Jersey town - with No. 1 being the hardest-hit.

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 512-445-3644.

Twitter: @gardnerselby @politifacttexas

Sorting out the truth in politics.

www.politifacttexas.com

hurricane claims
  Hear a claim that makes you wonder about accuracy? Email:
politifact@statesman.com


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 29, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Joanna Gaines' cookbook outsells Barefoot Contessa, Pioneer Woman

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1062 words


Joanna Gaines' debut cookbook, "Magnolia Table: A Collection of Recipes for
Gathering" (William Morrow, $29.99), is flying off shelves at a rate we haven't
seen in recent years.

According to Publisher's Weekly, Gaines' book sold 169,000 copies the first week
it was on sale in late April, topping best-seller lists. For comparison, the
best-selling cookbooks of the past two years, "Pioneer Woman Cooks" by Ree
Drummond in 2017 and "Cooking for Jeffrey: A Barefoot Contessa Cookbook" by Ina
Garten in 2016, sold 100,000 and 110,000 copies, respectively, in their first
weeks on sale. That's a big jump for the "Fixer Upper" star's book.

I've been cooking from "Magnolia Table" and enjoying her family-friendly
recipes, including this banana bread I made last week to send to school with my
kids for their teachers. I enjoyed it so much, I made it a second time for a
livestream later in the week.

The sugar on top added just the right texture to keep the bread from being too
soft and squishy, but it is optional. I used leftover cinnamon sugar, for toast,
as a topper.

TAnother revelation from Gaines' recipe: serving banana bread in brownielike
squares from a baking pan, rather than preparing it as a loaf or muffins.

With a stick of butter and a cup of sugar, these treats are more like blondies
than a breakfast bar, which is why I asked our Ask a Dietitian columnist Mary
Agnew to join me in that Facebook video. To hear her thoughts on how banana
bread and brownies compare nutritionally and how you can still incorporate
treats like that into your day without crashing your nutrition goals, go to
food.blog.austin360.com.

Banana Bread With Pecans and Sugar on Top

1 stick butter, melted and cooled

1 cup packed brown sugar

2 large eggs

1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

4 to 5 very ripe bananas, mashed

1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda

1/2 teaspoon kosher salt

1/2 cup chopped pecans

1 to 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, for topping (optional)

Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Prepare an 8-inch-by-8-inch baking pan with
cooking spray or parchment paper. (You can use a loaf pan or muffin tins, but
the baking times will vary.)

Using an electric hand-held mixer or a stand mixer with the paddle attachment,
combine the butter, brown sugar, eggs and vanilla in a large bowl until well
mixed. Add the bananas and mix until just combined. In another bowl, whisk
together the flour, baking soda and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet
ingredients and beat until just combined. Stir in the nuts, if using. (You can
substitute chocolate chips.)

Spread the batter in the pan and sprinkle with the additional sugar, if using.

Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out
clean. Let cool to the touch and then cut into squares. Serve warm or at room
temperature, with additional butter, if desired. Store, covered, at room
temperature for up to two days. Serves 9-12.

- Adapted from a recipe in "Magnolia Table: A Collection of Recipes for
Gathering" by Joanna Gaines (William Morrow, $29.99)

COOKBOOKS

'Wicked Healthy' author to host plant-based cooking demo at new library

In 2008, brothers Derek and Chad Sarno, who grew up in New England, founded
Wicked Healthy, a website with recipes and videos to promote their signature "80
percent healthy, 20 percent wicked" lifestyle. They are "plant pushers, not meat
shamers" with years of chef experience in restaurants and global grocery chains.

Derek Sarno, the former senior global executive chef for Whole Foods who is the
director of plant-based innovation at the U.K. grocer Tesco, has also farmed and
worked at a Buddhist monastery, and Chad Sarno, who also used to work for Whole
Foods, is the VP of culinary at Good Catch Foods, a plant-based seafood line
that will launch later this year.

The Austin-based Chad Sarno had previously written a cookbook, "Crazy Sexy
Kitchen," with Kris Carr, but "The Wicked Healthy Cookbook: Free. From.
Animals." (Grand Central Life & Style, $30) is the first Wicked Healthy book.
The brothers compiled dozens of somewhat sophisticated recipes for chef-worthy
vegan dishes, like king oyster mushroom "scallops" with shaved asparagus, or
corn dumplings in a coconut corn broth. But the authors and editors tripped up
by including "Spicy Coconut-Corn Crack," an insensitive play on the addictive
nature of the infamous drug.

Chad Sarno will be hosting several local book events in the coming weeks,
including a cooking demo at the Austin Central Library downtown at 6:30 p.m. May
21, a book signing at BookPeople at 7 p.m. June 5 and a Father's Day event from
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. June 17 at Skull and Cakebones Craft Bakery in Dripping
Springs. Tickets to the Father's Day event cost $20 for adults and $10 for kids
ages 5 to 12.

Coconut Corn Broth

Dumplings are hands-down my favorite finger food. They're also perfect as a
first course in a small bath of flavorful broth. When sweet corn is super fresh,
simmer corncobs in coconut milk with lemongrass to make this aromatic broth.
(You can find the recipe for the corn dumplings at food.blog.austin360.com.)

- Chad Sarno

6 large ears corn, preferably organic and in season, shucked

3 quarts water

1 can (14 ounces) coconut milk or coconut cream

1 jalapeño chili, halved lengthwise (remove the seeds for less heat)

1/4 cup thinly sliced fresh ginger

1 (4-inch) piece lemongrass

1/4 cup garlic cloves (8 to 12 cloves), crushed with the flat of your knife

10 fresh mint sprigs, stems and all

1 bay leaf

1 star anise, optional

1 teaspoon sea salt

1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper

1 lime, juiced

Snap or cut the ears of corn in half. Bring the water to a boil in a large
stockpot over high heat. Add the corn and everything else except the lime juice.
Cut the heat to medium, then bring the liquid to a slow simmer. Let it simmer
for 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the corncobs and cut the kernels from the cobs.

Return the naked cobs to the broth along with the lime juice. Continue simmering
gently over medium heat for another 30 minutes. The liquid will reduce in volume
by about one-fourth, which is fine. Shut off the heat and let everything cool
down a bit in the pot. Strain the warm broth through a fine-mesh strainer into
quart containers, then use immediately or refrigerate for a week or two before
using.

- From "The Wicked Healthy Cookbook: Free. From. Animals." by Chad Sarno and
Derek Sarno (Grand Central Life & Style, $30)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 3, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate confirms Perry as energy secretary

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 721 words


The U.S. Senate voted 62-37 Thursday to confirm Rick Perry, the longest-serving
governor in Texas history, as secretary of energy in President Donald Trump's
Cabinet.

Perry - who ran twice for president without success, beat an indictment that had
accused him of abusing his power at the tail end of his tenure as governor, and
last fall made a brief but exuberant run on "Dancing With The Stars" - was among
the last of Trump's Cabinet choices to win confirmation, though that had less to
do with any special animus against Perry than with Democrats' slow-walking the
new president's nominees through the confirmation process.

Perry picked up the votes of 10 Democratic senators and U.S. Sen. Angus King,
the Maine independent who caucuses with the Democrats.

His Democratic supporters included Sens. Heidi Heitkamp of shale-boom North
Dakota, Joe Manchin of coal-rich West Virginia and Catherine Cortez Masto, who
opposes siting a nuclear waste storage facility at Yucca Mountain in her state
of Nevada, an issue she pressed Perry on at his confirmation hearing, without
getting a definitive answer.

The Senate earlier voted to confirm Dr. Ben Carson as secretary of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, on a 58-41 vote.

At his confirmation hearing, Perry sought to smooth some hard edges on energy
and environmental issues, saying, "I believe the climate is changing. I believe
some of it is naturally occurring, but some of it is also caused by man-made
activity. The question is how do we address it in a thoughtful way that doesn't
compromise economic growth, the affordability of energy or American jobs?"

U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, chairwoman of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, opened the Senate debate Thursday with a ringing
endorsement of Perry.

Unlike his predecessors, Murkowski said, "he's not an award-winning scientist,
but you don't necessarily need to have a scientist in order to lead scientists.
You need to have somebody who is a good, strong, competent and capable manager,
and that's what Gov. Perry has demonstrated and that's what the Department of
Energy needs."

"The man was born to lead," said U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas.

"During his governorship, Texas became known as the economic engine that could
pull the train of the U.S. economy and could weather even the toughest national
economic downturn," Cornyn said.

"Under Gov. Perry's leadership the state promoted cutting-edge innovation and
sensible regulation in order to foster an all-of-the-above energy strategy that
revolutionized the Texas energy landscape and the Texas economy," Cornyn said.
"The state became not just an oil-and-gas powerhouse but the top wind-producing
state."

U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., the committee's ranking Democrat, spoke
against Perry's confirmation, saying he wasn't a 21st-century leader on energy
issues. She cited his failure to oppose Trump administration moves away from the
commitments by both the George W. Bush and Obama administrations to renewable
energy and energy efficiency.

Cantwell also noted that most Americans may "remember him for his famous quip
about wanting to get rid of an agency but then not remembering the name of the
agency, and the agency he was talking about was the Department of Energy."

That is a reference to Perry's "oops" moment at November 2011 Republican
presidential debate, an indelible blunder that his tenure atop the agency might
finally give him a chance to live down.

Throughout his career, Perry has proved an irrepressible politician who is most
happy in the thick of the action and wasn't nearly ready to exit public life for
the quiet of a Round Top retirement.

In his short-lived second campaign for president, Perry was among Trump's
fiercest critics.

"I will not go quiet when this cancer on conservatism threatens to metastasize
into a movement of mean-spirited politics that will send the Republican Party to
the same place it sent the Whig Party in 1854: the graveyard," Perry declared in
a July 2015 speech.

But, 10 months later, days after Trump's victory seemed secure, Perry, on the
occasion of his official portrait being unveiled at the Capitol Rotunda, made
clear that he didn't want to go quietly at all, offering to serve Trump in any
capacity from vice president on down.

Contact Jonathan Tilove

at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday
                                 State Edition

Bill scales back system that grades schools with A-F

BYLINE: Julie Chang American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 443 words


A bill filed Thursday would scale back a new state grading system for school
districts and campuses.

House Bill 22 filed by state Rep. Dan Huberty, R-Houston and the chairman of the
House Public Education Committee, would change the A-F accountability system
that school districts have criticized since it was proposed in 2015. The A-F
system hasn't gone into effect yet, but the state assigned letter grades to
school districts and campuses in January that showed how they would have
performed if the A-F accountability system were in use.

School district officials were unhappy, saying that the system - which will be
implemented in August 2018 - unfairly penalizes schools with large numbers of
low-income students. They also said that assigning letter grades stigmatizes
public schools while providing little useful information to the public.
Proponents said the system is a more transparent and comprehensive way of
grading schools.

Among the changes the bill would make is push back implementation of the A-F
system a year.

"TASA appreciates that Chairman Huberty is willing to work on the A-F
accountability system and improve its flaws. We also applaud that HB 22 pushes
back the implementation of A-F to 2019 to allow more time to develop a better
accountability system," said Casey McCreary with the Texas Association of School
Administrators.

The bill would reduce the number of categories in which each campus and school
district would be graded. The categories eliminated are ones that grade how well
districts and campuses prepare students for careers and college and how well
they reduce the performance gap between low-income and higher-income students.
Campuses and school districts would still be graded on overall student
performance and progress and their "school climate" - how well they engage with
students and the community.

Some parts of the eliminated categories would be integrated into existing ones.

Based on a preliminary review of the bill, Clay Robison with the Texas State
Teachers Association said the bill still weighs heavily on standardized tests
and will disproportionately hurt campuses with high numbers of poor children.

"If Chairman Huberty is attempting to make A-F more acceptable to educators, I'm
not sure he gets there," Robison said.

The bill also would eliminate assigning an overall letter grade to each school
district and campus.

The bill would only give letter grades in each of the three categories.
Currently, school districts and campuses receive an overall label that indicates
whether they met state requirements for the year or if they need improvement.

Contact Julie Chang

at 512-912-2565.

Twitter: @juliechang1

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 13, 2017 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

SB4's passage has nonprofits fearful

BYLINE: Nancy Flores American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1034 words


In the aftermath of the Austin-area ICE raids this year, fear ran through the
Central Texas immigrant community. Some nonprofit volunteers and community
organizers found themselves making grocery runs for unauthorized immigrant
families afraid to leave their homes, making sure children had diapers and milk.

At the time, some local nonprofit groups that serve mostly Hispanic clients
noticed a sharp drop in people showing up for services, a drop that for some
still hasn't bounced back.

And with Gov. Greg Abbott signing Senate Bill 4, the "sanctuary cities" ban,
into law this week, which will punish counties that fail to comply with federal
immigration requests to detain jail inmates suspected of being in the country
illegally, local nonprofits are fearful about what this could mean for the
safety of their clients as well as the future of their organizations.

At El Buen Samaritano, a faith-based nonprofit that provides medical and
wellness services and educational classes, officials said they saw an initial 50
percent drop in clinic visits after the February Immigration and Customs
Enforcement raids and that there has been a steady decline since. Its CEO,
Iliana Gilman, said some people had returned, "but only to thank our staff for
providing them with resources (over the years) and to say goodbye."

El Buen Samaritano serves about 10,500 Central Texans and about 91 percent of
them are Hispanic.

"We've been actively trying to reach those folks (who left) that we have contact
information for - calling, emailing or going to our health fairs," she said.

El Buen Samaritano doesn't require clients to disclose residency status to
receive services. "It's important for them to maintain their health and that of
their families, but it's difficult to assure them that it's safe to come,"
Gilman said.

Many local nonprofit leaders, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to fear of
retribution, said they've also been seeing a drop in the number of people
seeking services and are focusing on educating their clients and staff about the
new law and their rights.

At SAFE, a merger of the Austin Children's Shelter and SafePlace, a monthly
"Know your Rights - Immigration" training program has seen attendance triple
since the beginning of the year. About 57 percent of SAFE's clients are Hispanic
and are typically victims of violence or abuse.

From February to April, the organization saw an 80 percent increase in sexual
assault victims, compared with those same months the previous year, who weren't
willing to report their assaults to law enforcement despite receiving a sexual
assault forensic exam, according to SAFE.

"We're seeing a lot of fear," SAFE CEO Kelly White said. "And we're staying
focused on how to keep people safe."

Other cities across the country also have reported a climate of fear affecting
crime reporting and deterring people from social services.

In the aftermath of SB 4's passage, the Austin Police Department's legal
advisers are reviewing the law's language. According to a statement by interim
Police Chief Brian Manley, the department expects to better understand the
effect on its operations "and any necessary changes to policy or procedures once
this review has been completed."

"The Austin Police Department has worked hard to build and maintain trust,
communication and stronger relationships with our communities through outreach
programs and community policing. This effort and engagement will continue,"
Manley said. "With the passage of this law, we want our minority community to
maintain their trust in us. If you see or are a victim of a criminal act, we
want you to call us and report it."

Supporters of the new state law have said it is necessary to slow the flow of
illegal immigration and ensure that communities are secure.

Many area nonprofits depend on federal, state and local funding to operate, and
there is concern among the various groups about the political climate and what
it could mean in the future.

"We're very worried about our funding," said White, the head of SAFE. "We have a
lot of governmental grants."

The nonprofit already has noticed a drop in community donations compared with
last year. "It's the perfect storm," she said.

The "sanctuary cities" law goes into effect Sept. 1, but nonprofit leaders
already are identifying potential long-term effects it might have, not just on
their clients but on the entire community.

"As health care organizations, we are required to really monitor whether we are
making people healthy," said Gilman of El Buen Samaritano. "Help them control
their diabetes; provide prenatal services. We're really hurting the larger
community because if people (are fearful to reach out for services), they will
wait until they are so sick that they end up in emergency rooms and then the
burden and cost becomes exponential."

One Voice Central Texas, a coalition of health and human services organizations,
has been bringing various nonprofit leaders together since February to discuss
the challenges now facing nonprofits. "We're trying to inform and equip our
staff to be as knowledgeable as they can," said Gilman, who is part of the
coalition.

From trauma to violence, SAFE staffers "deal with tough issues," White said.
"Particularly for me, it's a big deal that we're trying to build that resiliency
of our staff under difficult circumstances."

On days when things become overwhelming, Gilman said, she focuses on the
responsibility to the community and her staff: "That's what motivates me to get
out of bed."

Contact Nancy Flores

at 512-912-2559.

Twitter: @latinoculture

By the numbers
  *  About 57 percent of SAFE's clients are Hispanic. After the Austin-area ICE
 raids in February, SAFE saw attendance at monthly "Know Your Rights -
Immigration" training sessions triple to an average of 15 people.
  *  About 91 percent of El Buen Samaritano clients are Hispanic. After the
raids in February, El Buen Samaritano officials said they saw a 50 percent drop
 in clinic visits.
  *  SAFE has seen 21 sexual assaults not reported to law enforcement in 2017
despite clients receiving a sexual assault forensic exam. There were 11 sexual
assaults not reported to law enforcement at this time last year, officials
said.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 21, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Farewell to Brackenridge

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 2930 words


Jane Dryden Louis retains more memories of the Brackenridge Hospital emergency
room than she does of the house in Wilshire Woods where she grew up.

That is because for decades her father, Dr. Bud Dryden, was the one of the
public hospital's most loyal physicians.

"We never went anywhere without stopping at the emergency room at some point,"
Louis, 65, says. "I grew up on a stool next to the pneumatic tube section in the
nurse's station."

Since 1884, when the taxpayer-funded City-County Hospital opened on the same
site, dedicated doctors like Dryden - as well as nurses, aides, volunteers and
other workers - have labored day and night caring mostly for patients who
couldn't pay or didn't have access to health care otherwise.

On May 21, all patients will be moved by ambulance from what many Austinites
call Brack - the current, blocky structure was built in phases between 1969 and
1984 - across East 15th Street to the Dell Seton Medical Center at the
University of Texas.

The sleek new teaching hospital, which carries on the educational mission
started at Brack by Dryden and his colleagues, looks not at all like the older
hospital.

Butthenagain,almosteverything about public health has changed drastically since
the 1880s, when Austinites first debated whether it was a good idea to build a
hospital that would help anyone who came through its doors.

And since the early 1900s, when Dr. Robert John Bracken-ridge campaigned for the
City Hospital's first modern facilities- Travis County had dropped out of the
partnership by this time - buildings remembered by locals for their distinctive
dark brick.

Or for that matter, since the late 20th century, when for financial reasons the
city turned over responsibility for Brack to an outfit run by the Daughters of
Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, which evolved into the Seton Healthcare Family.

That nonprofit group, now part of St. Louis-based Ascension Health, will own and
operate the new teaching hospital in tandem with the Dell Medical School,
located handily across Red River Street.

While almost everyone is impressed by the latest medical enterprise, Louis, who
is among the thousands of native Austinites born at Brack, can't help feeling
some nostalgia.

"The name and the identity is really gone," she says. "What was special about
Brack was its care for indigents. What Brack meant for so long to the city is
gone. It ends May 21."

Becoming Brack

When surveyors working for Edwin Waller, agent of Texas President Mirabeau B.
Lamar, laid out a graceful, durable plan for Austin in 1839, they set aside a
block in the far northeast corner of the 1-square-mile grid - at North and East
Avenues, now East 15th Street and Interstate 35 - for a hospital.

Like other area land reserved by the Republic of Texas for public use, it passed
through a number of hands before it ended up as the City-County Hospital in
1884.

But not without a fight. Americans in general did not trust hospitals. They were
seen not as places of healing but rather as "pest camps with walls."

Austin did not name its first city physician for public health until the 1870s,
after several Southern cities suffered a yellow fever epidemic.

Furthermore, the city and county governments, always strapped for cash, could
not decide who should pay for what at the new hospital.

"The city said, 'We are not paying for uniforms and the like,'" says Carl
McQueary, historian and archivist for Ascension Texas. " The county said, 'We're
not paying for nurses or overtime, etc.' Good old boys and good old boys firing
off barbs. It was tense from the beginning."

At least seven Austin hospitals of various sizes and functions preceded
City-County, including the Texas State Lunatic Asylum - built in 1861 and still
standing as part of the Austin State Hospital complex on Guadalupe Street - as
well as two military wards used during Reconstruction and four physician-run
infirmaries located mostly north and west of the Capitol.

"In this climate was born Brackenridge Hospital, the first hospital in Texas
dedicated to care of everyone, regardless of credit status or bank account or
lack thereof," Lisa Farenthold and Sara Rider wrote in their 1984 book,
"Admissions: The Extraordinary History of Brackenridge Hospital." "Its
appearance was not hailed with universal joy, for Texas has always been an
independent-minded state which regarded Austin as a center of radicalism."

The new limestone Queen Anne-style building at 1405 Sabine St. rose three
stories and included gables and two steeples.

"It's the oldest public hospital in the state and one of the oldest in the
country," McQueary says of Brack's lineage. "That was the subject of a certain
amount of civic pride. Houston was trying to do the same thing, and we wanted to
be first. Houston, all those years later, was still chafing about not being the
capital."

The place instantly started leaking. And nobody could agree who should fix it.
That sort of squabbling remained the case until the county withdrew from the
project in the early 1900s, after which it was known as the City Hospital.

At the time, 20 or so doctors practiced in Austin, a city of 14,000. By 1892,
the resident physician and the head matron of the public hospital were each
given $600 a year, making them among the highest-paid city employees.

Yet their efforts were never enough.

"At that point, the medical profession had grown and improved and standardized,"
McQueary says. "It soon became apparent that the hospital wasn't meeting our
needs. It was where you went if you were shot or you were going to die."

Meanwhile, two private hospitals with charity links joined the scene. In 1895,
the handsome, wide-porched Austin Sanitarium opened just north of the Capitol on
East 14th Street. It evolved into St. David's Hospital after a devastating fire
and a move to the Judges Hill neighborhood.

In 1902 the Daughters of Charity - even more apropos to the history of Brack,
since they would later take over the public hospital - who were based in
Maryland, built the imposing Seton Infirmary in what was Tobin Park on West 26th
Street, just northwest of the UT campus and close to the streetcar suburb of
Hyde Park.

"The mother superior met with local doctors," McQuear y says. " They raised
$5,300 to pay for it by holding things like bake sales and staging an operetta.
Compared to back East, Austin was the wilderness. The Daughters were taking a
risk. But they also knew the need was great. They'd seen the City Hospital."

Back at the public hospital in the early 1900s: Dr. Brackenridge, brother of UT
backer George W. Brackenridge, pushed for an up-to-date replacement for the
Victorian-era City Hospital.

Part of a civically engaged family - he and his brothers founded First National
Bank of Austin, and James M. Brackenridge served as county judge - the doctor
never practiced medicine in Austin. Yet he left a lasting impression on the
city, not unlike Dr. Neal Kocurek, who held a similarly revered position as city
leader 100 years later.

A supporter of women's suffrage, education and social welfare, Brackenridge
campaigned feverishly for changes in state laws and for a $50,000 city bond
election to benefit "the small taxpayer and breadwinner" as well as the
indigent. New schools, streets and sewers were approved along with the hospital,
influenced in part by the national City Beautiful movement, which sought to make
urban areas safe, sanitary and appealing.

In 1915, the first of a series of buildings, all five or more stories and clad
in red-brown masonry, rose on the hospital site to replace the original public
health pioneer. At first, the medical structures were oriented to East Avenue,
but another formal entrance was added on what became East 15th Street. A nursing
school was soon included; it closed in 1983.

In 1918, Brackenridge died of a massive heart attack and was buried in Oakwood
Cemetery. City leaders later renamed the public hospital after him.

Brackenridge's pride persevered and grew, taking care of several generations of
Austinites until 1984, when the last of the brick buildings was demolished and
today's soon-to-be-closed concrete structure was completed. Many of the old
bricks were buried in an East Austin ravine, according to Louis, who proudly
preserves one of the survivors.

"My father had them dumped there," Louis says. "He felt like it was his
hospital."

From one crisis to the next

As countless television shows attest, hospitals are almost unavoidable settings
for human drama. Months after the new public hospital opened in 1915, leaders
responded to a smallpox epidemic.

"This is when the Travis County officials asked the Daughters of Charity to help
care for these patients at a camp about 7 miles north of the city limits,"
McQueary says. "This camp was known as the 'Pest Camp' and 'Fort Prairie,' but
the Daughters of Charity called it 'Saint Joseph's Camp.'"

In 1918, a deadly strain of flu began infecting hundreds of millions of people
worldwide; it eventually killed upward of 50 million. Hundreds of Austinites
died.

"The city officials came to me and said, 'Put your white dress on and take
charge,'" Edna Shultz, matron of the City Hospital, told a reporter. "It's
wasn't long after that that influenza struck, taking more lives than did the war
in Europe. I was warned that something awful was happening in Fort Worth and
Dallas, that a terrible disease was making people ill. The city officials told
me to get everybody out of the hospital who wasn't seriously ill and prepare for
the worst. Then they brought in Army cots and I was ready."

The UT ROTC unit was hit particularly hard, but under Shultz's care, only one
student died. Meanwhile, a similar scene could be witnessed at Seton on West
26th Street.

"The sisters responded immediately, and the Army set up large tents on the
grounds of Seton Infirmary and also converted a three-story fraternity house
that was across the street from Seton into a temporary shelter for patients,"
McQueary says. "The Army provided all of the iron cots, straw mattresses and
blankets, and the sisters provided bedding, dishes and other items not
specified."

The Daughters received a gold medal for their efforts from the government, but
little or no money.

In the 1930s, tuberculosis was the local scourge. In 1940, the County
Tuberculosis Sanatorium opened on Tannehill Road, probably in the same location
as the former smallpox camp. It saw its last patient in 1970, and its low-lying
modernist building now serves as a Salvation Army shelter.

Segregation complicated matters. While Brack and Seton served paupers and
patients of all races, the Missionary Sisters of the Immaculate Heart, along
with Father F.R. Weber of Holy Cross Church, in 1940 opened a charity hospital
on Concho Street specifically to serve the African-American community. Eleven
years later, Holy Cross Hospital, where many children were born, moved to what
would become Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.

In 1984, the Daughters of Charity bought Holy Cross Hospital, which closed five
years later.

Brack opened the region's first intensive care unit in 1960. On Aug. 1, 1966,
sniper Charles Whitman climbed the UT Tower to spread mayhem.

"Dad spent that whole day operating on people," Jane Louis recalls about her
father, Dryden. "It was just unbelievable. People coming in droves. No EMS
system. The ambulances were run by funeral homes. Every operating room was going
full-blast."

Many of the city's patients avoided Brack altogether. An Austin Citizen
newspaper article dated Oct. 28, 1971, describes the scene: "Some nights down
there are busy with bar-room knifings, paycheck fights, ruptured appendices and
battered drivers."

Around the same time, Dr. Sam Swearington told a reporter that he was disturbed
over a community feeling that treatment at Brack was so subpar that folks didn't
want to use the city-owned facility.

"I don't know how true this is," Swearington said. "I don't feel this way about
Brack, but this is the feeling of many doctors."

Along with the crises, history also reminds us of the steady goodwill shown by
providers at Brack and Seton before they merged activities in 1995.

Sister Philomena Feltz, for instance, started work at Seton Infirmary's kitchen
on Feb. 4, 1932, as Austin was dealing with the Great Depression.

"She knew immediately that many people had no money to buy food for themselves
or their families, and that was when she started her famous soup line, which
stretched behind the kitchen," McQueary says. "Eight to 30 families were fed
soup and bread daily."

In fact, Feltz served Austin's ill and hungry for 60 years. A street is named
for her in the Mueller development near the Dell Children's Medical Center of
Central Texas.

Keeping up with the times

Without improvements - large and small - hospitals seem to go out of date pretty
quickly. Brack expanded steadily during the 1930s and '40s. New procedures and
technology were introduced each year. Televisions arrived in 1958, computers in
the 1970s.

By the 1960s, however, city leaders were talking about a new facility. Once
again, politicians clashed about how to pay for it. A 1964 bond election
approved $3.5 million for the construction of what became the current Brack.
Ground was broken in 1969. It wasn't completed until 1984, which contributed to
its confusing, patched-together layout.

Meanwhile, Brack became a regional pioneer in open-heart surgery, organ
transplants and cancer care. It opened the Children's Hospital next door in
1988; the spot will remain as a training facility while the Brack block is
developed as an Innovation Zone. In 2007, children's care move to the Dell
Children's Medical Center in the Mueller development.

Brack reached another major milestone in 2009 when it became the city's first
Level 1 trauma center.

A seismic shift occurred, however, in 2011 when state Sen. Kirk Watson laid out
his "10 Goals in 10 Years" plan to reinvent the region's community health care.
Among the plans were a medical school for UT, a state-of-the-science teaching
and safety-net hospital and clinics and education measures to keep people from
landing in the emergency room in the first place. The school and teaching
hospital were made possible in large part because of grants from the Michael and
Susan Dell Foundation, but also because of local fundraising led by lawyer and
civic leader Pete Winstead.

A crucial lure: The medical complex centered on the land designated in 1839 for
a hospital would also become a place for experimental labs and a biomedical
district. In 2012, Travis County voters approved Central Health's Proposition 1,
which directed property taxes to support Watson's vision.

Overseeing the transition to the new teaching hospital was a fresh force in
town, Chicago-born Christann Vasquez, who helped grow hospitals in Houston and
San Antonio. She was attracted to Austin's radical shift in delivering health
care.

" We ar e g o i n g t o b e accountable to the population and build a healthier
community," Vasquez said in 2015. "Keeping them healthy, not just helping them
when they are sick."

A Brack baby remembers

Jane Dryden Louis' family never strayed far from the old Brack. Her mother,
Evelyn Woodley Dryden, gave birth to her three children there and often spent
long hours visiting with nurse friends.

Her elder son, Kenny Dryden, now a commercial developer, and the younger one,
Buddy Dryden, a retired homebuilder, worked there summers.

"And both brothers worked on construction on the new hospital," Louis says. "I
had a summer job there when it was still in the red-brick building. I served as
a nurse's aide on the pediatric floor."

Her father, Dr. Dryden, was elected Brack's chief of staff a number of times.

"My dad ruled that ER," Louis says with a gentle smile. "For example, when he
came through the 15th Street door, the telephone operator, who worked right by
the door, called the nursing stations on every floor to say that Dr. Dryden was
on his way. As a kind of a warning."

Dryden kept his Brack office 50 yards from the ER. His patients were primarily
African-American and Hispanic.

"He always saw his own patients and anyone who didn't have a doctor," Louis
says. "He had five files, three for nonpaying, two for paying. That's just who
he was. He grew up poor. And there were very few doctors who would treat black
people."

Dryden also initiated a medical education program at Brack, which anticipated by
decades the paired mission of Dell Medical School and Dell Seton Medical Center.

Her father retired six months before he died in 2002 at age 88.

Louis: "So he never really retired."

While many Austinites will retain memories of Brack after May 21, few will
recall it as Louis does.

"My dad always used to stop on the road at car wrecks to help the injured," she
remembers. "On at least one occasion, he left us on the side of the road to take
the patient to the hospital. Some people would call that traumatic. For us, it
was normal."

In the 1970s, Dryden served two terms as an Austin City Council member and
successfully advocated for the area's first EMS system.

Louis: "After that, we didn't stop anymore."

Contact Michael Barnes at 512-445-3970 or mbarnes@statesman.com Twitter:
@outandabout

'In this climate was born Brackenridge Hospital, the first hospital in Texas
dedicated to care of everyone, regardless of credit status or bank account or
lack thereof. Its appearance was not hailed with universal joy, for Texas has
always been an independent-minded state which regarded Austin as a center of
radicalism.'

From "Admissions: The Extraordinary History of Brackenridge Hospital"

By Lisa Farenthold and Sara Rider

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Man deported after ICE grab slain in Mexico

BYLINE: Ryan Autullo and Taylor Goldenstein American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1064 words


Juan Coronilla-Guerrero's wife warned a federal judge this spring that her
husband would be killed if the U.S. government followed through with his
deportation.

Her prediction came true last week. Three months after the former Austin
resident was taken back to central Mexico by federal authorities, his body was
found on the side of a road in San Luis de la Paz, Guanajuato, near where he had
been living with his wife's family.

Coronilla-Guerrero's death comes six months after federal immigration agents
took the rare step of entering the Travis County criminal courthouse to detain
him on charges of illegal re-entry - a move that escalated fears about U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's crackdown on unauthorized immigrants.

"I knew," said Coronilla-Guerrero's wife, who has returned to Mexico and spoke
to the American-Statesman on the condition of anonymity because she fears for
her family's safety. "I knew that if he came back here, they were going to kill
him, and look, that's what happened. That's what happened."

She suspects the 28-year-old was killed by the same gangs that had prompted the
family's move to Austin in the first place.

Since the Trump administration stepped up deportations of people living in the
U.S. without authorization, immigration activists, attorneys and the relatives
of deported immigrants have warned of the heavy collateral damage to families
and of safety risks in Mexico related to drug trafficking and gangs.

"There's a real reason people want to come here. I don't think it's going to
change," said Daniel Betts, an Austin attorney who defended Coronilla-Guerrero
in criminal court.

Armed intruders

In the middle of the night on Sept. 12, Coronilla-Guerrero's wife says four
armed men barged into a house owned by her family in San Luis de la Paz. She had
stayed behind in Austin with one of their children and was not at the home on
the night of her husband's death.

The intruders pointed a gun at her mother while they scoured the house, until
they found Coronilla-Guerrero asleep in bed with their son, his wife said. They
ripped the father from the bed and held a pistol to his head, she said.

Coronilla-Guerrero told his son, "'Don't worry, my love. Don't worry,'" his wife
said.

The next morning, Coronilla-Guerrero's body was found about 40 minutes away from
their home.

Local Mexican police declined to release information about the case.
Coronilla-Guerrero's wife said police have not told her anything. A spokesman
with the Mexican Consulate in Austin said he had no details.

An autopsy report obtained by the Statesman confirms the basic information,
saying Coronilla-Guerrero was killed by gunshot wounds in a homicide.

Local media reports say six other people were killed in the area around the time
of Coronilla-Guerrero's death.

Deportees are targeted

Coronilla-Guerrero was taken into federal custody March 3, as he waited for a
routine court appearance on misdemeanor charges of family violence and marijuana
possession.

News of the arrest stoked fear that ICE would use the courts as a hunting ground
for people they suspected of living in the country without authorization.
However, ICE has made no other known arrests there since that day.

Coronilla-Guerrero had been deported before, in 2008, but eventually made his
way back to the U.S. and was working for a construction company in Buda when he
was arrested for the misdemeanors.

Asked about his family violence charge, the wife said it was a misunderstanding
and that he never hit her. He was granted a bond and later was sentenced to time
served after pleading no contest. He had been arrested once before, when he was
18, for unlawful use of a motor vehicle and evading arrest. He was sentenced to
180 days in jail.

Early this year, Coronilla-Guerrero was one of the jail inmates whom Travis
County Sheriff Sally Hernandez had refused to hold for federal immigration
officials because of her controversial policy not to honor detention requests
for most inmates suspected of being in the country without authorization. The
Travis County sheriff's office honors such requests only for those charged with
the most serious crimes â " among them, murder, human trafficking and child sex
abuse.

"Juan was a very nice young man who always had a smile on his face," said local
attorney David Peterson, who represented Coronilla-Guerrero in federal court on
the illegal entry charge. "This is a true tragedy for him and his family.
Deportation should never be a death sentence."

Immigration experts say gangs often prey on deported immigrants, kidnapping them
at dangerous border crossing points in Tamaulipas and Coahuila and holding them
while their loved ones come up with ransom payments.

Mexican officials have encouraged the U.S. government to take immigrants to
safer interior locations, such as Mexico City.

"It really is an act of violence at this point to continue the immigration
policies that the government is currently pushing that are sending so many
people back to their deaths," said Bethany Carson, an immigration researcher and
organizer for nonprofit Grassroots Leadership.

Leaving Austin

Coronilla-Guerrero's wife said they had chosen Austin because of its Mexican
population and because they believed they would face less racism. But in recent
years, the political climate changed and state laws like Senate Bill 4, the
so-called sanctuary city ban, were passed, she said.

"Even though it was illegally, we brought our kids to give them a better
future," she said, but in the end, "it wasn't possible."

Coronilla-Guerrero's wife, who did not have legal authorization to live in the
U.S., said she traveled to Mexico for the funeral and has no plans to return to
Austin. Without papers and without a second income, it would be too difficult,
she said.

Coronilla-Guerrero's wife described her husband as a good father who worked hard
to support his children. Even after his return to Mexico, she said he called
often to tell his family he loved them. A friend said that Coronilla-Guerrero
often gave her diapers and milk for her children when her husband was out of
town for work.

"Yes, he made mistakes in the past, but he had a family," Coronilla-Guerrero's
wife said. "It wasn't fair because he had changed. Because all people change,
and he had changed for the better."

Contact Ryan Autullo

at 512-445-3958.

Twitter: @autulloAAS

Contact Taylor Goldenstein

at 512-445-3972.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 3, 2017 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Garza's new album brings together Austinites from around the globe

BYLINE: Nancy Flores American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 477 words


In this divisive political climate, artist Leti Garza, formerly known as Leticia
Rodriguez Garza, finds it especially meaningful that her recently released album
"El Unico Para Mi" ("The Only One for Me") focuses on forging connections and
features Austin musicians from all over the world.

"I wanted to create something beyond myself, to broaden my scope into aworld
music vision and to imagine a world without so many borders, creative and
geopolitical," Garza says. "In this place and moment in history, Pan-American
art seems particularly important as a means and a symbol of unity."

Since the release of her 2012 debut album, "La Americana," Garza has brought new
life to the music of her late aunt Eva Garza, an internationally recognized
artist who catapulted into stardom during the 1940s and 1950s and whose hit
songs helped strengthen Columbia Records' presence in the Mexican market at the
time. Garza's new album reinterprets three songs from her aunt's repertoire and
highlights seven original songs.

Bringing extra musical muscle to Garza's album this time are Grammy-winning
musicians and composers Scott McIntosh and Jose Galeano (Grupo Fantasma). "El
Unico Para Mi" deep dives into culturally rich soundscapes drawing from
merengue, cumbia and salsa. Additional musicians on the album help bring a
global perspective to the record with their roots in places such as Cuba,
Nicaragua and France. The multilingual project with songs in English, Spanish
and French are a step toward the artist's goals of moving in the direction of
world music.

'My interest in language has always been about trying to make that connection
with another human being.'

Musician Leti Garza

"My interest in language has always been about trying to make that connection
with another human being," she says. "Multilingualism is an advantage that
affords us to be open minded and helps us throw out that fear of the unknown."

Garza didn't grow up speaking Spanish. Like many Texans, her mother was often
punished for speaking Spanish as a student in San Antonio. Today, Garza says she
continues to study and practice it. For the album, she worked closely with
Galeano for lyrical translations. "As a singer, the meaning of language and
content of lyrics are super important to me," she says.

Since the 2014 release of her EP "Sagüita Al Bate," Garza says she's thought a
lot about who she is as a performer and what she values. It's led her to change
her artistic name to something that she says feels more  itting of her onstage
personality. "Leti Garza has energy and authenticity, and the name more
accurately describes me as a performer. I have a lot of oomph when I perform,
you know," she says with a laugh. After a couple of name changes throughout her
life, she says that "it's taken forever to find it, but I feel good with this
name."

Contact Nancy Flores at 512-912-2559.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Austin ad veteran starts new agency

BYLINE: Gary Dinges American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 557 words


A heavy hitter in the Austin advertising industry is back in business after a
year's sabbatical.

Sergio Alcocer, who spent 16 years at Austin-based LatinWorks, working his way
up to president and chief creative officer, has launched his own agency, which
he has named Rest of the World.

Based in South Austin, Rest of the World made its debut this month, primarily
targeting young, multicultural audiences - people Alcocer says can be overlooked
by ad agencies and the companies they represent.

"I always knew I was going to go back to advertising and the creative sector,"
Alcocer said. "The idea here is to bring together the best talent and put them
to work for brands that want to do something different, brands that want to take
a stand."

Rest of the World initially has a staff of six, Alcocer said. Ultimately, he
envisions a team of 20 to 25 employees - smaller than many other agencies - with
a focus on recruiting diverse "talent that many times is not represented at big
agencies."

"Taking a multicultural view makes the country better - all the skin tones
together, living harmoniously," he said. "Together, we can strengthen the
country."

Starting his new venture in Austin, instead of a more traditional location such
as New York, was a deliberate decision, Alcocer said - one that he said will
help when it comes to attracting up-and-comers.

"I think advertising needs to catch up," he said. "You can choose where you want
to live and do business these days. Austin is a city that attracts talent.
Things are happening here, now.

"In many ways, Austin represents one of the cities of the future. It's a much
more interesting proposition. There's talent, technology and tolerance here.
When you have those three things, you flourish."

At LatinWorks, Alcocer handled numerous big accounts. It would be easy to cite
his past projects when working to land new clients, but Alcocer says he's chosen
to look forward, not back.

And, already, he's managed to secure work, with more accounts expected shortly.

"This an opportunity to start all over again," Alcocer said. "Starting again
makes you humble. You need to make yourself current. Starting an ad agency from
scratch in 2017 gives me the opportunity to structure things the way they need
to be structured."

For instance, Alcocer has opted to contract with a number of trusted partners
rather than bringing some specialties in house. Those strategic alliances, he
says, will help keep Rest of the World a manageable size - a firm that's
flexible and quickly able to adapt to changes in the marketplace.

"We are living in a world of specialists," he said. "It's difficult these days
to truthfully claim you can do it all. I don't need to hire experts when experts
already exist."

One of those experts is Natalie Boden, president and founder of Boden, a public
relations and social media agency that Rest of the World will be working with on
some projects.

"Brands need to tread carefully in today's climate and not be inclusive for the
sake of inclusivity," Boden said. "It's about understanding your consumers'
needs, regardless of skin tone and language. Powerful work does not stop at
ethnic boundaries. It's universal, and that's what Sergio's multicultural
approach is all about. This is an agency that a brand can go to for all its
work."

Contact Gary Dinges at 512-912-5987.

Twitter: @gdinges

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 19, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Top Local Business Stories of the week

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 648 words


BIDEN AT SXSW

Former vice president pushes to end divisions that hamper cancer fight: In an
emotional speech at the South by Southwest conference last week, former Vice
President Joe Biden described his frustration with government silos preventing
cancer research from moving forward and talked about the work he and his wife,
Jill, are doing with the Biden Foundation cancer initiative.

The so-called Cancer Moonshot work, to which Joe and Jill Biden say they plan to
devote the rest of their lives, was the topic of a much-anticipated presentation
at the conference, where government talk has taken center stage amid a divisive
political climate.

Biden spent the bulk of his talk at the Austin Convention Center spelling out
what work has been done on the cancer initiative and the work that needs to be
done going forward.

In particular, Biden said, 50 years of walls erected between different
disciplines - including government, philanthropy and medicine - need to be
broken down.

"If we did nothing more than break down the silos of preventing greater
collaboration because of how the system has been arranged, not intentionally...
we could extend the life of a lot of people with cancer," Biden said.

As an example, Biden cited a case in which, under the administration of former
President Barack Obama, $30 million was awarded to improve electronic
record-keeping. "It got divided up five ways, into six different silos. You
can't share information, by design even," he said.

As to why he chose South by Southwest to deliver this message, Biden said that
he needs the collective help of the kinds of people who attend the conference.

"South by Southwest has brought together some of the most creative minds in the
world," Biden said. Even those who work in technology as entertainment can
innovate to fight cancer in unexpected ways, he said.

"That's why we need your help. You're the future. We can solve these problems.
These are technological problems. These are not cancer problems. Some of the
most innovative minds in the world are sitting in front of me," Biden said.

STRATUS QUO

Austin's Stratus Properties wraps up review, plans no changes: Austin-based
Stratus Properties Inc. said it has concluded a strategic review of the company
that included approaching more than 100 prospective buyers.

Of the 105 firms approached, 24 asked to review financial documentation and 10
indicated they would be interested in a transaction, Stratus said.

However, since none of the proposed offers were at or above Stratus' current
stock price, the process has been terminated.

Stratus, which has number of projects in the works in Central Texas, said it
will continue with its current operating model.

"The board was satisfied with the thorough nature of the process," said Michael
Madden, Stratus' lead independent director. "Issues arising in connection with a
potential sale of the company included differences of opinion as to the value
that can be created from Stratus' substantial portfolio of undeveloped land, the
value of the W Austin hotel, the impact on value of the current real estate
market cycle, and how values that can be created in the future from Stratus'
portfolio of development opportunities should be allocated between Stratus and a
buyer.

"In addition, the diverse nature of Stratus' assets presented a challenge for
participants with narrower investment interests. Some participants indicated an
interest in acquiring certain groups of assets of the company or suggested that
they would be interested in providing joint venture financing for certain
company opportunities, and some of these ideas may be further explored."

Stratus this year sold the Oaks at Lakeway, an H-E-B-anchored shopping center in
Lakeway, for $114 million. That sale, which netted about $50.8 million in cash ,
and the conclusion of the review has prompted Stratus to offer a special
dividend of $1 per share.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 3, 2017 Monday
                                 State Edition

Are these classic Austin fries the best in US or overrated?

BYLINE: Eric Webb American-Statesman staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 1047 words


You know what fries go well with? Burgers. You know what else they go well with?
The endorphinrushing satisfaction of national culinary praise.

The locally beloved French fries served at Hyde Park Bar & Grill have been named
among the 20 best in the country by Food & Wine magazine. From the magazine's
accolade: "Hyde Park treats its fries like many people treat fried chicken: by
soaking cut potatoes in buttermilk, battering them, and then frying them.
They're served with a side of mayo that's kicked up with jalapeños and dill.
Possibly the most famous fries in Austin, and deservedly so."

As a news release from the restaurant points out, this is not the first honor
bestowed upon the fried tubers. Last year, the dish also made Food Network
Magazine's list of "10 Best French Fries in the US" list and People's "15 Best
French Fries in the US" list. The fries have been on the Hyde Park Bar & Grill
menu since the restaurant opened in 1982.

We should also mention that Austin360 restaurant critic Matthew Odam calls the
Hyde Park fries some of the most "overrated" in Austin, along with those at
In-N-Out Burger and Chi'lantro. Odam, in his list of "10 great French fries in
Austin," instead recommends potato sticks from places like Hopfields, Vino Vino,
Justine's, P. Terry's and Crown & Anchor.

Also on the Food & Wine list with an Austin connection: the duck fat fries at
Salty Sow. The magazine spotlights the egg-andbéarnaise-topped dish at the
gastropub's Arizona location, though you can get the same fries at the Austin
location on Manor Road.

If you're asking this humble Irish-American boy, there's no reason to pit
potatoes against each other. To each their own snack. Other exceptional,
fast-ish food options in town can satisfy without sitting down, like Shake Shack
(cheese 'em), Mighty Fine and Five Guys. If you aren't a Francophile but can't
commit to calling them "freedom fries," home fries from Kerbey Lane Cafe and
Magnolia Cafe give you all the unpeeled skin without the pretention. And if you
would rather watch a indie flick while scarfing down your side dish, order up a
plate at Alamo Drafthouse (again, cheese 'em) or Violet Crown (their lemon aioli
cures illnesses and minor injuries).

All are delicious and starchy in their own way.

Not quite a tequila sunrise, but close

In Austin, "tequila cloud" could be the hippest new tech company. Maybe the kind
of place where you can lounge in the bean bag room on Beer Friday. Or, perhaps,
"tequila cloud" could be the hottest band at South by Southwest.

In Germany, a land traditionally a little short on whimsy, the "tequila cloud"
was a cloud. It was made of tequila. It rained alcohol.

Really.

This is not the best possible side effect of climate change, but rather the
invention of the Tourism Promotion Council of Mexico and U.S. marketing agency
Lapiz, who created the artificial cloud for display at the Berlin creative space
Urban Spree earlier this month. The display was meant to urge Germans (long used
to rainclouds during their damp and cold winter) to hightail it to sunny Mexico.

But you do not care about German tourism, presumably. You want to know how to
get a tequila cloud to rain booze at your next party. "Lapiz formed the 'tequila
cloud' by using ultrasonic humidifiers to vibrate tequila at a frequency that
turned it into visible mist, just like a cloud," digital magazine Designboom
reported on their site. "The boozy mist then condensed into liquid form as it
came into contact with a plastic container, making a real cloud rain tequila."

The lucky Berliners to visit the display could simply hold a shot glass under
the cloud and fill it up with tequila. With any luck, somebody already is
working on vodka snow.

- DAVE THOMAS, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

Eat like Willie

Once marijuana legalization started to take hold in places such as Colorado and
Washington state (don't hold your breath, Texas), it was only a matter of time
before noted connoisseur Willie Nelson launched his own brand: "Willie's
Reserve." Roll 'em up and smoke 'em before you die, right?

But now you can enjoy Willie's stash in a more delectable fashion - at least if
you are in Washington. Annie Nelson, Willie's wife of more than 25 years, has
launched "Annie's Edibles." Her first product, a marijuana-infused artisan dark
chocolate (with Himalayan salt, no less), is available "at select retailers in
Washington."

Legal marijuana use, edible or otherwise, is not currently on the table in the
Lone Star State. Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, however, will have
daily nonstop flights to Seattle in June.

- DAVE THOMAS, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

A peach of a town

One of Central Texans' favorite weekend getaways has been named one of the best
small towns in the South by Southern Living magazine.

"What is it about a small town that hooks us? Whether they're waterfront or
mountaintop, the great ones all have a few things in common: a thriving downtown
with locally owned restaurants, shops, and galleries; a touch of the artsy;
loads of character; friendly locals; and, of course, a beautiful location," the
magazine wrote.

That's why Fredericksburg is No. 2 on the magazine's list of the best small
towns in the South.

It's easy to see why: The Hill Country town is full of beautiful scenery, and
thanks to its ever-growing number of wineries, great food and plenty of bed and
breakfasts and guest houses with character (like Starry's Studio), it's great
for aday trip or a weekend getaway. Visitors can hike Enchanted Rock, enjoy
authentic German food and check out the shops in the historic downtown district.

- KATEY PSENCIK, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

Emptier nests

One Texas university is taking real action when it comes toits pigeon problem.

According to the Houston Chronicle, Texas Tech will begin battling an
overpopulation of pigeons by filling feeders around campus with edible birth
control. The birth control, called Ovo, will be mixed with cracked corn and
prevents eggs from fertilizing.

An official with the school, Sean Childers, said the initiative won't have an
immediate impact, but will eventually start to reduce the pigeon population in
the area over time. Childers also reported that the school spends over $100,000
in pigeon cleanup around campus each year.

-AMANDAO'DONNELL,AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Austin's warmest March ever extends 2017 streak

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 579 words


March turned the cliché on its ear this year: It came in like (an overcooked)
lamb and went out like a (very wet) lion.

This was the warmest March on record at Camp Mabry, Austin's main weather
station, just edging out March 1907, Lower Colorado River Authority
meteorologist Bob Rose said. The record average of 68.6 degrees in spring's
first month followed a winter that was also the warmest on record.

Put another way: "It has been the warmest first three months start to the year
on record," Rose said. "And not just by a little, but by a lot."

The record at Camp Mabry for the warmest first three months of the year had been
61.5 degrees, also set in 1907. The average temperature for the first three
months of this year was 63 degrees at Mabry. At Austin's other
weather-monitoring station, Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, the average
three-month temperature this year has been 61.9 degrees, surpassing 1990's
previous airport record of 59.6 degrees.

It's not like a few spikes drove the temperature to an usually high average,
either.

"The high and low temperature have just been persistently warmer than normal,"
Rose said.

"Aside from the one record high minimum temperature set on March 1, there have
been no other record temperatures set this month."

The warm temperatures did bring brief periods of heightened wildfire concern, a
risk exacerbated by high winds and people dumb enough to throw cigarette butts
out the window.

But this year's rainfall has mostly spared Central Texas from the drought threat
that higher-than-normal temperatures create.

Thus far, 10.1 inches of rain have fallen this year at Camp Mabry, up from the
norm of 7.2, with 12.1 inches at Austin-Bergstrom, up from the norm of 7.3.

That includes the storms that hit in March and contributed to the 3.3 inches
that fell last month at Austin-Bergstrom, about 20 percent more than usual. And
it includes, of course, the rains earlier in the month that caused the
cancellation of both the Zilker Kite Festival's original weekend and its
rescheduled date.

Because of the vagaries of rainfall patterns, Camp Mabry actually saw about 10
percent less rain than normal.

March also saw forecasters issue increasingly urgent warnings about inclement
and possibly dangerous weather. Spring is traditionally the time when Central
Texas experiences the most heavy rain, thunderstorms and flooding.

So far, so good, for the most part - though on Sunday, storms ripped through
Central Texas, dropping more than an inch of rain across the Austin area,
leaving uprooted trees and roof damage, shattering the glass panels of the Oasis
restaurant and creating a funnel cloud over Lake Travis that witnesses say
ripped the

roof off of a Point Venture home.

Contact Marty Toohey at 512-445-3673.

Was it a waterspout?
  The National Weather Service is still trying to determine whether damage
caused Sunday in western Travis County was from a tornado or waterspout.
  The damage pattern in and around Point Venture on Lake Travis is consistent
with high winds, meteorologist Yvette Benavides told the American-Statesman.
Evidence indicates that a tornado or waterspout could have formed, but not
enough to make an official determination, she said.
  Investigators are looking for more footage or any other information that
could help determine the nature of the weather phenomenon that caused the
damage, Benavides said. The weather service's New Braunfels office, which
covers the Austin area, can be reached at 830-629-0130.


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 23, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

10,000 rally at Capitol, march to defend science in Trump era

BYLINE: Taylor Goldenstein American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 680 words


About 10,000 people, scientists and supporters alike, flocked to the state
Capitol on Saturday to champion science and voice their concern about the
policies of the Trump administration.

As one of more than 600 satellite marches planned in cities worldwide, Austin's
March For Science kicked off on the Capitol lawn at 9 a.m. with a "teach in"
where various tables were set up with educational, family-friendly science
activities.

The day of the march coincided, not by accident, organizers said, with Earth
Day.

Austin police estimated that about 10,000 people attended the rally, which began
at 11 a.m.

Organizers told the American-Statesman last week that the march wasn't about
President Donald Trump but about a long-term trend in which logic and evidence
are being displaced by ideology in the public square.

Still, they acknowledged that Trump was the impetus. Many marchers on Saturday
took aim at his administration, pointing to proposed funding cuts to the
sciences and policymakers who don't believe in climate change.

While many in the science community have traditionally hesitated to publicly
share their opinions about politics to maintain a sense of neutrality, speakers
at Saturday's rally emphasized the need for their support in pushing back
against policies that deny or ignore science.

University of Texas psychology professor Art Markman said in a speech that
scientists and supporters often want to use data to back their points. But the
political disagreement over science-related policy is actually more about
differences in values, he said, so scientists need to get more comfortable
talking about why science is important.

"Today, we march to express our deeply held value that science matters," Markman
said. "That Texas and the United States are made better by continued support of
research. That science lies at the heart of the solutions to the world's most
challenging problems."

Once speeches wrapped up, the group took off from the Capitol at about noon,
headed down East 11th Street and ended at Huston-Tillotson University, where an
Earth Day celebration was being held.

Some of the signs marchers carried included "Science is real," "Science not
silence," and "There is no Planet B." Others were creative, including one with a
Lorax that read "I speak for the trees" and an "I (heart) science" poster where
the heart was a biologically accurate image. And some were humorous and punny,
such as those that read "Science U Been Gone I Can't Breathe For the First Time"
and "Ozone You Didn't!"

Throughout the march, people periodically chanted sayings such as "Every day is
Earth Day!" and "Global warming is a global warning!"

Dressed in a white lab coat and navy scrubs, Dr. Jennifer Brody, 47, a
pulmonologist from San Antonio, held a sign that had the word "Silence" written
out with the letter "L" slashed and the letter "E" inserted to form the word
"science."

"I'm very concerned about cutting funding to our sciences and to our research,"
Brody said. "Access to scientific research has been cut off or threatened to be
cut off, and that's not the proper way to make advances and to keep scientific
dialogue open."

San Marcos High School chemistry teacher Roy Hartman, 36, said he wanted to
raise awareness about the importance of science and brought his children so they
could see how many people felt the same.

"I just think scientific thought, scientific questioning is important, not just
accepting things as they are," Hartman said.

Alicia Poe, 68, drove to Austin from Grapevine to show up at the Capitol with
her sign that read, "Send EPA Sec. Pruitt Back To OK." Poe said she feels Pruitt
has already done a lot of damage environmentally, pointing to his decision last
month to not permanently ban one of the nation's most widely used insecticides
despite the risk to children and farmworkers.

"The damage that he's doing can be permanent and irreversible, and it's
something my grandchildren are going to have to live with," Poe said.

"And I think we all have a responsibility to those future generations."

Contact Taylor Goldenstein at 512-445-3972.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 15, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Herman, UT push Horns on Twitter

BYLINE: Cedric Golden American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 764 words


The enthusiasm is palpable four months before the season opener against
Maryland.

You've seen axes being taken to the old Moncrief-

Neuhaus locker room that once housed national champions.

You've seen the model for state-of-the-art lockers being planned at nearly
$10,000 apiece.

All on the web.

It's all under the auspices of Tom Herman, a new coach full of confidence and
unapologetic swagger.

His message of accountability and a return to excellence is one we've all heard
before, but never like this.

Herman hasn't conducted any formal interviews with the Austin media since the
annual Orange-White spring game, but his Texas promotional machine is full steam
ahead via social media.

There was a time when football programs needed press conferences and public
appearances to gauge the feeling of a coaching staff during the summer, but
today's climate has changed considerably. The university has the Longhorn
Network and Twitter to spread its "This is Texas" message during an offseason
transition on the Forty Acres.

To someone who's been around the program for nearly two decades, the hype game
has done a 180-degree turnaround since the days when the World Wide Web was
considered a fad. Nowadays, college football coaches have embraced the idea of
self-promotion through tools such as social media, and Texas has gone all-in
during this offseason, particularly Herman, who has a gift for GIFs and whatever
else he can post on his

@CoachTomHerman account that's rapidly closing in on 100,000 followers.

A quick scan of Herman's account this week revealed a video of technology titan
Michael Dell, TeamsM2 CEO Carrie Cecil and former Texas football players Lance
Gunn and Jordan Shipley giving life advice to a roomful of football players who
are on notice by this aggressive coaching staff that things are changing around
here.

Herman's most trusted lieutenant, defensive coordinator Todd Orlando, tweeted a
poster of the entire coaching staff with numbers attached - including the four
national championships - and the world "PROVEN" scrawled across the bottom.

So is this hype or substance? It's definitely hype right now, but it could be
both. Only what happens in the fall will answer that question.

So the old-school players out there just asked: Will this add up to wins?

Great question. Texas was going to win seven or eight games in 2017 no matter
how much the coaches tweet this summer, but Herman's plans have long-reaching
motive.

He's making his move on middle school kids and high school freshmen who spend
most of their days playing video games and surfing the web. The coaching staff
is calling its current recruiting mission #RevolUTion18.

Then there's unspoken competition with programs Texas will play in the fall.
Like Oklahoma, for instance.

"Don't be mad at the Longhorn's enthusiasm. "Nothing great" has ever been
"achieved" without enthusiasm. Keep hunting coaches!" running backs coach Stan
Drayton tweeted Thursday.

Herman's wife, Michelle, not one to let the boys have all the fun, bared her
cyber-fangs this past week. After her hubby landed verbal commitments from
quarterback Casey Thompson, former Sooners QB commit Cameron Rising from
California, and Putnam, Okla. product Ron Tatum, a four-star defensive end,
Oklahoma assistant coach Kerry Cooks subtweeted a photo of a wolf in sheep's
clothing.

"Young ones beware "real recognize real" lots of false prophets lurking," he
tweeted. Many took it as a shot at OU's Red River rival, including the current
first lady of Texas football, who responded with a photo of four wolves,
describing how their survival depends on their ability to work together while
hunting.

"Longhorns out there hunting like wolves," she tweeted with a #ThisIsTexas
hashtag.

1-0, Michelle.

Of course the most important battles will be waged on a football field,
particularly the one at the Cotton Bowl when the Horns and Sooners get together
in October.

Texas ex Paul Boyette, Jr. told Kirk Bohls and me on our "On Second Thought"
podcast that he noticed a difference in effort from watching the spring game
compared to some of the teams he played on at Texas.

"Everybody wasn't all-in when coach Strong was there," he said. "I'm a testament
to that. I've lived it, I've breathed it. I played there. Now you can see the
culture change. It's a culture shock. Everybody's going hard. Everybody is
giving everything they have in the tank because everybody believes in each
other."

With that said, the bravado of Texas' latest coaching gives the fan base hope.

It's a start. One tweet at a time.

Contact Cedric Golden at 512-912-5944. Twitter: @cedgolden

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

What we can learn from old nutrition books about eating healthy today

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1540 words


It's too bad that the word "diet" has come to mean restricted eating.

The broader idea of a diet - all the foods you eat - is a wonderful idea. It's
our personal landscape of the tastes, smells and textures that, over a day, a
week, a month and beyond, keep us alive and determine much of our physical and
mental health.

But the way we use "diet" now indicates a regimen, not a canvas. Diets are a
book of rules that stress us out, not the overall terroir of what we eat. If
dietitian Mary Agnew could teach one thing to her students, it's that the big
picture matters much more than the plate that's in front of you.

Agnew, who teaches nutrition classes with the Central Texas Food Bank but
doesn't counsel clients, says that habits, not necessarily cravings, are what
hold us back from having more overall balanced diets.

If we always finish the bag of popcorn, we continue to finish the bag of
popcorn. If we have three pieces of chocolate after dinner, we have three pieces
of chocolate after dinner. If our lunch companion  inishes his or her sandwich,
we finish ours.

"We spend so much on diets and books, but we still have this huge obesity
issue," she says.

Agnew spent 12 years as a vegetarian until she started to crave turkey
sandwiches. ( Jimmy John's is her soft spot.) A bite of a cheeseburger at Shake
Shack took her off that path completely, so she understands as much as anyone
how tempting "bad" foods can be.

"If you're hungry, your body is telling you something," she says. But if it's 6
p.m. and you're not that hungry, don't make and eat a plate of food just because
it's dinnertime.

Agnew blames dieting culture for the prevalence of binge eating. "If you really
love fried chicken, and you're like, 'Fried chicken is bad. I'm not going to eat
it anymore,' you're going to want it more," she says. "It creates a cycle of
binge and restricting. If you have the 'It will always be here' mentality,
you're less likely to binge."

Permanently eliminating foods you enjoy is not a healthful way of eating, even
if we're talking about sugary cakes and sodas. Being mindful of consumption is a
big part of intuitive eating; setting up an unrealistic expectation that you'll
never have another Dr Pepper or piece of fried chicken is not.

"A lot of women have some sort of disordered eating because of the way we grow
up and seeing what we 'should' be looking like in the media," Agnew says. "It
can manifest in different ways. Binge eating disorder was only recently added"
to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.

If you're in a good place, emotionally and physically, it's easier to figure out
what to eat based on what your body and mind need, but listening to your body is
a skill we can lose and gain at various times in our lives, depending on the
circumstances. When you're in crisis or at the very least stressed out, you tend
to stop paying attention to signals of hunger, thirst, low energy or an unhappy
stomach.

If you're unfamiliar with listening to your body after eating, try to focus on
your physical body in the hours after you eat your next meal. Are you satiated?
Are you hydrated? Do you feel full an hour later? Two hours later? Do you crave
sweets even though you're full?

If you think about a 3-year-old eating over the course of three days, you'll
notice that he or she doesn't eat the same quantity of food at every meal or
have the same level of hunger every day. Adults have a similar cycle, so try to
think about what you've consumed this week, not just today, when you're making
food decisions.

Agnew and I spent a recent lunch break flipping through old nutrition books
collected in the Statesman cookbook drive earlier this year.

Among recipes for microwaved roast beef and faux sour cream made with evaporated
milk, we saw statistics that felt like numbers you'd see today - for instance,
that 1 out of 2 adults is affected by obesity.

In the 1980s, Nathan Pritikin shared that statistic in "The Pritikin Program for
Diet and Exercise," a book that warned of the dangers of the Atkins and
ketogenic diet - two diets we've seen reappear in American culture. In
Pritikin's book, I also learned about how liquid protein diets led to nearly 60
deaths that decade and that people used a hard-to-believe practice of wiring
one's jaw shut to prevent overeating.

As Agnew looked through "The Fat Free Living Super Cookbook" from the 1990s, she
lamented that the fat-free decade is what led us to having so much sugar in
processed foods today. "Fat adds flavor, so sugar was added to replace the
flavor, but sugar is a bigger problem than fat," she says. You don't need
refined sugar to survive, but you do need fat, not only because it makes you
feel satiated but also because fat helps your body absorb many nutrients found
in other parts of a meal.

We were surprised by the commonalities between today's nutrition advice and that
of yesteryear. Forty years ago, "Slim Gourmet" author Barbara Gibbons, too, was
writing about eggs as a controversial ingredient, "even though it's one of the
leanest and more affordable proteins."

Gibbons, who died in 2014, also was spot-on about not falling for marketing. "To
compound confusion, many dietetic products use fanciful names that imply
slimness and some decorate their labels with shapely silhouettes or other
illustrations that convey the idea of weight loss. The casual shopper can easily
be misled, but thanks to federal regulations, the pertinent information is
usually available on the label for those willing to read the fine print."

"Remember the word natural is no guarantee that the food is healthy for you,"
Gibbons wrote, nearly echoing a statement Agnew had just made over tacos and a
Topo Chico.

Food marketing is an easy trap to fall into at the grocery store, but at home,
beware of the scale, Agnew says. Constantly focusing on weight as a measure of
health might be the hardest American nutrition habit to break.

A g n ew is am o n g t h e many dietitians who are spreading awareness about why
weight and body mass index, or BMI, aren't the best measures of health and that
you can be healthy at every size.

"The more people diet, the more out of control their weight is," she says. "If
you don't find the root cause of the emotional eating, it's not going to be a
permanent change."

Contact Addie Broyles at 512-912-2504.

Twitter: @broylesa

BOX:

STATESMAN COOKBOOK DRIVE UPDATE

"In the Kitchen With Bill" was one of thousands of cookbooks donated during the
Statesman's recent cookbook drive.

You'll remember a few months ago that we hosted a donation drive to try to take
some of your old cookbooks offyour hands and onto the shelves of nonprofits or
other cooks in town. After all, one person's long-forgotten copy of"In the
Kitchen With Bill"or "The Northern Exposure Cookbook"could be
another's"Mastering the Art of French Cooking."

Those titles were among the thousands of cookbooks that readers donated in boxes
and bags over the month of January. With the help of reader Rita Rochlen, a
retired librarian, I sorted the books into categories (healthy, beginner,
advanced, dessert, community cookbooks, etc.) and then invited nonprofits from
around Austin, including the Sustainable Food Center, Central Texas Food Bank,
Fresh Chefs Society and Brighter Bites, to come browse.

Representatives from each organization picked the books they thought would best
serve their clients, but there were still plenty left over, especially in the
community cookbook category.

We received about 25 copies of"Lone Star Legacy,"one of the best-selling
community cookbooks in Texas. But it was the lesser-known community cookbooks
that were of interest to Amie Oliver and Brian Simmons, curators at Baylor's
Texas Collection, home to a 6,100-volume community cookbook library.

They pored through more than 100 community cookbooks from Texas (we received
similar books from as far away as the Bahamas and South Dakota) that were
compiled by electric coops, elementary school teachers, bridge clubs and
cheerleading squads. On laptops set up in the room where I've been storing these
books for the past few months, they looked up each title to see if they already
had it in the collection. If not, the book went into a "keep" box.

After about an hour, they'd picked out 40 cookbooks, ranging from a Hays County
Livestock Show and Home Skills booklet made with a school printer and white comb
binding to a bright pink book promoting Elsie's Tours out of Seguin. Those are
now headed to permanent, climate-controlled storage in Baylor's library. They
even took an index-card-size book that is held together with two metal rings
from one of the Children's Centers in Austin. No community cookbook is too
inconsequential for their collection.

Any remaining books are headed to Recycled Reads, but not until after one more
donation effort. This fall, we're going to set up a pop-up bookstore at the
Austin Food & Wine Alliance's Culinary Arts Career Conference, where high school
students and teachers in attendance can pick out as many books as they want.

If you have any books you're eager to get rid of or have a group (or a personal
cookbook collection) that would benefit from some of these books, let me know at
abroyles@statesman.com or 512-912-2504.

- ADDIE BROYLES

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Amid 'America First' age, some in Austin say world is all connected

BYLINE: Juan Castillo American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 787 words


In the coming days all over Central Texas, tens of thousands of young people
will stride proudly across high school and college stages to collect their
degrees. Families will whoop and cheer; no one will be prouder than the parents.

The graduates fulfill something many of us take for granted - the promise of an
education, says Mark Coats of Austin, whose three daughters graduated from
McNeil High School, went on to get their college degrees and landed good jobs.
One is an accountant, one an architect, and the other works in geographic
information systems.

"The hope" Coats said, "is that they'll be equipped to compete in the modern
economy and to have a good life"

The hope of a better life is a universal struggle, but in many parts of the
globe, an education is out of reach for vast numbers of children. Indeed, a
staggering 263 million kids around the world aren't attending school, according
to RESULTS, a nonprofit with an army of volunteers like Coats who are working to
end poverty.

In places like Zimbabwe in southern Africa, for example, only about one-third of
children ages 3 to 5 are in preschool, and there aren't nearly enough
classrooms. It's not uncommon there for 5-year-olds to walk in withering heat
for miles from their villages to the closest school. Feel free to use that the
next time your child moans they don't have their own car.

Social and economic factors intertwine to contribute to Zimbabwe's dire
circumstances, Patrick Makokoro, a child rights activist there, told me.
Unemployment is stunning at 85 percent; HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases
devastate families; poverty is so endemic that many young children forgo school
for work in the fields to support their families; girls don't attend school
because that's the cultural norm.

Zimbabwe might seem like a world away from Austin, but in an uplifting reminder
that we all live on the same planet, Makokoro, Coats and other Austinites are
bringing attention to the cause of educating children around the world. They are
advocates for the multilateral Global Partnership for Education, which is asking
the U.S. and other countries, foundations and corporations to contribute $3.1
billion to its 2018-20 fund. The money goes to efforts to increase the number of
children in schools in poor and developing countries.

The partnership has ambitious goals that include getting 25 million children
into schools, building more than 23,000 new classrooms, and training 1.7 million
teachers. The GPE asks nations that receive money to earmark 20 percent of their
annual government spending to education.

The U.S. has been a major donor to the partnership, giving $270 million since
2011. Advocates hope the U.S. will again reinvest in a brighter future for
children around the world. You wouldn't blame them if they were nervous. At a
time when the world is more connected than ever, the Trump administration has
proposed slashing the U.S. budget for foreign aid and diplomacy by 28 percent.
Like building a massive wall along the U.S. southern border, pulling out of the
landmark international accord on climate change, and denigrating European and
NATO alliances, cutting foreign aid strikes some Americans as parochial.

Still, RESULTS volunteers are hopeful. "We know the president proposes budgets,
but it's Congress that approves appropriations," said Eloise Sutherland of
Austin. She and volunteers focus on lobbying members of Congress and their
staffs.

You might be asking, "What does all this have to do with life here in the U.S.?
Don't we have our own problems - and aren't our own schools underfunded?" This
is, after all, the Trumpian age of "America First."

"I have a passionate belief that educating children around the world has a
positive impact on all of us," Sutherland said.

Giving children a chance to learn produces far-reaching economic, health,
humanitarian, security and other benefits, advocates say. They cite studies
showing that children with an education are more likely to live past their fifth
birthday and to have access to jobs, less likely to migrate, to become involved
in violence, and to contract HIV/AIDS.

The cost of not acting is too high, said Ken Patterson, RESULTS' director of
global grassroots advocacy.

"When you've got 263 million kids who should be in school but who aren't, and
the world is advancing in tech and all that stuff, what's going to happen to all
of these kids?" Patterson asked.

But advocating for the world's neediest can be a hard sell, he admits.

"Our biggest challenge is to help people understand we're all connected,"
Patterson said, "and to help them understand the decisions we make and don't
make have consequences for the world and also for us."

Contact Juan Castillo

at 512-445-3667.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 24, 2017 Thursday
                                 State Edition

THE PLANNER

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 471 words


Beverages

¦Cuvee Coffee Bar's Three Year Anniversary Fair. Cuvee's flagship location
opened three years ago this month, which means it's time to celebrate with a
dunk tank of Cuvee baristas, the Mighty Cone food truck, live music from Buenos
Diaz, fair food and fair games and tasty beer on tap from local breweries like
Zilker Brewing, Live Oak Brewing and Austin Beer-works. 6 to 10 p.m. Aug. 24.
Free. 2000 E. Sixth St. facebook. com/events/483105232033470/.

Comedy

¦Esther's Follies. The dead heat of August  inds Esther's taking on Washington's
growing political summer showdown at its best, with new sketches ripped from
local and national headlines, including the "Special Session Blues" about Texas'
current political climate.

But politics isn't the only subject on Esther's mind this month. Winter is
coming in August thanks to Esther's take on the popular "Game of Thrones" show.
8 p.m. Thursday, 8 and 10 p.m. Friday-Saturday. $25-$35. 525 E. Sixth St.
512-320-0198, esthersfollies.com.

Art

¦"About Us" at Dimension Gallery. Shea Little's "About Us" is an exploration of
the hypothetical effects that culture has on the world.

Little believes that our understanding of past civilizations is expanded and
redefined by examining their excavated artifacts and that we too will leave a
story behind that tells others about us. Opening reception 7 to 10 p.m.
Thursday. 12 to 6 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays through Sept. 30. 979 Springdale
Road. Ste. 99. dimensiongallery.org.

Coming up

¦Puppy Party at Waterloo Ice House. Bring your four-legged friends to the
restaurant's West Austin location.

The bene it for Austin Pets Alive will have games and prizes, a special hot dog
menu, face painting and balloon art, dog beer from Bowser Beer and pupsicles
from the Ruff Life ATX.

Dogs have never had it so good. 6 to 8 p.m. Aug. 25. Free. 6203 N. Capital of
Texas H i g hw ay. f a c e b o o k . c o m /events/1926459574276574/.

Gardening calendar

¦Austin Butterfly Forum: Moths, the Mysterious Majority. Of about 2,000 species
of lepidoptera found in the Hill Country, only about 150 are butterflies.

Moths are far more numerous and diverse than butterflies and have more varied
lifestyles, far greater size range and some rather surprising survival
strategies. This program will cover both caterpillars and adults. 7 p.m. Aug.
28. Zilker Botanical Garden, 2220 Barton Springs Road. 512-477-8672,
zilkergarden.org.

¦Guided Garden Tour. At the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, tour the
gardens and trails with a knowledgeable docent and learn about native plants as
well as the history and architecture of the center. Sites change throughout the
seasons. 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Aug. 25. Free with $4-$10 admission to the center.
4801 La Crosse Ave. 512-232-0100, wildflower.org.

Have a listing for the planner?

Send it to bestbets@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 10, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Even Texas depends on big government

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INST; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 893 words


As Texas attorney general, Gov. Greg Abbott bragged that a typical day was to
wake up in the morning, sue the federal government and go home. Then do the same
thing the next day.

It was a line that garnered big laughs and applause in Republican circles that
shared Abbott's cynicism and scorn of big government's regulatory authority over
states.

But in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Abbott and other Republicans are
looking to the same federal government they repeatedly berated to do what state
government cannot do: steer Texas through one of the nation's worst natural
disasters - and pay for the cleanup and rebuilding of Houston, Beaumont, Corpus
Christi, La Grange, Smithville and the many other areas hit hard by Harvey.

Certainly, natural disasters are humbling experiences that can and do bring out
the best in people as they come to the aid of family members, neighbors and
strangers. But they also offer lessons about the relevancy and role of big
government: Harvey's cleanup is huge and expensive - and notably impossible
without the federal government's financial resources and expertise in managing
disasters.

What other governmental entity or nonprofit could handle a disaster that
affected an estimated 100,000 homes in Texas and Louisiana and tens of thousands
of people, even as it prepares for another possible disaster from a new threat -
Hurricane Irma, which is expected to hit Florida this weekend?

The federal government is not perfect, but it is certainly capable in many
areas, including disaster relief and management, health insurance for seniors,
people with disabilities and low-income children, and protecting the nation's
security, food supply and air and water quality, just to name a few. Big
government still does big things.

Abbott knows that. After all, he is relying on the federal government for up to
$180 billion in aid the governor estimates will be needed to repair and rebuild
homes, businesses, roads and other infrastructure in storm-ravaged cities. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency and other federal agencies worked around the
clock since Harvey hit to assist tens of thousands of stranded Texans.

To that point, the federal government, including President Donald Trump, who
twice visited Texas in Harvey's wake, is responding to calls for help. Trump
rightly requested $7.9 billion as an immediate down payment in Harvey aid and
reached across the aisle to get it.

For now, Abbott has decided not to use the state's $10.3 billion so-called rainy
day fund to cover expenses of state agencies for projects related to Harvey,
including the Texas Department of Transportation's costs for clearing and
repairing roads. Though those expenses are eligible for federal reimbursement,
there is an inescapable irony in biting the hand that feeds oneself.

Consider that Abbott is looking to the federal Environmental Protection Agency -
which Abbott, as attorney general, sued 17 times, according to the Washington
Post - to clean up and monitor pollution caused by flooding, including the 13
toxic waste sites in the Houston area that are designated Superfund sites.

Speaking on Fox and CNN, Abbott said of those sites, "the EPA is monitoring
that. The EPA is going to get on top of that."

In his role as state attorney general, Abbott filed 31 lawsuits against the
federal government during President Barack Obama's tenure, The Texas Tribune
reported in January. The lawsuits covered areas like climate change, business
regulations, immigration and social issues. His successor, Attorney General Ken
Paxton had mounted 17 lawsuits up to that point. Costs for 39 of the 48 lawsuits
amounted to nearly $6 million, The Tribune's analysis showed.

It's worth noting that the state lost more than it won, though winning was not
necessarily the point. Even when it is not deserved, harsh criticism of the
federal government appeals to important sectors of the GOP base, including
social conservatives and business and industry. It also helps shield Republican
incumbents in GOP primaries from challenges from the right.

That kind of posturing was taken to a larger, more hypocritical level by Texas
U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, who in 2013 voted against a $50 billion relief package for
victims of Hurricane Sandy but now is cheerleading efforts to get federal aid
for Harvey.

Cruz and Abbott tout the state's independence from Washington, but here's what
they won't tell the public: The Lone Star State relies on big government's
dollars. About 32 percent of the state government's revenue is federal money,
the New York Times reported last week, citing an analysis by the Tax Foundation.

Another irony that came into focus during the special legislative session that
ended in July is that Abbott only dislikes big government when it involves the
feds - but he loves it when practiced by the state of Texas.

The governor championed nine measures aimed at usurping authority of cities and
counties, including bills to weaken land-use rules, eliminate local laws on
cellphone use by drivers, and water down protections of heritage trees. Most
measures failed, including a bill authorizing the state - not local governments
- to regulate bathrooms for transgender Texans.

If looking for lessons, let's remember that hurricanes and other natural
disasters show that the federal government is necessary and relevant and still
does big things.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Why chef Santibañez envies his former boss at Fonda San Miguel

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 671 words


Last weekend, one of the most noted chefs to have worked in Austin kitchens
returned to the city that helped shape him to helm the Authentic Mexico gala at
the Long Center.

Mexico City native Roberto Santibañez was the head chef at Fonda San Miguel from
1997 to 2001 before opening several restaurants in New York and writing a number
of cookbooks. He returned to town as the featured chef at Sunday's annual
fundraiser for the Hispanic Alliance and its community projects, Emprendedor U,
Austin Soundwaves and Oleh.

Each year, Authentic Mexico showcases a different state of Mexico at its event
tied to Diez y Seis, Mexican Independence Day. This year, it was the North
Central state of Zacatecas. Even though Santibañez grew up a few states away, he
knows that one of the most popular dishes in Zacatecas is asado de bodas, a
wedding stew of braised meat served in a sweet, simple mole.

"This mole is particular to Zacatecas," he says. "They don't have the
availability of ingredients as southern and central Mexicans, so they used two
kinds of dried chilies and a few spices, which is all it takes to make a mole."

We've come a long way in how Americans and Austinites understand Mexican
cuisine, he says. Santibañez trained at Le Cordon Bleu in Paris and operated
several high-end restaurants in Mexico City, but he knew he wanted to work in
the U.S. In 1997, he took over Fonda San Miguel, where he learned lessons he
still uses today.

"Fonda was where I truly jumped up and dived into it all," he says. He watched
founder Tom Gilliland work the front of house and run the back of house, finding
a balance between operating a business that speaks to his soul and one that his
customers demand.

"One of the wonderful things about Tom is that, almost seamlessly, he's
continuously making changes to the restaurant, and (customers) don't realize
that the wall has a different hue or adifferent design," Santibañez says.

In 1997, Statesman freelance restaurant critic Linda Anthony wrote, "Service at
Fonda San Miguel has always been professional, but with the arrival of
Santibañez, everyone seems to step a bit livelier and smile a bit more. Even the
restaurant itself, also one of the prettiest in town, seems to glow a bit
brighter. In short, if you haven't been to Fonda San Miguel recently, go. It's
better than it's ever been. ... The place literally seems to sparkle again, and
so does the food."

Santibañez has been back to Austin a number of times since he moved, including
in 2015 for the big 40th anniversary party at Fonda. He's in frequent contact
with Gilliland, especially after the passing of Miguel Ravago, the co-founder of
the restaurant who died earlier this year. "He's so lucky to have Fonda as his
creativity hub," he says. "He can do anything. In NYC, if I put that picture of
the Vatican in a storm, I will get killed by people complaining about things."

Both Santibañez and his old boss are constantly trying to improve their own
menus, but with the right amount of nouveau spin. "Mexican food loses its soul
in the hands of people that don't have the right knowledge of the ingredients or
the sauces or the plates and flavors," he says. Some chefs "want more people to
like it, so they are cooking more European, but dishes are starting to lose
their spiciness and complexity. I'm trying to be as innovative as I can with the
traditionalism that is behind me and in me, while still moving forward."

For instance, he's still roasting the tomatillos the same way he always has, but
the innovation might come in the presentation.

Santibañez also has a growing interest in the preservation of Mexican
ingredients, such as the different kinds of chilies that are now grown in China
instead of Mexico, which has a different climate and growing conditions that
lead to different flavor profiles. "Chiles de árbol and guajillos taste
different," he says. "We have to put a lot of focus in that because if we stop
using them and appreciating their differences, we can lose them."

Contact Addie Broyles at 512-912-2504.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 26, 2017 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Straus in right place, right time for unexpected rise to speaker

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 630 words


Joe Straus didn't seem destined to become the most powerful member of the Texas
House when opportunity knocked in 2009.

He was polished and affable with a solid Republican pedigree, but Straus was
also a two-term legislator with a modest record of accomplishment - a known
pro-business moderate in a political climate that favored strong conservatives.

Blood was in the water at the end of the 2007 session, when then-Speaker Tom
Craddick's autocratic style prompted an unsuccessful coup attempt, but
Craddick's fate was sealed when the next election left Republicans with only a
two-seat majority heading into the 2009 session.

Straus was one of about a dozen ABC Republicans - Anybody But Craddick - who met
privately in early January 2009 to anoint a single candidate to back. Nine of
the ABCs vied to be the group's consensus candidate, all of them better-known
and longer serving than Straus, but participants later said the strongest
candidates canceled each other out, allowing Straus to emerge as the surprise
victor on the third ballot.

When the group emerged from Rep. Byron Cook's Tarrytown home, reporters waiting
on the front lawn were shocked at the choice of Straus, who hadn't even served
as a committee chairman.

But the ABCs emphasized that Straus had the ability to unify a sharply fractured
House, particularly because he wasn't a player in previous battles over
Craddick's leadership.

And, knowing Straus faced criticism because he couldn't defeat Craddick without
Democratic support, the ABCs played up his Republican roots. His mother, Jocelyn
Straus, was a campaign official for Republican U.S. Sen. John Tower and the
presidential campaign of George H.W. Bush, while her son served in the
administrations of President Ronald Reagan and Bush and was a precinct chairman
and a campaign manager for U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio.

"What I hope to be able to do is to change the subject, to move away from a
speaker-centered House where every day the spotlight is on whose nose is out of
joint, " Straus said at the time. "I'm going to try to bring everyone together
and improve the attitude in the House."

When the session began, the San Antonio Republican was elected speaker without
opposition.

In his first term as House leader, Straus beefed up the power of his appointed
committee chairs and encouraged compromise when possible.

The Straus doctrine worked on the budget, which passed the House unanimously
after dozens of partisan amendments - designed to force tough votes on both
sides of the aisle - were pulled down by agreement.

Straus was less successful on the 2009 voter ID bill, a Republican priority that
was killed by Democratic stalling tactics - incurring the wrath of social
conservatives, which would be a constant theme of Straus' time in office. Voter
ID's defeat also drew the ire of Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, continuing the
House-Senate feuds are a staple of every legislative session and setting the
stage for Straus' titanic confrontation with Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick over
transgender bathroom policies, property taxes and other issues earlier this
year.

A succession of social conservatives, deeming Straus too moderate, failed to
oust him in the following sessions:

* Reps. Warren Chisum and Ken Paxton, now attorney general, withdrew their names
before the 2011 vote.

* Reps. Bryan Hughes and David Simpson also dropped out when their bids failed
to catch fire in 2013.

* Rep. Scott Turner, a tea party Republican, made history by forcing the first
floor vote for speaker in four decades, but he fared no better, losing to Straus
127-19.

Straus, who also defeated a succession of GOP primary challengers who ran to his
right, was unanimously re-elected speaker to start the 2017 session.

Contact Chuck Lindell at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 31, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Westwood High class rank policy angers some parents

BYLINE: Ariana Garcia American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 528 words


A group of angry Westwood parents voiced concerns over the Round Rock school
board's recent decision to remove class rankings from Westwood High School
student transcripts.

Several parents at a recent school board meeting requested the board consider
revising the recently approved pilot program, which has Westwood High only
reporting the top 10 percent of student rankings.

Jun Xiao, whose child attends Canyon Vista Middle School, presented the board a
petition with more than 400 signatures against the decision.

The board approved the program in response to concerns from parents that
rankings could hurt students' chances of attending a college of their choice.
Parents said a highly competitive academic environment at Westwood can also
affect a student's academic experience.

In a district survey conducted in May, 67 percent of Westwood parents supported
excluding class rank, while 15 percent favored including entire class rankings
and 16 percent were undecided. No other high school's results showed as much
high favor toward excluding class rank as Westwood.

Parents at the board meeting said the pilot program was hastily implemented at
Westwood, and that the community was uninformed and unprepared for the change.

District staff presented the program to the board Sept. 21, which took effect
Oct. 1. The district studied the ranking issue for two years before making a
final recommendation to the board.

But parents at the meeting said class rank is necessary for admission into
colleges like Texas A&M and Texas State University, which automatically admit
the top 25 percent of high school classes. Scholarships also request class
ranking.

Parents said doing away with rank means students will have to compete against a
bigger pool of students.

"This will increase stress for my kids due to them applying to more colleges...
preparing more supporting documents," parent Xin Feng said. "This is exactly
against the purpose of this pilot: to decrease the stress level among students."

Xuran Zhou said the board should not erase class ranking to address stress
levels in students and should instead discuss with parents and teachers about
how ranking is often used to bully students.

"We blame ranking for many of the current problems, like student depression and
anxiety," Zhou said. "Some parents and students may use ranking to bully or
abuse other students, so those are the true culprits for the current issue."

In a statement, the board said it will review the pilot program at the end of
the year to determine whether it will continue at Westwood and expand to other
district high schools. This includes looking at the college acceptance rates.

"The approval to implement the Westwood High School rank in class pilot program
was made after careful consideration of the campus climate, community surveys
and feedback," said board president Diane Cox. "With the pilot currently in
place, we look forward to seeing the assessment that will take place at the end
of the school year to determine it had a positive impact on college acceptance
and remain ready to take the appropriate action to ensure that our students have
the best opportunities available to them."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday
                                 State Edition

Where to eat during South by Southwest

BYLINE: Matthew Odam American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: AUSTIN360; Pg. T4

LENGTH: 4273 words


The hurricane that is South by Southwest will soon engulf the city. But just
because there are thousands of bands, films, talks, brand activations and
parties battling for gigs of your brain space doesn't mean you shouldn't still
take some time out to enjoy the Austin restaurant scene.

This dining guide focuses on restaurants located within a mile or two of the hub
of the action, broken down into some of Austin's favorite food groups: tacos,
barbecue, Mexican food, burgers and more.

This list is light on trailers, because their hours and locations can vary
during SXSW, and I did my best to avoid restaurants that might be utilized as
SXSW venues. And some restaurants just didn't fit neatly into any category. Of
course, if you're not attending SXSW, you will still find this guide serves your
needs when looking for just about any kind of restaurant in or around downtown
Austin, including areas just east of Interstate 35 and just south of the river.

My critic's picks are designated with asterisks. For my my Top 25 restaurants in
Austin and 75 more of my favorites, check out the Austin360 Dining Guide at
austin360.com/eats.

BARBECUE

*Brown's Bar-B-Que. 1901 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-517-8520, facebook.com/
brownsbarbque.This South Lamar trailer smokes some of the best chicken and pork
ribs in town.

Cooper's Old Time Pit Bar-B-Que. 217 Congress Ave. 512-474-4227,
coopersbbqaustin.com. Now you don't have to drive to Llano to get this renowned
barbecue.Available at lunch and dinner.

*Franklin Barbecue. 900 E. 11th St. 512-653-1187, franklinbarbecue.com. Maybe
you've heard of this place.What makes it so popular? World-class brisket,
awesome ribs, a ceaselessly joyful chef and a line culture unlike any place in
Texas.

Iron Works BBQ. 100 Red River St. 512-478-4855, ironworksbbq.com. Queue up for
some sausage, chicken and a view ofWaller Creek.

*Kerlin BBQ. 1700 E. Cesar Chavez St. 512-412-5588, kerlinbbq.com.The brisket at
this East Austin trailer is so good it inspired the owners to open a trailer
that serves kolaches filled with the tender beef.

*La Barbecue. 1906 E. Cesar Chavez St. 512-605-9696, labarbecue.com. Some of the
best barbecue in Central Texas. Start with the brisket and hot guts sausage and
go from there.

*Lamberts Downtown Barbecue. 401 W. Second St. 512-494-1500,
lambertsaustin.com.The fanciest barbecue spot in town, Lamberts smokes
traditional meats such as pork shoulder and beef brisket and serves grilled
dishes like scallops and cold-smoked quail.

*Micklethwait Craft Meats. 1309 Rosewood Ave. 512-791-5961, craftmeats.com.Tom
Micklethwait's East Austin trailer specializes in inventive and flavorful
sausage and makes very good desserts like buttermilk pie.The chef got the
Internet's attention last year when he re-created the dining scene from ZZ
Top's"Tres Hombres"album art.And ate it.

Terry Black's Barbecue. 1003 Barton Springs Road. 512-394-5899,
terryblacksbbq.com. Grandsons of one of the scions of Lockhart barbecue are
bringing an old-school approach at lunch and dinner just south of the river.

BREAKFAST

Annie's Cafe & Bar. 319 Congress Ave. 512-472-1884, anniescafebar.com. Omelets
and French toast in the morning at this cafe with sidewalk seating and a view of
Congress Avenue.

*Counter Cafe. 626 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-708-8800, countercafe.com.You can almost
reach over the counter and into the galley kitchen to flip your own crab cake
that comes with poached eggs and curried peanut and lemon aioli dipping sauces.

*Cenote. 1010 E. Cesar Chavez St. 512-524-1311, cenoteaustin.com. Stop in for
coffee, breakfast sandwiches, scrambles, bagels and granola.

*Elizabeth Street Café. 1501 S. First St. 512-291-2881, elizabethstreetcafe.com.
This posh little Vietnamese spot from the team behind Perla's is a great little
under-the-radar breakfast option for its coffee, pastries and dishes like awood
ear mushroom and roasted pork omelet. Grab a macron to go.

Forthright Cafe. 98 San Jacinto Blvd. 512-433-6155, forthright.cafe.Waffle
breakfast sandwiches in the morning and American classics like a turkey BLT at
lunch make for an approachable and familiar menu at this cafe with an outdoor
patio near Lady Bird Lake.

Hillside Farmacy. 1209 E. 11th St. 512-628-0168, hillsidefarmacy.com.This
pâtisserie and café serves an egg sandwich, bangers and eggs, and more until 1
p.m.

*Jo's. 242 W. Second St. 512-469-9003; 1300 S. Congress Ave. 512-444-3800;
joscoffee.com. Good coffee, breakfast sandwiches and pastries at locations
downtown and south of the river.

*Josephine House. 1601 Waterston Ave. 512-477-5584, josephinehouseaustin.com.
Fluffy lemon-ricotta pancakes and smooth avocado toast are two of the highlights
on the breakfast menu at this dainty charmer.

Juan in a Million. 2300 E. Cesar Chavez St. 512-472-3872,JuanInAMillion.com.
Juan in a Million has been putting out Tex-Mex classics such as huevos rancheros
and breakfast tacos for more than 30 years. Expect a line.

*Paperboy. 1203 E. 11th St. paperboyaustin.com.The breakfast sandwiches are
beautiful representations of the form, with fluffy brioche buns and perfect
sunny-side-up eggs

BURGERS

*Casino El Camino. 517 E. Sixth St. 512-469-9330, casinoelcamino.net.All red and
black, this cavernous Sixth Street classic has a devilish attitude and serves up
fat, aggressive burgers.

Hopdoddy. 1400 S. Congress Ave. 512-243-7505, hopdoddy.com. Quality ingredients
and thoughtful flavor profiles make for long lines on South Congress.

Hut's Hamburgers. 807 W. Sixth St. 512-472-0693, hutsfrankandangies.com. This
nostalgia-packed restaurant not only serves up burgers made with Texas-raised
beef but also make burgers with buffalo and longhorn meat.

Jackalope. 404 E. Sixth St. 512-472-3663, jackalopebar.com.The stars of the show
here are the fat burgers.Try the honey jalapeno bacon burger or the Chupacabra
(goat barbacoa).

*Luke's Inside Out. 1109 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-589-8883, lukesinsideout.com.The
juicy cheeseburger awash in special sauce and layered with crispy bacon is the
kind you'd hope to find at a backyard party run by your groovy Old Austin
friend.

*P.Terry's.515 Congress Ave. #130. 512-473-8722; 404 S. Lamar Blvd.
512-473-2217; pterrys.com. Patrick Terry's patty empire runs on humanely raised
and antibiotic-free Angus beef and chicken. For the record, my order is a double
with bacon, cheese, mayonnaise, mustard, pickles, onions and jalapenos.

Sandy's. 603 Barton Springs Road. 512-478-6322.Thin, classic burgers and small,
crunchy fries at this drivethru and walk-up spot with the frozen custard sign.
Great deals on burger meals Thursday and Saturday.

Shady Grove. 1624 Barton Springs Road. 512-474-9991, theshadygrove.com.The
restaurant located amid the grove of pecan trees keeps the crowds coming in with
a menu that includes green chili hamburgers.

*The Townsend. 718 Congress Ave. 512-887-8778, thetownsendaustin.com. One of the
best cocktail bars in town also does sophisticated takes on bar classics, like
the red miso mayo on a burger dripping with American cheese.

MEXICAN FOOD

Alcomar. 1816 S. First St. 512-401-3161, alcomaratx.com. Coastal Mexican flavors
in South Austin, including dishes like ahi tuna ceviche with ají amarillo,
ginger, corn nuts, spicy pickled onions and sweet potatoes.

*El Alma. 1025 Barton Springs Road. 512-609-8923, elalamacafe.com. Dishes like
an ancho relleno stuffed with the earthy iron of mushrooms or spinach and duck
enchiladas in a rich mole indicate that longtime Austin star chefAlma Alcocer
isn't playing to staid Tex-Mex palates.

*El Naranjo. 85 Rainey St. 512-474-2776, elnaranjorestaurant.com. Chef Iliana de
le Vega explores the wonders of mole with the deep chocolate and toasted notes
of mole negro, with its more than two dozen ingredients, and will likely
introduce you to something new, maybe a light, herbal green mole.

*La Condesa. 400 W. Second St. 512-499-0300, lacondesa.com.This beautiful
restaurant feels plucked from the leafy streets of cosmopolitan Mexico City and
serves excellent tacos (try the alambres), vibrant tuna tostadas, the best
margarita in town and more.

*Licha's Cantina. 1306 E. Sixth St. 512-480-5960, lichascantina.com. Get a taste
of Mexican street food like huaraches with huitlacoche at this rustic bungalow
with expansive outdoor seating and great cocktails.

Manuel's. 310 Congress Ave. 512-472-7555, manuels.com. This sophisticated
Mexican restaurant in the heart of downtown has delivered bright, citrusy
ceviche, chile rellenos and more since 1984.

Takoba. 1411 E. Seventh St. 512-628-4466, takobarestaurant.com.Great happy hour
deals and well-executed favorites such as torta de carnitas and pozole rojo make
this restaurant with multiple outdoor seating areas a popular East Austin
destination.

NEW SINCE LAST YEAR'S SXSW

*Chicon. 1914 E. Sixth St. 512-354-1480, contigotexas.com/chicon.The owners
closed their fine dining spot Gardner, mussed its hair and opened this brawnier
restaurant serving striped bass, roasted chicken and other dishes that better
vibe with the desires ofAustin diners. Get a cocktail.

Grizzelda's. 105 Tillery St. 512-366-5908, grizzeldas.com.The restaurant from
the Jacoby's owners serves a mix of interior and coastal Mexican food as well as
Tex-Mex, with a menu that includes snapper ceviche, tuna tostadas with crispy
shallots, puerco pibil tacos, and beef dishes sourced from the Jacoby family
ranch.

*June's. 1722 S. Congress Ave. 512-416-1722, junesallday.com. From the
checkerboard floor to the jukebox, steak frites and fried chicken sandwich, the
McGuire Moorman team has nailed this French-bistro-meets-American-diner
concept.Also: great wine.

*Kemuri Tatsu-ya. 2713 E. Second St. 512-893-5561, kemuri-tatsuya.com.The owners
ofAustin's best ramen shop blend Texas smokehouse and Japanese izakaya at this
buzzy new spot.

*Kuneho. 1600 E. Sixth St. 512-436-9626, kunehoatx.com. Chef Paul Qui has opened
the restaurant many probably expected him to open five years ago, with globally
inspired small bites the stars of the freewheeling menu.

*Old Thousand. 1000 E. 11th St. 737-222-6637, oldthousandatx.com.This East
Austin restaurant takes a modern approach to traditional Chinese, with dishes
like jellyfish salad, honey prawns with pecans, mapo dofu, dan dan noodles with
mushroom puree, brisket fried rice, and a hot pot with pork belly and Chinese
sausage.

*Red Ash. 303 Colorado St. 512-379-2906, redashgrill.com.The collection of pasta
dishes puts an Italian spin on the urbane steakhouse concept.

PIZZA

*Backspace. 507 San Jacinto Blvd. 512-474-9899, thebackspace-austin.com.
Neapolitan pies at Parkside's sister restaurant that also delivers charcuterie
and a nice roster of antipasti.

*Bufalina Pizza. 1519 E. Cesar Chavez St. 512-524-2523, bufalinapizza.com.The
best Neapolitan pizza in the city and a great Italian wine list at this little
East Austin restaurant.

*East Side Pies. 1401 Rosewood Ave. 512-524-0933, eastsidepies.com. Cracker
crust farm-to-pizza from a tiny walk-up with a little patio for dining. Get the
Girther (avocado, blue cheese and roasted onions) and add bacon.

*Enoteca Vespaio. 1610 S. Congress Ave. 512-441-7672, austinvespaio.com/enoteca.
Vespaio's cute little sister, Enoteca makes very good pizza (try the prosciutto,
fontina cheese and truffled egg pie) and offers patio seating just off South
Congress Avenue.

Frank & Angie's. 508 West Ave. 512-472-3534, hutsfrankandangies.com. Thin pies
and Americanized pasta classics with a side of nostalgia.

*Hoboken Pie. 718 Red River St. 512-477-4256, hobokenpie.com. New
Jersey-inspired pies with large, gooey slices at this small counter-service spot
that also offers delivery.

Home Slice Pizza. 1415 S. Congress Ave. 512-444-7437, homeslicepizza.com.A
commitment to unflappable service, quality execution and ebullient spirit have
as much to do with the pizzeria's success as the toasty crunch of a large New
York-style pie with rosy pepperonis and snappy green peppers.

Il Forte. 800 Brazos St. 512-212-9797, ilforteaustin.com. Wood-fired panini and
about a dozen pizzas share menu space with pasta dishes like spaghetti carbonara
and both beef and vegetarian lasagna.

Italic. 123 W. Sixth St. 512-660-5390, italicaustin.com. With the backing of
their sibling bakery Easy Tiger, you know to expect solid pizza crust and
sandwich bread at this Italian restaurant.

Numero 28. 452 W. Second St. 512-494-5510, numero28austin.com.This Italian
restaurant in the Second Street District serves about 20 different white and
red-sauce pizzas, in addition to porchetta, pasta and more.

The Onion. 408 Brazos St. 512-476-6466, onionbaby.com.This longtime downtown
favorite has made its name serving hot slices to late-night revelers, but as
they say on their website, you don't have to be drunk to enjoy their pizza.

*Second Bar + Kitchen. 200 Congress Ave. 512-827-2750, congressaustin.com.
Upmarket New American that serves great pizzas with puffed, trawny crusts. My
order: kids'cheese pizza, add veal meatballs.

Via 313. Multiple locations.via313.com Get to either the trailer in East Austin
or the one on Rainey Street for big, thick squares of Detroit-style pizza. Some
of the best in town.

SANDWICHES

*1886Cafe&Bakery. 604 Brazos St.512-391-7066, 1886cafeandbakery.com. Classic
breakfast dishes, sandwiches made on housebaked bread andTexas comfort food make
up the menu forthis charming cafe in the Driskill that serves all day.

AthenianBar&Grill. 600 CongressAve.512-474-7775, athenianbargrill.com.OK, so the
roasted chickenwrap and gyro aren't officially sandwiches,but theystill make the
cut.

BlueDahliaBistro. 1115 E.11th St.512-542-9542, BlueDahliaBistro.com.The tartines
give an open-face look to avarietyofsandwiches at this French-inspired cafe.

EasyTiger. 709 E.Sixth St. 512-614-4972,easytigeraustin.com.The bread baked
in-house is the difference makerat this beergarden and bakehouse on the edge
ofthe Sixth Street madness.

*Frank. 407 Colorado St.512-494- 6916,hotdogscoldbeer.com.Fancydogs like the
Jackalope (madewith smoked antelope,rabbit and pork sausage,and toppedwith
cranberrycompote) and an abiding love ofwhiskeymake forindulgent fun at this
spot in theWarehouse District.

GourmandsNeighborhood Pub. 2316Webberville Road.512-610-2031,
lovethysandwich.com.The website says it all forthese sandwich enthusiasts,who
serve more than a dozen original sandwiches out ofa cavernous pub thatwas once
home to aTejano club.

Irene's. 506WestAve.512-298-0853,irenesaustin.com. Tamed classic sandwiches like
roast turkeyand jazzed up creations like buffalo porkat this restaurant-barthat
serves plentyofbooze and runs late.

*Kebabalicious. 1311 E. Seventh St.512-394-6562, austinkebab.com.This small
restaurant spawned from a group ofsuccessful trailers serving savorybeef/lamb,
falafel and chicken kebabs. Not exactly sandwiches, but you get the point.

Quickie Pickie. 1208 E. 11th St. 512-479-0136, quickiepickieaustin.com.
Breakfast tacos in the morning and well-made sandwiches and salads all day at
this upmarket bodega in EastAustin.

SaigonleVendeur. 2404 E. Seventh St.512-351-6916, saigon7th.com.Some ofthe best
banh mi in town come from this food truckin East Austin.

*Salt&Time. 1912 E. Seventh St.512-524-1383, SaltAndTime.com.This butchershop
sells sandwiches with fresh,qualitymeat cured orcarved in house and turns out
magnificent charcuterie plates.

SlakeCafe. 120 E.Seventh St.512-476-0060,slakecafe.com.This deli serves classic
sandwiches madewith house-roasted meats.

*TurfNSurfPo'Boy. 407 Lavaca St.512-276-2763, lavacastreet.com.Walkup to
thewindoworeat inside the Lavaca Street Barvia this kitchen that serves po-boys
madewith fresh grilled fish and monsters like a tangyfried buffalo chicken
sandwich.

*Walton'sFancy&Staple. 609W.Sixth St.512-542-3380, waltonsfancyandstaple.com.
Some ofthe best sandwiches downtown - like myfavorite, the turkeysweet,withwhite
cheddar,bacon,onion-and-apple chutneyand maple aioli.

TACOS

*CapitalTaco. 1901 S.Lamar Blvd.512-457-9992,Facebook.com/capitaltaco.When a
trailermenu is this big,you wonderwhetherit can really deliver.Yep.Startwith the
brisket and avocado,turkey mole,and migas.

ElChilito. 1623 E.Seventh St. 512-334-9660,elchilito.com. Soups,salads and more
than a dozen tacos (vegetarians: trythe rajas con hongos) at this EastAustin
taco stand. Breakfast tacos served all day.

*Fresa's. 915 N.LamarBlvd. 512-428-5077,fresaschicken.com.Walkup ordrive-thru
forhealthysalad bowls,some ofthe best queso in town and complextacos like the El
Sancho,with chicken pastor, pineapple pico,jicama and tomatillo salsa.

Joe'sBakery. 2305 E.Seventh St.512-472-0017,joesbakery.com.This family-owned
restaurant has been drawing crowds formore than 50years with theirperfect
crispybeef taco,enchiladas and menudo.

LaMexicana. 1924 S.First St. 512-443-6369,la-mexicanabakery.com.Barbacoa tacos
on fluffyhomemade tortillas and Mexican pastries make fora great late-night
one-two punch at this all-night spot.

*ElPrimo. 2100 S.First St. Tinytaco stand serves solid al pastortacos,and the
gentleman behind the grill couldn't be sweeter.

*MellizozTacos. 1503 S. First St.512-916-4996, mellizoztacos.com.This taco
trucks serves a great taco take on steakand eggs,an old-school crunchybeeftaco
and more.

*PuebloViejo.910 E.Sixth St.and 1700 E.Sixth St.512-373-6557,Facebook.com/
PuebloViejoATX.The two locations ofthis truckhave different hours,but both
feature the best selection of salsasofanytacotruckaround. Get the GuacaTacowith
steak, with a side oforange habanero salsa and blackhabanero salsa;vegetarians
go forthe Mi Madre.

*TacoMore. 2015 E.Riverside Drive.512-821-1561.Not much in terms ofambiance,but
this place serves great tacos and a restorative cabrito consommé.

*TamaleHouseEast. 1707 E.Sixth St.512-495-9504, Facebook.com/tamalehouse.
east.The grandchildren of the originalTamale House founders carryon the family
traditionwithwet migas and famous breakfast tacos.

*VeracruzAll-Natural. 1704 E.CesarChavezSt.512-981-1760,veracruztacos.com.This
growingempireservesthebest migas taco in town (and more). Trythe quesadillas.And
the tortas.Tryitall.Youmaywant to call in advance.Theymake good food,not fast
food, as their sign reads.

VEGETARIAN-FRIENDLY

*BouldinCreekCafe. 1900 S.First St.512-416-1601, bouldincreek.com.Home to the
bestveggie burgerin town (add the barbecue sauce), Austin's temple tovegetarian
andvegan fare impresseswith dishes like portobello fajitas andzucchini migas.

CounterCulture. 2337 E.
CesarChavezSt.512-524-1540,countercultureaustin.com.Trythe Phillycheesesteak
with seitan orthe jackfruit barbecue sandwich at this vegan restaurant in
EastAustin that also serves manyglutenfree dishes.

*JuiceLand. 120 E.Fourth St. 737-300-2120; 1625 Barton Springs
Road.512-480-9501; juiceland.com.Find graband-govegan dishes packed with
impressive flavors,from Mexican andThai-inspired wraps to falafel and an
assortment ofsnackpacks.

*Leaf. 115W.Sixth St.512-474-5323,leafsalad.com. Choose from one ofavarietyof
Leaf's salad options,ormake yourownwith avarietyof ingredients,manyofwhich are
locally sourced.

WHEN SOMEONE ELSE IS PAYING

*CafeNoSe. 1603 S. CongressAve.512-942-2061, cafenoseaustin.com.Toast with
soft-boiled egg,feathered avocado,bright greens and aleppo-spiced carrots tastes
like somethingyou'd find in a cafe in Santa Monica,while a
burgerlayeredwithAmerican cheesewill hityou right inyour nostalgia centers.

CentralStandard. 1603 S. CongressAve.512-942-0823, centralstandardaustin.com.
The excellent craft cocktails and stunning rawbargive a taste ofManhattan at the
luxe South Congress Hotel's fine dining restaurant.

*ChezNous. 510 Neches St. 512-473-2413,cheznousaustin.com.Some French class and
an OldWorldvibe amid the boozygrumble and stumble ofSixth Street.Trythe duck
confit ifit's on the menu,and the housemade charcuterie.

*Clark's. 1200W.Sixth St. 512-297-2525,clarksoysterbar.com.An exceptional oyster
program,crispyseared fish, and silkyclam chowder studdedwith bacon are some
ofthe stars at thisvibrant jewel boxofa restaurant.

*Counter357.315 CongressAve.512-291-3327, counter3fivevii.com.Expect
elegance,intimacyand a ringside seat forthe open kitchen at one ofAustin's best
restaurants.The three-, five- and seven-course prix fixe menus have featured
dishes like azucchini tartlet, smoked and seared duck, Asian-inspired crudos and
a chocolate tartwith roasted apples and coconut-herb sorbet.

*DriskillGrill. 604 Brazos St. 512-439-1234,driskillgrill.com. One ofAustin's
grand dames of fine dining,Startwithwild boar chops and an iceberg salad before
digging into a rackof lamb ordry-aged steak.

*Emmer&Rye. 51 RaineySt. 512-366-5530,emmerandrye.com.Executive chefKevin
Finkand his team obsess overpreservation technique and heritage grains at this
innovative andwelcome addition to RaineyStreet.One ofAustin's 10 best.

Fixe. 500W.Fifth St.512-888-9133,austinfixe.com.It maylookslick,but Fixe has a
Southern comfort heart,from deviled eggs to lobster and crawfish pot pie.Trythe
spicy honey-glazed fried chicken.

*Hightower. 1209 E. Seventh St.512-524-1448, thehightoweraustin.com. This
friendly,low-keyplace comes atyouwith strong flavorprofiles,like a rice bowl
with roasted porkjowl,pickled onion,housemade sriracha and a sunnyeggyolk,and
crispyBrussels sproutswith peanut butterand golden raisins.

*Jeffrey's. 1204W.Lynn St. 512-477-5584,jeffreysofaustin.com.Sit in the
heftybarseats orin the soft Baltic blue lounge sofas and feel like a power
playerasyou sip a martini and eat lobsterand caviarblinis or seared foie gras at
this posh steakhouse.

*Juniper. 2400 E.Cesar Chavez St. 512-220-9421, juniperaustin.com.A restaurant
of class and and sophistication not often seen in Austin,Juniper delivers North
Italian dishes and small plates with precision and style.

*Justine's. 4710 E. Fifth St. 512-385-2900, justines1937. Justine's is where the
beautiful and the brazen (and the rest of us) go to hide (and be seen) and play
while drinking strong cocktails and dining on French bistro fare.

*La Traviata. 314 Congress Ave. 512-479-8131, latraviatatx.com.There's a classic
feel to this Italian restaurant that makes one of the best bolognese in town as
well as homemade ravioli.

*Launderette. 2115 Holly St. 512-382-1599, launderetteaustin.com. Chef Rene
Ortiz's globe-trotting restaurant feels like a dinner party run by a whimsical
chef who has a lot of ideas and no need for conformity or sitting still.

*Lenoir. 1807 S. First St. 512-215-9778, lenoirrestaurant.com. Chef Todd
Duplechan's bohemian chic bungalow serves"hot weather food," meaning you can
expect dishes sourced locally that have similar flavor profiles to the cuisine
of Mexico, Northern Africa, India, Southeast Asia and more.

*Lonesome Dove. 419 Colorado St. 512-271-2474, lonesomedoveaustin.com. Chef Tim
Love adds thoughtful flourishes to steakhouse fare, with options like fettines
made with wild game or farro congee with kale pesto, pork cheek and cured egg, a
modern cowboy dish with an Asian twist.

Odd Duck. 1201 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-433-6521, oddduckaustin.com. Chef Bryce
Gilmore's restaurant pulls from local farms and ranches to create a playful and
well executed menu that dazzles with creations like fried quail with egg salad
splashed with soy caramel, and pecan jerk-glazed pork belly with a cheddar rice
cake. One of Austin's top five restaurants.

*Otoko. 1603 S. Congress Ave. 512-920-6405, otoko.tocktix.com. Dining doesn't
get more exclusive or much more fun in Austin than this modern kaiseki and sushi
bar from the minds of chefs Paul Qui and Yoshi Okai.

*Parkside. 301 E. Sixth St. 512-474-9898, parksideaustin.com. Texas bistro
(charred pork chop and steak colored with salsa verde) meets East Coast raw bar
(crudo and oysters) at this downtown spot with walls colored with the patina of
time.

*Perla's. 1400 S. Congress Ave. 512-291-7300, perlasaustin.com. Austin's
beachside seafood restaurant without the beach. Go for the oysters, the molten
king crab and Parmesan grits, the meaty halibut with crispy skin and a seat on
the deck.

*Sway. 1417 S. First St. 512-326-1999, swayaustin.com. This warm restaurant, all
dark wood and nest-like light fixtures suspended over communal tables, helped
introduce many Austinites to the idea of Southeast Asian food (Thai,
specifically) served in modern and sophisticated settings.

Swift's Attic. 315 Congress Ave. 512-482-8842, swiftsattic.com. Fusion cuisine
features Asian influences for dishes like Brussels sprouts with nuoc cham and
mushrooms with white pepper soy and bok choy. Also one of the best burgers
downtown.

*Uchi. 801 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-916-4808, uchiaustin.com. You know you have
created a modern-day institution when people can recite dishes from your menu by
heart. Regulars will tell you without pause that the Macha Cure's smoked
yellowtail comes with a wave of yucca chips, that Thai chilies and orange
supremes do a spicy and sweet dance across the Hama Chili; and that a Peanut
Butter Semifreddo with Apple-Miso Sorbet is an upscale homage to an after-school
snack.

*Vespaio. 1610 S. Congress Ave. 512-441-6100, AustinVespaio.com. You can drink
Barolo, dine on a towering plate of lasagna and feel like a Made Man in this
upscale Italian restaurant.

Vox Table. 1100 S. Lamar Blvd. 512-375-4869, voxtableaustin.com. This
contemporary restaurant in the Alamo Drafthouse complex on South Lamar Boulevard
serves imaginative small plates with global influence.

*Wink. 1014 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-482-8868, winkrestaurant.com. A farm-to-table
trailblazer, this restaurant has found a way to straddle the line between
neighborhood favorite and special-occasion option based on the strength of
friendly service and a menu that is sure to always feature scallops, foie gras
and wild game.

Contact Matthew Odam at 512-912-5986. Twitter: @odam

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 29, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Why such a disaster and no evacuation?

BYLINE: Eric Dexheimer American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1516 words


Hurricane Harvey and its aftermath are still very much current events. According
to the most recent forecasts, perilous weather is expected to linger in
southeastern Texas for several more days, creating additional devastation and
life threats. Rescues are ongoing, and there are many people still in need of
basic care.

So it is premature to wonder how the storm turned into such a catastrophic event
and who, if anyone, deserves blame for the government's preparations,
predictions and response to an unprecedented weather event. Still, some answers
to the basic questions that precipitated the event are coming into focus.

Why did Harvey

become so vicious?

There has been plenty of meteorological unpacking over the past week, but in an
interview with Scientific American, meteorologist Jeff Masters, co-founder of
Weather Underground, a pioneer in online weather geekery, offered up one of the
best explanations for how and why Harvey turned into such a monster.

For starters, Masters pointed out that the storm grew extraordinarily quickly.
At bedtime Wednesday it was merely a tropical depression - defined as a storm
with maximum winds of 38 mph. But overnight into Thursday it quickly started
forming into a hurricane, considered a storm with at least 74-mph winds.

Then on Friday, after passing over an unusually warm patch of the Gulf of Mexico
that infused the storm with an energy boost, Harvey exploded in strength. It
grew from a Category 1 into a Category 4 hurricane - defined as a storm that
packs 130- to 156-mph winds.

For non-numbers people, a Category 1 is considered "very dangerous," according
to the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. A Category 4, by comparison, earns a
"catastrophic" label.

"One of the things we are most concerned with is a fast-developing storm," David
Grant, acting deputy administrator for the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
told the Cox Washington Bureau in a Monday interview. "And think about it: 24
hours before this was a Cat 4, it was a tropical depression - not even a
tropical storm."

The other reason Harvey was such a menace, Masters noted, was the storm's
movement - or, more specifically, its lack of it.

Think of hurricanes as spinning tops on the driveway. As they whirl, they are
also pushed along by the surrounding weather. In Harvey's case, he said, two
high-pressure systems - one on either side of the storm - competed to shove it
along. But they worked to a standoff, keeping Harvey more or less in place over
the weekend, free to keep dumping a concentrated amount of rain for a couple of
days on one unfortunate patch of Texas.

Another terrible quirk about Harvey: The storm essentially turned into a
perpetual weather-making machine. Hurricanes typically pull water from the ocean
and then release it over land. According to Masters, Harvey dumped so much water
over southeastern Texas and lingered for so long that it started to recycle the
water it had already dropped.

Why did the Houston area flood so badly?

The easy answers: The city is very close to the Gulf of Mexico, which reliably
produces hurricanes. It is also topographically low: Houston sits only four
dozen feet or so above sea level. The Weather Research Center has tallied dozens
of significant floods that have inundated the area.

But humans can accept some blame, too. There is evidence that global warming
might be exacerbating extreme weather events by increasing ocean temperatures.

More directly, Harris County is one of the fastest-growing in the country.
Between 1990 and 2016, its population grew 67 percent, about double the rate of
the country generally. A recent government report on its population noted:
"Harris County now has more residents than each of the states that border Texas
(OK, LA, NM, AR)."

The same report also pointed out that many of those people settled in previously
undeveloped parts of the county - "Over the last 16 years, the population in
Harris County has spread out considerably" - a growth spurt, not surprisingly,
accompanied by a building boom. Over the past decade, Harris County added about
180,000 new homes. That has meant new streets, parking lots, new commercial
services.

Although the problems related to the area's growth have been documented, most
recently in a thorough exploration of the city's increased flooding, ProPublica
and the Texas Tribune last year published a prescient investigation anticipating
big weather problems in Houston's future. In one story, reporters pointed out
that despite its history of getting hit regularly by large weather events, the
city hadn't done much to protect itself from future storms.

In another, the reporters noted the city's laissez faire approach to restrictive
zoning: "As millions have flocked to the metropolitan area in recent decades,
local officials have largely snubbed stricter building regulations, allowing
developers to pave over crucial acres of prairie land that once absorbed huge
amounts of rainwater."

Why didn't officials order an evacuation?

There has been a lot of chatter since Harvey hit over whether people should have
fled the storm or sheltered in place. Much of the discussion arose from
conflicting direction from state and local leaders.

On Friday, ahead of the storm, Gov. Greg Abbott advised residents of Corpus
Christi and Houston to "strongly consider evacuating." Local officials quickly
responded the decision was theirs to make - and they recommended staying.

Matters of emergency evacuation are addressed in Section 418 of the Texas
Government Code. It states, "The governor may recommend the evacuation of all or
part of the population from a stricken or threatened area in the state if the
governor considers the action necessary." So Abbott was within his rights to
suggest that people head out.

The law continues, however: "The county judge or the mayor of a municipality may
order the evacuation of all or part of the population from a stricken or
threatened area." That means Harris County Judge Ed Emmett had legal authority
to make the call. (Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner agreed. If he hadn't, he would
have been legally overridden: "To the extent of a conflict between decisions of
the county judge and the mayor, the decision of the county judge prevails," the
law says.)

The problem is that clarity matters in chaotic events, a point made by Emmett in
an interview Saturday with the American-Statesman: Asked about the governor's
comments, Emmett replied: "It was a mistake; there's no way around it. What he
said was â  listen to your local officials,' but then he said if he lived here,
he'd leave. Well, those are contradictory messages."

Confusion aside, was it the right public safety call to not order more
evacuations? (As of Monday afternoon, several Houston-area communities had
issued orders in anticipation of more torrential rains this week.) Emergency
managers will study and debate the question in the months and years to come.

Not ordering people to evacuate can leave the impression it's safe to wait out
the storm. Yet mandatory evacuations - state law authorizes "reasonable force"
to compel people to leave and a 2009 law states that Texans who ignore the order
can be liable for the cost of their rescue - are complex logistical and law
enforcement events. Officials often are left to predict which of two dangerous
choices will be the least bad.

In a very basic sense, evacuations also involve anticipating and managing the
behavior of two of the world's most unpredictable systems - people and weather.
"We staged for Hurricane Sandy in Atlantic City, but then it hit further north,"
recalled Laura Connolly, of the New Jersey State Police Emergency Management
Division. "Sometimes these storms don't go the way we think they're going to
go."

That can leave little time for contemplation. Harvey "evolved very quickly and
then moved into the coast," FEMA's Grant pointed out. "So the localities
probably had a limited amount of time to make that decision."

Connolly said in the wake of Hurricane Irene in 2011, New Jersey officials
established its Hurricane Decision Support Tool.

It calls for officials to order an evacuation 120 hours before the start of
tropical storm-force winds. She added that authorities need 48 hours to set up
contraflow - opening all lanes in a single direction away from danger. Shelters
need to be identified and opened.

Even then, putting people on the road during a weather catastrophe is a big
risk. According to the National Weather Service, the majority of flooding
fatalities occur in cars - a fact illustrated during the chaotic evacuation from
Hurricane Rita, in 2005. Dozens of fatalities occurred on the road among
evacuees, before the storm even landed.

"You cannot put, in the city of Houston, 2.3 million people on the road. That is
dangerous," Turner said Sunday in defense of his â  stay put' advice for Harvey.
"If you think the situation right now is bad - you give an order to evacuate,
you create a nightmare.... And many of us in this city remember when the
evacuation order was ordered before, and we learned our lesson from that."

Contact Eric Dexheimer

at 512-445-1774.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               92 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 31, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Storm's punch sends economic pain statewide

BYLINE: Dan Zehr and Bob Sechler American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1571 words


The destruction inflicted by Hurricane Harvey struck at the very heart of the
Texas economy, shutting down one of the state's largest shipping and
distribution hubs, laying siege to the capital of its energy industry and
pummeling some of its favorite tourist destinations.

While most of the economic damage will be temporary - and a massive influx of
insurance, federal and other funding will flow in to rebuild - virtually every
part of Texas will share at least some part of Harvey's radiating pain,
economists say.

Drillers in the Permian Basin will see the flow of oil back up as refineries sit
flooded and idle. Farmers in the Panhandle will wonder when key export channels
will reopen for the crops they're harvesting now. State bean counters in Austin
will have less sales, franchise and severance tax money to fund state budgets.

"The Houston area is roughly a quarter of the Texas economy," said Ray Perryman,
head of the Perryman Group, an economic consulting firm. "Add the other areas
affected by this, and we're looking at 30-plus percent of the Texas economy
affected directly.... It cuts a broad swath across everything that happens in
Texas."

Say what you will about Austin leading the state into a 21st century high-tech
economy or about the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex driving business and culture
around the state, country and globe - Houston remains the state's largest
economic engine, and Harvey constricted virtually all the major arteries that
bind it and Texas together.

Within Houston and the surrounding storm-stricken areas, the disaster will carry
a heavy price in the short to middle term. Current estimates of the economic hit
to Houston run anywhere from $30 billion to $50 billion or more. While the
impact on local property values will vary in so large a metro area, aggregate
values could drop as much as 15 percent or more as damage is assessed and flood
maps are redrawn.

Beyond just its direct path, Harvey could become the most costly weather event
in U.S. history, with an economic impact of $160 billion, according to an
analysis by AccuWeather. That cost, about 0.8 percent of the U.S. gross domestic
product, is similar to the combined effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy, the
firm said.

Yet, all the severed connections between Houston and the outside world will
reopen as winds calm and waters recede. The fundamentals of the ongoing
expansion of the Texas economy won't suffer long-term damage, economists said,
and even Houston and the surrounding areas should reap significant longer-term
economic gains as they recover.

Perryman said the Houston metro area will rebound and thrive in the months and
years to come, if only because of its sheer size and its wealth of job and other
economic opportunities. Even in recent days, many local shops and businesses
remained open in areas not flooded. Local hotels were packed with displaced
residents and outsiders coming in to lend a hand.

As time passes, the billions of dollars expected to fund the reconstruction and
recovery of the region's infrastructure, housing, businesses and labor force
will prime the economic engine all the more. In many cases, Perryman said,
hurricane-stricken metro economies rebound and surpass previous levels of
activity.

However, he said, viewing the results from a strictly economic perspective skews
the picture.

"When we compute the gross domestic product, we count what we build but not what
we tear down," he said. "So if you rebuild a city exactly like it was before,
you'd have a big increase in GDP and have the same city you had before.... From
a social accounting standpoint, you would have a much different story."

That socioeconomic perspective might reveal one of the few threats to the
region's long-term economic rebound - and by extension, the continued expansion
of the Texas economy. Major metro areas that sustain hurricane damage typically
bounce back stronger because of the rebuilding efforts, which tend to be an
economic accelerator.

The one significant exception was New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, when
almost a third of the population permanently left the city.

Many of those displaced residents settled in Houston. Will they want to stay
after Harvey? How about the nearly 60,000 net new residents who, arriving from
2014 to 2016 made Houston one of the country's fastest-growing cities?

"That's the danger here," said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Bank in
Dallas. "If everyone stays in Houston and everyone decides this is a
one-in-a-however-many-year event... Houston will be fine and probably in better
shape five years down the road."

Both Dye and Perryman said they expect Houston to recover quickly. Absent an
unexpected and large defection from the city, the bulk of companies and workers
could be back to business as usual by early next year, Dye said.

Crops and crude

For the most part, he said, the ripple effects on the Texas economy and budget
should be even shorter-lived. But close down such a large portion of the state's
economic lifeblood, and the pain will spread. The state's agriculture and energy
sectors might be among the most vulnerable.

With the harvest for some key crops in full swing, sustained delays at Houston,
Galveston and Corpus Christi ports could wipe out a year's work. In 2016, about
13 percent of the value of U.S. cereal exports, such as wheat and rice, departed
from ports in the Houston-Galveston district, according to the Census Bureau's
USA Trade Online data.

Closing down one of the nation's largest ports, even temporarily, has much more
widespread consequences. Last year, those Houston-area ports shipped $91.6
billion worth of products, 6.3 percent of the U.S. total.

Houston-area ports particularly rely on a huge volume of petroleum and
petrochemical imports and exports. Crude oil and related products accounted for
a third of the total value of goods that move in and out of the those ports.

As of midday Wednesday, shipments of crude, distillates and petrochemicals -
like virtually every other product - remained at a standstill, according to a
daily report from S&P Global Platts Energy. Refineries in the storm-stricken
area had shut down or scaled back production by as much as 4 million barrels per
day, roughly 22 percent of the U.S. total, the firm estimated.

That hit, while temporary, comes at a difficult time for the state's oil and gas
companies. While the sector had generally stabilized after a sharp drop in
commodity prices, prices remained relatively low and most industry officials had
expected drilling to slow later this year.

"What would the effect of Hurricane Harvey be on the Houston economy if oil was
at $100 a barrel and we were just drilling and everything was happening?" asked
Dye. "We have an energy industry running on tighter margins, businesses are
stressed already, and now they're unfortunately facing one more layer of
stress."

The tourism sector

There's no good time for a hurricane, of course, but the timing could've been
worse for the coastal economies that rely on summer's influx of beachgoers and
directly employ 170,000 workers in the tourism sector, industry officials said.

Harvey arrived during a "shoulder season" for Gulf Coast tourism, said Scott
Joslove, president of the Texas Hotel and Lodging Association. While the Labor
Day weekend "sure can be big" for towns along the coast, he said, the hurricane
"didn't ruin spring break or the peak of the summer season."

Tourism is among the top industries in Texas, and the regions in the storm's
path - including beach towns from Galveston to Port Aransas, as well as Houston
- constitute some of the biggest draws in the state.

Joslove said it's too early to tell the extent of the damage on the coastal
communities, infrastructure and economies that rely so heavily on tourism. Many
properties in Rockport and Port Aransas suffered severe damage, and reports for
other areas were still coming in. But early indications suggested that most
hotels in the area remain standing and will be functional once power, water and
infrastructure are restored, he said.

Still, the storm did cut off the tail end of the peak summer season, said David
Teel, president of the Texas Travel Industry Association, and it will impact the
so-called "winter Texan effect" - when people from cold-weather states and
Canada essentially take up residence on the coast during winter months.

Those winter Texans "really become part of the local economy down there," Teel
said, and many of them might choose to come down despite the damage and might
help with cleanup and recovery efforts.

"I'm optimistic we are going to bounce back," he said. "For as big as Harvey is,
what we'll find out is that Texas has a bigger heart than Harvey."

Contact Dan Zehr

at 512-445-3797.

Contact Bob Sechler

at 512-445-3645.

Hurricane Harvey hammers Texas


» Social media proves lifesaver, mobilizer in storm. A8
  » Want to help? Here's a list of ways you can do just that. A8
  » Christie: Cruz played politics in vote against bill after Sandy. A11
  » Ken Herman: Trump comes to Texas, talks about himself. A11
  » Hurricane Katrina survivors recall warm welcome in Austin. A14
  » Why Travis County rescue boats sat idle. Metro &State, B1
  » Thousands displaced may enroll in area schools. Metro &State, B1
  » La Grange, Smithville residents return. Metro &State, B3


Get the latest online
  For more Hurricane Harvey news and the latest updates, visit
statesman.com/hurricaneharvey.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               93 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 24, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

SURF AUSTIN

BYLINE: Pam LeBlanc American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 897 words


A three-hour drive from the nearest ocean wave, Austin's surf scene has arrived.

A few weeks ago, some of the country's best surfers sliced down the face of a
wave rolling across a 14-acre, manufactured lagoon east of Austin in an event
designed to showcase a California sur oard company.

A surf band played. Spectators sipped pineapple and mango smoothies and nibbled
raw fish salad called poke. And somewhere outside the fence, a bunch of cattle
probably wondered what happened to their old grazing grounds.

Local surfers say an influx of coastal transplants has fueled the trend, already
rooted in a lake scene that started with water-skiing in the 1960s and '70s,
morphed into wakeboarding in the 1990s and evolved into wake sur ing a decade
ago. That lake culture spilled into related sports, from stand-up paddleboarding
on Lady Bird Lake to jet surfing on Lake Travis and traditional surfing at NLand
Surf Park. Local surf bands play a monthly show at the Nomad Bar, Austin
artisans hand-shape sur oards, a fitness club called City Surf offers exercise
classes on sur oards mounted on stability balls, and a social club hosts sur
oard swaps, river cleanups and meetups where members discuss beach outings.

"When you combine weather, warm waters and an active population, it's conducive
to that surfing lifestyle," says Mike Klein, a board member of the Austin Surf
Club. "I can surf in the morning at NLand, then in the afternoon I can jet surf
and wake surf. No other city has this level of variety of sur ing available to
them, and I think that's what truly makes Austin the landlocked surfing capital
of the world."

Sur ing's a multibilliondollar industry around the country. Surfers - and
tourists who want to try surfing - spend money in the coastal towns of
California, Florida and Hawaii. Studies show surfers don't fit the stereotype of
uneducated, pot-smoking slackers, either. A 2011 study by the Surfrider
Foundation with Surf-First, titled "A Socioeconomic and Recreational Profile of
Surfers in the United States," concluded that the average American surfer was a
34-year-old, educated and employed male who earned $75,000 annually and hit the
waves 108 times a year, spending at least $40 a visit.

That's big money, and Central Texas surf industry types want a piece of that
wave.

Colorado beer scion Doug Coors, who first dreamed about a landlocked surf park
some 20 years ago, invested more than $20 million to build NLand Surf Park,
which employs about 200 people and can accommodate up to 140 surfers in the
water. The park opened in October 2016, after delays caused by flooding and a
dispute with Travis County that was resolved when the park agreed to  ile daily
water quality reports.

NLand Surf Park is the only park of its kind in North America, and the second in
the world along with a similar park in Wales. Another is in the works - Barefoot
Ski Ranch, which already operates a waterslide and cable park northeast of Waco,
plans to open the world's third surf park there next summer, just a two-hour
drive from Austin.

At NLand, guests pay between $60 and $90 an hour to surf a wave that reaches
heights of 6 feet in places. They paddle out to catch a wave created by a
wedge-shaped hydrofoil that rolls across a lagoon the size of nine football
fields every two minutes. The main advantage over the ocean? Predictability -
and no stingrays, sharks or jellyfish, if you care about that sort of thing.
Customers can hone their skills on a series of identical, perfectly shaped waves
without waiting for Mother Nature to deliver. That makes it easy for novices to
learn and improve.

"Austin has always been one of the best wake surf places in the United States,"
says Coors, who is opening an on-site brewery at NLand and says before the end
of the year he'll announce plans to build additional parks in other landlocked
cities. "We've just added one more dimension to that scene."

His timing is good. Surfing is set to become an Olympic sport at the 2020 Tokyo
Summer Games, and the surf community expects to see a surge in the popularity of
its favorite sport. You can bet Austin surfers will tune in.

Tom Haney, a longtime surfer and founder of Tuk-Tuk Boards, which handcrafts
wake sur oards and traditional sur oards, says a lot of people in Central Texas
head to the coast whenever conditions grow favorable for surfing. "In one way,
we're really just an exurb of the coast," Haney says.

Nick Wiersema, head of the Central Texas chapter of the Surfrider Foundation, a
national nonprofit organization that works for beach access, coastal protection
and clean water, says the surf culture ties right in with the city's
hippie-centric past and high-tech future.

"The surf culture as a whole kind of always has been a beatnik culture that fits
very well with Austin," Wiersema says. "Two, as the tech industry grew here, so
did the population of surfers. They come from California and lots of places.
They travel to surf, they have the money."

Klein, with the Austin Surf Club, agrees.

"The number of traditional surfers we have here for a landlocked city is truly
amazing," he says. "When you combine it all you have this rolling thunder of
buzz that's starting to build and build and build. I don't think it's that far
off before people outside the state start to look at Austin as a global surf
destination for surf of all types."

Contact Pam LeBlanc at 512-445-3994.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               94 of 95 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 19, 2017 Sunday
                                 State Edition

SEVEN DAYS, SEVEN THINGS TO DO

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 749 words


1 THUNDERCLOUD SUBS TURKEY TROT

9:30 a.m. Nov. 23. $10-$35. The Long Center, 701 W. Riverside Drive.
thundercloud.com/turkey-trot/event-info.

In Austin, it's a Thanksgiving tradition: either walking or running for a good
cause the morning before we all eat a whole lot of turkey. The Turkey Trot
features a 5-mile run that you can participate in either timed or untimed or a
1-mile walk, depending on what you're in the mood for. There's also a kids K so
everyone in the family can participate. It's the largest 5-mile run in Texas,
with more than 20,000 participants each year, and it benefits Caritas of Austin,
a nonprofit that supports the city's working poor and homeless people. All
proceeds go to Caritas.

2 2ND ANNUAL AUSTIN MAC & CHEESE FESTIVAL

1 to 4 p.m. Nov. 19. $20-$100. Auguste Escoffier School of Culinary Arts, 6020
Dillard Circle. eventbrite.com/e/2
ndannual-austin-mac-cheesefestival-tickets-37208634026.

The unapologetically cheesiest dish in American cuisine has returned as the star
of the mother of all food festivals. Austin Food Magazine is once again
producing this mac and cheese extravaganza to celebrate everyone's most favorite
side dish. Some of Austin's best chefs and eateries - including Burro Cheese
Kitchen, Stiles Switch BBQ and Eden East - will battle it out to see who truly
has the best mac and cheese in the city. With up to 35 vendors, you'll need to
come in your comfy pants.

3 SHAWN COLVIN AT PARAMOUNT THEATRE

8 p.m. Nov. 20. $20-$47. 713 Congress Ave. austintheatre.org.

One of Austin's highest-profile singer-songwriters since she moved back in the
1990s (she'd lived here for a spell in the '70s as well), Colvin is closing out
a two-month tour celebrating Columbia/Legacy's 20th-anniversary reissue of her
platinum-selling album "A Few Small Repairs." Her band includes the top-notch
Austin rhythm section of bassist Glenn Fukunaga and drummer Mike Meadows, as
well as ace guitarist Larry Campbell. Another musical guest at the show is
Teresa Williams.

- PETER BLACKSTOCK

4 'SPEECHLESS' AT CAMIBA ART

10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday through Dec. 2. 2832
E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Suite 111. camibaart.com.

Houston artist Margaret Smithers-Crump's  irst solo show in Austin intends to
bring attention to the vulnerability and interconnectedness of the Earth's
diverse ecosystems. In particular, she highlights one of the world's most
crucial organisms with the exhibit's title work, "Speechless." Suspended from
the ceiling, the piece is inspired by the coral reefs that are threatened by
global warming. Viewing the installation from multiple vantage points allows us
to contemplate their precarious state.

5 GOOSE ISLAND BLACK WEDNESDAY AT BANGER'S

5 to 8p.m. Nov. 22. Free. 79 Rainey St. bangersaustin.com.

The holidays can't start properly without the release of some of the most
sought-after beers in the country, the Bourbon County Brand line from Goose
Island. Banger's regularly gets each year's batches and will have four of 2017's
on tap: the Bourbon County Brand Stout, the Bourbon County Brand Coffee Stout,
the Bourbon County Brand Barleywine and the extra-special Bourbon County Brand
North-woods Stout (a bourbon barrel-aged stout with blueberries and almond
extract).

6 'RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER: THE MUSICAL'

4 p.m. Nov. 24, 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. Nov. 25. $29-$59. The Long Center, 701 W.
Riverside Drive. 512-474-5664, thelongcenter.org.

The television special we all grew up with is coming to life on stage to kick
off the holiday season. Come see all of your favorite characters from the
Christmas classic, including Santa and Mrs. Claus, Hermey the Elf, the
Abominable Snow Monster, Clarice, Yukon Cornelius and, of course, Rudolph
himself. The Long Center is also hosting the annual Santa on the Terrace on
Friday morning. Stop by with the kids to grab a free photo with Santa Claus
overlooking the best view of the city.

7 LOST PINES CHRISTMAS' WASSAIL FEST

11 a.m. Nov. 25. Free. Main Street in Bastrop. lostpineschristmas.com.

Make a day trip to Bastrop for one of the beginning events - a friendly
competition centered on hot mulled cider - of the town's charming Lost Pines
Christmas. While shopping in downtown Bastrop, you're encouraged to warm up and
sample the highly guarded wassail recipes of local merchants and restaurants
vying for the Wassail Fest trophy. Cast your vote to help select the favorite.
Make sure to hit all the participating locales by using the Wassail Fest map,
available online.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
