
                               3 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Interior secretary puts focus on the birds

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 386 words


On the first day of a brief trip to Texas, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ken
Salazar spent Thursday in Austin to talk about birds and wildlife refuges.

At an early afternoon news conference at the Zilker Botanical Garden, Salazar
unveiled the 2010 State of the Birds report, which found that climate change
threatens the habitat of many birds, including those in Central Texas.

The report, prepared by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and conservation
organizations, says that for Texas bird species that are already of conservation
concern - such as the golden-cheeked warbler and whooping crane ­- a changing
climate may hasten declines or prevent recovery.

"For too long, in my view, we have stood idle as the climate changes and the
crisis has grown," Salazar said. "We as a nation must stand idle no longer. For
the sake of humankind and the environment of our Earth, we are moving forward to
address this threat.

"The birds for us are the canaries in the coal mine, and their decline should be
a call for America to awaken to address the challenges of climate change."

According to the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, more than 70 species of
South Texas birds have expanded their ranges north and east.

"Some scientists believe this is due to climate change although expansions are
also due to habitat change from fire suppression, native vegetation losses, and
invasive brush encroachment," according to briefing material from the
department. "Pests and diseases are increasing in range because warmer winters
reduce die-off, and parasite development rates and infectivity increase with
temperature."

The state is revising its Texas Wildlife Action Plan this year to include a new
chapter identifying climate change adaptation strategies.

At the news conference, Salazar also eulogized Sam Hamilton, the head of the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service who died in February and had led the agency's
Texas operations in the early 1990s.

While in Austin, Salazar also met with representatives of the Balcones
Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge, an area northwest of Austin that is a
nesting habitat for the endangered golden-cheeked warbler and black-capped
vireo.

Today, Salazar will tour Big Bend National Park, where he will discuss the
prospect for an international, transborder park.

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Attorney general stretches the truth on EPA, scandal

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 869 words


Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott announced a state challenge in February to a
judgment that greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide endanger the health of
Americans. At a Feb. 16 news conference, Abbott also said that the Environmental
Protection Agency, which issued the endangerment finding, "outsourced the
scientific basis for its greenhouse gas regulation to a scandal-plagued
international organization that cannot be considered objective or trustworthy."

We wondered whether Abbott's salvo, echoed at an April forum by a delegate for
Gov. Rick Perry's campaign, accurately captured the EPA's approach.

Some background: The EPA's finding, issued in December, came out after the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled in 2007 that greenhouse gases are air pollutants covered by
the federal Clean Air Act and that the agency must determine whether emissions
of greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles cause or contribute to air pollution
that may endanger public health or welfare.

The EPA said its scientific conclusions were based on work by three groups: the
U.S. Global Climate Research Program, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change and the National Research Council, which synthesize thousands of studies,
conveying a consensus on what scientific literature shows about climate,
according to the agency.

"No other source of information provides such a comprehensive and in-depth
analysis across such a large body of scientific studies, adheres to such a high
and exacting standard of peer review, and synthesizes the resulting consensus
view of a large body of scientific experts across the world," the agency said.
"For these reasons, the (EPA) administrator is placing primary and significant
weight on these assessment reports in making her decision on endangerment." The
report adds that EPA scientists previously gave "significant input" to the
groups.

So the EPA acknowledges leaning on others' existing research, which it considers
tip-top sound.

What of the second part of Abbott's statement - that EPA leaned on a
scandal-plagued international organization that cannot be considered objective
or trustworthy?

He's referring to the Geneva-based IPCC, which became the leading international
body for the assessment of climate change after its formation more than 20 years
ago by the United Nations Environment Programme and the World Meteorological
Organization to "provide the world with a clear scientific view on the current
state of climate change and its potential environmental and socio-economic
consequences," the panel says online. The panel shared the Nobel Peace Prize
with Al Gore in 2007.

Of late, however, it has drawn fire, mainly from skeptics that the planet is
rapidly heating. The latest outcry emerged after e-mails surfaced last year
involving scientists including researchers at the Climatic Research Unit at the
University of East Anglia in the United Kingdom, many of whom have participated
in IPCC work.

On Nov. 20, more than 1,000 e-mails and 3,000 documents, which the university
said were stolen, came to light. Dating as far back as March 1996, they include
exchanges between scientists indicating some shaky practices , intentions to
withhold public information and even, in one instance, a desire to punch a
critic. Overall, though, the Pew Center on Global Climate Change found the
e-mails largely routine and innocuous, writing, "Although a small percentage of
the e-mails are impolite and some express animosity toward opponents, when
placed into proper context they do not appear to reveal fraud or other
scientific misconduct."

In December, our sister site, the national PolitiFact, rated False a statement
by Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla. , saying the hacked e-mails debunked the science
behind climate change.

Amid the hubbub, there's no sign of nations forsaking the panel.

John Nielson-Gammon, the Texas state climatologist , recently told us he
believes about 95 percent of what the panel concludes. "It's probably as good as
it gets in terms of a comprehensive analysis done by scientists of a
comprehensive " far-reaching issue," he said.

Where does all this leave Abbott's statement?

True, instead of producing on its own research, the EPA instead relied on the
work of three other entities. But calling it "outsourcing" is highly misleading
because it suggests the agency was shirking its duties. In choosing to use the
work of those agencies, particularly the IPCC, the EPA was relying on a large
international group of scientists that has reached consensus from thousands of
studies. That's a far more comprehensive review than anything the EPA could have
done.

Abbott also overreaches by saying the panel is scandal-plagued and can't be
considered objective or trustworthy. Yes, the stolen e-mails have raised
questions about a small number of scientists, but the e-mails have not undercut
the validity of the panel's main findings.

Bottom line: There's a small bit of truth in Abbott's claim, but his statement
is misleading. We rate it Barely True.

wgselby@statesman.com

Greg Abbott
 The statement: The EPA 'outsourced the scientific basis for its greenhouse gas
 regulation to a scandal-plagued international organization that cannot be
considered objective or trustworthy.'



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

UNPLUGGED BEST OF STATESMAN.COM AND LOCAL-INTEREST BLOGS

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 1794 words


Fit City

austin360/com/fitcity

Whew, what a deluge!

Have you seen the trail around Lady Bird Lake? What a mess.

I ventured out yesterday afternoon and encountered stranded (and dead) minnows
near the Hyatt Regency Hotel, a mud wallow on the point where Shoal Creek
empties into the lake, and all kinds of debris, including a huge metal dumpster,
along the shore.

My shoes are muddy, my bike tires are slipping and sliding and the humidity
feels like post-Katrina New Orleans. And that white goose that hangs out on the
south side of the river near the Congress Bridge? It's extra grumpy today.
Beware.

Yuck.

Please mind the signs and stay off places in the trails that are closed until
things dry up. Places like the Barton Creek Greenbelt are especially vulnerable
to erosion right now, and biking through there can cause damage.

- Pam LeBlanc

Charity Chat

statesman.com/go/charitychat

The Chronicle of Philanthropy has a good article on how nonprofits need to dump
the jargon and communicate their message in a language that people actually
understand.

Words like "transformative" and "impactful" are meaningless to the general
public, the story states. And the word "innovative" is just an effort to pump up
existing efforts.

According to the author of the story:

"I am not negative on innovation - who would ever bash creative, entrepreneurial
programs?

"However, it is the need to make everything we do sound 'new' and
'path-breaking' that consistently undervalues the hard day-to-day work -
particularly in low-income communities - of providing quality day care, teaching
kids to read, providing basic health care, and ensuring that the social fabric
of a neighborhood isn't torn to shreds. I, for one, would like to celebrate that
continuous work for a change. And I might even call it impactful."

The devotion to gobbledygook can affect the kind of media coverage nonprofits
get. I'll use myself as an example.

Every day, I get several dozen calls, emails, and press releases from local
nonprofits asking for coverage of some sort. That doesn't include the queries
from national charities, corporations, etc.

Each request gets about 10 seconds to either hook or bore me.

One of the first things that usually turns me off is incomprehensible language.
So what happens? Delete. There goes the email and a chance at some kind of
coverage.

- Andrea Ball

Kelso's Cranky Corner

statesman.com/go/crankycorner

It's that time of the season again when I enter our fantasy football league and
put up $50 for charity.

The nonprofit that benefits annually from my generosity is the rest of our
league. For the past 15 years the other league members - mostly people I work
with - could count on the $50 coming out of my pocket like the arrival of the
bluebonnets in spring, since I'm the only founding member of the league who has
never made it to the league Super Bowl. The entry fee in our league is $50, and
to get your money back it helps greatly to at least make the playoffs. So far my
teams haven't advanced beyond the charitable donation level.

You could pin some of this on bad luck. We have 10 people in our league, and I
picked a number out of a hat. Guess what number I got? If you said 10, bingo.
This means I got to pick last in our league draft. This also meant that I was
presented with the, uh, opportunity of eventually selecting Devin Aromashodu of
the Chicago Bears as one of my wide receivers, toward the end of the drafting
process.

A general feeling of who the hell is that?, or maybe, what did he just say?, or
what's this fool gone and done this time?, percolated throughout the living room
where we held our draft, when I mentioned Aromashodu's name out loud. None of my
fellow league members seemed to know who he was. It was as if I had selected the
ambassador from Sierra Leone to go long.

- John Kelso

Off the Kuff

offthekuff.com

The one only time in my life I've been to a racetrack was 1988 at Bandera Downs,
which was back before you could place a bet on a race. But I sure do remember
being told that allowing bets on races would be a financial windfall for the
state. It's primarily because of that that I remain skeptical about the claims
now being made by "racino" proponents; that is, proponents of allowing video
lottery terminals - slot machines - at racetracks. I do believe that will draw
more people to the tracks, but I don't see how it's going to make more people
interested in horse racing, and because of that I have doubts about its
long-term viability. If the races themselves aren't drawing people in, what's to
keep them from getting drawn away by some other shiny new object later?

- Charles Kuffner

On & True

onandtrue.blogspot.com

I've been in Austin for a couple of weeks now, and so far I'd say that it's been
mostly like Sinead's Ex: nothing compares.

It seems like a generally cool place. We immediately notice that Austin is
deeper than most in a couple of key categories: taco trucks, music festivals,
pools, farmers' markets. But I'd already heard about all those before coming
down here. What I didn't know though is that Austin's crown is also mad heavily
laden in two other types of jewels: rickshaws and Segways.

The commonality between these two forms of transportation: primarily, both modes
make their passengers look totally ridiculous.

Think first about riding in a rickshaw: taxi'd by manpower? I feel like it is
nothing but too close to a birthday girl entrance on My Super Sweet Sixteen.

(Aside: when did hipsters take over the rickshaw industry? And is it there
counterculture response to the Spinning craze?) Nothing against hipsters, but
riding in the back of a rickshaw can never be pulled off casually or stylishly.

The same can be said about Segway ridin'. We've all known it to be true - trying
to look cool while on a Segway is like trying not to get pregnant: they say the
only foolproof method is abstinence.

- Nathan Tone

Collective Vision

www.statesman.com/collectivevision

Tropical Storm Hermine dumped several inches of rain on Central Texas overnight
and into Wednesday causing widespread flooding. In Georgetown the damage was
everywhere. Taylor resident Larry Pelchat was commuting to his job as fourth
grade teacher at the Killeen ISD when his car was swept away in a low water
crossing. He escaped his car and clung to a tree for two hours before he was
rescued by the Sheriff department. "God was on my side today." said Pelchat.
"I'm really appreciative of the Sheriff's department. They are my heros."
Pelchat used a flashlight and a whistle he had on his school ID tag to announce
his whereabouts.

From our readers

Excerpts from online reader comments about recent stories that appeared on
statesman.com

On the City Council considering a plan to end the Trail of Lights:

How can we as a city let Cap Metro waste millions of dollars on a rail line that
goes nowhere anybody wants to ride while cutting back on less than half a
million on a holiday tradition that spans decades and sees more patrons in a
month than the rail service serves all year? It's 'Keep Austin Weird' not 'Keep
Austin Stupid'.

- msaulters

It has always been hokey. Hokey is okay but it got real strange. I mean Sponge
Bob and Elmer Fudd are not the symbols of Christmas I grew up knowing. Old worn
out tired displays. Lets not spend 6 figures putting on a lame uninspired
spectacle. Embrace the Tree of Lights and the spirit of the season and move on.

- burly

On a blog posting at statesman.com/go/salsaverde about whether recent extreme
weather might be linked to global warming:

After seven decades, fifteen state maximum temperature records set during Summer
of 1936 still stand. Mega-drought in the 16th century wreaked havoc for decades
in the lives of the early Spanish and English settlers and American Indians
throughout Mexico and North America. During a warm period 6,000 years ago, the
Indus was a monster river, more powerful and more prone to flooding than today.
15 years of storms 1851 to 1866, 40 to 50 million Chinese perished.

No power plants, no SUV's, go figure.

- Harbinger

Scientists have known about the heat-trapping potential of carbon dioxide for
centuries, long before Al Gore was born. And they also understand the difference
between natural, long-term climate variation and the short-term, faster warming
we're causing by overloading the atmosphere with CO2.

I get my information about climate science from climate scientists, not
political blogs where a lot of the climate change misinformation comes from.

- Aaron Huertas

On state Sen. Kirk Watson's letter to state Comptroller Susan Combs asking for
more details into the state's finances:

Dear Senator Watson, this financial crisis has been years in the making due to
the 'No new taxes mantra' echoed by both parties. You've been in the Legislature
long enough to know you've been putting this issue off until the next session
and the session after that. Well, it's finally come down to the final chapter.
Methinks you and all other elected officials should have been working on this
several sessions ago.

- Jim in Wimberley

On a Forbes.com ranking, disputed by Seton Medical Center, that listed Seton as
the fifth-most profitable U.S. hospital:

I went to Seton last year almost dead. They saved my life. It was worth every
penny they charged me and my insurance company. I happily paid the bill for my
part. I hope they continue to make a profit so they will be there the next time
I might need them.

- bobbylee

You should be able to save someone's life and not have to charge a markup of
hundreds of percent so that you can be one of the most profitable hospitals in
the country. If someone is trying to escape from a hurricane and they need gas
for their car, the gas station charging $100 a gallon might indeed save that
person's life (and worth every penny!) but we would still call it price
gouging....

- fs

You don't like a $10 tylenol?...then complain to the 10 people who came in
before you with no insurance and didn't pay a penny for anything. That's why
healthcare is so expensive. Not the hospital's fault.

- hnry

On Travis County prosecutors seeking to have Venezuela extradite Louanne Aponte,
accused of stealing from an Austin nonprofit:

I'm sure Hugo Chavez will get right on that.

- Roger's wife

She has a margarita in her hand and TWO pool boys! Venezuela will not extradite
her. Send DOG the bounty hunter. ... dead or alive Dog!

- rbf51

On the sense of community that's taken root in the new Mueller development:

Meanwhile, high-density developments are having to fight their way into
established neighborhoods with exactly the qualities praised in this article.
This takes up a massive amount of time, energy, and money. The City as a whole
would have been better off if Mueller had been zoned for more medical complexes,
high-rise condos, hotels, and office buildings.

- prof

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 950 words


Choking hazard

Re: Feb. 22 article "Pediatricians urge choking warning labels for some foods."

Your article concerning choking risk and the need to change packaging and
labeling of food products actually emphasizes our inability to assess risk and
danger.

I sympathize with those families in which a child has choked to death. However,
what's the real risk of this happening? According to statistics, more than 100
children younger than 14 die each year by choking; and according to the Census
Bureau, there are more than 57 million children younger than 14 in this country.
The math alone indicates that the risk is so infinitesimal that it is not worth
the effort to change anything concerning this issue.

Yet now there is a call for "sweeping changes in the way food is designed and
labeled." Just what we need in a recession: costly changes to protect an
infinitely small number of people from a statistically nonexistent problem.

Dr. David S. Wishnew

dwishnew@aol.com

Austin

The American way

Re: Feb. 21 article "Return to middle class may be difficult after this
recession."

Some people never learned to save money- having at least six month's salary in
savings - but that's difficult to do with low interest rates making it easy to
purchase items they can't afford. We used to criticize folks who lived paycheck
to paycheck, but that has, indeed, become the American way since charge cards
were available.

Many have never experienced layoffs, but I have twice - through no fault of my
own. (I would have been top salesperson nationwide but was laid off a month
before company awards because I couldn't transfer to another city.) Many today
refuse to transfer, retrain or change professions.

People older than 50 have extensive experience, yet companies would rather hire
younger workers for less money. Education is the key to employment, but many
today have too little or too much.

Mollie Hejl

Austin

Budget shortfall in Texas

Re: Feb. 18 Jason Embry column "Budget mess got going with 2006 property tax
cuts."

Gov. Rick Perry and the state Republicans have set us up for a major shortfall
with their property tax cut agenda.

Though everyone welcomes paying less in taxes, lower revenues have their
consequences. Critical state services will be at risk.

I thank Embry for diagnosing the cause of the upcoming shortfall as the revenue
gap created by lower overall tax revenue without offsetting spending cuts.

David Crump

davcrump@yahoo.com

Austin

Education in Texas

Re: Feb. 20 commentary "Is the governor a hypocrite?"

State Rep. Jim Dunnam's column took Gov. Rick Perry to task for his
anti-educational positions and cited the dismal record of Texas in public
education. For example, Dunnam, D-Waco, noted that Texas ranks at the bottom
(50th) in residents with a high school diploma and 47th in the percent of state
funds spent on education.

Additional evidence on how poorly Texas does is its comparison with the other
big states, California and New York, in the number of high school finalists for
the Intel Science Talent Search, the nation's longest-running precollege science
competition. According to a recent Science News, California had eight finalists
and New York 11. Texas had three.

Does the governor, like a lot of other politicians, think that everything is OK
with public education so long as the University of Texas produces winning
athletic teams?

Marvin H. Lehr

mlehr001@austin.rr.com

Austin

More facts

I've enjoyed the many analyses of the PolitiFact Texas Truth-O-Meter, but I
don't understand why we haven't seen these supposed higher standards in
day-to-day stories.

For example, a few weeks ago we were told that approval of the new history
textbooks for Texas schools has been delayed. Why have we seen no discussion of
the downplaying of the tenacity of the Washingtons and Jeffersons in these books
while token mention of lesser mortals/groups is not only highlighted but their
exploits are expanded in coverage?

Rick Ruddell

Round Rock

Global warming

Re: Feb. 17 article "State files federal lawsuit to prevent EPA from regulating
greenhouse gases."

The science of global warming is 90 percent to 95 percent certain that humans
are causing the planet to warm. Our society will never be in a better shape to
address this problem.

Carbon dioxide emissions must be reduced to prevent sea level rises, habitat
loss, species extinction and pollution. Much of the opposition is from
corporations with business models that profit from carbon emissions.

We have a wonderful opportunity to become world leaders in pollution-free
energy. Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott is doing Texas an incredible
disservice in opposing this future.

Dale Stevens

Plantersville

Texans should be concerned when their government officials deny overwhelming
evidence for global warming. Weather modeling projections show much of our state
destined to become desert.

Because of lax enforcement, the Environmental Protection Agency has threatened
to take over Texas' air permitting program. The suit supports the status quo in
Texas.

Do we all wish to continue living with air quality ranking among the poorest in
the nation? The EPA regulations would favor the use of natural gas.

Texas is fortunate to have great abundance of natural gas and the capacity for
generating electricity using solar or wind. Why would the governor's office not
embrace this as the means to end our dependence on coal, slow global warming,
and provide us healthier air to breathe while creating jobs?

Peter Ellis

Austin

Correction

Thursday's editorial incorrectly identified the longest serving member of the
State Board of Education. That distinction belongs to Mary Helen Berlanga, a
Corpus Christi lawyer. Berlanga was elected to the 15-member board in 1982.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 893 words


Airport security

Recent incidents in air travel security have led me to a few conclusions.

Terrorist strategies are one step ahead of security measures. Every new security
enforcement check has been reactive - instigated by incidents like the shoe
bomber, the liquid gel attack, etc.

Terrorists transcend color or nationality.

The Transportation Security Administration and airlines tend to lean toward
making security checks faster in the interest of efficiency and productivity,
leaving loopholes and vulnerabilities.

I feel the Department of Homeland Security/TSA program of granting precleared
security passes for "fast-track" security checks opens up a new avenue to
exploit. It won't be long before a well-investigated clearance pass holder - a
"pristine" terrorist - goes rogue on us.

I implore the authorities to repeal this program in the interest of safety and
security.

Sadu Bajekal

Austin

Carbon dioxide primer

Re: Dec. 23 letter "Copenhagen carbon conundrum."

To answer why carbon dioxide from fossil fuel is the highest priority of climate
scientists: It is the single largest amount of air pollution responsible for the
climate crisis and the most rapidly increasing source.

The next-largest source of human-caused CO2 pollution comes from land use
changes, mostly deforestation . After CO2, the next-largest sources of the
climate crisis are methane and black carbon (soot).

More than half of human-caused methane releases occur in agriculture - primarily
from livestock, livestock waste and rice cultivation. Most of the rest is from
fossil fuels, landfills and waste treatment.

Black carbon mostly comes from burning forests and grasslands to clear land for
agriculture. More than a third of the soot comes from burning fossil fuels,
primarily form diesel trucks that are not equipped with devices to trap the
emissions.

Don Hammond

Austin

Abortion

Re: Dec. 31 letter "Tax-funded abortions."

The reader offered unusually candid praise of tax-funded abortions, namely the
ultimate "tremendous savings" to the taxpayers.

It puts me in mind of a comment by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg in a New York Times Magazine interview in July: "Frankly, I had thought
at the time Roe was decided, there was concern about population growth and
particularly growth in populations that we don't want too many of."

That sadly underreported defense of eugenics must have sent Margaret Sanger
spinning in envy.

The local correspondent's addendum is just one more wake-up call.

John D. King

Sunset Valley

Portrayal of Finland

Re: Jan. 1 article "Gunman kills 5, then self, in Finland."

This article, although factual, was grossly misleading because it implies that
Finland (population of greater Houston) has violent crime problems. This crime
was one of passion by an Albanian Kosovo immigrant, not a societal problem
related to gun ownership.

Finland has one of the lowest murder rates in the world .

High gun ownership, a long tradition of hunting and the ability to ski are what
saved Finland from the Russian invasion in 1939. I came to the U.S. from Finland
in 1970 and found this article offensive because it subtlety supports anti-gun
legislation.

Jaakko Talvitie

jaakko@austin.rr.com

Austin

Learned nothing?

Re: Dec. 29 commentary "A whole lot of nothing."

Paul Krugman offered a stark assessment of this decade: "Let's bid " farewell to
the Big Zero " we achieved nothing and learned nothing."

Learned nothing?

Far too many of our "leaders" have learned a new skill born of their mistakes.
First comes a seeming act of contrition, followed by a brief period of silence
and then a return to optimism with a rapidly emerging arrogance, culminating in
the ever-present personal greed.

In my 84th year, I feel a great sadness. I truly believe that I got to live
through the very best this incredible nation had to offer, yet most of you who
read this won't have the slightest idea what I mean.

Bob Fryer

bobalice94@austin.rr.com

Lago Vista

No ifs, ands or buts

I love to travel by airplane. It's cheap and the fastest way to get from here to
there.

For the convenience, I do not mind having my luggage screened, going through a
metal detector, being patted down, taking off my shoes, not being able to have a
pillow or blanket or not being able to go to the restroom during the last hour
of my flight.

But when the next terrorist tries to blow up an airplane with explosives that
have been secreted in his rectum, that is the day I start taking the train.

Patrick Brennen

Round Rock

An endangered species
 Re: Dec. 27 article "Popular longtime principal to retire."
 The wonderful, well-deserved article on LBJ High School Principal Patrick
Patterson was bittersweet for me. My youngest child was a student of Mr.
Patterson's at Blackshear Elementary, and to this day she loves and admires
him.
 In my previous life as an Austin school district principal, I was honored to
call him friend and colleague. A void will be left in the Austin Independent
School District community when he retires in June.
 There is something wrong with the systems - federal, state and local - when
someone in their early 50s is worn out. Excellent principals are becoming an
endangered species. More attention needs to be given to the retention of
effective public school principals if we are to reach our goal of educating ALL
 students.
 Patrick Patterson definitely gave it all he had.
 Vicki Baldwin
 Austin



LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Southwestern goes all-wind with electricity

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 540 words


Southwestern University will get all its electricity for the next 18 years
exclusively from wind power in an agreement with the City of Georgetown signed
Tuesday.

The deal makes Southwestern the first university in Texas to get all its power
from renewable sources, according to the school. It will get the power from
Georgetown's city-owned utility through an agreement with AEP Energy Partners, a
subsidiary of Ohio-based utility American Electric Power .

The actual electrons needed to power the lights at Southwestern, a liberal arts
college with about 1,300 students, will come from Texas' general electric grid,
but the university says it is buying enough wind power to cover all its energy
use.

Through Georgetown, the university is buying electricity from two AEP wind farms
in West Texas that have 151 turbines . The initial contract is for five years
and is renewable through 2028. The university says the agreement will help it
meet a long-term goal of being carbon neutral, or not adding greenhouse gases to
the atmosphere.

In February , university President Jake Schrum signed the American College and
University Presidents' Climate Commitment, which formally commits campuses to
eliminate their greenhouse gas emissions over time and educate students about
climate neutrality.

Southwestern is one of Georgetown's largest customers, with energy needs that
are equivalent to the demand from 450 homes , said Jim Briggs , assistant city
manager for utility operations.

Under the agreement, Southwestern will pay Georgetown a fixed rate for the wind
power. Neither the university nor the city would disclose the exact rate for
competitive reasons.

Richard Anderson, vice president for fiscal affairs at Southwestern, said the
rate is higher than what it pays now, but he said the university assumes
conventional electricity rates will rise and that the university will break even
on the deal in three to five years.

"In a relatively short time, we expect to break even and then see actual
savings," he said. "It's better for our budget for energy costs in the long run,
not only because of fluctuations in the energy market, but also because of
unexpected events," such as rate and regulatory changes.

Anderson said the deal will go into effect with next month's billing cycle.

The agreement also helps the city move toward the goal of meeting 30 percent of
the city's energy needs from renewable sources by 2030 , Briggs said. He said
wind power from AEP will provide electricity to other businesses in Georgetown
as well. With the deal, about 10 percent of Georgetown's electricity portfolio
will come from renewables.

According to the federal Environmental Protection Agency, five of the top 20
university purchasers of green power get all their power from green power, which
includes renewable sources such as wind.

A partner in Austin Energy's GreenChoice renewable energy program, St. Edward's
University in Austin buys the equivalent of at least 3 percent of its energy
consumption in wind power from Austin Energy .

The University of Texas did not return a call for comment Tuesday.

"We hope Southwestern will be an inspiration to other universities to advance
sustainability," Schrum said in a statement.

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2010 Thursday



CORRECTION: * A story on Wednesday's Page B1 included an incorrect report from
Southwestern University that it was the first university in Texas to get all its
energy from renewable sources. In 2003, Concordia University at Austin - which
is now known as Concordia University Texas - switched entirely to renewable
energy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Image, money, clout among priorities for Southwestern chief

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1618 words


Jake Schrum, who graduated in 1968 from Southwestern University, has been
president of the small liberal arts college in Georgetown for nearly 10 years.

Under his watch, the school has established a program that groups students with
a professor for three years and landed the headquarters of the National
Institute for Technology in Liberal Education, which helps liberal arts colleges
and universities around the country integrate inquiry, teaching and technology.

Schrum hopes to position Southwestern among the top 50 liberal arts colleges.
It's currently in a five-way tie for No. 62 in the U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

In addition to his bachelor of arts degree in psychology from Southwestern,
Schrum holds a master's in divinity from Yale University. During a recent
interview with the American-Statesman, he discussed topics ranging from
sustainability to changing Southwestern's name. Here is an edited account:

You have a committee looking into changing the university's double-directional
name and a study of this question under way by a consulting group. Where do you
stand?

Looking at our name and thinking about a national liberal arts college of real
quality - is that a disconnect? The name Southwestern University sounds like a
regional public university. It's that whole thing of having to explain so much
that the quality of what we're doing here and the type of institution we are -
not that we're wanting to become, but that we are - is lost in the shuffle.

So the research is about finding out how much equity our name has, not only with
our alumni, where it has a lot, but also with prospective students. I don't have
a big need to change the name myself. Do I think it might help us? Yeah, I think
it might help us.

What would you change it to?

I've thought of names, but I'd rather not throw out those names right now. But I
will say this: I think it would help us just to change our name to the
Southwestern University - like the University of Texas, like the University of
the South, like the Ohio State University. The point would be you could keep the
name that the alumni love, but you could distinguish yourself from all of the
regional public universities around the country and you could get a little bit
of buzz by changing your name just by putting the in front of it.

What are some of your other top priorities?

My two highest priorities since 2008, when the stock market dropped so
precipitously, are to try to help everyone keep their job and to make sure that
the academic program remains strong. I have not had to lay anyone off. When
people have left, sometimes we don't fill their position right away or we don't
fill it at all.

What kind of a hit did your endowment take?

The day I became president in 2000, our endowment was $345 million. That's the
highest it's ever been. After 9/11 it dropped to $240 million. By 2008, it had
built back up at one time to about $315 million. And then with the downturn in
2008, it dropped again. At the end of the most recent quarter, Sept. 30, it was
$259 million.

You've said that top liberal arts colleges have five qualities, with
Southwestern meeting all of these criteria. What are they?

At least 25 percent of your student body should be nonmajority, whatever the
majority is. At least 75 percent of your students should live on campus; you
can't be a great liberal arts college and not be residential.

At least 75 percent of your graduates should be getting the B.A. degree; that's
the coin of the realm in the liberal arts, where you have to learn a language
other than the one that is your own language.

The fourth is you have to have a Phi Beta Kappa chapter, because if you have a
Phi Beta Kappa chapter then you have the Good Housekeeping Seal of approval. And
of the 4,000 colleges and universities in the country, only 280 have a Phi Beta
Kappa chapter. There are only 11 Phi Beta Kappa chapters in Texas.

The final thing to be a great liberal arts college is that you have to have at
least an A rating from one of the investor services that rate the financial
viability of colleges and universities, like Moody's or Standard & Poor's.
Parents and students need to know that a school's financial firepower is strong
enough to continue the program that you went there to study.

You've been president nearly 10 years. What do you feel best about?

I feel best about our Paideia program. I truly believe it is a seminal program
in American higher education. And I think it's the kind of program that can only
be done at a school like Southwestern.

But most schools our size don't want to come up with the money to allow senior
professors to work with a cohort of 10 students for three years - the same 10
students, the same professor - to help them understand the powerful connections
between what's happening to them in their day-to-day classroom experiences at
Southwestern and what's happening to them in the transformational experiences
they're required to participate in as a Paideia scholar. And those are
cross-cultural experiences like study abroad, civic engagement experiences and
undergraduate research or discovery experiences.

It's not an honors program. If you want in it, you can be in it. It's really
become our signature piece. It is the liberal arts experience and the
Southwestern experience on steroids.

Much of the talk these days is about the 'STEM' fields: science, technology,
engineering and math. You don't hear much about the importance of poetry,
sociology and the rest of the social sciences and humanities. Does that make
life difficult for a liberal arts college?

It would really make life difficult if we didn't have a strong science program.
Part of the faith of being a liberal arts president in Texas is that I can't
blame anyone but myself for not being a proponent of the liberal arts.

I truly believe that the fathers of our country, had they known that there were
going to be a lot of people voting who did not have a basic liberal arts
foundation for their education, would not have chosen a democracy. I think
Jefferson was making the assumption that the majority of people who would be
voting in this country, from his time on, would be people who had a basic notion
of a broad-based education and were capable of thinking outside of their own
network of friends and having a world view and a sense of values beyond taking
care of themselves.

Let's get everybody a basic foundational education so that everybody can
understand the issues and people don't make decisions based on ignorance, or on
what somebody told them while they were buying their lottery ticket at the
7-Eleven.

Your website says you want your students to be bright, moral and courageous. I
get the bright. I get the moral. Courageous in what way?

If you get the opportunity to stand up, whether it's in a PTA meeting 30 years
after you graduated from Southwestern or whatever, that you will have enough
courage and gumption to do it - the courage to act on your beliefs. There are
plenty of colleges and universities that are giving people a really good liberal
arts education, but it is not necessarily value-

centered. Ours is.

Is it flavored with religion?

We're a Methodist institution that is proud to be Methodist, but we don't wear
it on our sleeve. I think about 16 or 17 percent of our student body is
Methodist. We're still connected to the Methodist Church. We have Methodist
bishops and ministers on our board, but the Methodist Church doesn't tell us how
to do anything.

What will your trajectory be in the next five or 10 years?

I'm 64 now, and I'm trying to make a decision about what makes sense for me,
what makes sense for the university, how long I can be of service to
Southwestern. The trustees have approved Phase 2 of our fundraising campaign,
which will be another five years. I would certainly like to be as helpful as I
can be to the university during that period.

What's the goal of the campaign?

The trustees have raised the goal from $125 million to $150 million. The largest
priority is to build a $25 million addition on our science facilities. Another
key component is to upgrade all of our wellness and athletic facilities. And
another component is to make sure we continue to have strong annual support to
the institution from alumni and friends.

What else is important to you?

I've really worked hard to try to push the whole idea of sustainability. I think
prospective students are going to say five years from now, "Is this university
involved in sustainability issues, and are you reducing your carbon footprint?"
And if you say, "It's important, and we're going to get around to it," they're
gone.

We buy wind power for all of our electrical needs; students who are members of
SEAK (Students for Environmental Activism and Knowledge) pushed to get that
done. There are still fewer than five college presidents in Texas who have
signed the Talloires Declaration, which is the international declaration for
reducing your carbon footprint. I've also signed the American College and
University Presidents Climate Commitment, which commits campuses to eliminate
greenhouse gas emissions over time and educate students about climate
neutrality.

Do you get pushback from your board members on things like that?

I don't ask for their advice in making decisions like that because I feel like
that's what they pay me to do. Now if they have a problem with it, I always hear
about it.

rhaurwitz@statesman.com; 445-3604

Southwestern University
 Location: Georgetown
 Enrollment: 1,373
 Students receiving need-based financial aid: 52 percent
 Student-faculty ratio: 10 to 1
 Average class size: 14 students
 Tuition and fees: $31,630 for the 2010-11 academic year
 Operating budget: $67 million

Source: Southwestern University



LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Green energy plan sails to easy approval

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 473 words


The Austin City Council, after months of debate about where the city should turn
for its electricity in the future, adopted a plan Thursday to get significantly
more power from wind, solar and other sources that do not emit greenhouse gases.

The plan calls for Austin Energy to obtain 35 percent of its electricity from
renewable sources by 2020 , up from 12 percent now. After more than an hour of
public discussion Thursday - some speakers spoke in favor of the plan, some
against it - the council gave a unanimous thumbs-up.

"I believe that Austin has in the past shown leadership on environmental
initiatives," said Mayor Lee Leffingwell , whose office timed the vote to
coincide with Earth Day. "And I think that we should keep ourselves in the
forefront, recognizing that global climate change is " the environmental
challenge of our time. This is a global problem, but the sum of local policy is
global policy."

At Leffingwell's suggestion, the council also decreed that the plan not take
effect until later this year to give the city time to craft specific
cost-containment goals to be considered alongside the plan's environmental
objectives.

The council will not authorize major energy purchases until the city decides how
it will approach cost containment. The measure was requested by some big
businesses and advocates for the poor, concerned the plan would raise rates too
much.

The plan does not address how the council will resolve potential conflicts
between the new cost and environmental priorities.

Austin Energy estimates the plan would raise rates 20 percent . But the utility
concluded that the plan would be the best long-term hedge against possible coal
and natural-gas price hikes.

Some critics say that estimate is low and note any increase will come on top of
other rate hikes Austin Energy expects in the next few years.

"We support green energy," said Vernagene Mott , a member of the Pflugerville
school district board, which opposes the plan, "but not when it interferes with
the education of our students."

Former Mayor Carole Keeton Strayhorn, who recently founded a civic activism
group, Austinites for Action, urging the council to delay its vote, said the
group will "remain committed to bringing this to the ballot box and the people."

Some environmental activists argue that Austin Energy's plan will be cheaper
than the utility projects because its estimate does not take into account the
savings that could be realized through hefty investments in energy efficiency.

Cyrus Reed , who served on a City Council-appointed task force that spent months
evaluating Austin Energy's plan, said that when measured over the next 20 years
, Austin Energy's investment strategy was the least expensive and risky course
they could find.

"The plan is a road map," Reed said, "not a straitjacket."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

What do you mean primary season is over?

BYLINE: KEN HERMAN AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 761 words


Remember how you complained about all the political ads on TV as the March 2
primary approached? Now you miss them, don't you?

OK, you probably don't. But I do. Now we're back to the car dealer ads,
including the chirpy guy promising to give you a Kia if he can't beat any other
dealer's price.

(FYI, this seems like a hollow promise. He can either give you a free car or
charge you a penny less for it than any other dealer. Hmmm, I wonder which he
will pick.)

So with primary season over (save for the runoffs), let's tie up some loose
ends.

First, and sadly, Farouk Shami's gubernatorial campaign is over. Engaging guy,
seriously in need of somebody who can tell him "no," as in "No, you're not going
to be governor of Texas."

I'm told that the last rich Democrat who thought he could self-finance himself
into the job tried to tell Shami no. Laredo banker and businessman Tony Sanchez
spent almost $60 million of his own money to garner 40 percent of the vote in
losing to Gov. Rick Perry in the 2002 general election.

I now hear that Shami sought Sanchez' advice, which was: Take $10 million, go
out behind your house and torch it.

Shami, spending $11.8 million, ran second to Bill White in the Democratic
gubernatorial primary, edged by a mere 63 points. Most of the money came from
Shami's pocket. Through Feb. 20, he had loaned his campaign $8.5 million.

Should've listened to Sanchez.

Some more recent campaign season leftovers:

In a Sunday column, which has garnered praise and one invitation for me to leave
the country, I detailed my doubts about Rick Green's qualifications for the
Texas Supreme Court. Green, an ousted state representative from Dripping
Springs, is in an April 13 GOP runoff with state District Judge Debra

Lehrmann of Fort Worth.

Green's stump speech includes mentions of three endorsements of which he is
proud, including one from Scott Brister, who quit the Supreme Court last year to
return to private practice.

Quick question: Am I the only one perturbed by the trend of elected appellate
judges quitting before their terms are over? This allows governors - in many
cases the same governor who appointed them - to appoint successors.

Perry named Brister to fill a Supreme Court vacancy in 2003. In 2004, voters
decided they wanted Brister to have a six-year term on the high court.

Last September, Brister decided he didn't want a six-year term, so he quit,
clearing the way for Perry to appoint Eva Guzman, who is now seeking a six-year
term.

Anyway, here's what that quitter Brister says in endorsing Green: "We need
judges who will not wilt under pressure or change their opinions to please the
newspapers." This, of course, is a reference to the legions of judges who change
their opinions to please the newspapers.

Green also speaks proudly of two other endorsements, though one comes from the
grave and was for a previous Texas House race.

"I even had Charlton Heston once do an ad for me," Green said, adding, "Folks,
Moses stumped for me. " Not only do we have Moses, we have Walker, Texas Ranger.
We're the only campaign Chuck Norris approved."

Says Norris - and who better to offer guidance in picking a Supreme Court
justice: Green "is the type of constitutionally abiding legal eagle who walks in
the legacy of our Founding Fathers and who we need serving in every state across
our union."

Green is also backed by Katy Christian Magazine in an issue that includes a
column by Mark Williamson, founder and president of Foundation Restoration
Ministries and Federal Intercessors. A disclaimer noted Williamson's views "are
his personal opinion and observations." Nevertheless, here's a bit of what Katy
Christian Magazine chose to publish:

"Global warming/climate change is another massive lie," Williamson wrote. "While
seemingly not directed at individuals, it is a strategy of deception that could
change everything about the way you and I live. It is actually a demonic agenda
set against western civilization."

Hard to challenge the notion that the devil prefers warmer climes.

And speaking of endorsements, here's a ringing one for my wife from U.S. Sen.
Kay Bailey Hutchison, issued a few days after the senator's loss in the
Republican primary to Perry.

The two women exchanged pleasantries in the airport security line after Mrs.
Herman introduced herself as my spouse. A few moments passed, and then
Hutchison, just prior to heading through the metal detector, leaned in and - in
that clubby, woman-to-woman, wife-to-wife way that women have of speaking to
each other - told my wife, "You must be a saint."

kherman@statesman.com; 445-3907

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A push for utility to open its files

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1326 words


If Austin's citizens had known the details of a proposal to buy power from a
wood waste plant in East Texas, could they have persuaded the city to abandon
the deal?

The question has become a rallying cry of sorts for a surprisingly diverse group
of Austinites. Two years after the $2.3 billion deal was signed, Austin Energy
is exploring how much information it should make available to the public.

Those pressing for broader disclosure - businesses upset about the deal's cost,
environmental activists skeptical of its green benefits and civic watchdogs who
say the public was not properly involved in the decision - say the issue is
colored partly by the wood waste plant.

The stakes are elevated because Austin Energy is crafting plans to aggressively
shift away from coal and other carbon-producing sources of electricity.
Supporters and critics agree the plans will work best if carried out under close
public scrutiny - and point to the wood waste plant as an example of what could
go wrong if Austin Energy withholds information.

"If the big industrials, the environmentalists and the American-Statesman
(editorial board) all agree there was a problem, that says something," Mike
Sloan , a wind energy advocate, told the city's Electric Utility Commission last
month.

Austin Energy officials say the organization is reviewing what it keeps private
with an eye toward releasing more. They also acknowledge they mishandled the
public debate over the wood waste plant, which did not begin until the City
Council voted to sign the contract.

But Austin Energy says that deal, like others, hinged on information that must
be kept confidential.

"Our customers could be hurt if we're too open with some information," said
Cheryl Mele , an Austin Energy vice president overseeing the review.

The decision about what to keep confidential will ultimately be up to the City
Council, which is expected to take up the matter this summer.

The policies in question were enacted in 2001 , after the state Legislature
deregulated much of Texas' energy market. As part of that change, the state
authorized utilities to withhold some information lest competitors use it to
steal customers or otherwise undercut business.

But Austin Energy and a few other city-owned utilities were allowed to keep
their monopolies. This was partly on the notion that unpopular management can
simply be voted out in the next election.

Critics say that because Austin Energy cannot lose customers to its competitors
without major changes in state law, it has little reason to withhold
information.

"Without relinquishing its position as a public monopoly, Austin Energy has
relieved itself of the open-government requirements designed to keep such
monopolies accountable to a public that has no choice but to purchase their
services," says a position paper from the Coalition for Clean Reliable
Affordable Energy , a group of big Austin businesses such as Freescale
Semiconductor and Samsung .

One beef is that Austin will not share the contracts it has with various power
plants that supply the city's electricity.

Watchdogs say such information is necessary to check if Austin Energy is
accurately assessing the cost of coal, wind, nuclear and other sources - and to
figure out when Austin could cut ties with coal and other fuels that emit
carbon, which many scientists say contribute to global climate change.

"We should change the presumption to disclosure, rather than nondisclosure,"
said Andy Wilson , a community organizer with the watchdog group Public Citizen.

Mele said Austin Energy has tried to release as much as possible.

The utility has spent nearly two years gathering and synthesizing public input
on its future, a process that led to the renewable energy plan the City Council
is scheduled to vote on later this month .

Some observers say the public involvement has been unprecedented for an electric
utility.

Mele said the city plans to follow that blueprint and learned from the wood
waste plant experience. Austin Energy officials said at the time they needed to
find a large renewable energy investment that would allow the city to keep pace
with its environmental goals.

The city's goal is now to get 30 percent of its power from renewables by 2020 ;
the council is expected to vote later this month on a plan that would raise the
goal to 35 percent . The city now gets about 11 percent from renewables.

The wood waste plant, which offered $2.3 billion worth of electricity over 20
years , was an opportunity utility officials said arose quickly and needed to be
seized.

The next big purchase, a solar plant that will cost $250 million over 25 years ,
was inked after significantly more discussion, Mele said.

"We're earnestly reviewing (what's made public) and challenging the staff to
prove there is a meaningful reason for anything that's withheld," Mele said.

But not everything will be released, she cautioned. For instance, she said,
Austin Energy won't turn over its contract with the wood waste plant because it
would signal to other companies exactly how much the city is willing to pay,
weakening Austin's bargaining position.

"We're a monopoly, but we buy power in a competitive statewide market," she
said. "In some ways it's like bidding on a house; if everyone knows what the
other bidders are offering, the first person in will probably lose."

But details in the wood waste contract would also help determine whether the
city could have gotten a better deal elsewhere, said Lynda Rife , a spokeswoman
for the business coalition.

For instance, the plant can generate enough power for about 50,000 Austin homes
when running at full capacity , but the city has been unwilling to say how often
it will reach full capacity.

Rife said the city also will not release the portions of the contract governing
how to cancel the deal before the plant comes online in 2012.

"How do we know the plant will perform as promised if we don't know what's
promised?" she said.

Skeptics also say some of the information is already reported to state and
federal oversight boards that make it public. Those in the utility industry know
how to gather such information, but the public may have difficulty.

Mele said Austin Energy is looking into what parts of its reports are made
public by other agencies and said the utility would make those sections public.

Steve Taylor , a member of the Electric Utility Commission, which advises the
City Council, said last month that Austin Energy will have to provide solid
evidence that anything that is withheld would hurt the public if released.

"If you're worried about confidentiality, you need to demonstrate where
releases" of information have hindered Austin Energy operations, Taylor said.

"In the absence of that, this is just a power play," he said.

There is another lesson, according to environmental activist Paul Robbins , who
has been bird-dogging the city for decades: "Don't assume the staff is always
right."

Robbins told the Electric Utility Commission that in the 1980s he tried to
persuade Austin Energy to invest in making apartments more energy-efficient. The
engineer he was dealing with, he said, calculated that the apartments used too
little electricity to make such a program worthwhile.

Robbins said he ran his own calculations and convinced the engineer that the
buildings used more electricity than he thought at first. The city adopted the
program in 1988.

"I did it with concrete information," Robbins said. "But concrete information is
now restricted."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

Power from lumber waste
 In 2012, Austin will begin getting power from a generation plant in East Texas
 fueled by waste from lumber mills. The plant is owned by Nacogdoches Power
LLC. The city will pay up to $2.3 billion over 20 years for the electricity.
The deal is intended to help Austin add more renewable sources of power; the
city will not say how much electricity the plant will provide, but when running
 at full tilt, it can power up to 50,000 homes.



LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Path of Picks

BYLINE: Patrick Caldwell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 3140 words


11:45 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Givers. Young and hungry, this Louisiana quintet takes
a page from the Vampire Weekend playbook in their frothy mix of indie pop and
Afrobeat - except Givers are even bouncier, sunnier and more frolicsome. A
perfect way to kick off a long festival weekend. Honda stage.

2:30 to 3 p.m.: Chief. This NYU-by-way-of-Los Angeles quartet's debut album,
"Modern Rituals," is a perfect summer record, loaded with gorgeous harmonies and
sleepily sunny riffs. The kids will like that they evoke Local Natives; the
grown-ups will like that they evoke the Band. Everybody's happy. Austin
Ventures.

3 to 4 p.m. Miike Snow. As anybody who caught Miike Snow's fog-drenched set at
Antone's in June can attest, the band's moody electropop cocktail gets audiences
moving. By this point in the day on Friday, you'll be just about ready to start
dancing. Honda.

4 to 5 p.m. The Black Keys. The Akron, Ohio, rock duo has attained pop culture
ubiquity this year on the back of career-best record "Brothers." Expect a
massive crowd for this one - think MGMT-in-2008 numbers. You'd be a fool to miss
out on Dan Auerbach's throaty howl and Patrick Carney's explosive drumming. AMD.

5 to 6 p.m. Beach House. Third album "Teen Dream" finds duo Victoria Legrand and
Alex Scally triangulating their voice - it maintains the billowy vocals and
atmospheric instrumentation that earned Beach House its "dream pop" label, but
packs more diversity and a more welcoming sound. Honda.

7 to 8 p.m. Vampire Weekend. The indie darlings put on a good show in 2008,
still riding high on the success of their eponymous breakout. Now they're older,
wiser, and, if that Stubb's show in April was any indication, much better live.
Budweiser.

8 to 9:30 p.m. The Strokes. In Chicago, the choice was between these guys and
Lady Gaga. Here, it's versus Phish. The reviews of the Strokes' Lollapalooza
shows have been nothing but glowing. So for the many, many people who loved "Is
This It?" and its underrated sequels, it should be a good show. AMD.

SATURDAY

11:20 a.m. to noon. Balmorhea. Austin's deeply affecting instrumental ensemble
should be listed along with a hot shower and plenty of water as one of the best
hangover cures around. A great way to ease into Saturday. Austin Ventures.

12:15 to 1 p.m. First Aid Kit. Hailing from Stockholm, Johanna and Klara
Söderberg have the perfect harmonies you can find only with sisters, and a
stunning, soft, acoustic approach to songwriting that recalls ACL Fest veterans
the Fleet Foxes. Honda.

1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Bear in Heaven. Something in the cupcakes in Brooklyn must be
encouraging trendy indie bands. Bear in Heaven is mildly electronica, mildly
psychedelic, mild in general, but its multitextured experimental pop songs have
a way of growing on you. Zync Card.

2:20 to 3 p.m. Two Door Cinema Club. An imminently catchy electropop trio out of
Northern Ireland. Debut "Tourist History" is all about short, sweet pop music.
Austin Ventures.

3:30 to 4:15 p.m. Mayer Hawthorne. Hawthorne can't quite work a crowd as well as
last year's soul MVP, Raphael Saadiq, but he's a fine showman. We hope he'll
play his signature cover of Electric Light Orchestra's "Mr. Blue Sky" under the
blazing sun. Austin Ventures.

4:40 to 5:20 p.m. Dan Black. Former front man for U.K. alt-rock band the
Servant, Black expanded his oeuvre with his solo work, a bubbly cauldron of
bombastic dance pop. BMI.

5:30 to 6:30 p.m. The Temper Trap. This Melbourne quartet's wistful pop-rock
creates the gently endearing radio-friendly anthems too few bands are making
these days. Their music is a favorite for bad shows on the CW. Please don't hold
that against them. Honda.

6 to 8 p.m., Austin Ventures and Budweiser stages. In maybe the festival's
cruelest act of scheduling, Gogol Bordello, Monsters of Folk, David Bazan,
Ozomatli and LCD Soundsystem are all piled on top of each other. Here's what you
do: Ccatch a chill half-hour of Oberst et al. at the Austin Ventures stage, rush
over to the insanely fun dance punk live show of LCD Soundsystem from 6:30 to
7:30, and then run back for the last half hour of Monsters of Folk. It's not
perfect. Few things in life are.

8:30 to 10 p.m. Muse. Crazy lights, crazy riffs, a likely-to-be crazy crowd,
crazy fun, etc. This band deserves to be the first group to headline ACL Fest in
two separate years. Good for them. Budweiser.

SUNDAY

11:45 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Shearwater. Jonathan Meiburg's been grabbing ink and
blog attention lately for his side project with Xiu Xiu's Jamie Stewart, but his
main project remains one of Austin's smartest, most sweeping, most adventurous
bands. Honda.

12:30 to 1:45 p.m. White Rabbits. Caustic, propulsive indie rock so thumping
they need two drummers. The band's rapid-fire "Percussion Gun" might have been
the best rock song of 2009. AMD.

2:20 to 3 p.m. Dawes. A folk rock foursome hailing from Los Angeles, Dawes
channels the romanticism and thoughtful songwriting of the '60s Laurel Canyon
sound. Austin Ventures.

3 to 4 p.m. The Morning Benders. One of SXSW's breakout acts this year, and you
don't even have to listen to excellent sophomore album "Big Echo" to become a
fan. Just do yourself a favor and find their cover of "I Wan'na Be Like You"
online. You'll be a convert in no time. Honda.

5 to 6 p.m. Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros. Like the Polyphonic Spree
before them, Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros are high-concept, theatrical, a bit
cultish, and there's an awful lot of them. They're also astonishing live - you
couldn't ask for a better festival band than this joyous powerpop orchestra.
Zync Card.

6 to 7 p.m. The Flaming Lips. It's sad the Flaming Lips aren't doing the "Dark
Side of the Moon" reprise they did at Bonnaroo, but it's hard to be too
disappointed when the consolation prize is sure to be a confetti-strewn blast.
AMD.

7 to 8 p.m. The National. There is no better way to usher in the dark night than
Matt Berninger's trademark baritone, especially when it's singing songs off
"High Violet," the National's third masterpiece in a row. Honda.

8 to 10 p.m. The Eagles. Well, it's either the Eagles or going home, and really,
you're already there and spent the money. You might as well see one of the most
successful rock (?) bands of all time. Admit it: At least some small part of you
wants to chill in the grass and "Take It Easy." Budweiser.

By Michael Corcoran

FRIDAY

Noon. JJ Grey and Mofro. Let's get the party started with this outstanding North
Florida swamp rocker and his tight musical collective. The band's new album,
"Georgia Warhorse," is getting tons of press coverage, as this band is breaking
out after 10 years on the road. Budweiser.

1:20 p.m. Those Darlins. The charming girl group (with boy drummer) from
Tennessee has taken SXSW by storm the past two years, and they're more than
ready for the bigger stage. Their stage chatter can get a tad inane, but when
they kick in with their country garage rock, it's magic. Austin Ventures.

2 p.m. Carolyn Wonderland. Let's give it up for the home team. Ms. Wonderland
sings like Janis, plays guitar like Fogerty. Put me down for some of that. Clear
4G.

3:15 p.m. Kings Go Forth. Anybody can tap into P-Funk, but it's the rare band
that knows their way around a Curtis Mayfield vibe. This 10-piece from Milwaukee
should brew up quite a party in the field. Clear 4G.

4:40 p.m. The Ettes. Though they live in Nashville, this pop-heavy garage band
is from a different time and place. I hear Blondie '79 and the Go-Gos '83, but
there's also chunks of Blue Cheer and Iron Butterfly. Plus, the BMI stage is the
most intimate of the fest.

6 p.m. Spoon. No matter where they all live now, this will always be an Austin
band. The best Austin band. AMD.

7:15 p.m. Ryan Bingham and the Dead Horses. Yeah, there's that somber
singer-songwriter side of this former Austinite who's now the toast of Laurel
Canyon. But when he and his band unleash the twin slides on "Bread and Water,"
nobody's going to wish they were seeing Robert Randolph instead. Great on
record, Bingham and the Horses are better live. Austin Ventures.

8 p.m. The Strokes. This band's previous show here, at the Austin Music Hall in
March 2005, was one of the worst I've ever been to. These guys needed a break
from each other and they took a long one. But that first album has never gotten
old and the chance to hear those songs again is too much to miss. AMD.

SATURDAY

12:15 p.m. Lissie. To detractors, this Illinois native might sound like Marianne
Faithful on karaoke night doing Stevie Nicks, but her Fat Possum LP "Catching a
Tiger" is one of the year's most satisfying. Director David Lynch is nuts about
her, too. (Lady Gaga cover alert!) Zync Card.

1 p.m. Jones Family Singers. Simply the best live gospel act out there, this
group from Bay City is a perennial ACL Fest fave. Clear 4G.

2:30 p.m. Gaslight Anthem. These Jersey boys rock the terrain between the
Misfits and the man who would be Boss. Bruce Springsteen himself is a fan, even
joining the band on "The '59 Sound" in concert. Budweiser.

3:30 p.m. Mayer Hawthorne and the County. The Smokey Robinson acolyte from Ann
Arbor, Mich., had quite a thrill when he shared the stage with his idol at SXSW
in March. Now it's time for Andrew Cohen (Mayer is his middle name and Hawthorne
is the street he grew up on) to go from the Fan to the Man. Austin Ventures.

4:45 p.m. Local Natives. This five-piece harmonic rock band from L.A.'s Silver
Lake (Brooklyn with palm trees) crafts its rich music to the point that
comparisons to Vampire Weekend and Arcade Fire are quite lazy. Austin Ventures.

5:30 p.m. The XX. Hypnotic art rockers who work hard to leave everything out
except the essence, this British band recently won the prestigious Mercury Prize
for the best album of the year. Zync Card.

6:30 p.m. Gogol Bordello. Their records are nothing special, but this band of
gypsy rockers is reputed to be one of the best live bands on planet Earth. We'll
see. AMD.

7:30 p.m. Deadmau5. The Canadian beatmeister with the U.S. attitude should tear
it up here. His sound is highly aggressive while remaining intensely danceable.
Zync Card.

8:30 p.m. Muse. Their set at Stubb's in March was a delightful tease. A great
light show elevates the prog rock sound and ups the ante on a rare level of
extravagance. Budweiser.

SUNDAY

11:45 a.m. Warpaint. Is a cover of David Bowie's "Ashes to Ashes" too much to
hope for? Considering that this soothing art rock quartet is opening for Sonic
Youth at La Zona Rosa the night before, you have to wonder how rested they'll be
at this morning slot. Luckily, their music is made for hangovers. Zync Card.

12:30 p.m. Ted Leo and the Pharmacists. Really good punk rock clears the
cobwebs. Budweiser.

1 p.m. Ashley Cleveland and Kenny Greenberg. The former John Hiatt backup singer
is on a vintage gospel tear and her hubby, Greenberg, is an axe-smith marvel.
Cleveland's crack band includes bassist Michael Rhodes and drummer Brannen
Temple. Clear 4G.

2 p.m. Portugal. The Man. The Palins aren't the only famous people from Wasilla,
Alaska. This band (now based in Portland, Ore.) squeezes juice from classic rock
to flavor an otherwise indescribable sound. Budweiser.

3 p.m. Morning Benders. From Berkeley to Brooklyn (ho-hum), this ork-pop quartet
sounds like big Beach Boys fans. No wonder they've played often with Grizzly
Bear. Honda.

4 p.m. Trombone Shorty and Orleans Avenue. So "Treme" wasn't quite "The Wire"
with good food, but Shorty got his name out there on the HBO show. His funky
rock sound should destroy in the former "gospel tent." Clear 4G.

6 p.m. Band of Horses. "The Funeral" might be this Seattle/ South Carolina
band's most soaring moment, but the most recent album, "Infinite Arms," is full
of great moments. Has KGSR ever sounded better than when it's playing "Laredo"?
Budweiser.

7 p.m. The National (first 20 minutes) and Richard Thompson (the rest). The Nats
can be spellbinding at times, but how can I stand in the same park where Richard
Thompson is playing and not stand as close to the stage as possible? The new LP
"Dream Attic" is a winner. Honda/Clear 4G.

8 p.m. The Eagles. This is probably the worst booking in Charles Attal's life,
turning this into Fuddy Duddy Fest, but there's something to be said for musical
familiarity. The idea of "Desperado" floating above the crowd is mighty
appealing. But let's see how I am after three days of music and crowds and the
elements. Budweiser.

By Deborah Sengupta Stith

FRIDAY

1:30 p.m. The Verve Pipe. My money says the band will be rocking tracks from
their family record to more than just the 3-foot and under set. Kiddie Limits.

2 p.m. The Mountain Goats. With razor-sharp vocals slicing jagged cuts into
blithely meandering guitar strums, this Durham, N.C., band's "No Children" is a
wicked-spirited, anti-love song that might just make you laugh. Budweiser.

3:15 p.m. Kings Go Forth. Blazing with the bombastic funk of a new school Earth,
Wind and Fire, these Milwaukee groovemeisters bring out the big guns to make you
boogie. Clear 4G.

4:30 p.m. Qbeta. The big crowds will no doubt be flocking to the AMD stage for
the Black Keys, but I'm kind of intrigued by the idea of an undiscovered
Sicilian sensation. Clear 4G.

5:45 p.m. Nortec Collective. Take a trip south of the border where laptop
jockeys and drum machine maestros go head to head with the meanest accordion
you'll meet. Clear 4G.

7 p.m. Vampire Weekend. I've tried to hate on these Columbia U kids playing
indie rock Afro-pop with nary a conga, but with each catchy chorus I find myself
ever more charmed. Zync Card.

SATURDAY

12:30 p.m. The Very Best. The collaboration of Malawian singer Esau Mwamwaya and
Radioclit producers Johan Karlberg and Etienne Tron takes an exuberant journey
into "The Warm Heart of Africa." Budweiser.

2:30 p.m. The Gaslight Anthem. Unadulterated rebellious American rock 'n' roll,
the perfect soundtrack for knocking back (overpriced) cheap beers in the
afternoon. Budweiser.

3:30 p.m. Mayer Hawthorne and the Country. Sure, he's no Raphael Saadiq, but
this quick-witted white boy from Ann Arbor is no slouch when it comes to
"Instant Vintage" Motown grooves. Austin Ventures.

4:40 p.m. Dan Black. I get so swept up in the melancholy cinematic reach of his
first U.S. single, "Symphonies," that I'm willing to totally forgive the British
electropop craftsman for his lilting mashup of Biggie's "Hypnotize." BMI.

5:30 p.m. The XX. Despite dreary reviews of their SXSW performances, this
British trio's hazy pop could provide excellent dinnertime ambience. Zync Card.

7:30 p.m. LCD Soundsystem. Is it worth fighting a mob of hipsters flailing
despite the constrictions of their skinny jeans just to take in James Murphy's
falsetto croon over some of the fest's catchiest synthpop? Yes. Budweiser.

8:30 p.m. M.I.A. She's flamboyant, dramatic and more than a little bit mad. A
solid coda to Saturday's fest. AMD.

SUNDAY

I struggled to find artists to get truly excited about, but here are a few
highlights:

2:30 p.m. The Relatives. With a gritty backstory of a meandering road to
salvation, Rev. Gean West's gospel veers unexpectedly from raw funky soul to
strange psychedelia and retro rock. Clear 4G.

4 p.m. Yeasayer. Triumphant indie pop, an afternoon highlight. AMD.

6 p.m. The Flaming Lips. Will frontman Wayne Coyne perform as an exploding
Easter Bunny? Is it worth seeing? Maybe. AMD.

7 p.m. Norah Jones. Now is the time to shell out for one of those $20 carafes of
wine, stretch out and cold chill. Norah can help. Zync Card. By Deborah Sengupta
Stith

FRIDAY

1:30 p.m. The Verve Pipe. Despite a good decade off the radar after "The
Freshman" dominated '90s alt-rock radio, my money says the band will be rocking
tracks from their family record to more than just the 3-foot and under set.
Kiddie Limits.

2 p.m. The Mountain Goats. With razor-sharp vocals slicing jagged cuts into
blithely meandering guitar strums, this Durham band's "No Children" is a
wicked-spirited anti-love song that might just make you laugh out loud.
Budweiser.

3:15 p.m. Kings Go Forth. Blazing with the bombastic funk of a new school Earth,
Wind and Fire, these Milwaukee groovemeisters bring out the big guns to make you
boogie. Clear 4G.

4:30 p.m. Qbeta. The big crowds will no doubt be flocking to the AMD stage for
The Black Keys, but I'm kind of intrigued by the idea of an undiscovered
Sicilian sensation. Clear 4G.

5:45 p.m. Nortec Collective. Take a trip south of the border where laptop
jockeys and drum machine maestros go head to head with the meanest accordion
you'll ever meet. Clear 4G.

7 p.m. Vampire Weekend. I've tried to hate on these Columbia U kids playing
indie rock Afro-pop with nary a conga, but with each catchy chorus I find myself
ever more charmed. Zync Card.

Saturday

12:30 p.m. The Very Best. The collaboration of Malawian singer Esau Mwamwaya and
Radioclit producers Johan Karlberg and Etienne Tron takes an exuberant journey
into "The Warm Heart of Africa" via an uberhip European café. Budweiser.

2:30 p.m. The Gaslight Anthem. Unadulterated rebellious American rock 'n' roll,
the perfect soundtrack for knocking back (overpriced) cheap beers in the
afternoon. Budweiser.

3:30 p.m. Mayer Hawthorne and the Country. Sure, he's no Raphael Saadiq, but
this quick-witted white boy from Ann Arbor is no slouch when it comes to
"Instant Vintage" Motown grooves. Austin Ventures.

4:40 p.m. Dan Black. I get so swept up in the melancholy cinematic reach of his
first U.S. single "Symphonies," that I'm willing to totally forgive the British
electropop craftsman for his lilting mashup of Biggie's "Hypnotize." BMI.

5:30 p.m. The XX. Pull out the picnic blanket -- despite dreary reviews of their
SXSW performances, this British trio's hazy pop could provide excellent
dinnertime ambience. Zync Card.

7:30 p.m. LCD Soundsystem. It's it worth fighting a mob of hipsters flailing
inexplicably despite the constrictions of their skinny jeans just to take in
James Murphy's falsetto croon gliding over some of the fest's catchiest
synthpop? Yes, yes, it probably is.

8:30 p.m. M.I.A. She's flamboyant, dramatic and more than a little bit mad. Her
musical potpourri of urban, indie and global sounds should provide a solid coda
to Saturday's fest. AMD. Budweiser.

Sunday

The least compelling day of the fest. I struggled to find artists to get truly
excited about, but here are a few highlights:

2:30 p.m. The Relatives. With a gritty backstory of a meandering road to
salvation, reverend Gean West's gospel veers unexpectedly from raw funky soul to
strange psychedelia and retro rock. Clear 4G.

4 p.m. Yeasayer. Triumphant indie pop, an afternoon highlight. AMD.

6 p.m. The Flaming Lips. Will frontman Wayne Coyle perform as an exploding
Easter Bunny? Is it worth seeing? Maybe. AMD.

7 p.m. Norah Jones. Now is the time to shell out for one of those $20 carafes of
wine, stretch in the grass and cold chill. Norah can help. Zync Card.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Scholar founded UT programs in social work

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 254 words


Jack Otis kept his most prized possession attached to the dashboard of his car:
a piece of the Parthenon that he acquired in Greece. It symbolized for him the
pursuit of knowledge, understanding and justice.

That quest was central to his career in social work, including posts as dean,
professor and professor emeritus at the University of Texas. Otis died Jan. 5 of
lung cancer at his family's home in Nevada City, Calif. He was 86 .

As dean from 1965 to 1977, Otis established the bachelor's and doctoral programs
in the School of Social Work. He set up research and training centers in the
school and brought an emphasis on community organization and social policy to
the master's degree program. He was a professor until 1993.

"His intellect, creative vision and leadership created the foundation for the
future achievements of the School of Social Work," said Barbara White, the
current dean.

Before joining UT, Otis was deputy director of the federal Office of Juvenile
Delinquency and Youth Development in the Kennedy administration. He served as a
combat engineer during World War II.

Otis is survived by his wife, Patty; a sister, Ciel Friedman; his children,
Lacrechia Folger, Erich Smolensky, Marika Smolensky, Marcus Smolensky and Alicia
Funk; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

A memorial service will be at 4 p.m. Jan. 23 in the Utopia Theater at the UT
School of Social Work. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to
350.org/donate for work on climate change issues.

rhaurwitz@statesman.com;

445-3604

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 939 words


No beer before noon

After running off transients five separate times this morning for drinking beer
on my property and panhandling for more beer money, I decided to revisit my
solution to Austin's transient problem.

In the little town I grew up in, they didn't sell beer until noon. Transients
were never a problem.

If the Austin City Council really cared about these people, they would show some
tough love and start selling beer at noon instead of at 7 a.m.

Responsible drinkers can buy their beer the night before. If you're drunk before
8 a.m. every morning, your day is shot and your chance of getting work is zero.

Rick Wheeler

Round Rock

Aristocratic mockery

Re: March 23 commentary "Now comes Thermidor."

George F. Will - the living embodiment of clueless upper-class pomposity -
spends much of his column bemoaning the phantasm of "middle-class entitlement"
while referencing Robespierre's Thermidor downfall.

Is Will absolutely certain that he wants to couch his aristocratic mockery of
the lower classes in terms of the French Revolution? His kind didn't fare so
well, as I recall.

Jason Meador

Luling

Where's the love?

In defense of the lowly cedar tree ranchers love to hate: It is true that the
native ash juniper (cedar) must be managed properly, but full eradication on
large properties creates new problems.

All hardwood trees suck water - juniper, live oak, pecan and cypress. Trees add
important elements to any ecosystem - creating soil, providing wildlife habitat
and priceless shade.

Removing all junipers creates grassland for ranchers, but with persistent
droughts, the next problem will be the desertification of the Hill Country. With
no trees, the land will be overgrazed, creating cracked earth and erosion
problems when it does rain.

The photo in the paper showed a large brush pile waiting to be burned. Burning
brush is a huge waste of a valuable resource. The brush should be mulched and
spread out onto the land or sold. Burning brush adds to the CO2 in the
atmosphere and contributes to climate change.

Jenny Clark

Austin

Compassion and principle

Political drama was funded by big insurance companies and fueled by right-wing
talk show hosts. Their activity has brought "domestic terrorism" into our
otherwise democratic political system.

Immediately after the voting of the health care reform bill, bricks with hate
notes attached were thrown through windows of numerous Democratic offices. These
hateful actions were cheered on even by the Republican leadership.

Fourteen state attorneys general, including Texas', filed lawsuits to repeal
health care reform claiming that it is unconstitutional for the federal
government to mandate citizens to purchase health insurance. U.S. Rep. Louie
Gohmert, R-Tyler, wants the 17th Amendment repealed, saying that senators should
be selected by state legislatures instead of citizens.

We are a people with compassion and principle. We should celebrate the passage
of our health care reform bill.

Kathleen To

Burnet

Surgeon moved into action

Re: March 26 article "Republican candidates can capitalize on the consequences
of Obamacare."

I had a visceral reaction to reading about an Indiana heart surgeon who has been
inspired to run for Congress as a Republican. Over the past 30 years, I've been
waiting for physicians to stand up for patients (and their own souls) against
the takeover of medicine by big insurance and big pharma. It has been a long
wait.

Now this guy is moved to action because of growing alarm about big government?
He should look at the bright side. If he is in solo or a small practice, he and
his staff will be able to afford health insurance now.

Phyllis Nelson

Austin

'Opinion' poll

I received a recorded message from U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock, asking
for my opinion on four key questions regarding the health care reform bill.

Although on the surface it sounds good, the way the questions were asked and the
content of those questions left no doubt in my mind as to what he intends to do
with his "results." I'm sure there were plenty of constituents who gave him his
desired responses, and we'll be hearing soon about how opposed his constituents
are to this historic legislation.

By the way, having seen through his charade, I answered positively on all
counts.

Sandy Burton

Cedar Park

Rally around Doggett?

Re: March 29 article "Crowd cheers Doggett's vote."

Since we are in an election year, shouldn't the American-Statesman try to look
impartial in its coverage.

This rally was staged by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and your paper
willingly accommodated his desire for publicity for his "popular" health reform
vote. Using Google, I was unable to find one recent article about Doggett's
opponent in November - Dr. Donna Campbell, a Republican from Columbus.

Frank Whitaker

fwhitaker@austin.rr.com

Austin

Where Airport meets the rail

The Capital Metro rail line has caused traffic problems at 51st Street and
Airport Boulevard. Officials knew the problems existed months before the line
started operation because I would see them at the site as I traveled through the
intersection on my way to work. However, no solution was suggested until the
line started operating.

Now the city announced a plan to prevent turns from Clarkson Avenue going east
on 51st. This might or might not solve the problem of eastbound motorists
stopping on the tracks.

How about the solution of moving the stop light for eastbound 51st Street
traffic to the Clarkson/51st intersection, which would create a no-stopping area
between Airport and the tracks?

It may be a more expensive solution, but it accommodates all of the current
traffic flow.

Brian Almon

almonfamily@gmail.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 836 words


An act of God?

Re: May 4 article "Perry says spill shouldn't stop Gulf drilling."

Assume that Gov. Rick Perry is right and the BP spill might be "just an act of
God that occurred."

The governor is pretty quick to highlight then dismiss a possible warning from
the almighty. He repudiates D.C. and culls dangerous wildlife, but let's not be
too independent.

Bill McGuire

Georgetown

Once again, we are treated to the received wisdom of Perry. His is a shining
example of a critical, analytic mind at work, as he speculates that the Gulf of
Mexico oil catastrophe was caused by an act of God.

To examine what caused this failure in BP's offshore drilling operation would
surely be folly and perhaps put a precious corporate investment at risk. What a
relief that there was no human error involved, that this was not a preventable
accident.

Who among us can prevent an act of God? And the threat of global climate change
- doesn't that come under the same category?

His remarks are a national embarrassment.

Sandra Gregor

Austin

Arizona, immigration and Austin

I wonder whether the Austin City Council has really considered all of the
ramifications of its proposed boycott of Arizona.

First, it can be presumed that any business contracts taken elsewhere will be
more expensive or of a lesser quality since the contracts were competitively
awarded to Arizona businesses in the first place.

Second, I will take my business elsewhere in protest of the city council's
protest. It would be naive to think that I am the only one who will respond in
kind.

Martin Krueger

Georgetown

I was at the pro-illegal immigration/pro-amnesty rally. I was one of the few,
vastly outnumbered supporters of Arizona's Senate Bill 1070.

A few of the more virulent ralliers threatened us, attempted to knock my sign
down, shot us the finger and occasionally turned to their people screaming, "La
raza! La raza!"

This rally had nothing to do with wanting to become assimilated American
citizens.

As for these boycotts of Arizona advocated by local politicians: This works both
ways. I will boycott anything promoted by Mayor Lee Leffingwell, Council Member
Mike Martinez or any other "leader" espousing such nonsense.

It would be nice if Gov. Rick Perry had the fortitude to support Arizona Gov.
Jan Brewer, but I'm sure such action horrifies those pondering a run for the
presidency.

Meanwhile, I'll be booking a vacation to Arizona this summer.

Tom Gribble

Elgin

If I travel to Arizona dressed in my cowboy boots, jeans and hat, I could be
stopped by the police and asked for my papers. Why?

Chances are, my ancestors have been in this country longer than the Arizona
police. I was born a fourth-generation Tejano in Austin in 1936.

Manuel C. Ledesma

Austin

Doris Meissner's column on May 4, "5 myths about immigration," was excellent as
far as it went, but it missed a key point on myth No. 1: Immigrants take jobs
from American workers.

Why do U.S. employers hire "illegal" immigrants? They're cheaper. Why are they
cheaper? Because they're "illegal."

If the immigrants had legal standing, they wouldn't have to submit in silence to
substandard wages and working conditions for fear of being deported. American
workers can demand fair treatment, so they're more costly to hire.

Unscrupulous employers thus have a huge stake in maintaining the status quo so
they can hire cheap "illegals."

Russ Prickett

Austin

Re: May 2 commentary "Community policing will suffer in Arizona."

I was really moved by Police Chief Art Acevedo's column. As I read it, I found
myself agreeing with every single point.

The immigration law is nothing more than a thin cover for racial profiling. I
agree with him that federal action needs to be taken to get control of our
immigration and our borders. It is not the local police department's
responsibility to enforce immigration laws, and they are hardly funded to do so.

Until federal employment laws are enforced against employers, nothing will
improve for legal immigrants or for illegal immigrants. Nonenforcement allows
employers to take advantage of illegal immigrants while denying meaningful
employment to legal immigrants and to our own citizens.

Thank you, chief, for sticking with us in Austin.

David Baker

cranky@austin.rr.com

Austin

Rock, rail and wait

I am very disappointed with the "rock and rail weekend" rail service by Capital
Metro on May 1.

My husband and I drove to Leander to catch the rail line, only to find the train
overcrowded with standing room only. We uncomfortably waited for nearly an hour
for the train to pull out of the station. At the very least, the frequency could
have been every half-hour like on the weekday schedule, which would have made
the commute significantly better. That way more people could ride with less wait
and a smaller crowd.

We took the bus for the return trip instead of waiting for the train.

I believe the planning woefully underestimated the response and couldn't be
adjusted to the obvious demand. How many times will MetroRail have to ask for a
do-over?

Crystal Bennett

busybeebennett@yahoo.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

State officials denounce EPA on two fronts

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 499 words


Consolidating the fronts on which they're doing battle with Washington, Texas
officials sent a defiantly worded letter to environmental officials Monday that
merged attacks against greenhouse gas regulation and federal disapproval of the
state's air permitting program.

"In order to deter challenges to your plan for centralized control of industrial
development through the issuance of permits for greenhouse gases, you have
called upon each state to declare its allegiance to the Environmental Protection
Agency's recently enacted greenhouse gas regulations - regulations that are
plainly contrary to United States law," reads the Aug. 2 letter from state
Attorney General Greg Abbott and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
Chairman Bryan Shaw to EPA head Lisa Jackson and EPA regional administrator Al
Armendariz .

"To encourage acquiescence with your unsupported findings you threaten to usurp
state enforcement authority and to federalize the permitting program of any
state that fails to pledge their fealty to" the EPA, the letter says.

In its railing against the federal government, the letter is nothing new. For
months, the state's Republican leadership has framed the environmental debate as
a state rights issue.

But the six-page letter marks what appears to be the first time that state
officials have linked the EPA's effort to regulate greenhouse gases with its
disapproval of permits for large refineries and power plants.

EPA officials had no comment on the letter. The agency proposed in September a
rule to regulate greenhouse gases from large, stationary sources, such as
coal-burning power plants and cement kilns. In Texas, many of those facilities
carry state-issued pollution permits that the EPA now says are too lax.

If those businesses have to get new permits, they might have to add controls for
carbon dioxide emissions, which they have said will cost them and their
customers. The Texas officials argue in their letter that businesses whose
permits are overturned should not have to add new pollution controls for
greenhouse gases.

The letter "childishly and churlishly" blames the federal government, said Andy
Wilson, who works on global warming issues for the Texas office of the nonprofit
government watchdog Public Citizen.

"This is almost entirely political and not very substantive," he said.

"This is about protecting the climate. This is about clean air for Texas
families and children, and protecting our natural resources in a responsible
manner. We need less crass political partisanship and more hard work to solve
the very real problems we face."

The letter also says that "Texas has neither the authority nor the intention of
interpreting, ignoring, or amending its laws in order to compel the permitting
of greenhouse gas emissions."

Under Texas' health code, the state has the power to "control air contaminants
as necessary to protect against adverse effects related to " climatic changes,
including global warming."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 704 words


Prison book ban

Re: Jan. 31 article "Variety of books banned in prison."

Eric Dexheimer's piece on book banning, as practiced by the Texas Department of
Criminal Justice, was interesting, informative, thought-provoking, thoroughly
researched and well-written in an extraordinarily objective voice.

This type of article and those assessing the veracity of candidates' claims
fulfill a newspaper's responsibility to keep us informed and stimulate interest
in what is happening around us. At a time when newspaper readership is
declining, the American-Statesman may well be able to reverse the trend.

Marilou Morrison

Austin

Haiti isn't Gaza

In criticizing a Statesman commentary highlighting Israel's rapid and effective
humanitarian assistance to Haiti, two letter writers contrast and condemn the
policies of the Jewish state toward Hamas-controlled Gaza. I find this
comparison absurd.

Despite a tragic history and crushing poverty, Haiti neither threatens nor
attacks its neighbors. If the Haitian government, like the one in Gaza,
regularly fired rockets into the United States, kidnapped and tortured American
soldiers and sent "human bombs" into our cities, the recent earthquake would
have been the least of its problems.

Jay Rubin

jaylrubin@gmail.com

Austin

Clean energy

In the State of the Union address, President Barack Obama called for "a
comprehensive energy and climate bill with incentives that will finally make
clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America."

What's clear to the president and leaders across the globe must become clear to
Congress: Our climate and energy needs are interdependent, and failing to
address both is reckless.

Now is the time for leadership. Our leaders should heed the countless voices
here in Texas and work together on meaningful and comprehensive clean energy
policies.

Diana Lewis

sunshine9782rose@yahoo.com

Round Rock

Fighting disease in Haiti

As hope for finding Haitian earthquake survivors is lost, infectious diseases
threaten to take more lives. Diarrhea, pneumonia and measles flourish in places
with unsanitary conditions. Crowded living quarters could also spread
tuberculosis.

Last year, two vaccines were introduced for diarrhea and pneumonia, major
childhood killers. Antibiotics can cure tuberculosis if treatment is available
for nine months.

As the aid continues to roll into Haiti, we must ensure that everything is done
to provide the children with  vaccines and TB victims with their medicine. This
will allow the people to grow strong, thrive and rebuild their country.

Anne Child

childanne@gmail.com

Dripping Springs

Guns at the Capitol

I find it incredibly ironic that the lawmakers at the Capitol want to screen
people for concealed weapons when they are the very people who passed laws
allowing their concealment in the first place.

Let them live by their own laws like the rest of us. My workplace doesn't have
people screened for concealed weapons; why should theirs?

Steve Cannon

Austin

Medicare for all

If any health insurance option that will increase coverage, decrease costs, cut
the deficit and protect coverage for seniors is on the table, then we are
finally ready for Medicare for all.

I've been a family physician for 24 years, and I've seen the changes we've gone
through. Approximately 50 percent of health costs go to profits or systemic
waste, created by a system that puts profits before people. All of the players
are niggling the patients and each other to make a buck.

Medicare for all would be a simple, level playing field, and we could finally
get fair pricing on medicines and services without creating so many
billionaires.

Dr. John Day

daysabroad@gmail.com

Austin

Coming Saturday
 Eat, drink and be merry.
 We know you will. It's Super Bowl Sunday. You know, the parties, the
over-analysis, the high fives. And, oh, those so-awesome commercials.
 But as we watch the Indianapolis Colts and New Orleans Saints, let's not
forget to have some hometown pride about Saints' quarterback Drew Brees, a
Westlake High School grad who has exceeded all expectations and become a top QB
 who leads a fun-to-watch offense. We can have even more pride in how Brees has
 become a community leader in New Orleans, a still-suffering city that can use
all the leaders it can get.



LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Virtual stars

BYLINE: Peter Mongillo AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1465 words


A cookie promoter, an environmental activists, an entertainer - the diversity of
the winners of this year's Texas Social Media Awards reflect the rapid evolution
of the field. The second annual awards ceremony on March 14 will recognize their
work in a world that begins with, but is not limited to, online tools such as
Facebook and Twitter. An overall winner also will be announced.

In the year since the awards were first held, social media sites increasingly
have become a part of daily life. "We've gone from people who were early
adopters and having fun with the technology to people using it for business and
nonprofits in ways I've never even thought of before," says American-Statesman
social media editor Robert Quigley.

Quigley, Statesman food writer and active social media user Addie Broyles and
last year's overall winner Michelle Greer, senior communications manager at
Rackspace Hostings, chose winners from more than 150 nominees.We asked each
winner to share a Twitter-sized thought on social media; a few were not able to
respond by our deadline. Responses are edited slightly for readability Winners
are in Austin unless otherwise noted.

Joshua Baer and the Capital Factory (capitalfactory.com)

The Capital Factory provides seed money and mentoring to local startups. Baer is
managing director. Founder of OtherInbox, he serves on the board of Greenling
Organic Delivery.

"Because of Twitter and Facebook, it's like I have my own personal version of
the Internet."

Brian Brushwood (shwood.squarespace.com)

Touring with his "Bizarre Magic Show," he hosts "Scam School," which he drove to
the top of the podcast charts using Twitter and Digg.

Ashley Cass (birdsbarbershop.tumblr.com)

Cass is event coordinator for Bird's Barbershop.

"Social media has changed the way we communicate entirely. Now everyone knows
what you love. It's the best, most efficient way for small businesses to reach
their fans."

Jennie Y. Chen (austindogfriendly.com)

Chen runs Keep Austin Dog Friendly, which utilizes social media to connect the
dog-loving community. She also used social media to organize last year's Cupcake
Smackdown.

"Social creatures use social media to connect. Nothing is more important (than)
the relationships we build with people we connect ... online or offline."

J.R. Cohen (facebook.com/WeSLGT)

Houston-based Cohen, who runs the Coffee Groundz coffee shop, founded Support
Local/Grow Together, a movement dedicated to boosting local businesses.

"I can help others, bring attention to a deserving person/cause. I can engage,
interact with people online and connect them offline."

Jenn Deering Davis and Hayes Davis of Cheaptweet (cheaptweet.com)

Cheap Tweet tracks coupons and discounts available on Twitter.

"A platform for all / Ideas are our currency / We talk in public."

Alan Graham (mlfnow.org/blog)

Graham uses social media to tell the stories of people he helps as founder of
Mobile Loaves and Fishes.

"Homelessness is a profound disconnectedness from self, family and community!
Social media is a powerful viral tool that connects people heart to heart. That
simple!"

Mark 'Rizzn' Hopkins (siliconangle.com)

Dallas-based editor-in-chief of tech magazine SiliconANGLE, Hopkins was
previously associate editor at the influential tech blog Mashable.

Evan Jenkins (cookiedelivery.com)

Jenkins started at Tiff's Treats three years ago delivering cookies, and has
since helped the local company connect with thousands through Twitter and
Facebook.

"I believe Twitter is so important because it offers an unadulterated look at
what people really think of our service and product. If we resist the dangerous
temptation to strictly 'sell, sell, sell,' then we can engage with customers in
a meaningful conversation, and not overwhelm them with sales pitches."

Cali Lewis (geekbrief.tv)

Lewis, who lives in Dallas, hosts the popular video podcast GeekBrief.TV, which
helps bridge the gap between hardcore tech fans and more casual followers.

"Social media accelerates the news delivery window and shifts the power to those
who embrace their audience and WANT to have a two-way conversation."

Livestrong (livestrongblog.org)

Lance Armstrong, Livestrong CEO Doug Ulman and online community evangelist
Brooke McMillan were all nominated for their ability to spread their message
through Twitter and Facebook.

Ulman: "Social media is transforming philanthropy and social entrepreneurship.
Social media equals social change."

Hugh MacLeod (gapingvoid.com)

Alpine-based MacLeod uses social media to promote his cartoons and "cube
grenades," which challenge us to find gratification in the workplace.

"Social media: It's cheap, it's easy and it's global. Old media isn't."

Tolly Moseley (thataustingirl.blogspot.com)

Moseley, who blogs at Austin Eavesdropper, organizes Austin blogger meet-ups.

"In my case, social media has actually helped foster more in-person connections
than virtual ones, because I use it so much for event planning. And that's the
best part " watching people make friends, launch businesses, etc., because of
lots and lots of typing I did on the computer."

Jennifer Navarrete (jennifernavarrete.com)

The founder of the San Antonio Podcasters Group is at the forefront of social
media in her community.

Leslie Nichols (austincitylimits.org)

Nichols, an associate producer at KLRU, uses social media to connect with fans
and post updates about "Austin City Limits."

"Social media tears down walls. In the past, we'd have to pay or coax others to
tell the public the ACL story - now we just do it ourselves."

Pamela Price (redwhiteandgrew.com)

The San Antonio-based freelance writer has a nationally recognized garden blog.

"Social media offers me a quick, near-constant and virtual 'high-touch'
connection with my far-flung readers for feedback AND inspiration."

Dara Quackenbush (daraquackenbush.com)

and Cindy Royal (cindyroyal.com)

Texas State University's Quackenbush, a senior lecturer in public relations, and
Royal, assistant professor in the School of Journalism and Mass Communication,
have raised the school's profile by promoting social media.

Quackenbush: "Social media provides two-way communication between an
organization and its customers, creating a more meaningful relationship between
the two." Royal: "Participation is the key to SM. It's about creating and
connecting, building community. You get what you give. Plus it's fun, so why
not?"

Trey Ratcliff (StuckInCustoms.com)

Ratcliff has developed a community of photographers and fans through his blog,
which features high dynamic range photography.

"Social media helps creators connect directly with consumers - and, nowadays, we
are all both creators and consumers!"

Mando Rayo (tacojournalism.com)

Rayo finds Austin's best tacos through his blog and uses social media to build
support for the United Way.

"Social media opens doors to engage in new, innovative ways; connects people to
organizations and businesses ; breaks down walls/barriers, makes people real and
it's fun!"

Grace Rodriguez (twitter.com/gracerodriguez)

Rodriguez uses social media as a principal of the Houston marketing/promotion
company AYN Brand as well as to help causes including YouthVote and Twestival.

Sheila Scarborough (tourismcurrents.com)

A writer, speaker and blogger, Scarborough is co-founder of Tourism Currents,
which teaches the tourism industry about social media.

"Social media means you have a hand-picked network available worldwide, 24 hours
a day, for the important or mundane questions in life."

Kevin Tuerff and Valerie Davis (GreenDetectives.net)

Tuerff and Davis run Enviromedia, which uses social media to help clients and
the public learn about climate change policy.

"It's a crazy green world. Word-of-mouth is critical for brand trust, behavior
change. For EnviroMedia and our clients, social media is a must-do."

Stephen Torrence (youtube.com/captainvalor)

Torrence, a senior at Texas Tech University, produces videos that translate
popular songs into sign language. They have been watched more than 1 million
times.

"Social media is the next evolution of human consciousness, creativity and
interaction. It open doors, hearts, minds and possibilities 24/7."

Josh Williams (gowalla.com)

Wlliams is a co-founder and CEO of Austin-based Gowalla, a location-based social
network.

"The promise of the social Web is that we can nourish more meaningful
relationships with friends than ever before. Of course, we only get out in
proportion to what we put in."

Shawn P. Williams (dallassouthnews.org)

Williams edits the Dallas South blog. "Social media gives a voice to those (who)
were shut out in the past. It also connects folks who would otherwise be
strangers or estranged."

The Texas Social Media Awards
 When: 6 p.m. March 14
 Where: The Cedar Door, 201 Brazos St.
 Tickets: socialmediawards.eventbrite.com (tickets will be available beginning
at noon today)



LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Firing hangs over co-op meeting

BYLINE: Patrick George AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 994 words


JOHNSON CITY ­- The specter of Juan Garza's abrupt firing as general manager of
the Pedernales Electric Cooperative loomed large over Saturday's annual
membership meeting, where two newly elected members replaced the last of the old
guard on the board of directors.

Scott Perry , a former assistant secretary of energy for New Mexico, and Ross
Fischer , the former head of the Texas Ethics Commission, were elected to
replace longtime Directors O.C. Harmon and R.B. Felps . Together, Felps and
Harmon had served more than 50 years; they did not run for re-election to the
eight-member board.

This marks the first time in the co-op's more than 70-year history that the
entire board has been democratically elected, officials said. Harmon and Felps
were named to the board during former General Manager Bennie Fuelberg 's reign,
when leadership operated largely behind closed doors and with little
accountability to members. Fuelberg faces felony theft charges in an upcoming
trial.

At a special meeting earlier Saturday, the board voted to appoint its general
counsel, Luis Garcia , as interim general manager until a permanent one can be
found through a national search.

Garcia joined the co-op in 2002, and he has established its legal department and
has acted as manager of human resources and information technology before being
appointed general counsel in March 2009.

Garcia said he is taking the job with the expectation that he will resume being
general counsel once Garza's replacement is found.

"I am very humbled by this, and I appreciate the confidence the board has in
me," Garcia said. "I hope to build a bridge to get us from where we are today to
when we get a permanent general manager."

The annual meeting, attended by about 550 people, capped a tense and often
emotional week at the co-op, which began with the board's termination of Garza
on Monday. Garza had served as general manager since early 2008, and the move to
terminate him was met with both criticism and praise.

On Saturday, a giant banner reading "WE NEED JUAN" hung at the co-op's overflow
parking lot on U.S. 281.

Nearly all comments during the annual meeting had to do with Garza; many
employees and some co-op members fired back at the board with harsh and often
angry sentiment.

Reading a statement prepared by Pedernales employees, Chris Varela , who works
in technical communications, said that under Garza staffers no longer lived in
constant fear of losing their jobs. Fuelberg, Garza's predecessor, had gained a
reputation as an authoritarian who cultivated an environment of fear and
oppression at the utility, several co-op employees said Saturday.

"We, at last, had a leader we could look up to and trust," Varela said. "Juan
Garza became the heart of this company, bringing new life and energy to it. The
employees cannot fathom why we would lose the person who began all the
transformations this company desperately needed."

Varela said more than 450 employees - more than half the work force - signed a
petition to ask the board to keep Garza. His words were met with a standing
ovation during the meeting, as were many speeches in support of Garza.

"It is unrealistic to think any executive worth having would want to work at PEC
after this example of the current board's poor leadership," employee David Munoz
said.

Many members questioned why the decision was made in secret and why no reasons
were given afterward.

"I wish I were at liberty to share some of the many and varied reasons for this
action, but for reasons of confidentiality, I cannot," board President Larry
Landaker, who made the motion to fire Garza in a closed meeting Monday, told
members and employees.

"I can tell you this decision was carefully considered by the board. It was not
made rashly or impulsively."

Several members, however, praised the decision to remove Garza, saying the board
was within its rights.

"He has not exhibited a sense of urgency," member John Watson said. "It is time
for new leadership."

When it came time to speak, Garza was often emotional.

"I have never in my professional life been as supported as I have here today,"
he said.

He shed some light on his disagreements with the board.

"I criticized an audit that accused my managers of resisting change without any
facts to back up such a damaging claim," he said. "I stand by my criticism of
that audit even though I fully support and acknowledge the crucial role an
internal auditor plays in effective management."

He said he had also been criticized for not firing enough managers left over
from the Fuelberg era. He contended that internal systems of recourse against
bad managers were working and that he was not "in the firing business."

Despite the contentious atmosphere, many left the meeting with a sense of
relief, or at least optimism for the future.

Members voted overwhelmingly to approve a new bill of rights, which establishes
core rights that can only be changed by a vote of the membership. Included in
those provisions are voting and election safeguards, and rights to access to
co-op meetings and records.

Fischer, of Kendalia, has said he wanted to restore trust between employees and
the board, and he advocated strict term limits for directors. Perry, of Dripping
Springs, has said he would push for affordability and power sources that
mitigate human-induced climate change.

"I am hopeful and optimistic about the future of PEC," Landaker said. "This
cooperative matters to people, and this board understands how important it is to
preserve it."

pgeorge@statesman.com;

512-392-8750

PEC 2010 annual member election
 Total votes cast: 20,727
 Proposed Amendment 1
 Establish a member bill of rights
 Yes: 19,356
 No: 809
 Proposed Amendment 2
 Allow board vacancies to remain until annual meeting
 Yes: 17,638
 No: 2,438
 Proposed Amendment 3
 List the cooperative's new registered agent in the bylaws
 Yes: 18,384
 No: 1,549
 Proposed Amendment 4
 Increase the quorum required to conduct business at a member meeting
 Yes: 17,389
 No: 2,531



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 951 words


Making a difference

I read with interest the Aug. 12 article featuring a number of grassroots groups
coming together for the betterment of our community ("Joining together to give
gains popularity"). I applaud the good work of these groups.

The Women's Leadership Council, an affinity group of United Way Capital Area, is
another such group whose members are trying to make a difference. The council
supports United Way Capital Area's Success by 6 initiative, which aims to make
sure that by the time they enter their first year of school -at 6 years old -
every child in Central Texas is prepared to become a healthy, happy and smart
student. Children who start school behind are more likely to stay behind. By
providing quality early child care, our dollars can go further and make a
greater impact.

I encourage Austinites to support the council and the other grassroots groups.
Groups like these amply demonstrate that it takes a village to make a village.

Peggy Hart

Chairwoman, Women's Leadership Council Executive Committee

peghart99@yahoo.com

Austin

The giving expands

Three cheers for your article on giving circles.

The first cheer is for your recognition and brief history of the phenomenal
growth of giving circles. To read that more than 44 states have groups
collectively deciding to support philanthropic organizations cannot help but
make a community stronger.

The second cheer goes to Rebecca Powers for starting Impact Austin in 2004.
Since then, 525 members have awarded $2.6 million to Austin nonprofits - truly
awe-inspiring!

Third, thank you for mentioning the year-old giving circle in Georgetown. Seeds
of Strength started with 54 woman joining together to award five nonprofits
$54,000. A special thank you to Powers for her guidance and friendship nurturing
our beginnings. We expect to increase the membership this year and look forward
to supporting nonprofits in the Georgetown area.

Kathy Krause

Georgetown

Say 'no' to city bond proposal

Many are concerned about the manner in which the Austin transportation bond
program will appear on the ballot. Apparently, all items, including boardwalks,
bicycle paths, jogging trails and lakeside projects will be listed
nonspecifically and voters will not be given the opportunity to vote for or
against nonessential items.

One positive way to curb the City Council's indifferent attitude toward the
expenditure of our money is to vote against the entire bond program and demand
that necessary improvements take priority.

So vote against the bond proposition.

Remington Webster

Austin

Freedom of religion

The founding fathers considered liberty so important that they pledged their
lives, fortunes and sacred honor to obtain it, then enshrined it in our
Constitution and especially in the Bill of Rights. But some conservatives are so
afraid of others having the same rights that they would rather give up their
freedoms than live in a nation that treats all people equally. This is why a
Muslim center down the street from the World Trade Center site sends some
conservatives into paroxysms of blithering fear. Freedom of religion is
something no legitimate authority can take away. It is time to stop giving up
our freedoms because these people are afraid. As for me and my house, we will
never cease striving until America truly gives liberty and justice for all, no
matter their religion, race, gender, country of origin, economic class or sexual
orientation.

Nathan G. Hardee

Austin

An affront to free speech

As someone who sincerely believes that newspapers are vital to the survival of
our democracy, I was disappointed that the American-Statesman did not make more
of an issue that people wishing to peacefully protest government policies during
President Barack Obama's visit to Austin were confined to a "free speech zone."

The fact that Americans were arrested for peacefully protesting outside a "free
speech zone" is an affront to the Bill of Rights. I can see no other logical
explanation than this was an attempt to silence political opposition and limit
the people's right to communicate with their president.

The press is the only private institution the founding fathers felt the
importance of giving special constitutional protection to preserve all our
freedoms. It's distressing that you did not see the importance of making a "free
speech zone" an issue as a serious affront to the First Amendment.

Eric A. Anderson

eric123abc@austin.rr.com

Austin

Time for change

This year the Lake Travis Independent School District and Eanes Independent
School District will give $85.7 million in property taxes to the state under
Chapter 41.

Remember when our governor and elected officials were going to make this their
No. 1 priority?

Change is a wonderful tool. It happens daily when CEOs fail to meet the
standards of performance placed on them. Electing a governor for one more term
falls in this category, as does most of our state senators and state
representatives, regardless of political alliance.

There are less than 100 days until we all have the chance to make changes. Make
your vote count.

Bob Arrona

Bee Cave

No across-the-board raises

I have supported the Austin Independent School District in past elections, but I
oppose a tax rate increase to pay for an across-the-board teacher pay raise in
the current economic climate.

Further, I have recently become aware of the ironclad nature of teacher
contracts. Did you know that even teachers who have committed a crime cannot
necessarily be fired?

Unfit teachers demean the entire profession and rip off children, schools and
taxpayers. They certainly do not deserve a raise.

Until the Austin school board does something about these ridiculous contracts,
the taxpayers should just say no.

Casie Wenmohs

Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who was Joe Stack?

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2338 words


For many years, Andy Stack , as he was known to his classmates at the Milton
Hershey School, was among "the lost."

"We don't know where they are, and we don't have a forwarding address for them,"
said Mike Macchioni, the alumnus representative for the class of 1974 of the
famed Pennsylvania orphanage.

And then, one day, maybe 10 years ago, Macchioni tracked Stack down in
California.

"Among the lost, you don't know what to expect," he said. "Maybe not everyone
had a positive experience. But he had people closer than sisters and brothers
here."

Macchioni's conversation with Stack was brief. "He wasn't rude to me at all, but
he was very matter-of-fact. He said something tantamount to, 'I have nothing
against you personally; I just want nothing to do with the Milton Hershey School
or anyone having to do with the Milton Hershey School.' That's different from a
lot of us."

That seemed to be a pattern with Stack, who went from Pennsylvania to California
to Austin, leaving behind businesses and family - he had an ex-wife in
California and hadn't spoken to at least one brother for 15 years. He was, in
short, the sort of man who makes sure to pull the door shut quietly behind him.

Until the day last month when Andrew Joseph Stack III slammed it emphatically,
crashing his plane into the offices of the Internal Revenue Service in Northwest
Austin, killing a man and taking his own life in the crush of steel, glass and
fire.

'A tenacious individual'

Milton and Kitty Hershey, rich from the chocolate business but childless,
started their orphanage in 1909. Graduates were given $100, a suitcase full of
new clothes and a kit of machine tools to prepare them for a job - part of the
mission to send children to "fulfilling and productive lives."

Stack was what they called a lifer. His father, who hailed from Pittsburgh, had
died of a heart attack in 1962 in Colorado, where he worked as a pipe fitter and
where all the Stack children were born - Andrea first, then Andy, Samantha,
Harry and Tom, the youngest, according to Harry Stack.

"I'm sure that I inherited the fascination for creative problem-solving from my
father," Stack wrote in the long suicide note he posted online. "I realized this
at a very young age."

Soon, their mother moved the family to Johnstown, in western Pennsylvania, where
she grew up. In August 1964, Andy, then 7 years old, and Harry, then 5, were
placed in the all-boys Milton Hershey boarding school, 150 miles to the east.
(Tom was not old enough for the orphanage.) Several months later, according to
Harry Stack, their mother killed herself with a gun.

The two girls and the youngest boy were split up among relatives . Some holidays
were spent together , and the boys hung out now and then in their free time. But
largely because they were in different grades and because, Harry said, the
school administration chose to keep them separate, they did not depend on each
other on campus.

"We were in close proximity, but separate," said Harry Stack. "We didn't grow up
in an atmosphere that fostered contact. Nobody said, 'You guys are brothers;
it's important you two especially try to have some shared experiences' - the
kinds of things that bond siblings together their entire life."

Parts of the school were rough-and-tumble with kids from broken homes. Some had
parents who committed suicide. Some were street kids, whose bullet wounds you
could see in the showers, said Jim Allison, a classmate and school friend of Joe
Stack's who lived in the same student house with him for more than a year.

"To a certain degree, some of those kids came in already emotionally scarred,"
Allison said. "For some of them, it was the last step before reform school."

But that wasn't the case with Andy Stack. He was always near the top of his
class; he was in glee club, played the clarinet and was in the band and
orchestra. As the counterculture movement swept through Hershey and the rest of
the country, Stack toed the line.

"He was probably one of the more conservative people in class," said Allison,
who sang with him in glee club. "I don't remember him doing drugs, don't
remember him fighting the system, don't remember him being rebellious. He was a
pretty strait-laced guy."

"To the general population, he would have been introverted," Macchioni said. "I
remember a very acerbic wit. He struck me as being very funny."

Despite his extracurricular activities, Andy Stack wasn't particularly attached
to the school, his brother said.

"We didn't perceive the environment we grew up as nurturing," said Harry Stack,
who now lives in Ohio. "Many other people saw it as a great place to grow up. It
was a safe place, and every material want was certainly met.

"Someone spoke about the place as being a warehouse, where you were out of the
rain, well-fed, but we had the sense there were people with fewer material
goods, but they had adults, caregivers, around them, who interacted with them on
a little more of a caring level and, perhaps, even more of a loving level."

Andy tended to be dedicated, even "fixated" on his own activities, according to
Harry. Long after lights were turned out in the boys' rooms, he would strum a
guitar in the dark as he tried to improve his playing.

"He could get stuck on something even then. He was a tenacious individual,"
Harry Stack said.

"When people raise their kids, they relate their interests and their passions,
even, hope their kids follow those passions," continued his brother, who has
children of his own. "He developed the passions he cared about in a sort of
vacuum."

'Paddling furiously'

Upon leaving Milton Hershey, with suitcase in hand, Andy Stack enrolled in
Harrisburg Community College in Pennsylvania. He was a small man - maybe 5 feet
6 inches, with a lazy eye - and introduced himself for the first time as Joe.

"I ran into him there," Allison said. "But he cut himself off from everybody.
Then I never saw him again."

Without graduating, he left Harrisburg, where he survived on peanut butter and
bread "or Ritz crackers when I could afford to splurge," Stack wrote in his
suicide note. He moved to his native Colorado, where he graduated in 1979 with a
degree in electronic engineering technology from Southern Colorado University.

Then he struck out for California.

He was meticulous in his hobbies and occupations - playing music and writing
software - and it was in California, according to his suicide note, where his
attention turned to taxes.

"He liked the idea not only of saving himself a couple of bucks, but of getting
one over on 'the man,'" Harry Stack said.

"Some friends introduced me to a group of people who were having tax code
readings and discussions," Joe Stack wrote in his suicide message, a manifesto
of grievances that he edited 27 times in the days before the Feb. 18 plane
crash.

Ducking taxes became another fixation for Stack, and he threw himself into a
protracted struggle against the government over money he owed.

According to The Associated Press, in the 1980s, Joe Stack and his former wife,
Ginger, formed a branch of the Universal Life Church Inc., which the IRS
declared an illegal tax shelter. The Stacks then sued the U.S. government to
defend the tax-exempt status of the "home church."

He became further outraged by a 1986 tax code change that barred contract
software engineers from certain deductions. "They could only have been more
blunt if they would have came out and directly declared me a criminal and
non-citizen slave," Stack wrote in his manifesto.

The year after the tax code change he spent close to $5,000 to protest and at
least 1,000 hours "writing, printing, and mailing to any senator, congressman,
governor, or slug that might listen."

"I spent countless hours on the L.A. freeways driving to meetings and any and
all of the disorganized professional groups who were attempting to mount a
campaign against this atrocity," he wrote.

But when Harry Stack visited his brother in California, he left the impression
that he "was just a person trying to make a living."

"He seemed like one of us ducks floating down the river. We just didn't realize
he was paddling so furiously under the water," Harry Stack said.

'Financially sane'

On a flight aboard his Piper to New Mexico in 2005 , Stack told Simone Wensink,
the singer in their band - Last Straw, named by Stack - that he had moved to
Austin because living was cheaper, the flying easier and the music scene
thriving.

He had left behind in California a divorce, a depressed economic climate and,
according to his note, a government doggedly chasing after his savings. In 1988,
after five years of litigation, the Stacks were ordered to pay $14,446 in back
taxes from 1981, 1982 and 1983, and untold penalties and interest for fraud and
negligence, according to U.S. Tax Court documents obtained by The Associated
Press.

"He was a good man," his ex-wife in California told the Los Angeles Times on the
day of the crash. "Frustrated with the IRS, yes, but a good man."

On that 2005 flight to New Mexico, Stack was on his way to meet someone, and
Wensink tagged along so she could meet a friend. That wasn't unusual: Stack
often offered plane rides to his friends and bandmates.

"He took their families and kids to San Antonio or to the coast for dinner,"
said Paul Ramsey, who engineered Last Straw's sole album in his recording
studio, Perfect Pitch. "He told me, 'If you ever have a gig and a session and
can't ditch either one, just give me a call and pay the gas.'"

"Everyone in the band just loved him to death. They looked to him for answers -
musical, intellectual," Ramsey said.

Wensink, who sang "A Certain Kind of Magic," the only Stack-written song on the
album, said he was a motivated, on-time band musician.

He was also careful about the recording of the music.

"The only problem (he and I) ever had was analog versus digital," remembered
Ramsey, who said he last saw Stack at least a year ago. "He tried to get the
band to leave because I didn't have a computer."

Eventually, Ramsey prevailed, engineered and mixed the album. Stack, he said,
was extremely pleased at how it came out.

"He had a vocabulary that stretched around the world three times," Ramsey said.
"He seemed like he was financially sane and sound. All his equipment was nice,
his watch was nice, his car was nice, his glasses were nice, and his hygiene was
flawless."

Before he burned it down, authorities say, Stack's house in a modest North
Austin subdivision, Scofield Farms, was valued at $232,000, according to records
with the Travis Central Appraisal District. Prices for his sort of plane, a
four-seater, single-propeller Piper Cherokee Dakota, start at about $100,000 on
the Web site tradeaplane.com.

Just as he had with the band name, Stack volunteered "Over the Edge" as the
album title, and it stuck.

The band lasted through 2007, playing gigs at Graffiti's, at the Alligator
Grill, on an unofficial South by Southwest Music Festival stage and on a network
television morning show.

But Wensink got married, as did Stack, who wed Sheryl Housh in a small ceremony
that year, and the band dissolved. And Stack lost touch with at least some of
his bandmates.

'Stop this insanity'

"He was a mixture of tech nerd and laid-back musician," recalled Susan Kidwell,
a neighbor in Northwest Austin whose family occasionally had dinner with the
Stacks, attended some of their house concerts and had them over to watch
football games. "He was quiet and milquetoasty, nice and polite."

The Saturday before Stack crashed his plane, his stepdaughter, Margaux, came
over to play video games with the Kidwells' son. Sheryl Stack picked her up, and
nothing seemed amiss.

Kidwell said Stack was supportive of his wife, who is in a doctoral music
program at the University of Texas. Sheryl Stack, who spent the night before Joe
Stack crashed his plane in a hotel room with Margaux, declined to comment.

When the Stacks came over to watch the Super Bowl in early February, he greeted
Kidwell with a hug. Everyone was rooting for the New Orleans Saints. Sheryl
joked that Joe Stack would root for the Indianapolis Colts just to be contrary.

"From time to time we talked about politicians, but I never heard a single
political comment that stuck in my mind," she said.

During the University of Texas vs. Texas A&M football game in November, Stack
took issue with the Longhorns' play-calling. Insanity, he told Kidwell and
others gathered to watch the game, is repeating the same thing and expecting a
different outcome each time.

A couple of months later, in his manifesto, he would write: "I saw it written
once that the definition of insanity is repeating the same process over and over
and expecting the outcome to suddenly be different. I am finally ready to stop
this insanity. Well, Mr. Big Brother IRS man, let's try something different;
take my pound of flesh and sleep well."

Some who knew Stack best did not want to talk about him - adding to the mystery
of a man with a history of shutting doors behind him. He had no children of his
own . He and his ex-wife were married for 18 years before divorcing in 1999, but
after her initial comments to the press, Ginger Stack did not return phone calls
from the American-Statesman.

Harry Stack had not been in touch with his brother for 15 years, did not know
that he had moved to Texas, did not know that he had remarried and did not know
that he had set up a new life.

He learned of his fate when he read a news story about the plane attack online,
clicked on the manifesto and saw his brother's name.

"It was dreadful," he said, choking up.

Joe Stack had acted alone, with a terrible determination, as he had so often in
his life.

"It's kind of an American ideal - 'You're on your own, captain of my fate,'"
said Harry Stack. "Part of his thinking there is that what happens to you in
your life, the circumstances you find yourself in, are largely the circumstances
you make for yourself - it's all up to you. You're just on your own."

Then, sounding weary , he added, "I just wish he said, 'I'm in a bind, and I
need some help.'"

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Hallway to HEAVEN

BYLINE: Pam LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. G12

LENGTH: 901 words


GUADALUPE MOUNTAINS NATIONAL PARK - I'm trying to figure out why they call this
place Devil's Hall, because it looks like heaven to me.

Could El Diablo really claim this tight-as-Spandex canyon, with prickly pear
cactus clinging to the cliff walls like a hanging garden? Would he revel in the
breeze that's wafting through the 15-foot-wide passage? Would he smile at the
aoudad sheep lounging like sunbathing teenagers on the escarpment just beyond?

I'm perched on a boulder at the end of a rocky trail that leads to this dreamy
spot at Guadalupe Mountains National Park, a 86,416-acre chunk of Texas I'm
visiting for the first time.

And I'm quite certain that whoever named this place got it all wrong.

Our group of seven started at the Pine Springs trailhead an hour and a half ago.
We walked up a gentle slope, dropped into a dry streambed and pushed back into a
canyon that got snugger and snugger until we reached a terraced 12-foot pour-off
called the Hiker's Staircase. (At least they got the name right for that one;
it's as easy to climb as the stairs at my office.)

From there, the needle on my hiker-happiness meter skyrocketed. We romped down a
"hallway" of fractured rock walls 80 feet high, which opened into a wide bowl
filled with rocks perfect for sitting, which is what we are doing. To make the
moment last, I'm nibbling snap peas and pistachios, soaking it all in.

The sky is perfect cerulean; the spicy smell of juniper tickles my nose. Not far
away, the smooth, red bark of a rare Texas madrone tree draws my eye.

This trip hasn't been without glitches, but sometimes unexpected changes in
plans have happy consequences.

Originally, we planned to hike to the highest point in Texas, which also happens
to be in this park - 8,749-foot Guadalupe Peak. High winds forced our merry band
of hikers to stick to more protected terrain, where we couldn't be blown off
sheer mountain edges.

I'm a little disappointed in missing the sweeping views from the top of Texas,
but I'll come back. My knees probably appreciate the change in agenda, anyway.

The Guadalupe Peak trail is steep, with exposed cliff edges in some places.
Rangers say it takes most hikers six to eight hours to do the round trip, and
the trail should be avoided during high winds and thunderstorms. Those high
winds - over 75 mph on occasion - usually happen in winter and early spring.

They are happening (although not at the 75 mph level, thank goodness) now.

Instead of tackling 3,000 feet of elevation gain in a strenuous 8.4-mile round
trip hike, we're doing a more moderate, 4.2-mile stroll. It's less dramatic, but
still a beautiful substitute on a windy day.

Last night we pitched our tents in the Pine Springs campground, where campsites
are cleverly tucked behind trees and next to ripples in the hillside for
privacy. We shivered in our sleeping bags and listened as 45 mph wind gusts
blasted our tents overnight, but camping puts a smile on my face even in
less-than-optimal conditions.

Just a peek at this scenery sends my thoughts racing.

A vast ocean once covered this area. The mountains are part of an ancient,
400-mile-long horseshoe-shaped reef formed 260 million years ago, before the sea
evaporated and was buried in sediment. An earth-shattering, mountain-forming
uplift forced that fossilized reef up, creating the towering peaks that now
surround me.

The more recent history captivates, too.

The native Nde people once lived in these mountains. Later, the Butterfield
stagecoach route, the country's first transcontinental mail route, ran through
them. Today, the range is home to a small herd of elk, a remnant, along with the
Ponderosa pines and a few aspen, of the cooler climate this part of Texas
enjoyed 15,000 years ago.

The park was created in 1972. Wallace Pratt donated part of the land to the
National Park Service in 1959; the rest was purchased by the agency.

Our snacks finished and our trail at a dead end, we turn back, retracing our
steps through the Devil's Hall and down the Hiker's Staircase. We pause when one
of our group spots a group of aoudad sheep on a nearby cliff. We watch, as
mesmerized by the curly-horned animals with no fear of heights as they are by
us. They look similar to bighorn sheep, but aren't native to the area.

Then we head on, hiking in the shadow of a massive crown of cliffs streaked red
and gray. Birds wheel overhead; a trio of deer scampers past.

The trail eases back down to the campground, and the backdrop of our trail
sweeps from high mountains to floor of the Chihuahuan desert. The contrast is
remarkable.

Guadalupe Peak is the highest point in the state, but visitors who skip some of
the lesser-known trails like this one will miss a quieter, more serene side of
the park.

And on a windy day, they won't be sorry they missed the sheer drop-offs.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

If you go . . .
 Guadalupe Mountains National Park is about 60 miles north of Van Horn on U.S.
62/180. From Austin, it's a 10-hour drive. The park has developed campgrounds
with water and restrooms at Pine Springs and Dog Canyon. Entrance fee is $5 per
 person age 16 and older. Camping fee is $8 per night per site (discount for
seniors). Ten small backcountry campgrounds without amenities also are
available. Backcountry permits available for free at park headquarters. No
water in the backcountry. For more information, call the Headquarters Visitor
Center at Pine Springs at 915-828-3251.



LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 7, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Staples outdated with statement on EPA gas regulation

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1057 words


Todd Staples, the state agriculture commissioner, this year joined Gov. Rick
Perry and Attorney General Greg Abbott in objecting to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency designating half a dozen greenhouse gases as endangering
public health.

Staples says on his campaign website, which we visited in late May, that he's
fighting the December "endangerment" finding because the consequences would be
disastrous for Texas farmers who, he implies, would suffer from government
monitoring and regulation of gases emitted by animals and equipment.

"Companies that will be endangered in Texas include 575 dairy facilities, 58
swine operations (and) 1,300 corn farms," Staples says. "No industry is more
threatened than the cattle industry. If this rule is implemented, an estimated
28,000 beef cattle operations in Texas will fall under EPA regulation."

Milk, pigs, corn, cows - the feds whuppin' all these grown-in-Texas products? We
wondered if Staples plows a straight row.

Cody McGregor, Staples' campaign manager, said the commissioner, a Republican
seeking re-election, derived his Texas figures from a July 2008 letter written
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture in response to the EPA's draft advance
notice to regulate greenhouse gases.

In its letter, the USDA said that if greenhouse gas emissions were regulated
under the Clean Air Act, numerous farms then not required to seek gas-emission
permits would be so burdened. The 1970 act directs the EPA to establish air
quality standards; the law requires the agency to concentrate on major
polluters, which are defined as those that emit more than 100 tons of
unhealthful pollutants a year.

The USDA letter says that even "very small agricultural operations" would fall
in that category: "For example, dairy facilities and farms with over 500 acres
of corn may need to get a Title V permit. It is neither efficient nor practical
to require permitting and reporting of (greenhouse gas) emissions from farms of
this size. Excluding only the 200,000 largest commercial farms, our agricultural
landscape is comprised of 1.9 million farms with an average value of production
of $25,589 on 271 acres."

On June 23, 2009, Staples sent a letter to Lisa Jackson, the EPA administrator,
objecting to the greenhouse gas endangerment finding. That letter says that
based on the USDA's herd and acreage estimates, Texas in 2007 had about 575
dairy facilities, 28,000 beef cattle operations, 58 swine operations and 1,300
corn farms that met the "regulatory threshold."

So, Staples aired his Texas estimate nearly a year ago based on a USDA's
assessment of the impact of EPA plans to regulate greenhouse gases drafted about
a year before that.

Presuming his math is solid, we wondered if the nearly 2-year-old concerns
shared by the USDA still hold. To our queries, Staples did not say precisely why
or how the EPA's permitting will endanger the Texas operations he tallies.

In Washington, EPA spokeswoman Catherine Milbourn looked over the information
provided by Staples' campaign. She said the analyses reflect expectations about
the EPA's plans that are no longer valid because the EPA effectively excused
farms from complying with the requirements cited in the USDA's letter. EPA
spokesman Brendan Gilfillan followed up with an e-mail: "These types of doomsday
scenarios are simply untrue. EPA issued a rule that would specifically ensure
small businesses and farms are shielded from clean air act permitting" for
greenhouse gases.

The EPA's May 13 final "tailoring rule," a descriptive reflecting the agency's
decision not to impose the same pollutant thresholds on greenhouse gases that
were spelled out for pollutants in the Clean Air Act, specifies the types of
entities that will initially have to toe the line on greenhouse gas emissions.

An accompanying fact sheet states: "Facilities responsible for nearly 70 percent
of the national (greenhouse gas) emissions from stationary sources will be
subject to permitting requirements under this rule. This includes the nation's
largest (greenhouse gas) emitters - power plants, refineries, and cement
production facilities. Emissions from small farms, restaurants, and all but the
very largest commercial facilities will not be covered by these programs at this
time."

McGregor, of Staples' campaign, conceded that the EPA's May 13 rule excludes
farms. McGregor said, however, that what the EPA says today "can likely change
tomorrow." He pointed us to an online analysis of the rule by Washington lawyer
Richard Stoll, whose clients include industrial operators including Portland
cement manufacturers.

Stoll told us he expects the rule to be challenged in federal court because the
pollutant thresholds in the rule are far above what the Clean Air Act mandates.
More broadly, Stoll said, the EPA wants Congress to pass laws related to
greenhouse gas regulation; one way of touching off such action is to issue rules
that are likely to be tossed in court.

"There is a good chance that the D.C.. Circuit (court) will throw that
regulation out, and then all of a sudden EPA is going to be confronted with
having to do something about all these farms and everything (else)," Stoll said.
"There's grounds to be fearful here."

However, Stoll said, should the EPA ever get to the point of requiring farmers
to monitor and report on localized gas emissions, Congress almost certainly will
intervene.

"If all of a sudden you're having farmers worried about monitoring cow farts,
Congress will be all over this," he said. "It might not be immediately; it could
be a damn mess for a while."

Where does all this leave Staples' statement?

The commissioner had a basis for his numbers in the 2008 USDA letter. But his
assumption that farms would be subject to the regulations expired when the EPA
issued its final rule weeks ago. Since then, Staples has neither adjusted nor
reasonably explained his outdated complaint.

We rate his statement as False.

wgselby@statesman.com

Todd Staples
 The statement: 'The EPA's regulation would directly impact thousands of Texas
businesses and cost real jobs. Companies that will be endangered in Texas
include 575 dairy facilities, 58 swine operations, 1,300 corn farms. No
industry is more threatened than the cattle industry. If this rule is
implemented, an estimated 28,000 beef cattle operations in Texas will fall
under EPA regulation.'


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Utility candidates tout experience, stress need to watch green costs

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 455 words


The two men hoping to run Austin Energy met the public for the first time
Wednesday night and pledged to carefully consider costs as they carry out a city
plan to aggressively invest in renewable energy.

Larry Weis and David Wright, both of whom run smaller utilities in California,
said their experiences with the Golden State's green energy mandates, which are
similar to Austin's, have taught them how to strike a balance that is sometimes
difficult to find.

That balance will be important at Austin Energy - arguably the city's most
important department, with assets around $1.3 billion - as it heads into an
uncertain time in the energy business and, according to previous General Manager
Roger Duncan, is facing bankruptcy in a few years if it does not rethink its
basic business assumptions.

Weis, head of the Turlock Irrigation District, told a crowd of about 100 that he
started in the late 1970s working on renewable-energy issues in Snohomish
County, Wash., near Seattle, then moved to the poles and wires side of the
business, eventually winding up in California.

He said a balance between cost and environmental stewardship can be struck, but
only if green-energy purchases are carefully timed to a city's increasing energy
needs. Weis emphasized that he wants to move the city away from coal, which now
generates about a third of Austin's electricity and emits gases that many
climate scientists say contribute to global warming.

And "as far as new nuclear (purchases) go, I'm not going to touch it," he said.

Wright, the general manager of the Riverside Public Utilities Department, said
that his work earlier in life as an accountant gives him the background to
analyze the trade-offs between environmental protection and cost.

He said that when he took over at Riverside five years ago, he mandated that all
new energy come from renewable sources, and said his inclination is to invest as
heavily as feasible in energy-efficiency programs.

He noted that Texas is one of the least energy-efficient states in the country.
But, he said, "one of the best things I saw in Texas, and in Austin in
particular, is there has been a careful analysis of the costs" of renewables.
"In California, there have been so many plans that there hasn't been much
analysis on the impact to customers."

Wright said that if concrete numbers are presented to the public, a consensus
will emerge about steps Austin Energy should take.

Mark Washington, the city's director of human resources, has said City Manager
Marc Ott plans to make a decision on whom to hire in a matter of days. But City
Council members have said they are willing to support starting the search over
if there are any doubts about Weis and Wright.

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ott chooses California exec to run city's utility

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 764 words


Larry Weis, a self-described "closet green" who has run a rural electricity and
water provider in California for the past decade, is being hired as the next
general manager of Austin Energy, the city-owned electric utility.

City Manager Marc Ott announced his decision to hire Weis at a news conference
Thursday, saying that a visit last week to Weis' Turlock Irrigation District
removed any doubt about his top choice.

'This is one of the most exciting and challenging times (Austin Energy) has
seen," Ott said. "I'm here today to tell you, yes, I believe (Weis) is ready."

Weis will start Sept. 27 and earn $285,000 a year, making him the highest-paid
city employee. Roger Duncan, the previous general manager, made $216,756
annually. Ott said the higher salary was necessary because Weis was making
$277,188 a year in base salary in California. The salary is still less than
those of the heads of many comparable utilities, city officials said.

"I put my heart and soul into making (Turlock) a bigger and better
organization," Weis said Thursday in California, "and I'm very excited about the
challenge of doing the same in Austin."

The hiring was hardly a surprise - before leaving for California, Ott had
informed his City Council bosses that he intended to pick Weis unless he
uncovered something unexpected in Turlock. And, although some environmental
activists said they still oppose Weis, the announcement was greeted with varying
degrees of support from most of the city's stakeholder groups.

"In my perfect world, he would know more about the smart grid and clean tech,"
which will be key aspects of 21st-century utilities, said Jim Marston, head of
the Texas chapter of the Environmental Defense Fund, who accompanied Ott on his
California trip as a representative of Austin's environmental activist
community.

But, Marston said, "I think (Weis) is smart, open, and will learn the things he
needs to know."

Martha Smiley, a representative of Austin's business community who also
accompanied Ott, said Weis "had, across the board, with every person we talked
to, an excellent reputation as a utility manager, innovator and community
leader."

Weis will face significant challenges in taking over Austin Energy, a $1.3
billion enterprise that, like the electric industry itself, is facing a period
of uncertainty.

In the short term, Austin Energy will have to deal with a looming budget crisis
that Duncan said would leave the utility $177 million in the red by 2013 without
major changes. Austin Energy will almost certainly raise rates significantly
around 2012 through a politically sensitive process that will be watched
carefully by state legislators.

Weis will also oversee an aggressive, City Council-mandated switch to
renewable-energy sources such as wind and solar power. By the end of the decade,
Austin Energy plans to get 35 percent of its electricity from those sources, up
from 10 percent now, and begin phasing out coal, Austin's biggest source of
electricity.

Ott said one of Weis' major accomplishments was his oversight of a similar,
state-mandated shift in Turlock, which now gets 28 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources.

In a meet-and-greet with the public in Austin earlier this month, Weis said he
is concerned about coal's contribution to global climate change, and "as far as
new nuclear (purchases) go, I'm not going to touch it."

Turlock has had several rate increases in recent years, including a 15 percent
increase last year. But it still has one of California's lowest rates, and Ott
said he is confident with Weis' ability to keep rates reasonable.

Meeting California's mandates "is challenging, and it's not cheap," Ott said.
"Much of what it cost to move in that direction is a function of the market."

Some of Austin's environmental activists disputed that analysis. Mike Sloan, a
wind energy advocate, said in e-mail exchanges with Weis that he was not
satisfied with Weis' explanation of the increases and was also not sold on Weis'
knowledge of the Texas energy market.

Joel Serface, former head of the Clean Energy Incubator, said that by hiring a
relative unknown, Austin is risking some of its national reputation for
innovation because the utility director will play a major role in the city's
plans to attract new technology companies.

"After years of Austin Energy pushing the envelope of both low residential bills
and innovation, we can no longer take it for granted," activist Robin Rather
said. "It's not clear why Ott is taking such a big risk on someone with so
little expertise in what matters most."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 29, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Unplugged

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 1765 words


M1EK's Bake-Sale of Bile

mdahmus.monkeysystems.com/blog

A comment I just left at Capital MetroBlog's entry full of people insisting that
the train is successful now or will succeed soon:

"So it turns out Capital Metro isn't going to wait any longer for us to 'clap
louder or Tinkerbell will die'; in the January service change, they will cancel
many 984 and 986 bus runs in order to attempt to boost MetroRail ridership.

"Some of those people currently riding those far superior express buses will
switch; some will go back to driving.

"The key here is that when you build a GOOD rail line, most people switch from
redundant bus lines willingly ... because the train is better than the bus. Only
awful trains require you to force-march passengers away from what they choose to
ride; and this only works for captive riders, and only for a while.

"Once again, M1EK was right - and those of you defending Capital Metro were
wrong."

Capital Metro is about to learn the difference between "captive rider" and
"choice commuter" (and the rest of us are going to learn how many of each
comprised the ridership of these express bus routes).

- Mike Dahmus

Austin Contrarian

austincontrarian.com

There has been a lot of hand wringing the last couple of years about the
collapse of the commercial credit market. Many of us in Austin have worried that
the collapse will cripple badly needed redevelopment downtown for years to come.

It turns out that those worries are unfounded. The first green shoots are
shooting. The owners of a just-demolished Warehouse District building installed
a brand spanking new surface parking lot at 5th and Colorado.

The parking lot will save patrons of the restaurants and bars along 4th and 5th
a trudge from one of the many surface parking lots a full block or two away.
Better, it breaks up the monotonous row of restaurants and offices stretching
from Congress to Lavaca, provides some badly needed open space.

Sarcasm doesn't play well, I know, but leveling a building for a parking lot in
the middle of the Warehouse District deserves contempt.

The owners are planning an 18-20 story hotel at the site. This will be a net
gain for the District " if the owners follow through.

And that's the catch. It might be years before we see anything there. The shiny
concrete parking lot tells us the owners think so too.

I have no objection to property owners downtown speculating in real estate by
deferring the redevelopment of their property. What I object to is this form of
land-banking. Retaining a low-rise building and its tenants keeps a street
healthy; demolishing it for a surface parking lot wounds the streetscape and
hurts surrounding property values.

Maybe "contempt" is too harsh. I assume the owners know their business and this
was a rational business decision. The city can change the incentives, though.
Instead, it is preoccupied with devising new ways to burden buildings that might
actually get built.

- Chris Bradford

Focal Point

statesman.com/focalpoint

Last spring, following revelations that the head of the Boys & Girls Club of
America earned nearly $1 million while the charitable organization's programs
were being cut, I wrote about highly compensated nonprofit executives in Texas,
asking how much was reasonable pay. The article highlighted a large pay package
for the leader of the YMCA of Greater Houston, among others.

Turns out it was a worthy target.

According to a study released this month by Charity Navigator, a Washington,
D.C.-based nonprofit evaluator of nonprofits, Clark Baker, the long-time leader
of the Houston YMCA, was the highest-paid nonprofit administrator of a human
services organization in the U.S. last year. His $662,000 in annual compensation
is about five times the median pay for the category.

The head of the New York Philharmonic topped the list of highly paid charity
bosses, with total compensation last year of $2.65 million.

At the time I wrote about the subject, a spokesman for the Y's board defended
Baker's pay, pointing out that "the YMCA of Greater Houston is the third-largest
YMCA in the country, growing faster than any YMCA over the last 10 years, and
has a qualified and experienced CEO to lead our complex and intricate
125-year-old organization." Baker earned considerably more than the chief
executives at YMCAs in New York and Los Angeles.

According to Charity Navigator's survey, which reviewed the latest financial
returns of more than 3,000 nonprofits nationwide, the median CEO compensation
for an organization the size of the Houston YMCA - with a budget of about $110
million annually - was about $350,000.

Unreported in both my story and the Charity Navigator report was how much other
Houston YMCA execs earned. According to the non-profit's latest financial
report, 14 of the organization's officers earned more than $150,000 in total pay
in 2008; seven of those collected more than $200,000. Three (including Baker)
earned more than $300,000.

- Eric Dexheimer

Postcards

statesman.com/postcards

Two state funds aimed at encouraging economic investment in Texas should be cut
in half when lawmakers return to Austin next year to tackle a potential $18
billion budget shortfall, state Rep. Mark Strama, D-Austin, said last week.

"They're nice-to-haves. They're not have-to-haves," Strama said of the
Enterprise Fund and the Emerging Technology Fund.

Strama is chairman of the House committee that oversees the funds, which are
used for business recruitment as wella as fostering research and development in
certain technology fields. He said all legislative leaders ought to be willing
to offer up something from the programs they oversee to deal with the budget.

Both funds are pet projects of Gov. Rick Perry, who frequently touts Texas'
business-friendly climate and has made job creation a central component of his
re-election bid.

While Texas is considered a top location for business, it can be a tough place
for a child, Strama said. He cited a recent study by the Annie E. Casey
Foundation that ranked Texas 34th among the states in child well-being.

Strama told the American-Statesman's editorial board that he would prefer to cut
those economic development programs before cutting investments in children.

Together, the funds have $251 million, though only a small portion of the funds
are general revenue. Even so, trimming the funds by half could free up the
federal money and other dollars in the funds for use elsewhere, Strama said.

- Kate Alexander

From our readers
 Excerpts from online reader comments about recent stories that appeared on
statesman.com
 On an Austin school board decision to stop giving tax breaks for historical
properties and a City Council decision to limit historic landmark applications
to three a month:
 If the City of Austin and perhaps Travis County want to pay owners of
so-called historic structures to maintain their facades, so be it. That kind of
 spending lies within the purview of City Council and Commissioners' Court. But
 they need to fund that with City and County taxes and keep their sticky
fingers out of our designated funds for the schools, the community college and
the hospital.
- goodmaninaustin
 Apparently AISD Trustees need a lecture on the history of historic
preservation not just in Austin but nationwide. Ladybird Johnson, the driving
force behind many of this country's preservation laws, would not have supported
 this decision.
 The board should have listened to the Mayor.
- foolintherain
 The city has been an irresponsible gatekeeper for a program that lavished a
tax break on a few lucky homeowners. They could have reformed the program and
set higher standards; instead they put a 3-homes-per-month cap on the program
and are still handing out this enormous benefit to properties that are by no
means historic.
- A.T.S.
 On allegations of continued abuse of youths at Texas Youth Commission
facilities:
 This is sad, but the state is overburdened with problem kids that parents just
 dump on the state; then all the do-gooders complain that the facilities are
not up to Holiday Inn standards. Then taxpayers get a belly full of paying for
the delinquents; then bad jailers have their way with the kids because
supervision, ethics, morals are all gone. REPEAT, REPEAT, REPEAT.
- rbf51
 Let's face it: these are throw away kids and no one gives a hoot what happens
to them. (Until they get out, of course.)
- facts of life
 On Georgetown City Attorney Mark Sokolow releasing his job evaluation after
withdrawing a lawsuit he had filed to try to avoid making it public:
 Ah, Williamson county, state of the art in legal coverups. The very last
sentence says it all. 'Other council members did not return phone calls seeking
 comment.'
- lds
 On city plans to raise water and wastewater rates about 26 percent over the
next five years and to build a new treatment plant:
 We propped up the oil industry and got sprawl with less tax revenue to
maintain the road infrastructure. Higher prices for water will reduce water
use. Future development will have to be more mindful of more compact land use
to reduce development costs and to survive in the market. So higher water
prices are far more likely to encourage sustainable land use even if it's at
the 'expense' of excess capacity.
- Oak Hill activist
 On plans for the Paso Robles subdivision, a 3,450-home gated community to be
built in San Marcos if the city annexes the site.
 Assurances aside, this will cause damage to the aquifer, it will cause greater
 consumption of limited resources. No golf courses are needed. There is a
perfectly fine one over off of hwy 80, Quail something or other and Woodcreek
is out in Wimberley and if that isn't good enough, SA has about 100.
- Biggins
 On Stacy Barnett, a young University of Texas graduate who was slain last year
 in the West Campus area along with her boyfriend - a surgeon's son and UT grad
 who police say was a drug dealer:
 As the parents of young adult daughters we like to think that our college
educated daughters have grown into intelligent and independent young women.
 But in the real world we have to own up to the fact that they can be easily
swayed by love for boyfriends who 'look good on paper.'
- jayn
 On former U.S. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay arguing that his
money-laundering trial should be moved from Travis County because polls show he
 is unpopular here (a judge refused):
 The fact that a defendant is unpopular is not, in and of itself, a reason to
move a trial. If it were, every gruesome murderer would never be tried in the
county of the crime, yet gruesome murderers are almost always tried in the
county where the crime was committed.
- By Jackson



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Battle-tested Democrat may be in trouble

BYLINE: JASON EMBRY AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 536 words


HILLSBORO - We'll know the anti-Democrat, anti-Washington wave said to be
sweeping the national electorate is for real if it can wipe out Chet Edwards.

The Democratic congressman from Waco is facing the fight of his life against
former oil and gas executive Bill Flores of Bryan, who says Edwards' 20 years in
Washington have put him out of touch with a conservative district that runs from
the Fort Worth suburbs, through Waco and down to College Station. National
handicappers see a Flores win as increasingly likely.

But Edwards has overcome long odds before. The presidency of George W. Bush,
whose Crawford ranch sits in Edwards' district, was supposed to end his career.
It didn't. And he was the only member of his party who beat a serious Republican
challenger when Tom DeLay and other GOP leaders sought to purge Democrats from
the state's congressional delegation in 2004.

Republicans failed to field top-tier candidates against him in 2006 and 2008,
two elections in which Democrats had the national winds at their backs.
Then-Sen. Barack Obama even met with Edwards two years ago to discuss the vice
presidency.

But this is not 2008. The national momentum is with Republicans, and Flores has
sought to make Edwards and his party leaders one in the same. His slogan: "Our
congressman has changed. It's time to change our congressman."

Edwards stresses his independence, noting that he voted against the health care
and climate change legislation backed by Democratic leaders. And while he's
extremely personable on the campaign trail, he has beaten foe after foe with an
acute killer instinct that tells him when to pounce on an opponent's misstep.
Just hours before he charmed his fellow barbecue-contest judges at a town fair
last weekend in Hillsboro, he unveiled a new television ad saying Flores'
privatization plans could force a Waco veterans' hospital to close.

"We will define where Mr. Flores would hurt jobs and the families of this
district with some of his extreme positions," said Edwards, who had more than $2
million on hand at midyear and can afford a heavy advertising blitz.

Flores, echoing concerns he has heard from some veterans, said he thinks they
should be able to use their benefits in the private health care system, but that
he does not want to end the public system or close the Waco facility.

The race could come down to whether voters view government spending through a
local or national lens. Flores says he wants to end the much-maligned process of
congressional earmarks, which allow members of Congress to direct tax dollars to
pet projects. Edwards, while noting that he has helped reduce earmarks, also
points out that earmarks have helped him steer nearly $1 million a week to Texas
A&M for research projects that create jobs.

A couple of wild cards are out there. For one, Edwards tends to do better in
nonpresidential elections like this one, when fewer voters hit the polls. Also,
a Libertarian is on the ballot, which could siphon conservative voters from
Flores.

None of that may matter, considering how angry voters appear to be at Democrats.
If anyone can cut through that anger, it's Chet Edwards. But it's going to take
everything he's got.

jembry@statesman.com; 445-3572

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New EZCorp chief: Online sales, Mexico key to continuing growth

BYLINE: Barry Harrell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 672 words


In a decade as CEO of EZCorp Inc., Joseph Rotunda built the Austin company from
a Texas-focused pawnshop chain to an industry leader, with more than 1,000
pawnshops and payday loan centers in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and
revenue of $597 million in its most recent fiscal year.

Next month, he will be succeeded as CEO by Paul Rothamel , who joined EZCorp in
2009. Rotunda is retiring but will remain a consultant to the company for five
years.

Rothamel previously worked for Pamida , an Omaha, Neb.-based discount chain with
stores in 17 states, primarily in the Midwest.

Rothamel, 45, talked to the American-Statesman on Tuesday about his plans for
EZCorp.

What are your thoughts about the company's growth and its future?

I think that a lot of credit goes to Joe Rotunda, my predecessor. He took a
small Texas-based company and built it into something that's really very strong
operationally and very strong in the communities we serve. He took it from a
small Texas-based chain to a multinational company. Today, we operate over 1,000
locations " including in Mexico and Canada.

You're dealing in a highly fragmented industry that has a lot of independent
operators. What Joe and EZCorp have brought is a chain mentality and a fanatical
focus on execution, creating more cookie-cutter-type operations, with strong
training programs, strong systems and strong people.

Those are the three key things: our systems, our training and our people.

Is the company's business model going to change, or are there new products and
strategies you plan to try?

One of the things we've talked publicly about is our digital strategy. We don't
do any type of lending or selling on the Internet. So we're looking at mobile
technologies and ways to improve our service levels to our customers, to make it
easier to do transactions. That's a big development piece in the next three to
five years. "

We're looking at prepaid debit cards. There are some competitors in the
marketplace, some institutions that are doing a great job with that. So that's
in the testing and development stage for us.

What are your expansion plans for Mexico and for the rest of the U.S.?

In Mexico, we operate 110 stores today. We think that we could operate as many
as 500 to 600 stores there. Canada is also very appealing to us. And there are
literally 25-plus states that we don't have stores in today and that we could
operate in.

On Mexico, do you have to take the political climate and public safety issues
into account in your planning?

You absolutely do. The current drug-related activity has caused us to stay away
from the border a bit, and a lot of our recent growth has been in the central
and southeast part of the country. In the long term, we're hopeful that (the
instability) will find its way to closure and things will be much improved. It's
a great country for what we do.

Regulatory issues are always a focus for companies in your industry. What are
your thoughts about potential tightening of rules and how your company might
handle that?

One additional strength of the company is with new product development; we have
a history of being able to develop new products based on regulatory changes, and
we expect to be flexible. I'm confident we have a broad range of products and
formats and we'll continue to work with legislators and regulators.

How are you adjusting to life in Austin?

I had never been to Austin until I took this job, and my wife had never been. I
have a brother in Dallas, and he was cursing my name, telling me that Austin is
the best city in Texas. We've tried to dive into the community.

We just spent three days at the Austin City Limits festival; we have an
18-year-old son and a 15-year-old daughter, and so we experienced that as a
family. We love the music, the food, the theater scene, the UT athletic events.

Austin's been described as a very relaxed community, and I love that; you can
throw on a pair of shorts and go to dinner. And we moved here from Omaha, so I'm
loving the Austin weather.

bharrell@statesman.com; 912-2960

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

TRAVELMATTERS

BYLINE: HELEN ANDERS AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. J04

LENGTH: 803 words


WISH YOU WERE HERE

AUSTIN HERB SOCIETY SHOPS FRANCE

By Dephanie Cates of Austin

Six women of the Austin Herb Society asked a member born in France to plan a
trip there from a gastronomical/gardener's perspective. In September, the focus
was on the Sixth Arrondissement in Paris and the Luberon Mountains in Provence.

Ten of us committed to the adventure. In Paris, whether winding down narrow
streets, enjoying the open air of a bus or watching the city prepare for the
pope's visit, we never felt rushed.

Our first meal was at a sidewalk cafe, Les Deux Magots , where we sat outside.
TV and movie stars Ted Danson and Mary Steenburgen sat down two tables away.
What a way to begin our stay in France!

We visited Musée de l'Orangerie and Monet's lilies before our visit to Monet's
gardens at Giverny , which were remarkable and humbling. Monet and six gardeners
took care of the flowers and ponds. Today, several arborists and more than 22
caretakers tend the grounds.

Our trip on the TGV (high-speed train) to Provence took two hours; we arrived in
Avignon, an ancient walled city that houses a 14th-century papal palace and the
Broken Bridge on the Rhone River.

The intent was to explore as many mountaintop villages as possible in the region
during "market days" to shop for fresh vegetables and local wares. Isle Sur la
Sorgue , Oppede Le Vieux , Cavallon , Ménerbes , Gordes , Roussillon , Bonnieux
and the Luberon Valley were incredible examples of Provence life, as were cities
Aix en Provence and Saint Rémy .

In villages, families live in homes that are attached to one another on winding,
steeply graded arteries, clustered together with entrances behind iron gates.
There are varieties of doors - arched, squared, painted colors or stained, all
with pots of bright blooms. It's a cheery sight.

Provence is on the 45th parallel of global latitude. That translates to Oregon
and upper New York State. One can imagine the likes of Monet and Van Gogh
devotedly doing what they loved best: capturing their environs. Their expertise
entices us to walk their walk and bathe in their warm light soaking up a glimpse
of their portals and petals.

Dephanie Cates has been an Austin real estate agent since 1979 and recently
built a green home on the San Gabriel River with partner Don Zrudsky.

EXHIBITS

ADAMS PHOTOS IN ABILENE,

TRAVEL ART IN OKLAHOMA

Ever get enough of Ansel Adams' amazing landscapes? Me neither. Some rare ones
of his visit to Yosemite National Park in 1938 are on display through July 11 at
Grace Museum in Abilene. It's at 102 Cypress St. Admission: $6 adults, $4
seniors and military, $3 children 4 to 12. Find out more at thegracemuseum.org.

Meanwhile, up on the University of Oklahoma campus in Norman, the Fred Jones Jr.
Museum of Art at 555 Elm Ave. (ou.edu/fjjma) is preparing for "Wanderlust:
Travel and American Photography" June 4-Sept. 12. Admission: $5 adults, $4
seniors, $3 children 6 to 17.

DEAL

COOL AND CAPTIVATING

WASHINGTON PACKAGE

There are so many amazing places to stay on Washington's Olympic Peninsula; why
choose only one? That's the theory behind Aramark Parks and Destinations' Best
of the Northwest package. Book three nights at any combination of the group's
four lodges for $399 (about a third less than what you'd normally pay), and
you'll also get a $40 resort credit to use for meals and activities. The resorts
are Lake Quinault Lodge, Kalaloch Lodge, Sol Duc Hot Springs Resort and the
newest one, Lake Crescent Lodge. The deal's good only through June 15, so get
moving. This is a drop-dead gorgeous part of the world, and I wish I were
enveloped in its cool fog right now. Find out more about each of the properties
at visitwashington

parks.com or call 866-297-7367.

TOP 5

Northeastern kids' museums

If you're traveling in the Northeast, here are five fabulous museums that are
certain to hold your children's interest - at least for a few hours.

1. Please Touch Museum, Philadelphia, pleasetouchmuseum.org. Located in Memorial
Hall in Fairmount Park, it lets kids race sailboats, play with bubbles and
discover animals in the high grass of Nature's Pond.

2. American Museum of Natural History, New York, amnh.org . There's a Butterfly
Conservatory, fossil halls and a 94-foot-long blue whale model, not to mention
special exhibits such as Lizards and Snakes: Alive, which runs through Sept. 2.

3. Peabody Museum of Natural History, New Haven, Conn., peabody.yale.edu. At
Yale University, this museum's displays include triceratops, stegosaurus and
brontosaurus.

4. The Museum of Science, Boston, mos.org . Attractions include a butterfly
garden, live animal presentations, the Mathematica room and a lighting exhibit.

5. Children's Museum of the Arts, New York, cmany.org. TimeOut New York magazine
voted this Soho spot the city's most kid-friendly museum.

- Shelley Emling

handers@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

HIS FINAL Tour

BYLINE: Suzanne Halliburton AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1435 words


PAUILLAC, France - Lance Armstrong's face was blank Saturday as he listened
intently to the start-house countdown on what would be his final real stage of
the Tour de France.

Armstrong began the individual time trial - which used to be his specialty, when
he was always sporting yellow in Paris - in midafternoon France time, more than
an hour ahead of this year's glamour riders, Alberto Contador and Andy Schleck.

Ten-year-old Luke Armstrong - his oldest child, who wasn't even born when
Armstrong won his first of a record seven Tours in 1999 - was the guest of honor
in the trailing RadioShack team car. Armstrong's three other children, as well
as his pregnant girlfriend, Anna Hansen, also were on hand in the heart of
France's wine country to watch him race the last competitive Tour stage of his
career.

He won't bid adieu to France by wearing yello w - the jersey color for each
year's champion - and his final Tour has been marked by crashes and trials. But
he kept riding.

Other riders took note.

"He has great charisma. He has a strong head, and I think he didn't want to
leave the Tour without proving something," said Belgian rider Jurgen Van De
Walle.

"You have to see from where he's coming from. He's had maybe 10 crashes this
year. It's not so easy. But even with the bad luck, he still stayed in the Tour
to prove something, so it's a big example to some other guys that even with bad
luck and maybe not the form he's used to, he still tried to do something."

Today's Tour de France finale to Paris, which includes eight laps on the
Champs-Élysées in front of an expected crowd of 100,000 fans, is mostly for
show, with sprinters taking over near the finish.

Saturday, Armstrong rode into a stiff headwind and finished 67th, or 7 minutes,
5 seconds behind stage winner Fabian Cancellara. And for his final Tour, he'll
be 23rd overall, more than 39 minutes behind Spain's Contador, who will wear
yellow in Paris for the third time.

"I have no regrets," Armstrong told the American-Statesman.

"Would I have liked to win an eighth Tour de France? Of course," he said. "But
it wasn't meant to be, and I'm not going to let that be the sole factor that
decides the ending of this chapter. On balance, I'm very satisfied with the past
24 months."

Armstrong's immediate plans are to take his family to the Bahamas for a week.
Then he'll return home to Austin. Maybe while on the beach he'll drink a beer,
think of the past 24 months and ponder whether he should have stayed retired.

Armstrong initially retired in July 2005 as a cycling legend, with seven Tour
championships - all won in a row - and 22 career individual stage victories. He
wore the yellow jersey for 83 total days in France.

No one has won more Tours than Armstrong has. Four other riders have won it five
times, and Contador will become the fourth three-time winner. Armstrong is 38
years old. The oldest winner in Tour history was Firmin Lambot, who was 36 when
he won in 1922.

Armstrong's comeback achievements?

A year ago, he was the second-oldest rider to finish on the podium, when he was
third. And with his 13th ride through France this July, he cracked the top 10
for most completed Tours.

So after this latest stint, how will the legacy change?

"My legacy? Like any public person, that's not for me to write," Armstrong said.
"However, I will say in this era of 24/7 news, legacies won't ever be written
the same."

John Wilcockson, editor at large of VeloNews.com and a veteran of 41 Tours, said
Armstrong's reputation will not suffer because of his final subpar showing.

"I don't think he tainted his legacy one bit," Wilcockson said. "If you look at
the last three weeks, he started terrifically and was the best-placed rider
(after the prologue). He then had some bad luck on the cobblestones and then the
crashes.

"That's the luck of the game. Maybe it's all the good luck he had in those seven
years coming back on him."

Armstrong's performance in Stage 8

on an unseasonably warm afternoon in the Alps dashed any hopes he had for an
eighth yellow jersey. He crashed almost immediately, but the key moment came
later on the road to Avoriaz, when his front tire clipped a curb as he was
riding in excess of 40 miles per hour.

He skidded, tearing his uniform, bloodying his knee and bruising his hip and
back. Still, he got back up, but he faded badly as the teams of Contador and
Schleck increased the pace to drop the weaker riders.

Armstrong lost nearly 12 minutes. But he finished.

"I don't like to see that happening to great riders like him," Contador said.
"But my admiration is still the same for him. Maybe it's even stronger now."

Armstrong tried for a stage win last week on the toughest day in the Pyrenees,
in which riders endured four huge climbs, but he finished sixth as the stage
ended with a pancake-flat road into Pau.

Wilcockson said Armstrong and the small group with him climbed the four
mountains 2 kilometers per hour faster than the previous Tour record.

Once he returns home, he'll have to deal with a federal investigation prompted
by Floyd Landis' accusation in May that he and Armstrong both used illegal
performance enhancers when they were teammates for U.S. Postal from 2002 to
2004.

Last week, Armstrong hired Bryan Daly, a former U.S. federal prosecutor based in
Los Angeles, to represent him in the federal case. Daly specializes in defending
clients against whistle-blower lawsuits.

Also, Tim Herman, Armstrong's longtime Austin-based lawyer, sent a letter to
Douglas Miller, an assistant U.S. attorney for the Central District of
California, complaining about "repeated government leaks and self-promoting
publicity concerning this investigation."

In the letter, a copy of which was provided to the American-Statesman, Herman
wrote, "The investigation has recently erupted into a forum for disgruntled
Lance haters to bash Armstrong and settle old scores."

During the race, Armstrong still needed security because his bus was always
surrounded by fans. During interviews, he often thanked them for coming to the
race.

Davis Phinney, an Olympic bronze medalist and the first American to win a Tour
stage, was watching the race from home in Colorado. He said Armstrong did
nothing but enhance his reputation as he competed this month.

"Every day that Lance is in the Tour adds to his legacy, whether he wins or
finishes midpack, as he continues to spread his LiveStrong message to a global
audience," Phinney said, referring to Armstrong's advocacy for fellow cancer
survivors. "Which sounds cliché, but I absolutely believe that's true."

shalliburton@statesman.com; 445-3954

Lance Armstrong's
favorite moments
 As this year's Tour de France wound down, we asked Lance Armstrong to share
his top moments in past years. Here they are, listed chronologically, from his
first Tour win in 1999 to his final one in 2005:
 Prologue, 1999
 It might have just been a short opening time trial that he won in Puy du Fou,
but it also gave him the yellow jersey for the first time. It wouldn't be the
last.
 Stage 10, 2000
 Armstrong nearly made up a 12-minute deficit on stage winner Javier Otxoa on
the summit to the Hautacam in the Pyrenees. In miserable weather - it was
raining and in the mid-30s - Armstrong beat Jan Ullrich - his main challenger -
 by more than four minutes to move into yellow.
 Stage 10, 2001
 In Tour lore, it's known as 'The Look.' Armstrong stayed in the back of the
leaders' group. Every time a camera would zoom by, he'd feign exhaustion. Then
he attacked, giving a lingering look to Ullrich for the win at Alpe d'Huez.
 Stage 9, 2003
 Armstrong finished fourth on the route to Gap and stayed in yellow. But he
preserved his Tour by dodging Joseba Beloki, who had crashed hard on the
melting asphalt. Armstrong cut through the deep grass and hopped a ditch to get
 back on course.
 Stage 15, 2003
 A young fan's canvas bag caught Armstrong's handlebar as he zoomed past on the
 ascent to Luz Ardiden. Armstrong crashed and then stumbled again. But he
righted himself and won the stage anyway, putting 52 seconds on Ullrich to
clinch a record-tying fifth Tour.
 Stage 17, 2004
 Armstrong took five individual stages the year he won his sixth consecutive
yellow jersey. He liked the stage to Grand Bornand in the Alps the best. That's
 when he declared 'no gifts' and sprinted to win a mountain stage, nipping
Andreas Klöden at the line.
 Stage 1, 2005
 Armstrong lost the opening time trial by two seconds to young American Dave
Zabriskie. But he was looking to make a statement with his challenge. And he
did, making up the one-minute staggered start on Ullrich, which in cycling is
an emphatic dunk.
- Suzanne Halliburton



LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

More action, less talk on education

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 474 words


President Barack Obama's visit to Austin on Monday didn't make much news, but
then there was little expectation that it would.

By and large, the president's reception was a warm one, and he clearly relished
the cheers of the University of Texas students who assembled in Gregory Gym to
listen to him deliver inarguable truths about the link between education and
economic prosperity.

"I know some folks argue that as we emerge from the worst recession since the
Great Depression, my administration should focus solely on economic issues " but
education is an economic issue " It's an economic issue when nearly eight in 10
new jobs will require workforce training or a higher education by the end of
this decade. It's an economic issue when we know beyond a shadow of a doubt that
countries that out-educate us today will out-compete us tomorrow," Obama
declared.

No surprises there, and neither was the president's observation that higher
education is inexorably linked with the primary foundation for the college
education.

"(We) can't afford to let our kids waste their most formative years; we need to
set up an early learning fund to challenge our states to make sure our kids are
entering kindergarten ready for success," Obama said.

Obama used the opportunity to plug his "Race to the Top" initiative, one that
makes federal money available to the states to take steps to raise academic
standards, including offering performance pay for teachers and principals and
devising ways to track students long term.

Gov. Rick Perry, who met Obama at the airport, has rejected the funding, saying
it would tie the state's hands in forming education policy.

The president ignored Perry's refusal to take the money, noting only "We're
already seeing powerful results across the country."

Obama reiterated that a high school diploma is no longer enough in the
contemporary economy. Rising higher education costs, however, put financial
pressure on the families of students pursuing a higher education career.

Again, no news, but other than acknowledgement of that reality, policy makers
haven't made much progress toward a solution.

Obama didn't offer ways to lower the costs of higher education, but he did note
accurately that Congress has made student loans cheaper.

Obama was in Austin to raise money, wave the Democratic Party flag and give
Central Texans a taste of his fabled oratory.

The connection between education and economics is well established, but the
reality is easily dented in the give and take of politics. Playing politics with
education stirs passions and might excite the voter bases of each party, but the
problems of education can't be talked to death.

Now would be an excellent time for a bipartisan effort to put the students who
enjoyed the pleasure of the president's company in a position to compete
effectively in the global market.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

ELLROY CONFIDENTIAL

BYLINE: Patrick Beach AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H04

LENGTH: 1056 words


Say James Ellroy were a contestant on "The Bachelor." Ladies, would you marry
him? Let's look at the ledger.

On the plus side: famous author of savage and best-selling crime novels, blunt
and brutally funny, robust ego, has a chunk of dough in the bank, hopelessly
romantic in his own way, a moralist and a Christian doubly so.

On the not-so-much side: Twice married, thrice engaged, twice divorced, Luddite
whose embrace of technology ceased with the fax machine, little or no interest
or engagement in contemporary culture, alcoholic, one-time pill-popper, stalker,
john, break-in artist, petty thief and general-purpose creep with a lifelong
proclivity - and eventual professional necessity - to brood and obsess over
women no matter if they're married or otherwise unavailable, up to and including
being, uh, dead.

Right. Not good.

Ellroy has spent his life trying to save women because he couldn't save his
mother, Jean Hilliker Ellroy, whom he "summoned dead" after she struck him. And
she soon enough was. Murdered in 1958. Body found "in a vacant lot near Kings
Row at Arroyo High School," according to the El Monte, Calif., police website,
which has yet to close the case. The boy was 10, "a dirty-minded child with a
religious streak," as Ellroy writes.

That line comes early in "The Hilliker Curse: My Pursuit of Women," a new memoir
by the author of "L.A. Confidential" and the Underworld USA trilogy that you
might find redemptive or make you cringe. Or some of both.

Ellroy has once before backed up to this Oedipal-necrophiliac scratching post
with "My Dark Places," his 1996 book about his mother's murder and his doomed
efforts, with the assistance of retired Los Angeles police detective Bill
Stoner, to warm up her cold case.

And any casual reader of his fiction will have noted that his male characters
obsess over women, and heaven help any man who raises a hand to the fair sex.

But even after "My Dark Places" and a writing career in which he admittedly
exploited his mother's murder to considerable financial award and global
acclaim, it wasn't clear how long a shadow Jean Hilliker's tombstone cast over
Ellroy's life in the world outside of fiction.

And he's here to be honest about it. And whether you think he's Cyrano de
Bergerac or Travis Bickle, he couldn't give a flying you-know-what.

"This book will be a primer on the reviewer in many ways," Ellroy says from his
Los Angeles home. "People who believe in love and change and hope will get it,
see that this guy was on a hard-charging journey and he got lucky. People who
don't believe in love will think, 'Well, he got another victim.'"

Spoiler alert; some explanation is necessary. Toward the end of a brief but
tortuous narrative in which Ellroy more than cops to his portion of the blame
for his failed or ill-fated relationships - most notably a relatively long
marriage to Austin novelist Helen Knode - Ellroy confesses that he has found the
true love of his life, the writer Erika Schickel, a considerably younger,
still-married (although divorcing) mother of two daughters who bears a vague
resemblance to the late Ms. Hilliker, and to whom the book is dedicated.

There is a pattern here. Ellroy has a historic weakness for women who look like
his mother, and he was in a relationship with another married mom with two
girls.

And still he says emphatically, "Erika and I are for keeps. I would not blame
people for being skeptical. I would not blame people for echoing Helen's doubts,
citing the Tall Redhead Syndrome."

Another reason to be skeptical is that Schickel is social and Ellroy needs
considerable time in his own head.

"The physical face of this book is yours truly laying alone in the dark
thinking," he says. "I'm a monomanic, I'm a man of faith, I'm on a mission of
writing great books and I'm extremely persistent. I've learned to ignore the
real world."

But enough making book on this relationship. Ellroy is way too sharp to not
recognize the pattern: "I always get what I want," he writes. "I more often than
not suffocate or discard what I want the most." In this respect he's like the
dog that finally catches the car and realizes it should have been chasing
Segways instead.

But he also maintains that's over: "The dominant story line of my life will
dissolve on the last page I write here."

That storyline involves some pretty unhealthy pathologies, and it also informs
his fiction. There's Karen, the other married mother of two whom Ellroy
repeatedly beseeches to divorce her "fruit husband."

"Do you love me?" Ellroy asks.

"I'll think about it," Karen says.

This exchange appears verbatim between a fictionalized Karen and a character
named Dwight Holly in "Blood's a Rover," the 2009 novel that concluded the
Underworld USA trilogy.

There's more: The Holly character also suffers a nervous breakdown very similar
to one suffered by Ellroy in 2003, when decades of overwork and his
disintegrating marriage to Knode landed him in various "nut wards." And "Rover"
also contains one "Joan Klein," a fictionalized reworking of a real-life Joan to
whom Ellroy was engaged.

Given his history, it's fair to ask: Are women creeped out by the "Hilliker
Curse"? Far from it, Ellroy says.

"My women friends who've read the book adore it," he says. "My women friends get
it, as opposed to my men friends."

Hmm. Because?

"Because it is a paean to the dying breed of hard-charging, God-fearing,
right-wing, heterosexual American male. I err on the side of empathy in my
depictions of women. I bend over backwards to be fair to the women in the book.
The truth is the truth. I hope there are people out there who appreciate candor.
I've often tried to change and more often tried to change for the better. When I
put that book to bed, Erika and I were close into the relationship and it ends
on a tentative note. She and I continue 14 months later. She and I will last, I
have no doubt."

Certainly Ellroy's career would make him quite a catch.

He's got a new novel to start; a screenwriting job for "Rampart," an Ice
Cube-Woody Harrelson movie about a '90s scandal within the LAPD; and an
Investigation Discovery show, "James Ellroy's LA: City of Demons," airing soon.

So is Erika Schickel going to marry bachelor James Ellroy? He laughs.

"Absolutely. That's an easy one."

pbeach@statesman.com; 445-3603

The Hilliker Curse: My Pursuit of Women
 James Ellroy
 Knopf; $24.95


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Apple growers are enthusiasts to the core

BYLINE: Renee Studebaker AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 1302 words


When I decided to write about Texas apples for my September column in the Food
and Life section, I didn't expect to find many apples growing in Central Texas.
I knew about a few orchards up in North Texas. And I knew that the Hill Country
town of Medina was known for growing apples.

I'd also seen a few apples show up (and disappear quickly) at farmers markets
around town over the past few years. So I surprised to discover several working
apple orchards less than 130 miles away. And they've all been harvesting bumper
crops. Some of that fruit is showing up in the markets in Austin, which has made
it easy for me to sample.

So now I'm a believer. Yes, with a little extra care and soil prep, apples do
grow in Texas. Even in clay soil. Even in the hot, hot summer. So, of course,
now I have to try a couple of trees in my backyard. Maybe you've been thinking
about planting apples in your yard, too.

Well, before you dig in, you might like to read what a few Central Texas growers
say about the joys and challenges of growing apples in the Lone Star State.
Included here are a few apple growing tips, too, but check back on my blog
(www.statesman.com/go/reneesroots) in a day or so for a more detailed list of
apple growing tips.

John Caballero, Texas Apple Valley Orchard, Oxford. 700 trees.
texasapplevalley.com

In 1990, Caballero, a longtime gardener, bought two of Baxter Adams' dwarf apple
trees at an Austin lawn and garden show.

"I bought two trees, tasted a tree-ripened Gala apple and was hooked," he says.
He and his wife, Susan, planted a test orchard in Dripping Springs around 1994
and proceeded to kill a lot of trees on their way to learning how to grow
apples. In 2005, they took their apple know-how and moved to Oxford, near
Enchanted Rock, to plant a new orchard. This season's crop is their first.

On what varieties he's growing and harvesting now: "We're (growing) Gala,
Mollies Delicious, Fuji, Granny Smith, Crispin, Pink Lady, Red Delicious and
Candy Crisp varieties. There are a few Ginger Gold, Jonagold, McIntosh and Cameo
sprinkled throughout the orchard. The orchard is young and produced its first
crop this year. We probably will have picked 80 bushels by November."

On why Texas hasn't become an apple state: "We have a tougher market, fierce
global competition and cheap prices on imported apples. An old farmer once told
me, 'Son, there ain't no money in agriculture.' Busted my bubble. The expensive
land prices, four or five years to the first harvest and limited educational
support (and) knowledge base for apple growing on a large scale (have limited
growth). Small local orchards are the best avenue for successful apple growing."

Growing tips: "Purchase dwarf apple trees. In the summer heat, water young trees
every day. Don't overwater. Pollinator trees are required. In the Hill Country,
just be thankful you have soil. One of my favorite expressions is 'I can fix
soil, but I can't fix rock!'"

Baxter Adams, Love Creek Orchards, Medina. About 600 trees. lovecreeknursery.com

Adams, who used to work as a geologist in the petroleum industry, planted his
first experimental apple trees in Medina in the early '80s. As he learned more
about growing apples, he planted more trees, until eventually there were
thousands. More recently, he and his wife, Carol, are taking things a little
easier: They donated some of their land near Love Creek to the Texas Nature
Conservancy and sold other parcels. Now they tend a small pick-your-own orchard
of about 600 trees and run a tree nursery.

On what varieties he's growing and harvesting now: "About half of my trees are
Gala, because they come from the warm climate of New Zealand and do well in our
climate. We also have Fuji " and Jonathan. (Jonathan) is one our best performing
apples right now. " Our fall apples, which we will harvest in October and early
November, are Granny Smith and Pink Lady. Every year we try new varieties to
find the ones that work best for us. Right now we have a Golden Delicious apple
that appears very promising."

On why Texas hasn't become an apple state: "We don't have that heritage. We do
cattle and cotton, but not apples. Once, we did not grow peaches, or grapes, or
apples, or olives. All are being grown now with varying degrees of success.
There are parts of Texas that are not right for apples, and the same is true of
Washington state. " We have already found some parts of the state in which
apples seem to be well suited. Other areas have not been tried yet. In the areas
where cotton fields were ravaged by a root rot disease (cotton root rot), apples
should not be planted, because they are highly susceptible to that disease. In
some areas this disease is not present, and these are the places where apples
are most likely to succeed.

"We were once admonished for even trying to grow apples in Texas and told that
we would never make a bushel (40 pounds) of apples per tree. We accepted the
challenge and planted several trial trees and took immaculate care of them and
reported the production every year to our local extension horticulturist. On the
fifth year, one tree made 210 pounds (51/4 bushels) of marketable apples. This
year, with excellent (weather and growing) conditions, we probably had two or
three bushels per tree."

Kim McBride, Bat Creek Farm, Bertram. 500 trees.

McBride, who once worked in the dry cleaning business, discovered his passion
for growing apples while he was living in Austin and tending two apple trees in
his backyard. When he later moved to Bertram, he started planting apple trees.
In 2004 he said goodbye to the dry cleaning business and went into full-time
farming.

On what varieties he's growing and harvesting now: "I planted my first tree on
the farm in 1997. At this time we have 500 trees; 300 are bearing age. We have
Royal Gala, Mollies Delicious, Fuji, Honeycrisp and Pink Lady. "

On why Texas hasn't become an apple state: "A few things: 1. When Texas starts
their harvest season, the price of apples in the grocery stores plummets because
apples from places like Washington sell their apples that have been in storage
from last year at prices difficult to compete with. 2: The state and its
universities give us little " research and marketing support; (while) other
states (provide support) for their apple industries - West Virginia,
Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, Washington and even Arkansas. 3: There are
very few new apple growers. Most, at least all that I know of, are over 50 and
the majority are in their 60s, 70s, and 80s."

On how Texas apples compare to Washington or California apples: "Soils and
conditions vary widely over the state - alkalinity, acidity, soil texture,
organic content, moisture, chill hours, etc. The growing conditions are less
than ideal for apples. That is why we cannot grow as many varieties as are grown
farther north. I have not tasted a fresh-off-the-tree Gala from other states,
but I would be surprised if it tasted as good as one from Texas. I do know that
Texas apples are definitely better-tasting than those imported from out of
state. The Brix (degrees of sugar content) on a Washington Gala usually runs as
high as 9 or 10, while a Texas Gala usually hits 15 or 16."

Growing tips: "Plant container-grown trees this fall or bare-root trees this
winter. Cut them off knee high if they are not well feathered (do not have
several branches); if you don't, you will be picking most of your fruit from a
ladder. You can plant dwarf trees if you want something about the size of a rose
bush (but they need more pampering). My suggestion would be a semi-dwarf for the
Austin area. They will get about 12 to 15 feet tall in heavy soil and do not
mind being kept at about 8 feet. Moisture is critical the first three years.
They don't like wet feet, though. Too much water is just as bad as not enough."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL Edition

New smog limits put Austin area at risk of U.S. penalties

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 759 words


In an effort to improve air quality, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
laid out stricter smog standards Thursday, putting the Austin area and other
parts of Central Texas in jeopardy of violating clean air rules.

If the Austin area can't meet the new standard, as seems likely, it could face
federal penalties that can hamper business growth and delay transportation
projects.

As officials try to clean up the air, drivers in Central Texas could face
lowered speed limits, and gas stations could be forced to sell reformulated
gasoline - which leads to fewer emissions but gets 1 to 3 percent fewer miles
per gallon. Annual vehicle emissions testing, now required for auto owners in
Travis and Williamson counties , could spread to Hays and Bastrop.

Under the EPA announcement, smog standards will be lowered from the current 75
parts per billion to between 60 and 70 parts per billion . The EPA said it will
announce a final figure at the end of August .

This year, continuing a trend of improved air quality in the state's major
cities, the Austin area had high ozone levels of about 75 parts per billion .

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, which is in the midst of a
tug-of-war with the EPA over broader air improvement strategies, lambasted the
more stringent standards.

"This EPA decision provides the illusion of greater protectiveness, but with no
regard for cost, in terms of dollars or in terms of the freedoms that Americans
are accustomed to," environmental commission Chairman Bryan Shaw said in a
statement.

Commissioner Buddy Garcia called the new threshold "arbitrary."

But the stiffer standards, heralded by environmental groups, were in keeping
with a range proposed to the EPA by a panel of scientific and health advisers.

According to the EPA, depending on the level of the final standard, the proposal
would yield health benefits between $13 billion and $100 billion nationally by
reducing premature deaths, aggravated asthma, cases of bronchitis, hospital and
emergency room visits and days when people miss work or school because of
smog-related symptoms. The EPA estimates that the costs of implementing the new
standards will range from $19 billion to $90 billion .

Areas of the country with dirty air typically have to submit emissions
projections for planned major transportation projects to federal authorities,
which often slows down the projects.

Larger businesses that emit ozone-producing material that want to expand or
build new facilities, such as a car production plant, often have to get special
air permits. Smaller businesses that emit such material, like auto body shops,
gas stations, dry cleaners or stores that mix their own paints, might have to
install special equipment to tamp down pollution.

Central Texans have already spent years staving off violations of current
standards through a host of programs, including vehicle emissions testing.

"I don't see how we can get there, but I'm sure we'll give it a try," said Bill
Gill , air quality program director at the Capital Area Council of Governments.

Central Texans are likely to face a menu of programs similar to those in Dallas
and Houston, areas already violating clean air standards. Those cities have had
to cut speed limits and require gas stations to sell reformulated gasoline and
diesel fuel mixed with additives (kicking up the costs by a nickel per gallon).

In the long run, Gill said, the Austin area may come back into compliance as
heavy-duty trucks and non-road equipment like forklifts are replaced with
cleaner versions.

The City of Austin has not taken a specific stance on the new potential
standards.

"Given our history of air quality efforts, we support health-based standards and
encourage them," said Jennifer Clymer , a climate change program specialist with
the city.

Environmental groups would like the new EPA standards, to go into effect in 2011
, to force a stop to new coal-fired power plants in Texas.

Utilities are seeking permits from the environmental commission for about a
half-dozen proposed coal-fired power plants. They have argued that the new
standards will cost them and consumers, and they point to recent air quality
improvements in the state.

"The EPA's only consistent target has been the target on the backs of Texas
workers and taxpayers," Gov. Rick Perry said in a statement.

EPA spokesman Brendan Gilfillan responded that ozone is a "severe problem" and
that the governor will be able to voice his opposition at a public hearing.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

(GRAPHIC BOX: SEE MICROFILM)

Austin ozone levels

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bid to buy Galleria awaiting approval

BYLINE: Shonda Novak AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 407 words


A Chicago real estate firm was the high bidder in a bankruptcy auction for the
Hill Country Galleria in Bee Cave and has put the mall under contract.

REIT Management & Research LLC offered $75 million for the mall, according to
Eric Taube, the attorney for Hill Country Galleria LP, the partnership that owns
the 2-year-old mall.

The auction was held Jan. 15 at Taube's office but the outcome was not disclosed
until Friday because the 10 banks that had lent money to the project all had to
agree to accept the bid.

On Monday, Taube said, the owners will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Craig Gargotta
to approve the sale. Taube expects the judge will do so, with the transaction
closing Jan. 29.

"My hope is, he will accept it, and I think he should accept it - otherwise, the
banks have the right to foreclose," Taube said.

Taube said he thinks the contract represents the fair market value of the
property, even though it is substantially less than the roughly $161 million
still owed on the mall's construction loan of nearly $192 million.

The banks that made the loan put in a group bid for the mall at the auction, and
there was one other qualified bidder, whose identity Taube said he could not
disclose.

Taube said REIT Management would assume all the leases, "so all the stores would
still be there, and there should be no changes immediately to the general
public."

Developed by Opus West Corp., the mall opened in October 2007 - two months
before the start of the U.S. recession - and struggled at first to find tenants
for its stores and office space. However, it wasn't until early 2009, when Opus
couldn't get its construction loan extended, that the situation grew grim. The
interest payment on the loan doubled, and the project went into default.

The mall is one of several commercial projects in the region that lenders have
moved to foreclose on, and more could come, local real estate experts have said.

As for the $75 million being offered for the Hill Country Galleria, real estate
attorney David Armbrust said he doesn't think "this one project is indicative as
to how far the market has fallen. But it does indicate to me we may be bouncing
on the bottom of this real estate cycle."

"On the surface, it sounds to me like someone made a very good investment,"
Armbrust said. "Deals like that will be like pushing the reset button for a new
real estate investing climate to begin. Let's hope that is the case."

snovak@statesman.com; 445-3856

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hoaxes in the name of social consciousness

BYLINE: Chris Garcia AMERICAN-STATESMAN FILM CRITIC

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 529 words


Even the title's a jape: The Yes Men don't fix the world, despite their
daredevil efforts. But it's such hyperbolic idealism that propels the Yes Men, a
liberal activist group fronted by two disheveled guys, Andy Bichlbaum and Mike
Bonanno, who really would like to fix the world. To them it's a place rotten
with corporate greed and corruption. They're here to help.

In the documentary "The Yes Men Fix the World," Bichlbaum and Bonanno are
performance-art pranksters, donning fake mustaches and adopting fake names,
posing as spokesmen of major corporations (Dow, Halliburton) and government
agencies (HUD) and disseminating false information they wish were true. Using
wicked humor and bizarro-world absurdities, they aim to expose the warped logic,
cupidity and disregard for human welfare driving bloated corporations and inept
politicians.

The centerpiece stunt has Bichlbaum acting like a spokesman for Dow Chemical.
Dow owns Union Carbide, which was responsible for the 1984 pesticide plant
accident in Bhopal, India, in which thousands of locals were killed or sickened.
On the 20th anniversary of the tragedy, Bichlbaum finagles a live interview on
the BBC to announce that Dow is taking full responsibility for the incident,
liquidating Union Carbide and handsomely compensating every victim.

It's nonsense, but the BBC believes him and so does, for a short spell, the
world. There's surprise, joy, then grave skepticism. The hoax is exposed hours
later, but the damage is done. Dow stock dives by three percent, losing $2
billion in 20 minutes. More importantly, the message that Dow and Union Carbide
never took responsibility for the accident has been delivered loud and clear.
Even activists in India, who briefly rejoiced, express gratitude to the Yes Men
for awakening the world to the ongoing injustice.

Bichlbaum and Bonanno are reckless clowns, a mini-improv comedy troupe out to
stir mischief, guerrilla-style. When they do their shtick well, their targets
become unwitting victims, which is both funny and squirmy to behold. The pranks
play like "Borat" sketches, but with a higher purpose, addressing climate
change, the Hurricane Katrina housing fiasco and the current financial crisis.

I don't recall if the 2003 documentary about Bichlbaum and Bonanno, simply
called "The Yes Men," revealed more of how they operate, how their elaborate
stunts are financed, who they work with and the like. That kind of background in
the new film, directed by Bichlbaum and Bonanno, would have created a richer
portrait of the group and answered some nagging questions. As it is, they make
it look too easy.

Though "Yes Men Fix the World" engages and occasionally amazes, it never shocks;
their nervy acts and the ensuing rumblings don't reverberate beyond the moment.
What's most fun is watching them perform as oily corporate wads at conferences.
Audience expressions curdle with bemusement, confusion, horror at the increasing
nonsense they're hearing, which is peddled by our heroes with straight faces
that bear only the slightest inklings of a smirk.

cgarcia@statesman.com; 445-3649

Rating: Not rated; some language. Running time: 1 hour, 27 minutes. Theater:
Alamo Ritz.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1106 words


Oh, say, can you sing?

I like the Olympics just as much as the next person. I have served this country
in the armed forces, and I know our national anthem.

Is it too much to ask the Olympians who represent our country to at least make
an effort to sing our national anthem?

Fenn Ratcliffe

Austin

Entitlements of

Olympic proportion

I very much admired the physically fit, well-trained and talented athletes who,
through years of hard work, sacrifice and perseverance, achieved their goals of
winning Olympic medals.

Many of us are not so talented, nor have we worked diligently or trained hard to
achieve Olympic medals. Nevertheless, we deserve such medals in the true spirit
of "sharing the wealth."

As true Americans, I'm sure these Olympians would love to share their symbols of
success with those of us who have done absolutely nothing to achieve success,
especially since many of us were not imbued with athletic genes.

Perhaps Congress could authorize a tax-exempt entity to collect and redistribute
these medals more equitably.

Gragg Guthridge

g.guthridge@verizon.net

Georgetown

Incentives as a lure

Re: March 1 editorial "Austin more than staying afloat."

Why give incentives to large corporations setting up in Austin when city tax
revenues are suffering? Facebook has incentive enough to locate here: We're a
youthful, techno town.

Small business owners also employ people and receive zilch. Look no further than
the track record of multinational corporations that sink their tentacles here
then pull out when the getting is no longer good.

Mike Rieman

mrieman@austin.rr.com

Austin

Intent and context

Re: March 1 letter "Strange sentences."

The reader overlooks a very important component in setting the punishment for a
crime: Intent and context matter, too. In the case of the man who unfortunately
hit his head on a curb after being punched, there was no intent to kill. In the
other case, where someone deliberately aimed his vehicle at a police officer,
there was a clear intent to kill.

John Perkins

Cedar Creek

Orcas in captivity

While we are all shocked and saddened by the recent tragedy at Sea World, one
cannot ignore that these powerful, wild animals are best suited for the ocean -
not captivity.

Orcas are intelligent, majestic mammals with sophisticated social networks. They
are accustomed to swimming 100 miles a day and can dive several hundred meters.
Orcas stay with their families or "pods" for a lifetime, spending only 20
percent of their time at the surface.

In captivity, 80 percent of their time is spent at the surface, hence the
drooping dorsal fin. And when they are not being forced to perform, these
magnificent creatures swim circles and float listlessly at the surface. They are
deprived of everything natural to them.

Let's stop enslaving these complex animals for our entertainment and instead
enjoy their beauty in our oceans, where they belong.

Laura Beth Kaufmann

Austin

Negligence in child's death

In the many stories and opinions about the heartbreaking accidental death of the
Hu child in the hot, locked car, I've yet to see any serious attention paid to
the woman who saw the child in the locked car, reported it to building security
and then blithely went about her day.

She was negligent in not personally and immediately leading the security people
directly to the car she had seen. The security personnel who vainly and
inadequately searched for the car were equally negligent in not insisting that
she lead them to the car and/or provide her identity and contact information for
follow-up.

The system has wrongly focused entirely on the child's father.

Judith Morris

Austin

FDR and Obama and Washington

Re: Feb. 28 article "Another FDR? Not a chance."

I am startled by the narrow focus of the article by H.W. Brands.

His conclusions - e.g., "the status quo is merely bent, not broken" - ignore
climate change, peak oil, the near-demise of bees and many other woes related to
our dependence on the natural environment.

While the impacts of these environmental issues are not solely President Barack
Obama's or any government's to grapple with, we have plenty of reason to hope
our president aims very high.

Ellen Hansen

nelleelle1@msn.com

Austin

Brands' excellent history article contains one sentence that troubles me:
"Roosevelt was one of the two presidents - the other being Lincoln - who
transformed American history most profoundly."

Why do so many people ignore George Washington? When Washington was young,
America was a non-country, merely the private property of a distant king. Under
his leadership as commander-in-chief, and then president of the Constitutional
Convention, and then the first national president, America became an independent
country with a very bright future.

In the process, Americans, with Washington's direct, hands-on leadership,
invented a form of national government that had never existed before and that
became the primary model for the whole world. How is that not the most profound
transformation?

Richard Hudson

ramdh@aol.com

Austin

Toyota recalls

Re: Feb. 27 article "Report: In '08, Toyota averted minivan recall after
injuries."

It is no surprise that Toyota considers the blocking of formal product safety
recalls as "wins." There is a saying in Japan that "business is war." The
targets of this war are our livelihoods, our economy and perhaps now our safety.

I hope more Americans and citizens of other countries who purchase products made
by Japanese companies take that attitude into consideration when they support
economies that do business with this attitude.

Pete Vera

CasaVera1@aol.com

Georgetown

WORTH SHARING

Touching gesture

I've always known Austin has lots of very nice people. Last Monday, I met two
more.

I have a dear friend who lives in Virginia and is in hospice care. She is also
blind. I went to the State School for the Blind and Visually Impaired, thinking
I might find Braille greeting cards, and I could send her a "thinking of you"
card.

I found a woman at the school who said there were no cards to buy, but she would
take me to someone who could type what I wanted to say and "print" it out on
their Brailler.

The second woman - Sue Mattson - stopped what she was doing, typed my message,
clicked "Print," and a few minutes later I left with my Brailled message. No
charge.

I know you can buy Braille cards online, but that takes more time, and I'm not
sure we have that much time in this case. Ladies, thank you for your help.

Mary E. Milam

Austin

P.S. I mailed the Brailled piece, along with a stuffed toy kitty, to my friend
on Tuesday morning. She died Tuesday afternoon, but that disappointment doesn't
diminish the pleasure I had in getting my message made into Braille.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LBJ School dean focuses on creating strong links

BYLINE: Ralph K.M. Haurwitz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 558 words


Robert Hutchings, who took up horseback riding a few years ago, says he
specializes in the "sudden dismount." But he is saddling up quickly as dean of
the University of Texas' Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs.

Hutchings, 63 , who started Monday, will participate in a dedication of the
school's

$19 million face-lift today along with Luci Baines Johnson, LBJ's daughter;
James Baker III, a former secretary of state; James Steinberg, the previous LBJ
School dean who is now deputy secretary of state; and UT President William
Powers Jr.

The celebration will continue Thursday and Friday with a Hispanic leadership
summit, an open house for alumni, panel discussions on public service careers, a
speech by Hutchings and a reception hosted by the dean and his wife.

In an interview Tuesday at his glass-walled corner office overlooking live oaks
along Red River Street, Hutchings seemed relaxed and eager to pursue this new
chapter in his life.

"I have no agenda other than the LBJ School agenda," he said. "I'm here for the
long haul."

Hutchings, a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy who also holds a Ph.D. in
government from the University of Virginia, brings a deep résumé to a deanship
that Powers and UT Provost Steven Leslie see as pivotal in a broader effort to
expand the university's educational and research footprint on international
affairs. Most recently, he taught international relations at Princeton
University.

He has also held various high-level diplomatic positions in the federal
government, including special adviser with the rank of ambassador in the State
Department.

It's not that the LBJ School is abandoning its historical emphasis on developing
local and state leaders. But as Hutchings put it, there's a growing recognition
that the issues confronted by public policy schools in the classroom and in
research are simultaneously local and global: energy, climate change, economic
policy and so forth.

"As Tip O'Neill said, 'All politics is local,'" he said, referring to the late
House speaker.

In listening mode as a new dean, Hutchings has nonetheless decided that one of
his major goals is to build and expand links of all types.

For example, he sees an opportunity to collaborate with UT's engineering school
on the question of nuclear waste disposal, which raises public policy issues
that are as daunting as technical ones. He wants to ramp up study-abroad
programs, internships and partnerships with institutions around the world.

There's no reason, he said, that a class couldn't be taught simultaneously on
campus and in China using teleconferencing equipment installed as part of the
LBJ School's renovation that is now getting final touches.

"You could have Chinese students sitting across a table on the (video) screen
having a conversation with our students," Hutchings said.

He also intends to strengthen links with alumni and plans to speak to an alumni
group in Washington soon. Such ties are important not so much for donations but
for networking that can yield internships, job-search tips and the like, he
said.

His to-do list also includes teaching: a class in politics and process in the
fall and one in policymaking in a global age in the spring.

"I like it too much not to do it," Hutchings said of teaching. "I can't be fully
part of the community if I'm not in the classroom."

rhaurwitz@statesman.com;

445-3604

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Trashing toilets is a waste, critics say

BYLINE: Marty Toohey AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1034 words


Last month , the Austin City Council took what officials hailed as a notable
step in environmental stewardship, authorizing more than $1.1 million to entice
apartment complexes to replace old toilets with new, water-efficient models.

But in satisfying one environmental goal, the city might have compromised
another. Most or all of the replaced toilets were subsequently dumped in the
county's landfills. In effect, critics say, the city used public money to push
as many as 280 tons of porcelain into landfills that are rapidly filling,
contradicting a long-standing commitment to recycling.

And that's just one vote in a program that has been sending old toilets to
landfills since the mid-1990s.

Toilet recycling can be difficult, but water utility officials acknowledge they
only recently began exploring the idea after environmental activist Paul Robbins
renewed his complaints about the toilet replacement program.

Critics say the matter is symptomatic of a larger concern: The city government's
compartmentalized structure sometimes hinders its aggressive environmental
initiatives.

"It's a clear example of the City of Austin's left hand not knowing what its
right hand is doing," said Rick Cofer , co-chairman of the city's Solid Waste
Advisory Commission .

City officials say they are trying to make the bureaucracy flexible enough to
identify and rectify such policy gaps quickly, but they say the changes will
take time. "We agree that it would be preferable (to recycle toilets) " but we
haven't found a good option for doing it," said Daryl Slusher, the conservation
director for the Austin Water Utility, who served on the City Council from 1996
to 2005 . "It's something that previous administrations have not been able to
put in place, something that's complicated."

The city offers free and discounted water-saving toilets to homeowners and
apartment complex owners to conserve limited water supplies. High-efficiency
toilets use 63 percent less water than older models, according to the utility.

Recycling old toilets is complicated because a toilet cannot be treated like a
glass bottle or plastic jug. Recycling a toilet requires smashing it apart,
separating the porcelain and metal parts, then crushing the porcelain.

Other cities have tried it with varied success. Fort Collins, Colo. , makes
money on its toilet replacement program, but San Antonio canceled its program
after running into difficulty finding buyers for the recycled porcelain.

In Fort Collins, residents who participate in the city's rebate program drop off
old toilets at a collection point. From there, the toilets are shattered, the
porcelain and metal separated, and the porcelain is mixed with recycled concrete
or asphalt, which Fort Collins also recycles. The mix is sold for use in road
building. Some California cities have similar programs.

Rosemarie Russo , Fort Collins' sustainability coordinator, said the city spends
$2 per ton creating the mixture and sells it for $5.50 per ton . The city also
doesn't pay to ship and store toilets in a landfill. In 2009 , Fort Collins
recycled about 2,000 toilets , or 100 tons of porcelain , Russo said.

"My big joke," she said, "is that our streets are paved with toilets."

The San Antonio Water System started a similar system in the late 1990s . But
market rates for road materials were much lower than San Antonio's recycled mix,
said Anne Hayden , a spokeswoman for the city's water utility. San Antonio could
not find buyers for the mix and canceled the program.

Unlike Fort Collins, Austin does not recycle asphalt, which means the city
couldn't use the porcelain for road materials and would have to find other ways
to sell it or reuse it. There are few if any private facilities in Travis County
capable of recycling toilets, officials say. Most toilets are presumably trucked
to one of Travis County's three landfills, said J.D. Porter , a member of the
Solid Waste Advisory Commission.

Despite aggressive goals to reduce waste adopted in recent years by the City
Council, officials with the waste department never discussed toilets until
Robbins raised the issue again a few months ago.

The waste department was created to pick up residents' trash. Later, it added
curbside recycling but was not equipped to handle the waste created by the
construction, maintenance and other activities of the city government -
including toilet recycling.

Critics say toilet recycling is only one example of city departments not working
together. The city has also struggled at times to carry out its Climate
Protection Plan, meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in part because of
poor communication among city departments, some advocates complain.

Hoping to address the situation, City Manager Marc Ott has instructed department
heads to coordinate more closely as they help create long-term plans for
electricity use, water conservation, transportation, recycling and overall
growth.

Ott is also planning to hire an environmental czar with broad authority to work
across city departments. The investment would add a $100,000-plus annual salary
during hiring freeze.

Jessica King , a sustainability administrator at the waste department, said the
department will look for ways to incorporate toilet recycling as it crafts its
long-term plan over the next year.

"We're in a transition with environmental issues and how they're handled," King
said. "But there are a lot of players, and it takes time."

The city owns a large pulverizer at its Todd Lane recycling facility that could
crush porcelain, according to Porter. The machine is used to crush bottles
dropped off by a private company that collects them from places not covered by
the city's curbside recycling program, such as apartments and businesses.

"We have the ability," King said, "but the question is whether we can do it in
practice" because the machine is mostly used to crush glass.

But Porter, who has worked in recycling since the early 1970s, said the
pulverizer could crush porcelain when it's not handling the glass.

"The technology exists to recycle these toilets, and the city possesses that
technology," Porter said. "It seems like it's a pretty short distance between
the dots."

mtoohey@statesman.com; 445-3673

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Flip a switch to save energy during Earth Hour

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 310 words


"Lights out!" will be the watchword in Austin today when building managers
around the city turn off lights as part of a global effort to promote energy
conservation and bring attention to climate change.

Starting at 8:30 p.m., landmarks across Austin will go dark as part of Earth
Hour, being celebrated worldwide.

City Hall, the Frost Bank Tower, the Driskill Hotel and the Hilton Austin are
among the buildings that will dim their glow.

Austin Mayor Lee Leffingwell encouraged residents to turn off lights and
computers during that hour.

"We know we need to conserve energy," said Kevin Tuerff, one of the owners of
Austin marketing company EnviroMedia, which is participating in the effort.
"Sometimes you need a little nudge."

Hundreds of millions of people around the globe are expected to turn off their
lights for about an hour today, according to the World Wildlife Fund, an
organizer of the event.

Some lighting at the state Capitol, including nonessential interior lighting,
also will be shut off for the hour.

Lighting also will come on later than usual at the University of Texas Tower and
several UT recreation sites, including the Whitaker Fields and tennis courts,
Clark Field and basketball courts, and the Penick-Allison Tennis Center.

UT spokeswoman Rhonda Weldon said security lighting around the Tower, including
lampposts and utility poles, will come on about sunset as usual.

"By doing something very simple, we make a bold statement regarding our support
of sustainable initiatives," Jim Walker, UT's director of sustainability, said
in a statement.

According to city officials, if all Austin Energy residential customers turn off
just their lights for an hour tonight, they could save enough energy to provide
electricity to about four Austin homes for a year.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

Additional material by staff writer Ralph K.M. Haurwitz.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Butterfly watchdog says state should do more to aid monarchs MONARCHS:
Department lacks authority to handle 'real' site issue, says agency official

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 694 words


Over the winter, floods devastated the Mexico wintering habitat of the monarch
butterfly, marking the third time in the past decade that the monarch
population, which migrates through Texas, had taken a hit. This time, at least
50 percent of the butterfly's North American population may have been destroyed,
say experts who track the species.

The butterfly may yet recover - it bounced back after previous bouts of habitat
loss - but the head of an Austin butterfly club says the state should be doing
more to help the monarch .

Mike Quinn, an invertebrate biologist who used to work at the Texas Parks and
Wildlife Department, says the state is not doing enough to monitor the species
and encourage its protection. Last year, the department wound down its monarch
monitoring program.

John Davis, the department's conservation outreach coordinator, said the state
continues to support monarch monitoring by encouraging Texans to report data
directly to national monitors and promoting local butterfly efforts.

Davis said the monarch is not a "priority species" in the state wildlife action
plan because its population is relatively secure.

"We are concerned about the real conservation issue for monarchs - the stability
of a major wintering site in Michoacán - but TPWD does not have the authority or
jurisdiction to address the conservation concerns in Mexico," Davis said.

He said Texas' monitoring program started in the early 1990s and consisted of
printing material about the butterfly and taking data of major sightings to
national monitoring groups.

The program's major expense was printing materials. In March 2003 , the
department printed 3,000 copies of the packet for $1,813, according to
information obtained through the Texas Public Information Act. By the time the
program ended last year , Parks and Wildlife had paid $2,175 in printing costs.

"Given the need to be more thrifty with state resources and prioritizing
burdened staff workloads, we reviewed our role in monarch monitoring," Davis
wrote in an e-mail to the department's executive director, Carter Smith, in late
March.

"Our educational materials were little more than reproductions of existing
materials from the national efforts with our name on them," Davis wrote.
"Basically, I decided there was no 'value added' to Texas having its 'own'
program. The educational information is still available from the national
programs and our website points people to those programs."

The department should be doing more, said Quinn, who heads the Austin Butterfly
Forum and said he left Parks and Wildlife in late 2008.

"They're writing off the state insect - and right when it's at the lowest
population point," he said. "They can't single-handedly save the monarch, but
they can contribute to the effort."

Mary Fero, a butterfly enthusiast who works in the Travis County clerk's office
and recently joined the Austin Butterfly Forum, said, "It's not much money they
save, and this is one of the key places the butterfly flies through.

"People are more attuned to planting native things now, so this would be a great
opportunity to do education about what would help them thrive," Fero said.

The forum recommends planting milkweed and nectar-

bearing plants.

How bad, exactly, is the state of the butterfly?

"The monarch butterfly is quite resilient," Quinn said. "If the conditions are
favorable, they can recover in a year."

NatureServe , a nonprofit conservation organization, has awarded the global
population of the butterfly a G5 status, its most secure. But the monarch won
that status despite problems at its wintering grounds. Its status was reviewed
and updated in February.

Notes by Dale Schweitzer, an invertebrate zoologist at NatureServe, say the
butterfly's population trend is "declining to rapidly declining."

Wintering grounds in Mexico have been "under pressure from logging, agricultural
and urban development," Schweitzer wrote. "Climate change is emerging as
current, rather than an expected, threat in Mexico, California, and Texas at
least," with rising temperatures a contributor to recent low numbers of eastern
U.S. monarchs, a trend "likely to worsen."

asherprice@statesman.com;

445-3643

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Driven into the ground by ineptness

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 684 words


Forget about expanding commuter rail in Central Texas. For now, Capital Metro
has much larger issues, including dealing with a crisis in public trust. The
agency's credibility took another shot last week just as it was beginning to
shake off an image of incompetence.

The next several months will prove critical for the transit agency that recently
opened Central Texas' first commuter rail system, which runs between Austin and
Leander. The depth of Capital Metro's incompetence was made clear by the Texas
Sunset Commission's audit, released last week, that examined the agency's
practices over the past decade.

High on the list for improvements is restoring fiscal management and
accountability and repairing very old bridges. Over the past decade, Capital
Metro has gone from a cash-rich agency with $200 million in reserves to one that
came close to being broke ($4 million in fall 2009). That drop can't be blamed
solely on declining sales tax revenue. It was fiscal mismanagement.

Some of the commission's findings confirmed many of the problems reported by
American-Statesman writer Ben Wear - and discussed on this page.

The audit unearthed more serious issues facing Capital Metro, such as the number
of bridges (13 of 42) along the commuter line that are in need of repair or
replacement and a climate of secrecy that served to hide a slew of bad decisions
from the public. One glaring example was the lavish compensation package
gift-wrapped for former Chief Executive Officer Fred Gilliam.

The board, usually acting in closed session with little public discussion later,
agreed to make extra pension payments for Gilliam and gave him the equivalent of
35 years of service when he retired in October after just eight years. That
increased his pension from $2,668 a month to $7,500 a month. And that was not
the only way the agency torched public dollars.

The emerging picture in the audit is an agency with a tin ear and money to burn.

The audit blames poor planning (we call it incompetence) for spending tens of
millions of dollars more on the MetroRail project than originally projected.

And what else but incompetence can explain the decision of Capital Metro's
former governing board to continue to give free rides to all seniors and people
with disabilities - about 30 percent of commuters? In 2009, when it was clear
the agency's finances were in deep trouble, the governing board nixed proposals
by staff to charge seniors and people with disabilities 25 cents. That is a
primary reason Capital Metro recovers just 10 percent of the cost of bus service
through fares compared with the 18 percent average of comparable agencies.

To be fair, the lengthy list of problems and mismanagement happened under the
agency's former board, led by Travis County Commissioner Margaret Gómez, and CEO
Gilliam. While a few of the board members from that time still remain, for the
most part it is a reconstituted board, with members who have started cleaning up
the big mess their predecessors left.

We're beyond the point of debating whether Austin and surrounding cities need
reliable, affordable public transportation. They do. No one can imagine living
and working in a metropolitan area of more than 1.6 million people without
public transportation - and that includes a commuter rail system that voters
approved and paid for.

And there are positive indications that Capital Metro's new governing board and
interim Chief Executive Officer Doug Allen are moving in the right direction.
Attitudes have changed. The agency now is accepting responsibility.

Allen told us he would use the audit as a roadmap for changes, prioritizing
safety issues regarding bridges - which he said are safe but will need repairs
in five years. And there would not be any higher priority than rebuilding
reserves - which have increased to $16 million since he took over - and
restoring fiscal management and public trust, he said.

The new board, led by Austin City Council Member Mike Martinez, already has
begun conducting its business more openly. All of those are positive signs, but
the transit agency has a long way to go yet.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

If home is the office, who pays in injury?

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1397 words


Liana Leordeanu, a traveling saleswoman, was driving from a business appointment
to her office in 2003 when she lost control of her car and slammed into a rock
embankment alongside Loop 360 in Austin.

Massive head trauma left her in a three-month coma, and she required 26
extensive surgeries to rebuild her face and repair her skull.

However, when she applied for workers' compensation insurance benefits for the
accident, Leordeanu was denied - even though she was on company business,
traveling in a company-provided car toward her company-furnished office.

Why? Because, like a growing number of Americans, Leordeanu's office was in her
home.

Last year, an Austin court ruled that Leordeanu's trip wasn't purely
work-related because she was also returning to her Northwest Austin apartment
for the night - a personal reason that made her ineligible for insurance meant
to cover employees injured on the job.

Leordeanu appealed, and now the Texas Supreme Court will decide how much
insurance protection work-from-home employees can expect when they travel for
their jobs. The court's decision also could affect coverage for repairmen,
delivery drivers and other business-related motorists.

Leordeanu's insurance carrier, American Protection Insurance Co. , argues that
two factors disqualified her from coverage.

First, she was a commuter driving home at the end of the workday, and workers'
comp does not typically cover the drive to and from work, lawyer Jack Latson
told the court during oral arguments April 15.

Second, state law limits the availability of workers' comp for drivers injured
while on "dual-purpose" trips that mix business and personal reasons, he said.

"If the travel to the home office served a business purpose, that doesn't
abolish the idea that you go home for a personal purpose," Latson said.

"Even if there's a home office, it doesn't convert it into a place of business -
even though business may occur there - any more than making a telephone call
from an automobile converts that into a place of business," he said.

Leordeanu's lawyers argue that equating commuters with traveling salespeople,
whose job requirements put them at increased risk for auto accidents, is
misguided.

It is also illogical, lawyer Brad McClellan suggested, to deny workers' comp
because Leordeanu was driving to an office in her home when she would have been
covered had her destination been an office building.

On the day of the accident, the entire purpose of Leordeanu's travel was to
further the interests of her company, and workers' comp should apply to every
mile of that trip - "coming, going, in the middle segments or anything else,"
McClellan told the court.

"There was nothing personal about the trip that day. It was all business," he
said.

Not expected to live

The day of her accident - March 21, 2003 - was typical in Leordeanu's almost
$110,000-a-year job as a saleswoman for antibiotics, allergy medication and
other drugs sold by Schering-Plough Corp.

She drove from her apartment complex to a storage facility next door, where she
kept drug samples in a climate-controlled unit paid for by Schering-Plough
(which merged with Merck & Co. last year).

Then it was off to 11 doctor offices in Austin and Bastrop, ending at a South
Austin restaurant for dinner with a doctor and members of his staff.
Schering-Plough picked up the tab.

It was about 9:30 p.m. when Leordeanu turned north on Loop 360 (Capital of Texas
Highway). She intended to return her remaining samples to the storage unit, then
head to her home office to complete paperwork that had to be mailed to corporate
headquarters the next day.

A police report said Leordeanu drifted to the left, overcorrected and spun into
a rock wall on the right shoulder. The back half of her car was obliterated; the
front wasn't much better off. Three months later, she woke up in what is now
University Medical Center Brackenridge.

Her skull had been shattered; she lost her left eye. Surgeries had already begun
to repair her facial bones, rebuild her sinuses and remold her head. Most of the
next two years would be spent in hospitals.

"That first month, I wasn't expected to live," said Leordeanu, now 35 and living
in Florida.

Today, Leordeanu is working on her startup business consulting firm after
failing to find another job in sales.

She has an eye patch, surprisingly light scarring, difficulty recalling names
and one other reminder of the accident:

a legal case that began six years ago when American Protection denied her
workers' comp claim.

Leordeanu lost an appeal to the Texas Department of Insurance but won round two
when a Travis County jury decided that she was working at the time of the
accident.

Her compensation, which she has yet to receive: an estimated $27,000 in
income-replacement benefits for the first year after her injury, plus
eligibility for other, smaller benefits. (Her lawyers, working on a contingency
fee basis, are limited to 25 percent of Leordeanu's award.)

The case tipped back in American Protection's favor last year when the Texas 3rd
Court of Appeals in Austin threw out the jury verdict, ruling 2-1 that Leordeanu
ran afoul of the "dual-purpose test," created by the Legislature to determine
when workers' comp applies to drivers injured while mixing business and personal
pursuits.

Under the test, Leordeanu had to prove she was driving that route only because
her business required it, Justice Alan Waldrop wrote. Leordeanu "was also
traveling home from the restaurant - a personal purpose for the same travel," he
added.

Writing in dissent, Justice Jan Patterson said it was a mistake "to simply label
all travel in the direction of home as 'inherently personal' and automatically
exclude it from coverage."

Skeptical questions

Oral arguments before the Supreme Court focused largely on the dual-purpose
test, prompting Justice Nathan Hecht to note that while much of the legal debate
has been over Leordeanu's ultimate destination - her home ­- she was actually
driving to the storage unit for business reasons. Where, Hecht asked, is the
personal purpose in that?

"There was a dual purpose there if one considers, as I think that one must, that
in the travel from her last workplace to this workplace " she was traveling
home," insurance lawyer Latson responded.

Hecht: "But I'm talking about when she went to the warehouse."

Latson: "So am I, Your Honor . The warehouse was adjacent to her home."

Justice Eva Guzman jumped in: "But does that really make a difference, though?
What if it hadn't been (adjacent)?"

In that case, Latson answered, there would have been no personal reason for the
drive if Leordeanu had to take a different route to the storage unit than to her
home.

"It's hard to understand," Hecht interjected, "why it would make a difference
that the warehouse was a block out of the way, a mile out of the way, the other
direction from the restaurant."

Latson: "She admitted that had she not been going to the warehouse, she would've
driven this exact same route " and she would have arrived at the same point
where this accident occurred at the same time of day."

In another exchange, Guzman challenged the argument that Leordeanu was a
commuter returning home from work.

"Her job was to travel there and get back. That return home, I think, could be a
little bit different," Guzman said.

Latson replied, "With all due respect, her job was not the traveling; her job
was the task of meeting doctors and selling pharmacy drugs."

Guzman shot back, "Interesting that they would provide her with a car if her job
didn't involve some travel."

McClellan, Leordeanu's lawyer (and son of former Texas comptroller and Austin
Mayor Carole Keeton Strayhorn) faced questions about where to draw the line on
business-related trips.

"Is it your argument that anytime an employee with a home office leaves a work
dinner in the evening, headed toward home, that the trip home is a covered
trip?" asked Justice Dale Wainwright.

Yes, McClellan said, unless there's a substantial side trip for a "purely
personal purpose."

"What if she's heading back home in the evening intending to go directly to
sleep , to do no work?" Wainwright asked.

Coverage still applies because "you don't change the character of the trip,"
McClellan replied. "The only reason she went out that day was for business
purposes."

The case is Leordeanu v. American Protection Insurance, 09-0330 .

clindell@statesman.com; 912-2569

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Strange attractor pops up on 'Bang'

BYLINE: Dale Roe AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 958 words


Monday: "The Big Bang Theory" 8:30 p.m., CBS: If the marvelous Judy Greer's
guest appearance here is as funny as the one she made on "Modern Family"
recently, well " it'll be really funny.

"The Chocolate Wars" 9 p.m., TLC: No offense, but I hope this isn't directed by
Ken Burns. Austin's Jeff Ontiverios is featured tonight.

Tuesday: "Biggest Loser: Couples" 7 p.m., NBC: Somebody tells the contestants to
go take a hike and they do, with Tony Romo.

"The Good Wife" 9 p.m., CBS: The job competition between Alicia and Cary is
decided tonight. It's kind of like "Last Lawyer Standing." Hey - don't tell Mark
Burnett about that idea; I might try to pitch it.

"Independent Lens" 9 p.m., PBS: 'The Horse Boy' profiles an Elgin couple and the
lengths they go to help their autistic son.

Wednesday: "Modern Family" 8 p.m., ABC: I know I am dating myself here, but I
hope that Cameron doesn't find an ancient idol and curse the whole group.

"Mercy" 8 p.m., NBC: Jennifer Esposito guest stars in the Season 1 finale.

"My Strange Addiction" 9 p.m., TLC: Profiled are a chalk-eater, a compulsive
shopper, an obsessed runner and a tanner. Coincidentally, that's also the new
cast of "Jersey Shore's" second season.

Thursday: "Fringe" 8 p.m., Fox: The first part of the season 2 finale finds
Walter and Olivia traveling to the alternate universe.

"The Imploders" 8 p.m., TLD: Dangerous demolition in Dallas.

"Grey's Anatomy" 8 p.m., ABC: Disney star Demi Lovato guests.

"Private Practice" 9 p.m., ABC: Season 3 wraps up tonight.

Friday: "Friday Night Lights" 7 p.m., NBC: A West Dillon shake-up sends a star
player to Coach Taylor's Lions. Riggins puts down roots.

"Smallville" 7 p.m., The CW: The description for the season 9 finale is about
150 words long, so if you're a fan, you're gonna want to tune in. It looks like
a lot of stuff happens, and who knows if it will be back?

Saturday: "Unwrapped" 8 p.m., Food: OK, there's nothing good on TV tonight.

Sunday: "America's Funniest Home Videos" 6 p.m., ABC: The Disney cruise-winning
"video that changed the world" is announced on the 20th season finale.

"Miss USA Pageant" 6 p.m., NBC: What happens in Vegas gets broadcast on network
TV, as evidenced by this 59th annual gala.

"Extreme Makeover: Home Edition" 7 p.m., ABC: The "Blind Side" family helps
rebuild in the seventh season finale. Also featured is Disney tween star Demi
Lovato, who must have made it out of the "Grey's Anatomy" hospital OK.

"Survivor: Heroes vs. Villains" 7 pm, CBS: One castaway is declared the winner
as the season comes to a close. I hope it's not the smoke monster.

"Desperate Housewives" 8 p.m., ABC: Season 6 concludes tonight with shenanigans
on Wisteria Lane.

- Dale Roe

MUSIC

Bob Schneider and Lonelyland at the Saxon Pub. Schneider's held down the Monday
night residency at the Saxon Pub for a long while, which makes it easy to forget
that a show from the city's favorite man of many hats is always a reliably solid
way to spend your evening. Despite his ubiquity, Austin evidently doesn't take
Schneider for granted - he took home musician of the year, and Lonelyland
received band of the year, at March's Austin Music Awards. 8:30 p.m. $10. 1320
S. Lamar Blvd. www.thesaxonpub.com.

- Patrick Caldwell

Also recommended: Django Walker at Momo's, Little Elmore Reed Blues Band at
T.C.'s Lounge, Austin Blues Society jam at Antone's.

AMUSEMENT PARKS & ZOOS

Animal World and Snake Farm. More than 400 reptiles. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily.
5640 S. Interstate 35, New Braunfels (Exit 183). Age 2 and younger free, $6.75
ages 3-12, $9.75 adults. 830-608-9270, www.

exoticanimalworld.com.

The Austin Zoo. P rivately run sanctuary. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily; no one
admitted after 5 p.m. 10807 Rawhide Trail. $5-$8. 288-1490, www.austinzoo.org.

Capital of Texas Zoo. Nonprofit zoo . 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. weekends. 376-A Jenkins Road, Cedar Creek. $6.99-$7.99. 303-6675,
www.capitaloftexaszoo.org.

CD REVIEW

'B.o.B.'

'B.o.B. Presents: The Adventures of Bobby Ray'

(Atlantic)

Grade: B+

Most rappers' first albums revolve around their lives before music. They usually
don't become disillusioned with the fame until albums two or three. B.o.B's 'The
Adventures of Bobby Ray' accelerates this process; it's the debut of a
21-year-old rapper who already sounds jaded and world-weary.

An Atlanta rapper named for the Outkast single 'Bombs over Baghdad,' he was
signed to a record label soon after finishing high school at 17.

He made a name for himself on the mix-tape circuit and landed a cover of XXL,
but remained in label purgatory for years. This despite comparisons to Andre
3000, with whom he shares a similar eclectic musical taste and the ability to
carry a tune.

But, as he laments, it takes more than talent to succeed: 'Somebody take me back
to the days / Back when I was rapping for the hell of it / Can I get a wish to
end the politics / and get back to the music that started this.' While the angst
of stardom is hardly a new topic for musicians, it's rare for a musician who
isn't yet a star.

'The Adventures of Bobby Ray,' with the No. 1 single 'Nothing on You,' could
change that. It's similar to Andre 3000's 'The Love Below,' with B.o.B singing
and rapping over a diverse array of instruments . He has a natural ear for
melodies and the ability to rap with big-name guests like Lupe Fiasco , Eminem
and label boss T.I.

Throughout, he showcases introspection and self-doubt unusual for a rapper. On
'Airplanes,' he compares airplanes to shooting stars and wishes that 'everyone
know my name / and everywhere I go people want to hear me sing / And I just
dropped my new album / on my first week did 500,000.'

In this climate, no rapper is guaranteed even a second album anymore, not even
someone as talented as B.o.B.

- Jonathan Tjarks

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Deal offers perks for grades

BYLINE: Laura Heinauer AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1010 words


Though it can be controversial, advocates say paying students to learn can work.

Despite mixed reviews from education experts, the Austin school district has
signed a five-year commitment to a nationwide program abandoned in Pflugerville
and is considering renewing work with a tutoring program started locally.
Because such programs usually require financial commitments from districts,
sustaining them - particularly in an environment of tight budgets - can be
difficult.

The Austin district has worked for several years with Advanced Placement
Strategies Inc. , a group that pays students for passing AP exams. Austin
recently signed up Akins, Crockett and Travis high schools with AP Strategies ,
which just moved its headquarters to Austin. Although the Pflugerville school
district has opted not to continue using that program, both districts say it has
merits, particularly in strengthening a school's AP program.

At the same time, former Austin Mayor Bruce Todd , who has spent the past few
years raising money and awareness for his Tutoring Incentive Program , is
touting the merits of paying

students to participate in tutoring and in class.

But Todd is now having trouble bringing back the program he started at Eastside
Memorial High School in 2009 . Todd's program pays kids $6 per hour throughout
the semester for attending school and participating in tutoring.

When the program was new, potential donors asked whether it would work, he said.

"The first time I got that question, I said, 'Hold on, do you have 30 minutes?'
All it took was one drive" around East Austin, Todd said. "I told them, 'This is
the answer to that question.' The circumstances here are far different. The
pressures (students) have

. . . to be other places is huge.

"I told him we need to get serious about responding to an environment and a
population where the financial situation is very different than the rest of the
city," Todd said. "The economic cost to the community from the results of the
failure to get a college education are huge. You've got a formula for disaster,
if we don't change what we're doing."

He got the money and was able to keep the program going two semesters. Now, the
hardest part, especially in an the current environment of tighter budgets, is
keeping it sustainable, Todd said.

Todd said he has proposed that the Austin school district pay for the tutors and
administrative costs. His group would provide money for the incentives. He said
he was hoping that the program would be part of the 2010-11 budget, but he is
still waiting for a response.

"By education and practice, school administrators are not typically known to be
innovators in other ways of teaching," Todd said. "They teach as they were
taught, and in today's climate, I don't think that is as successful as it once
was."

But studies show and advocates admit that not all student incentive programs
work.

Earlier this year, a Harvard study involving 250 urban schools found that
financial rewards given for activities, such as completing daily reading
assignments and showing up to school, were more effective than incentives given
for goals, such as passing an exam or getting a certain grade.

Advanced Placement Strategies gets private donors to make five-year commitments
to provide financial incentives to teachers and schools for teaching the AP
program. Students who score a 3 or higher on an AP exam receive a stipend. The
highest score on the exams, which can earn students college credit, is a 5 .

In convincing the Austin school district to continue its partnership, AP
Strategies pointed to an increase in the number of passing scores since the
program first came to Austin.

Though AP Strategies doesn't pay students until the end of the year, the program
does fund beginning-of-the-year teacher training and teacher pay stipends and
uses pizza as a lure to get students to attend weekend study sessions.

"That's the one thing you have to look for - a comprehensive approach," said AP
Strategies President Charlotte Carlisle . "Kids don't just show up ready. The
idea is to come in and build a mind-set. If you come in and just start paying
students, you're not going to be successful."

AP Strategies won't commit to paying the incentives indefinitely, however. The
idea, Carlisle said, is to get the programs going and then get districts or
other groups to fund the incentives once the five-year commitment is up.

"The problem is you lose funding, you lose excitement," Carlisle said. "One of
the things we're looking at now - before we partner with a school - is what's
your plan when our program exits."

Not all districts continue paying incentives. Pflugerville stopped participating
in their program in 2007 . But officials there said that the program helped
highlight an opportunity for advanced coursework and possible college credit for
a population that might not of have known about it.

A private donor eventually funded a scholarship program for students who
performed well on AP exams, but only for one year. Even so, officials said, the
district has continued to see sustained AP participation and increased diversity
among students taking the tests.

"I think (financial incentives) are nice to offer both to districts and kids,
but ultimately my goal is to have intrinsically motivated students," said
Barbara Gideon , the Pflugerville district's executive director of curriculum
and instruction.

"I don't want to develop a whole generation of kids who are only motivated by
financial rewards. Learning also needs to be a reward in and of itself."

Todd says his program also showed promise. Reports from the Austin school
district and Todd's group showed students had better course grades and higher
passing rates on the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills.

"I think Austin and the Central Texas area have a number of challenges, but none
is greater than the quality of our public education system," Todd said.

"I don't think we want to or could afford to become one of those cities where
people won't participate in public schools," he said.

lheinauer@statesman.com; 445-3694

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 979 words


Louis

I attended Louis' going-away party . He graduated high school in May and had
volunteered for the Army. The Army assured him an occupational specialty that
involved maintenance/mechanics on the Apache helicopter, the airframe most
common in the skies over Afghanistan. He aspires to be a crew chief.

Louis is a great kid, raised by a single mom. She did a great job. Now he is
gone (probably) to fight in a war that is of little consequence to most of us as
we go through our daily routine, the war in Afghanistan.

I am old , but in my time I fought in the jungles of Vietnam. I returned and was
assigned as the Marine Corps casualty assistance officer in San Antonio,
covering 21 counties, notifying bereaved families they had lost a loved one.

I want Louis to come home, and not in a box. I want us out of Afghanistan.

Clem Beard

Major, USMC (Ret.)

cbeard5211@aol.com

Austin

The war fairy

Re: July 19 commentary "Chew on this: There is no surplus fairy for Social
Security."

Sandy Leeds makes a good point that there is no surplus fairy for Social
Security. However, in his rush to cut two programs that greatly benefit the
poor, he ignores the fact that much of our current woes are caused by bloated
military spending and a giant unfunded tax cut that primarily benefited the
wealthiest Americans.

I don't expect a fairy to leave us treats under our collective national pillow,
but is it too much to hope that the current administration might not cut
programs that most benefit the bottom 95 percent of Americans?

That's a thought worth chewing on.

Rev. Joseph Moore

Central Presbyterian Church

Austin

No hope

Re: July 15 letter "Social Security."

The reason that folks getting ready to retire in the next 10 years aren't up in
arms is because most of us have given up hope. Our so-called elected
representatives are not representing our wishes. They are feathering their
nests.

Our social "security" went out the window with LBJ, when he made it the cash cow
for the federal entitlements. Long live Ronald Reagan.

Rick Carter

Burnet

Blaming Obama

Re: July 18 letter "Out of uniform?"

I would like to thank the American-Statesman for correcting yet another
pernicious and false accusation against President Barack Obama - that he is
attempting to disallow military personnel from appearing publicly in uniform
(Admiral Thad Allen of the Coast Guard) because he doesn't want to offend "a
certain Middle Eastern group."

If you subscribe to the belief that the president is an evil Muslim socialist,
this stuff makes perfect sense. Those of us who are still rational see these
accusations against the president for what they are - conspiratorial nonsense.

James Hoover

Taylor

Lost in space

Theoretically, senators and representatives in Washington are supposed to
reflect their constituents who elect them. I have to wonder whether the people
in Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee's district are as intelligent as she is.

If you recall, she once asked NASA officials at the Jet Propulsion Lab if the
Mars Pathfinder was able to get any pictures of the American flag left on Mars
by Neil Armstrong in 1969.

This month, she showed off her grasp of foreign affairs by pontificating on the
current state of North and South Vietnam. Where has she been for the last 35
years? There hasn't been a North or a South Vietnam since the fall of Saigon
after we withdrew our forces in 1975.

Do the people in District 18 (the Houston area) intend to send her back to
Congress in November? I would think they could do better. The question is, will
they?

Paul Minshew

Round Rock

Sanctity of our borders

Re: July 15 letter "Obama doesn't respect state rights."

The present occupant of the Oval Office has once again demonstrated his
arrogance and disregard for American citizens by bringing suit against one of
our border states for doing what he is sworn to do - protect the sanctity of our
borders.

He has allowed the lives of American citizens to be endangered and our social
services to be inundated, and yet our lily-livered Congress stands idly by and
does nothing.

Roger Gore

Round Rock

Disappointed in Perry

Re: July 16 article "Perry, Brewer to skip U.S.-Mexico governor meeting."

It is disappointing that Gov. Rick Perry will not attend the summit of governors
of the U.S. and Mexico.

All Texans do not agree with his support of the Arizona law. It seems
hypocritical that "he still intends to have a working relationship with all of
the border governors" when he refuses to participate in the summit in New
Mexico.

Carolyn Smith

Austin

Jobs vs. environment

Environmental concerns from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil well disaster have been
widely covered. Louisiana's vigorous resistance to any moratorium on deep-water
drilling projects pending further study of safety issues has been reported
almost as widely.

I believe this is an example of a fundamental conflict between the environment
and business and personal economics. I am convinced, most lately by images of
the melting of Himalayan glaciers, that climate change is much more serious than
the Deepwater Horizon event. The economic cost of effective action to reduce
human contributions, much less eliminate them, is consequently massive.

Recognizing the conflict is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for a
solution.

Joseph A. Rice

Austin

Everybody " sing along

Re: July 18 article "Breaking the barrier."

Thanks for the Stan Roberts piece in Insight on University Junior High. As the
school song "Golden Memories" said:

"In all our Golden Memories

A school so great so grand

Our University Junior High

Is the best school in the land."

And the school song ended with:

"That's why we shall remember thee

University Junior High."

Jim Christianson

Austin

Water conservation

I question the sanity of building a water park in Cedar Park just for
recreational use. This just does not make sense to me, especially because there
is already a water park in the region.

Jill Hinckley

Cedar Park

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1044 words


When in doubt, campaign

Kudos to Michael Ramirez's cartoon of July 30 about President Barack Obama's
visit with "The View."

Obama's credo seems to be: "When in doubt, campaign."

Governing might work if he tried it more often as an alternative. It might even
lead to his first ever serious attempt at bipartisanship.

David Point

Lakeway

Failure to legislate

Re: July 28 article "House approves billions for troop surge in Afghanistan."

Once again, our GOP representatives - Michael McCaul of Austin, John Carter of
Round Rock and Lamar Smith of San Antonio - have voted no to another President
Barack Obama initiative - this time against a traditional GOP position of
supporting war and our troops.

Have they ever voted even once to support our president? It seems to me that
they have the "no" button on autopilot.

This is not legislating. Let's vote for someone who will represent us by
weighing the issues before they vote. This is getting ridiculous.

Deborah Spanel

Granger

Love of war

The House of Representatives passed a war funding increase. Most Americans are
not in favor of this.

We need an anti-imperialist movement in this country such as we had in 1902.
Evan Thomas' new book "The War Lovers" talks about the romantic mythology of
war. We need to look at the cost of empire building.

To invade a country to impose our form of democracy is hypocrisy.  Until those
who have been hurt by war, such as families of the military, speak up, we will
likely continue to love war.

Martha Schumacher

truenow773@yahoo.com

Austin

Cap Metro chief's pay

Re: July 27 article "Cap Metro chief to begin with pay of up to $256,500."

It would think that a salary of $256,500 would be incentive enough to do a great
job, but to tack on $28,500 for a performance bonus seems to be redundant to me.

What changed over the years: When you were hired to do a job and when you did
what you were hired to do you got to keep your job? Are the standards set so
high that you must offer a performance bonus?

Carl Hedrick

Austin

F1 racing

Re: July 27 article "Future F1 site revealed."

Absolutely an atrocious blot on our city and county. I am appalled that our tax
dollars will help support Formula One racing when there are so many basic needs
our citizens are not being provided.

Olga Wise

Austin

Sherrod incident

Re: July 26 commentary "Chewing up the innocent."

Leonard Pitts Jr. can cry all he wants about the right using a clip from the
Shirley Sherrod speech video to call her a racist, but the sad part of all this
is that the NAACP and the Obama administration didn't bother to look at the
entire video to find out the truth. They found it more expedient to just fire
her.

Barbara Boyne

Lago Vista

On the other hand ...

Thank you for "The American Way" by Leonard Pitts Jr. (July 22).

It is always good to be reminded. It was one of his best columns.

Mary Boyd Faloon

Austin

Military heroes

Re: July 26 commentary "Every soldier a hero? Hardly."

William J. Astore wrote, "A hero is someone who behaves selflessly, usually at
considerable personal risk and sacrifice, to comfort or empower others and to
make the world a better place."

That quote precisely describes our service men and women. Although the author is
entitled to free speech, so am I. And I believe these men and women are heroes,
whether they see/saw combat or not. The second they joined the military, they
fit the description of the author's own quote.

While I commend the author's humble attitude toward his military service, I
believe our service men and women deserve proper credit.

Allison J. Kheang

Liberty Hill

Water bottle scare

The latest scare is the risk of picking up a plastic water bottle and finding it
contains Drano, water and a piece of foil which, when disturbed, explodes in
your hand.

Being the Garbage Goddess that I am, I have picked up probably 10,000 plastic
bottles in the 10 years I've lived in Austin. Many still contain liquid, which I
empty before putting the bottle in the trash bag I carry. (Of course, I can't
understand why anyone would pay 100 times the cost of tap water and then throw
it away, but that's another issue.)

Never have I had anything explode or do any kind of damage to me. The greater
risk, it seems to me, is putting this idea out there for immature teenage brains
to decide this might be a cool prank to play on someone.

Mary E. Milam

Austin

Red-light observation

I drive Austin streets often and have for many years.

I keep a little money handy to give traffic-corner folks.

In this climate of panic over illegal immigrants, I find it very interesting
that I've never encountered a Hispanic-looking beggar.

Tommy X Hancock

tommyxhancock@earthlink.net

Austin

PEC backsliding?

Wasn't it a few Pedernales Electric Cooperative board members who ran the place
in secret and spent extravagantly on themselves, friends and families ? Wasn't
it just a few board members who had their way with hiding their real agenda at
our country's largest electric co-op while emptying the cash drawer?

Could it be that "sheriff" Juan Garza's bylaws package for board transparency
was getting too close to the real change that a few board members hoped he would
never complete?

Garza and his deputies have won the trust and quality work of PEC's terrific
staff. So why was it Garza was fired?

Richard Halpin

Austin

Highway robbery

I was a victim of highway robbery in your city. This happened when my wife and I
chose to spend our 25th anniversary in Austin.

Driving in on Interstate 35, an Austin police officer was following us quite
closely. I changed lanes to the right to allow the officer to go by. When the
officer changed lanes at the same time, he pulled me over and falsely charged me
with changing lanes without signaling and of cutting him off. His attitude was
incredibly snide.

I left your city with a $167 ticket. I have no other traffic violations for
this. Why didn't he issue a warning? Why wasn't he courteous to visitors to your
city?

Because of this officer, we will choose not to visit your city in the future and
will suggest the same to everyone we know.

Don Cox

wmfcudon@aol.com

Hewitt

Praise for Hax

Just wanted to add my voice to the chorus of praise for Carolyn Hax. I read her
in The Washington Post before I moved to Central Texas and have enjoyed her
column for years. I'd like to see it run every day.

Eric Hazell

Georgetown

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               84 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Budget outlook remains murky

BYLINE: Jason Embry AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1012 words


A lack of clear, updated information about just how much financial hardship the
state faces heading into next year's legislative session is starting to
frustrate some lawmakers.

Bad news about the state's fiscal condition has trickled out over the past year:
Sales and business tax collections are beneath official projections, the state's
rainy day fund won't have as much money as state officials believed it would a
year ago, and a $1.3 billion deficit is expected in the general revenue fund at
the end of the current two-year budget.

But Comptroller Susan Combs, the state's chief financial officer, has done
little to offer a big-picture public assessment of the revenue outlook as the
November elections and 2011 legislative session approach. And trying to guess
just how large a budget shortfall the state faces has become a popular parlor
game at the Capitol.

Seeking clarity, state Sen. Kirk Watson sent Combs a letter last week asking
that she update her official estimate of how much money the state will collect
during the current two-year budget cycle. He also asked that she offer a
forecast of the state's revenue outlook over the next two years.

"A private business of any size should never fly into a fiscal storm blindly,
and neither should Texans or their elected officials," wrote Watson, D-Austin.
"Without a clear picture of the state's financial condition, we find ourselves
in the situation of working on a problem that has not yet been actually
defined."

Watson's request for Combs to speak up on the budget comes as Gov. Rick Perry,
who is campaigning for re-election on an economic climate that encourages job
creation, has sought to downplay talk of a coming budget crisis.

On Tuesday, Perry called Watson's request bizarre. But Perry's Democratic
challenger, former Houston Mayor Bill White, said Combs should provide frequent,
public updates on the state's fiscal status.

In January of odd-numbered years as each legislative session begins, the
comptroller provides an official estimate of how much money the state will take
in over the coming two years. That is the amount lawmakers can spend when they
write the state budget.

Comptrollers can update their estimates at any time and often face pressure to
do so late in the legislative session, when budget-writers are hoping to squeeze
out a few extra dollars.

Despite the national economic downturn that came to the forefront in the fall of
2008 and began to visibly hit Texas in 2009, Combs has not updated her January
2009 revenue estimate. That estimate said that, during the fiscal year that
began in September 2009 and ended last week, state sales tax collections would
increase slightly compared with the previous year's.

In fact, during the first 11 months of the fiscal year, sales tax collections
fell more than $1 billion short of Combs' projections. The sales tax is the
state's largest revenue source.

Combs spokesman Allen Spelce said Tuesday that the comptroller will answer
Watson's questions but does not plan to officially update her revenue forecast.

"We're still looking at the numbers," Spelce said.

Intentionally or not, waiting until January to officially discuss the revenue
outlook helps keep the state's fiscal picture in the background until after the
November elections. While Combs has no Democratic opponent and is likely to win
re-election easily, Perry, her ally and fellow Republican, is facing a spirited
challenge from White.

Perry dismissed Watson's call Tuesday. "I don't think there's any great need to
have our comptroller going through a process right now to satisfy some people's
political desires," Perry said, according to the Houston Chronicle.

State Rep. Mike Villarreal, a San Antonio Democrat who sits on the
budget-writing House Appropriations Committee, echoed Watson's call for a public
airing of updated budget data. Villarreal said the coming election underscores
the need for Texans to have up-to-date information about state revenue.

"We owe it to the voters because this is a democratic process where the people
they elect get to make the decisions next session," Villarreal said. "We need to
be respectful to this process and have candidates talking in real terms about
the decision ahead of us."

Watson noted in his letter that the Texas Constitution calls for the comptroller
to update the revenue estimate "when it may be necessary to show probable
changes" to that estimate.

Spelce said Combs has been keeping Perry, House Speaker Joe Straus and Lt. Gov.
David Dewhurst apprised of the revenue outlook.

"The speaker is in regular contact with the comptroller's office, and we receive
the information we need," said Straus spokeswoman Tracy Young .

Lawmakers have planned for years to face a budget shortfall in 2011, in large
part because they cut school property taxes by $14 billion in 2006 but have
chosen not to replace most of that money in the state treasury.

State surpluses helped pay for that tax cut in its early years, but those
surpluses have disappeared, and lawmakers have not made corresponding reductions
in spending to offset the annual cost of the tax cut.

Then came the national economic downturn, making the expected shortfall worse.
Straus said in a recent speech that he expects the shortfall in the next
two-year budget will be at least $18 billion. Perry has declined to estimate the
shortfall, calling the $18 billion figure "a number that somebody just reached
up in the air and grabbed."

To prepare for coming spending cuts, Perry, Dew­hurst and Straus asked some
state agencies to reduce spending by 5 percent in the current budget cycle,
which ends in August 2011. Perry's office and the Legislative Budget Board have
also asked some agencies to identify ways they could cut spending by an
additional 10 percent over the next two years.

Last month, bond rating agencies gave Texas top marks. But in documents provided
to those agencies, Combs said a $1.3 billion deficit is expected in the state's
general revenue fund at the end of the current budget, even after factoring in
the 5 percent cuts.

jembry@statesman.com; 445-3572

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Cowboys in a nutshell: 'I'm at a loss'

BYLINE: CEDRIC GOLDEN AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 863 words


ARLINGTON - The supervisor admitted he failed to sufficiently motivate the
people working for him.

The supervisor also said he had a large role in why his employees failed to
execute the company strategy on one of the most important business days of the
year.

"I'm at a loss,'' said the employee. "If I knew what to do, I would have done it
already."

Sounds like grounds for dismissal.

Wade Phillips is the supervisor and Jerry Jones is the big boss who pulls all
the strings, but the scenario before us isn't as clear as a hiring and a firing.
In any other year, Jones might end the Phillips era with one press conference,
but the current climate calls for a different tack.

Here's what we do know: The Dallas Cowboys turned David Garrard into Dan Marino
and made the Jacksonville Jaguars look like the 1985 Chicago Bears on Sunday. On
a weekend that celebrates horror and gore, there was nothing scary about Dallas.
And as Phillips plunged himself upon the proverbial sword on yet another Sunday,
the questions turned to his future as the head coach of the most underachieving
roster in pro football.

Garrard threw four touchdown passes against what was once regarded as the
Cowboys' strongest unit. Jon Kitna passed for 379 yards, but the four
interceptions confirmed he was still Jon Kitna.

Now the spotlight is squarely on Phillips, a nice guy by most accounts, but a
coach who has seemingly run out of answers in his fourth season. The 35-17 loss
dropped his team to 1-6 with little hope of things getting any better.

" I'm distraught to say the least," he said. "It was embarrassing the way we
played, the way we coached " We didn't give ourselves a chance to win the game.
It's very painful in the season to be where we are."

The Cowboys are a hauntingly poor excuse for a football team, given the talent
on the roster. The offensive struggles under the aged Kitna were somewhat
expected, but these guys weren't exactly lighting it up with Tony Romo. Sunday
was a real spectacle, with costumed fans more excited about being spotted on the
giant video board than they were about the football being played on the field .

Once Marion Barber was stopped one foot short of a touchdown on the final play
of the first half, the Cowboys ceased to be competitive.

There aren't a lot of positives to be drawn from being down 28-3 against a team
that ranks 29th in total defense.

Jones was in surprisingly good spirits following the game, but maybe that was a
poker face to mask his real frustrations with his head coach and staff. Jerry
knows the season reached critical mass weeks ago and his team didn't respond
with the sort of desperation needed to get back on track after a 1-2 start.

Four straight losses later, the players left the field to a chorus of boos from
the few remaining fans who hadn't already hustled home or across the street to
see the American League's best team compete for a World Series title.

As for Phillips, he looked like a coach in need of a long vacation, even if it
came with a pink slip attached. If Wade were coaching in the NHL, he would have
been gone by now. Those GMs on ice don't play nice.

But the ironic part of this whole Cowboy tragedy is that the one thing keeping
Phillips working is the increasing probability of people not working.

If the NFL players don't enter into a new collective bargaining agreement with
owners, there won't be a season in 2011. If Jones were to fire Phillips and
other members of the coaching staff, he would be on the hook for this staff's
remaining salary and that of a new head coach and any assistants hired
thereafter. So fiscally speaking, retaining Phillips and the staff makes good
sense right now.

"I think anybody has, and would have, the emotional knee-jerk thought about just
changing something to be changing,'' Jones said. "What has to be taken into
consideration is how effective these changes could be."

In other words, he would love to get rid of Wade Phillips but it doesn't make
good business sense at the moment.

Phillips should go, because he has lost this team, but he won't be leaving any
time soon, thanks to the billion-dollar mess that is the CBA. And even if he
were shown the door, this mess would not be fixed overnight, because it wasn't
created overnight.

Since finishing 13-3 in 2007 - Phillips' first season - Dallas has a 22-20
record, including a 1-2 record in the postseason.

For that league-high $166.5 million Jones is doling out in salaries, those
numbers fall below the grade he is seeking, and while Jerry has said on several
occasions that he would be hesitant to fire a coach in the middle of the season,
he all but admitted that he is considering all options at his disposal.

So, is he going to fire Phillips? Jones isn't going there.

"I know this is about one percent meat what I'm saying here and 99 percent of
whatever else you want to call it," he said. "The bottom line is no I do not
know the answer."

Eternal sunshine-pumper Roy Williams hasn't given up the ghost just yet.

"I believe in this football team,'' the Dallas wide receiver said. "I believe we
can run (off) eight (wins) in a row. I really do. All we need is a spark."

Try an inferno. Maybe two.

cgolden@statesman.com; 912-5944

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 15, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Classic holiday fare, and classic songs

BYLINE: Dale Roe AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 1317 words


Monday: 'Castle' 9 p.m., ABC: Lyle Lovett and his large hair guest star as a
questionable government agent.

Tuesday: 'Glee' 7 p.m., Fox: I don't much care for this show anymore, but I
still like Gwyneth Paltrow, guest starring as New Directions' substitute
teacher, so maybe I'll give it a shot.

'Creating the World of Harry Potter: Creatures' 8 p.m., Biography: Will Dobby
the house elf show up? The Dobbarazzi is standing by.

'The Good Wife' 9 p.m., CBS: 'iCarly' teen pop star Miranda Cosgrove guests as "
wait for it " a teen pop star.

'Glory Daze' 9 p.m., TBS: I'm sort of predisposed to pessimism by any show that
has a title that substitutes the word 'daze' for 'days,' and I find the 1986
setting suspect (who is specifically nostalgic for 1986?). But maybe it'll be
like an updated 'Undeclared.' Series premiere.

Wednesday: 'Human Target' 7 p.m., Fox: Season 2 kicks off with a plan to rescue
Winston.

'Better with You' 7:30 p.m., ABC: Reba McEntire guests as a wedding planner with
a possible ulterior motive.

'Circus' 8 p.m., PBS: The final two episodes of the series find the
350-performance tour coming to an end.

'25 Years of Sexy: People's Sexiest Man Alive!' 9 p.m., ABC: It's got to be good
- there's an exclamation mark in the title!

Thursday: 'Charlie Brown Thanksgiving' 7 p.m., ABC: I like a holiday feast as
much as the next guy, but I'm not really sure I'd want it cooked up by a
precocious beagle.

'Bones' 7 p.m., Fox: Newman! 'Seinfeld's' Wayne Knight guests as a candy tycoon
turned suspect when body parts turn up in a gigantic candy bar. 'Hey " you got
your chocolate in my femur.' 'You got your femur in my chocolate!'

'Fringe' 8 p.m. Fox: Cabbie Henry (Andre Royo) returns as Olivia continues to
question her place in the alternate universe.

'Now on PBS: Fixing the Future' 8 p.m., PBS: Host David Brancaccio travels the
country via sustainable transportation while highlighting innovative
communities.

Friday: 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas' 7 p.m., TBS: I defy you to watch this
and not have your heart grow three sizes. Go on, try it.

'Harmony' 9 p.m., NBC: This project from Prince Charles (no, really) explores
how humans can meet the challenges of climate change on a global, local and
personal level.

Saturday: 'The Night Before the Night Before Christmas' 7 p.m., Hallmark: If
you're a U-verse customer, you'll have to ask Santa to settle the ongoing
carriage dispute if you want to watch this TV movie starring Jennifer Beals and
Rick Roberts.

Sunday: '2010 American Music Awards' 7 p.m., ABC: New Kids on the Block and the
Backstreet Boys perform together in the 38th annual fan-voted gala.

'Family Guy' 8 p.m., Fox: Brian's self-help best-seller lands him on 'Real Time
with Bill Maher.'

'How the Grinch Stole Christmas' 9 p.m., TBS: Here it is again, in case you
missed it on Friday. I wouldn't watch it twice, though " it can't be healthy for
your heart to grow six sizes.

- Dale Roe

MUSIC

Wolf Parade at La Zona Rosa. This Montreal quartet's newest LP, `Expo 86,' is
gaining fans with its complex and artful approach to new wave/punk. But not
enough to possibly threaten fellow Montrealists Arcade Fire, whose former
drummer Howard Bilerman produced `Expo 86' for Sub Pop. 8 p.m. $18 612 W. Fourth
St. www.lazonarosa.com.

- Michael Corcoran

Also recommended: Juke Joint Blues Night at Club 1808, Dale Watson at the
Continental, Lonelyland at Saxon Pub.

Les Petits Chanteurs (The Little Singers). The Holy Trinity Episcopal Cathedral
Music School of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, was completely destroyed by the January
earthquake. A group of singers, age 8 to 18, are performing to raise awareness
for Haitian music and to help rebuild the school. Today , 7 p.m. St. Stephen's
Episcopal School Chapel, 6500 Saint Stephens Drive, Tuesday, 7 p.m. All Saints
Episcopal Church, 209 W. 27th St. Free; monetary donations and donations of
musical instruments will be accepted. Contact John Moon at jmoon@sstx.org,
796-5677 or St. Stephen's Episcopal School, 327-1213

ART EXHIBITS

Davis Gallery. `New Work by: David Everett, David Hefner and Caprice Pierucci.'
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 837 W. 12th St. 477-4929, www.davisgalleryaustin.com.

Gallery 5619. `Jonathan McFadden.' New work. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 5619 Airport Blvd.
www.gallery5619.org.

Haven Gallery. `Woven Glass.' Work by sculptors Eric Markow and Thom Norris. 11
a.m. to 6 p.m. 1122 W. Sixth St. 477-2700, www.havengalleryaustin.com.

AMUSEMENT PARKS & ZOOS

The Austin Zoo. Primates, big cats, birds, reptiles and other animals inhabit
this kid-oriented, privately run sanctuary. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily; no entry
after 5 p.m. 10807 Rawhide Trail. $5-$8. 288-1490, www.austinzoo.org.

Capital of Texas Zoo. Nonprofit zoo dedicated to education and conservation. 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. 376-A Jenkins Road, Cedar Creek. $6.99-$7.99. 303-6675,
www.capitaloftexaszoo.org.

WORKSHOPS

Digital Photography for Beginners. 6 to 8 p.m. Mondays through Nov. 29. Emma
Barrientos Mexican American Cultural Center, 600 River St.
www.ci.austin.tx.us/macc.

Totally Cool Totally Art. After-school teen art program. Mondays-Thursdays
through April. 974-4027. www.ci.austin.tx.us/tcta.

`Using the iPad to create and promote your art.' National blogger Patrick Jordan
demonstrates. 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. $45. Austin Details Art + Photo, 106 E.
Eighth St. www.austindetailsart.com.

MUSEUMS & EXHIBITS

Bullock Texas State History Museum. Interactive and traveling exhibits, plus an
IMAX theater. `Tango Alpha Charlie: Texas Aviation Celebration.' 9 a.m. to 6
p.m. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and North Congress Avenue. $4-$7.
936-8746, www.thestoryoftexas.com.

LBJ Library and Museum. Current exhibit: `Cronkite: Eyewitness to a Century.' 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through Jan. 3. Free. 2313 Red River St. 721-0200,
www.lbjlibrary.org.

Los Lonely Boys concert kicks off fundraiser for at-risk youth
MICHAEL BARNES
OUT & ABOUT
 A few last chances to socialize before the Thanksgiving family break ...
 Today, you may 'Rock the Casbah' for Refugee Services of Texas at Phara's
Middle Eastern restaurant.
 Wednesday, join the greens from the Rainforest Partnership at the Barr
Mansion.
 Also Wednesday, choose from A Christmas Affair: Upon A Winter's Eve Gala and
Preview Party at Palmer Events Center; Allison Walsh Birthday Party at Studio
6A with music by music by Oh Whitney, Continental Graffiti and DJ Reda Briki;
Pierpont Communications 10th Anniversary Party at Icenhauer's; Great Scotts
Party for Zach Theatre at 5 Fifty Five; and Reading Between the Wines for the
Literacy Coalition at Green Pastures.
 Thursday, one of the great parties of any year, Help Clifford Help the Kids
for Youthworks, takes off with Los Lonely Boys at AT&T Center. Also Thursday,
sample from Big Reds and Bubbles for Texas Wine and Food Foundation at the
Driskill Hotel; an Underground Party for Austin Bat Cave at a Tarrytown home;
and Catalyst 8's Thanks for Giving Party at ProAce Technologies.
 Friday, the Austin Public Library Friends Foundation Annual Benefit celebrates
 the 25th anniversary of the publication of Larry McMurtry's novel 'Lonesome
Dove,' at AT&T Conference Center. Also Friday, take a look at SafePlace
Celebration at Hyatt Regency Austin; or Extravagasm Fantasy Ball IX: East of
Hedon at the ND.
 Saturday, if the weather is fair, dig into Home Slice Carnival O' Pizza 2010
at 1415 South Congress Ave.
 Also Saturday, select from the Friends of Austin Cultural Entrepreneurship
Networking Party at Brown Building; or the Austin Empty Bowl Project at the
Emma Barrientos Mexican American Cultural Center.
mbarnes@statesman.com MUSIC
 Wolf Parade at La Zona Rosa. This Montreal quartet's newest LP, 'Expo 86,' is
gaining fans with its complex and artful approach to new wave/punk. But not
enough to possibly threaten fellow Montrealists Arcade Fire, whose former
drummer Howard Bilerman produced 'Expo 86' for Sub Pop. 8 p.m. $18 612 W.
Fourth St. www.lazonarosa.com.
- Michael Corcoran



LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Brrrr! Keep going

BYLINE: PAM LEBLANC AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1139 words


We live in Austin, not Minneapolis, so we can bike, run - and, yes, even swim -
outdoors all year round. But exercising in cold weather requires different
considerations than exercising in brutal heat. We've rounded up some odd facts,
answered eternal questions and put together helpful tips to help you stay active
in this winter. Now grab your gloves and get crackin'!

Can you get dehydrated in the cold?

Dehydration doesn't just occur under a hot summer sun. It's one of the biggest
problems when exercising in cold weather. Most people don't feel as thirsty when
it's cold, and they drink less. That's because cold actually inhibits the thirst
sensation, according to a University of New Hampshire study published in
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise. Blood moves away from the extremities
and into the body's core. Since the fluid level in the central body doesn't
drop, the kidneys don't get the signal to conserve fluid. The thirst response
decreases by about 40 percent.

What's the best temperature for running?

Austin runners already know it's better to run a marathon in February than
August. A study from the U.S. Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine
proves it. After studying years of results and weather data from six major
marathons, researchers showed that colder temperatures meant faster times. The
ideal long-distance running temperature, according to the study, is 41 degrees.
The times of top male runners were 2.5 percent slower than the course record
when the temperature was between 51 and 59 degrees. Finishing times were even
slower at higher temperatures.

Is it miserable to swim in Barton Springs in the winter?

If you can hack the pool in the summer, you probably can hack it in the winter.
That's because the water at the pool is roughly the same temperature year round
- usually 70 or 71 degrees. It's getting out that's tough, especially if it's
windy. Be sure to have a towel, jacket, socks and hat handy, and change out of
your wet swimsuit as soon as you can. A sunny day and a wetsuit help, too.

Can your lungs freeze in extreme cold?

Nope. People in cold climates used to avoid running outside in the winter, but
freezing lungs are a myth, according to Blair Gorsuch at the CardioPulmonary
Rehabilitation Center at Proctor Hospital in Peoria, Ill. The body naturally
warms air before it enters the lungs.

Why does your nose run in the cold?

The nose's job is to warm and humidify air that you breathe into your lungs. If
the air is cold and dry, the nose increases fluid production. Sometimes it makes
too much, and your nose runs. There's another factor at work, too. Water in warm
air condenses in cold air. When you breathe warm air out your nose, some of it
might condense at the tip of your nose, where it's cold. Voilà, runny nose. A
runny nose also could be a sign of exercise-induced rhinitis. Physical exercise
often triggers the symptoms, which include inflamed nasal mucous membranes that
pump out more mucus during exertion.

Do you burn more fat exercising in colder weather?

Probably not. A 1991 study published in Sports Medicine found that "the
combination of exercise and cold exposure does not ... enhance metabolism of
fats." In fact, some bodily processes involved in fat metabolism slow down in
cold temperatures. That slowdown might be because blood vessels in peripheral
fatty tissues constrict when it's cold outside. The heart rate is usually lower
in cold weather exercise, too.

Do exercisers catch fewer colds?

Yes, according to a 2008 study reported in the British Journal of Sports
Medicine. After tracking about 1,000 American adults for 12 weeks, researchers
determined that regular aerobic exercise might cut the risk of catching a cold
or other upper respiratory infection nearly in half. According to the study,
people who exercised at least five times a week had up to 46 percent fewer sick
days than those who exercised only one day a week or less. The exercisers had an
average of 4.41 sick days versus 8.18 days for the couch potatoes. And when they
did get sick, their symptoms were milder.

What about goose bumps?

Goose bumps are the body's way to help keep us warm. Rising hairs trap cold air
and form a protective shield so cold air doesn't come into direct contact with
sensitive skin, according to "The Odd Body," by Dr. Stephen Juan.

Does cold increase heart attacks?

More heart attacks occur in cold weather than in warm weather. In fact, with
each drop of 1 degree Celsius, about 200 extra people have a heart attack within
28 days, according to a study in the British Medical Journal. Researchers say
that's because very cold temperatures cause an increase in blood pressure - and
a better chance for blood clots.

Is it harder to lose weight swimming in cold water than warm water?

Yes, according to a 2005 study by the University of Florida. In a nutshell,
exercising in cold water makes you hungry. The study tracked energy used by
students who rode a stationary bicycle submerged in water at 68 degrees and
again at 91.4 degrees. They burned roughly the same amount of energy during each
session, but ate 44 percent more calories after exercising in cold water.

What should you eat to exercise in the cold?

When it gets cold, your body temperature drops. To stay warm, you need to
generate heat. Eat complex carbohydrates two hours before you exercise. Warm
foods like soup, whole wheat pasta and baked potatoes are good, but sometimes
inconvenient. Other suggestions? Peanut butter, whole wheat bread, whole grain
cereal, lean meat or low-fat cheese. During long periods of exercise, eat small
amounts at frequent intervals. If you don't replace the energy you're consuming,
you'll get tired and chilled more easily.

More tips for exercising in the cold:

1. Layer it: Resist the temptation to bundle up like Nanook of the North.
Exercise generates heat, and if you start to sweat, you'll get cold when that
sweat dries. Instead, dress in layers. Start with a thin synthetic layer to wick
sweat. Avoid cotton. Pull on a wool or fleece layer next, and top it off with a
waterproof, breathable outer layer. If it's really cold, you might want a face
mask or scarf to warm air before you breathe it in.

2. Protect your extremities: Chilly temperatures mean your body protects its
vital organs. Blood flow to your hands and feet is diminished. Wear gloves and
warm socks.

3. Avoid frostbite: If temperatures drop below zero degrees or the wind chill is
extreme (not likely in Austin, but we know Texans like to ski), exercise
outdoors can become unsafe. Exposed skin is prone to frostbite. Consider
exercising indoors instead.

4. Choose the right gear: If it's dark when you exercise outside, wear
reflective clothing. Wear shoes with enough traction to stop falls on ice or
snow. Wear a helmet during snow sports and while cycling.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
