
                               1 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                29 November 2018

POLITIFACT;
Cold spells don't negate climate change big picture

BYLINE: John Kruzel PolitiFact.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 592 words


If human impact on climate goes unchecked, global warming could inflict
devastating long-term effects on the environment, economy and public health,
warned U.S. government scientists in a report last week.

But while some heard the 1,600-page National Climate Assessment as a blaring
distress call, others were less alarmed.

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Danielle Pletka, a foreign policy expert at the
conservative American Enterprise Institute, allowed that climate change is
happening but hastened to add that she didn't know if it's caused by humans. (In
fact, scientists say they are the main contributor.)

She argued the issue of climate change is subject to "hysteria" and said certain
weather phenomena, such as periods of global cooling, are overlooked by the
mainstream media narrative.

"We need to also recognize that we just had two of the coldest years, biggest
drop in global temperatures that we have had since the 1980s, the biggest in the
last 100 years," Pletka said. "We don't talk about that because it's not part of
the agenda."

Climate scientists told us that part of Pletka's claim is false and part is
misleading.

Gavin Schmidt, a climatologist and director of NASA's Goddard Institute for
Space Studies, pointed us to a chart of NASA data showing global average
temperatures over time. It shows that 2017 and 2016 were actually some of the
warmest years on record -- which contradicts this portion of Pletka's claim.

The other piece of Pletka's claim -- about cold spells -- was not so much false,
as misleading.

She told us she was relying on an article from Real Clear Markets with the
headline, "Did You Know the Greatest Two-Year Global Cooling Event Just Took
Place?"

The April article notes that from February 2016 to February 2018 (the latest
month available at the time), global average temperatures dropped 0.56 degrees
C.

"You have to go back to 1982-84 for the next biggest two-year drop," the article
states, referring also to the NASA data on global average temperatures. (The
1982-84 drop was 0.47 degrees C.)

Climate scientists told us that this is technically true but that it misses the
bigger trend that's taken place over decades.

"Basically, it's just a statistical fluke that people have grabbed because it
sounds good," Schmidt said. "It has no relevance for the long-term trends."

The drop in temperatures after 2016 was also unsurprising, climatologists said.

2016 was especially hot because it was at the peak of the last El Niño, a
recurring event when the surface of the Pacific Ocean warms, leading to higher
global average temperatures of a few tenths of a degree. As the event concluded,
things cooled off.

"So the subsequent drop in temperature isn't surprising," said Judith Curry, a
climatologist and former chair of the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
at the Georgia Institute of Technology. "A two-year trend is not meaningful in
terms of understanding anything about how climate is changing."

Our ruling

Pletka said, "We just had two of the coldest years, biggest drop in global
temperatures that we have had since the 1980s, the biggest in the last 100
years."

Her claim that we just had two of the coldest years is wrong. Globally, 2016 and
2017 were the two warmest years on record, according to one measure.

Climate scientists told us a two-year trend is meaningless in terms of
understanding anything about how climate is changing. With that in mind,
Pletka's assertion that we've recently seen the biggest drop in global
temperatures is a red herring.

We rate Pletka's claim False.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                14 December 2018

Harvey report warns of changing climate;
But state report avoids the term 'climate change'

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 953 words


A far-reaching new state report about the devastation wrought by Hurricane
Harvey warns communities will have to construct storm-surge barriers, bolster
wetlands, buy out homeowners in flood plains, and encourage property owners to
raise the first floors of existing buildings and add waterproof veneers ahead of
coming disasters.

"The enormous toll on individuals, businesses and public infrastructure should
provide a wake-up call underlining the urgent need to 'future-proof' the Gulf
Coast -- and indeed all of Texas -- against future disasters," according to "Eye
of the Storm," the report released Thursday by Gov. Greg Abbott's Commission to
Rebuild Texas.

"Future-proof" is a term favored by Abbott, and one used at least twice more in
the report's introduction: "Future-proofing Texas means recognizing that the
future is uncertain and that investing in strategic improvements now in
recognition of future uncertainties is not only a good idea, but also good
policy."

In its forward-looking cast, the report, which was overseen by Texas A&M
University System Chancellor John Sharp and included contributions from more
than two dozen researchers and extension agents in the Texas A&M System, is
perhaps the closest the governor's office has come to acknowledging climate
change -- while assiduously avoiding that exact, politically charged term,
except in citations of scientific papers.

On Thursday, Abbott deflected a question about climate change.

"What this report does is to make sure Texas is prepared for intense disasters
of any nature," he said. Such disasters are "really rather timeless," he said,
mentioning devastating hurricanes hitting Galveston and other parts of Texas
dating back to 1900.

"Of course, over a long period of time, there are different climatic challenges
we deal with," he said.

'Changing climate'

Scientists warn that future climate conditions likely will depart from ones seen
over the past century -- and that warming seas will lead to more intense
hurricanes. At the root of a changing climate is the industrial uptick in carbon
emissions, which trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere.

The report notes rising sea levels in the Gulf and that the frequency of extreme
rain events has increased in recent decades, citing the research of the state
climatologist, John Nielsen-Gammon.

"The current scientific consensus points to increasing amounts of intense
rainfall coupled with the likelihood of more intense hurricanes," the report
says.

Elsewhere the report uses the term "changing climate": "A changing climate, with
its increased river runoff, more severe precipitation events and sea level rise,
will make it crucial to strengthen these dams and related infrastructure such as
levees, reservoirs, floodgates and storm drains."

But the report steers clear of recommending policies to tamp down carbon
emissions in Texas, the country's leading emitter of the greenhouse gas.

Pressed on the relationship between hurricanes and a changing climate, Abbott
said, "I'm not a scientist, and it's impossible for me to answer that."

State agencies and the Lower Colorado River Authority, the quasi-state utility
that oversees management of the river flowing through Austin, have tended not to
take climate change into account in their water planning.

The Texas Water Development Board looks, instead, at historic data for its State
Water Plan, a projection of water demands in coming decades. The State Flood
Assessment, presented to that board Thursday, says flood mitigation costs over
the next decade could amount to more than $31.5 billion. The report says nothing
about climate change or global warming.

Hurricane Harvey, which made landfall as a Category 4 hurricane near Port
Aransas on Aug. 25, 2017, and caused widespread flooding in Southeast Texas days
later, affected more than 41,000 square miles, an area bigger than Kentucky.

More than 15,500 homes were destroyed, 780,000 Texans evacuated their homes,
thousands of business were damaged or destroyed, 24 hospitals were evacuated, 61
communities lost drinking water, and 781 roads were impassable at some point.

The hurricane caused $125 billion in damage in Texas, more than any other
natural disaster in U.S. history except Hurricane Katrina, according to the
report.

Recommendations

The Rebuild Texas report, based on hundreds of hours of interviews and dozens of
scientific papers, calls for building "a culture of preparedness."

The 175-page document includes suggestions for policymakers as specific as
expanding degree programs in emergency management; reviewing laws and practices
on the use of drones during emergencies; granting the Texas Department of
Transportation the authority to purchase food and water and to stockpile these
essentials for each hurricane season; and paying for a new Institute for a
Disaster Resilient Texas to be established at Texas A&M.

While the report doesn't include dollar figures for many of its recommendations,
it does note that some state agencies already have estimated the reimbursements
they require for Harvey-related spending. The Texas Education Agency, for
example, estimates the cost of reimbursements for enrollment and property value
losses from reappraisals could total $426 million.

Lawmakers returning to Austin in January for the legislative session will have
to decide how much money they will dole out to state agencies and local
communities -- and whether to tap the state's rainy day fund -- for
Harvey-related expenses.

"For many local governments, there's no easy solution other than increasing
taxes on the remaining property tax base, relying on limited federal funds,
cutting spending where possible -- and hoping for state assistance," the report
says.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 23, 2018 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Community news

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 785 words


TRAVIS COUNTY

AUSTIN

Spring festival deadlines announced

The city of Austin has announced its deadlines for vendors, venues and event
organizers to apply for the 2018 spring festival season March 9-18.

Deadlines are based on the type of permit requested.

The deadline for an amplified sound permit for multiple days is 30 days before
the event and for a single day is 21 days before. Temporary change of use
permits also are due 21 days before the event, and temporary use permits are due
10 days before the event.

Temporary event sound permits are needed if the event has outdoor amplified
sound and is not on city parkland or in the right of way or if the location is a
parking lot or patio.

Temporary change of use is required for structures or portions of structures
used as public assemblies that do not have a certificate of occupancy for that
type of use.

Under fire code definition, a "public assembly" includes 50 or more people.

Temporary-use permits typically involve the short-term use of property that is
not otherwise included in any existing site plan or certificate of occupancy.

For more information: 512-974-1000; specialevents@austintexas.gov ;
austintexas.gov/citystage.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

DOWNTOWN AUSTIN

Climate change talk to be Tuesday

Austin residents will gather to discuss climate change at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at
Galvanize, 119 Nueces St.

Amy Stansbury, from Austin Eco Network, will discuss civics 101 and the actions
residents can take.

Zach Baumer, from the city of Austin's office of sustainability, will discuss
what the city is doing about climate change.

Mike Thompson, from Citizens' Climate Lobby, will discuss what is being done
about climate change at the federal level.

For information: bit.ly/2rsRaSD.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

TAYLOR

Recycling dates announced

The city of Taylor and Waste Connections have announced the new Curbside
Recycling Program will begin in two steps.

Large blue recycle bins will be delivered beginning Feb. 15, starting with homes
on the Thursday pickup routes participating in the city's trash collection
program.

Delivery of the recycling bins to single-family and multifamily homes will
continue on subsequent days in accordance with everyone's normal trash pickup
day.

The first recycling bin pickup day will be Feb. 26.

While regular trash pickup happens weekly, recycling containers will be emptied
every other week. The cost per home is $2.50 per month for the first year, and
$3.25 per month after the first year.

The City Council voted Dec. 14 to absorb the 75-cent difference in cost to
resident for the first year of the program as it gets underway.

Residents will see the $2.50 charge appear on the normal city utility bill
starting the week of March 5.

With the start of curbside recycling, the city of Taylor Recycling Center, at
1606 N. Main St., will be closed permanently March 28.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

HAYS COUNTY

SAN MARCOS

New flood maps proposed

The Federal Emergency Management Agency has released preliminary flood maps that
will be available for public review and comment beginning Thursday.

The maps will be available at the San Marcos Activity Center, 501 E. Hopkins
St.; and at sanmarcostx.gov/floodplain . The deadline for submitting appeals or
comments is April 24.

The preliminary flood maps, known as Flood Insurance Rate Maps, show flood
hazards for communities within portions of the San Marcos and Austin-Travis
Lakes Watersheds and replace flood maps that are based on outdated studies and
technology. The maps provide more precise flood hazard information for those
areas, including places affected by the devastating Memorial Day 2015 floods and
five other major floods since 2000.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SAN MARCOS

Voters league to host benefit

The 30th annual League of Women Voters Taste of Texas Wine and Beer will take
place from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday at the Quail Creek Country Club, 2701
Airport Highway 21.

Funds raised from the annual event support League of Women Voters of Hays County
projects.

Various Texas wines and beers will be featured, including Duchman Winery's
trebbiano, Fall Creek Vineyard's chardonnay, McPherson Cellars sparkling wine, a
meritage blend from Llano Estacado and Becker Vineyard's merlot.

From established breweries from around the area will be Live Oak's HefeWeizen,
Slow Ride Pale Ale from Oasis Texas Brewing Co., Austin Amber from Independence
Brewing Co. and Coffee Porter from Real Ale Brewery.

In addition to the wine and beer tastings, there will be a silent auction
featuring themed baskets as well as gift certificates for local goods and
services.

Tickets are $20 and can be purchased from a league member, at the door or at
lwvhaysco.com.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                25 November 2018

Thank you for sharing Tessa Brown's story

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 527 words


Thank you for sharing Tessa Brown's story

Re: Nov. 17 article, " YMCA adaptive program helps girl born without legs learn
to swim."

Well, now I'm feeling that surge of overwhelming gratitude I always look for
around Thanksgiving!

Thank you for publishing the story of Tessa Brown; her special needs; her
special, wonderful spirit and talents; and her special and loving family.

Every time I think of them, and the people and places that have made it possible
for Tessa, who was born with no legs and one arm ending above the elbow, to
learn to swim like a joyful mermaid in a YMCA pool, I am joyful, too. I find
myself thinking, "Thank you, thank you, thank you!"

Mary Ley, Austin

Changing taxi pickup spot is unnecessary

Re: Nov. 21 article, " Ride-hailing, taxi pickup spot moves to new spot at
airport."

Wonderful idea! Now to get a taxi, people who travel to Austin will have to walk
with their luggage an extra 600 feet and take an elevator. But why not eliminate
the pickup location al together and have travelers take a bus, bicycle or
scooter? That will reduce traffic congestion even more.

My wife and I fly to Austin Bergstrom International Airport a few times a year.
The taxi pickup, which has a dedicated lane, is always well organized. We do not
see any reason to change the current location for taxi pickup. We are not
completely "mobility-impaired" but walking extra an 600 feet with luggage will
be challenging for us (as for many other passengers), while waiting for the
special transportation may make the trip significantly longer.

We urge ABIA to reconsider that decision (as it relates to taxis). Unlike
ride-hailing, taxis do not to have to pick up passengers who booked them.

Mark Scheinberg, Austin

Let's all come together to address climate

My heart pours out love to all the souls who have died in the California fires.

I grew up in Berkeley, Calif. Nearby, the tall, tall trees in their majesty sang
their songs in my soul. I was truly blessed to live there.

Times have changed. Worldwide, mass migrations, water wars, never-ending fires,
oceans rising, hurricanes, typhoons and tsunamis are worsening.

What can we do as a nation to mitigate these changes? We can join with others to
bring awareness to our government that climate change is real. We can support
groups that are working to lessen the impact of climate change with smart
innovative ideas, thinking outside the box. We can join with other nations to
understand what we need to do to live with climate change. Let us come together
and praise our similarities as our world meets these developing challenges.

Nickla Heudier, San Marcos

Jobs or values? Stand up for your commitment

I used to work for a company that depended on government contracts. When we were
advised our company was the winner of a big contract we celebrated as if we had
won the lottery.

Why don't newspaper correspondents and politicians who believe American values
supersede American jobs be surrogates for the workers whose company would lose
its contract with the Saudis and resign their jobs, thereby reinforcing their
commitment to American values?

Barbara Boyne, Lago Vista

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                5 December 2018

you say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 423 words


Change school funding to give all a chance

Every child in Texas is required to have some type of education. However,
school funding is not equal . The formula for funding relies heavily on property
taxes, therefore if you live in a low-income area, your schools get very little
funding.

This  inequality creates a cycle of students immediately starting minimum wage
jobs without going to college because they could not afford to go, then starting
families of their own, barely making it by, forcing their children to go to low-
income schools.

Think of these children as your own. Would you want them to struggle all of
their lives, simply because the government didn't fund their schools properly?
Donate to charities, write letters to the government, anything you could
possibly do to shed light on this issue. We must change the formula so each
student has a chance to be what they dream to be.

Shayla McCain, McKinney

Deal with prosecutors passes the problem

Re: Nov. 30 article, " In deal with prosecutors, officer in controversial
arrests vows never to police Travis County again."

I get it now. You can violate folks' civil rights now and then but if you agree
not to appeal your latest and filmed transgression and agree not to be a cop in
Travis County, you won't be prosecuted there.

Perfect. Thanks for passing your trash Austin, the Free State of Travis.

Bill Torrey, Milam County District Attorney, Cameron

Carbon fee bill has bipartisan support

Re: Nov. 29 Bastrop Advertiser commentary, " Republicans ignore United Nations'
dire climate change report. "

It's easy to understand the skepticism of the Nov. 29 commentary, "Republicans
ignore United Nations' dire climate change report." But bipartisanship is on the
rise with regards to climate.

Three Republicans and three Democrats in the House of Representatives have just
sponsored the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act,  House Resolution 7173,
which would institute a price on carbon and then direct that money back to
households. Though the bill includes some restrictions on additional CO2
regulations, the vast majority, if not all, of the promise of a Green New Deal
could still be accomplished within those restrictions.

While Green New Deal backers plan to produce legislative text by 2020 and pass
it no sooner than 2021, the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act could pass
in our 2019 Congress, which means we could start to seriously reduce emissions
sooner rather than later. Let's push forward on both fronts.

Hope Wilson, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 25, 2018 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Texas oil regulator: Science not settled on global warming

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 576 words


Contrary to widely held conclusions by scientists, a senior official in Texas'
oil and gas regulatory agency said Tuesday "we don't know whether man-made
greenhouse gases are impacting our climate in a harmful way."

Wayne Christian, a Republican elected in 2016 to the state Railroad Commission,
which oversees oil and gas operations, made the comment in an opinion piece for
the Texas Tribune.

Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases act to trap heat from the sun in the
Earth's atmosphere, according to scientists, leading to a warming planet.

But in his opinion piece, Christian, who got much of his campaign contributions
from the oil and gas industry, wrote "real science is never â  settled.'"

"The politicization of climate 'science' and related attempts by academia and
the mainstream media to shame 'climate deniers' is both wrong and dangerous for
our democracy," he wrote.

"We need to set politics aside and have the courage to admit what we know and,
more importantly, what we don't know - and we don't know whether man-made
greenhouse gases are impacting our climate in a harmful way," he continued.
"What we do know is that more than 1 billion human beings don't have access to
enough electricity, and as a result, have shorter, more difficult lives. It is
time for us as a civilization to put mankind first and work to ensure that
energy is cheap, plentiful and reliable for everyone."

John Nielsen-Gammon, an atmospheric scientist at Texas A&M University who serves
as Texas state climatologist, told the American-Statesman that while "harm" is a
value judgment, greenhouse gas emissions are "certainly impacting our climate in
ways that are raising temperatures, increasing evaporation, and increasing the
intensity of heavy rainfall. And those have consequences."

He said that while there are different degrees of scientific certainty, climate
scientists have found two incontrovertible facts: carbon dioxide is increasing
because of industrial activity and carbon dioxide has a warming effect on the
climate.

"In principle you never know anything for certain in science, but you can make
an awful lot of progress in society by taking for granted things that are
solidly known," he said.

Nielsen-Gammon said no one in Christian's office had contacted him about climate
science.

Christian's views on climate science reflect those held by many top-ranking
Texas Republicans.

Gov. Greg Abbott, for example, has said more investigation on the matter is
required.

Christian's two fellow commissioners say it remains an open question how much
humankind contributes to a changing climate.

Chairwoman Christi Craddick believes "some of it is naturally occurring, some of
it is caused by man-made activity," her spokeswoman, Lauren Spreen, told the
American-Statesman.

"The question really for her is how do we address this issue in a thoughtful way
that doesn't compromise economic growth or the affordability of energy or jobs
for our country."

Fellow Railroad Commissioner Ryan Sitton told Texas Tribune CEO Evan Smith in
2016 that "nothing has been so politicized, I think, in modern history as
climate science."

"The fact is the global temperatures are fluctuating up and down, it's been
going on a long time, everybody knows that," he said.

"The question is, â  What degree of impact do we have?' No one has answered that
quantitatively," he said, arguing that questions remain about scientific models.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                7 December 2018

Texan confirmed to energy panel

BYLINE: Maria Recio AmericanStatesman correspondent

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 591 words


WASHINGTON --The U.S. Senate Thursday approved a Texan to join the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, voting 50-49 along party lines, further revealing
deep fissures among lawmakers over the Trump administration's climate policies.

Democrats took a stand against the nominee, Bernard McNamee, on the Senate
floor, with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., Sens. Ron Wyden,
D-Ore., Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., and Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., sharply
criticizing his pro-coal, anti-renewable energy views. Sen. Joe Manchin,
D-W.Va., who had supported McNamee in a committee vote, switched and voted
against him as environmental activists sought to oppose him in securing a senior
Senate role.

"When it comes to fossil fuel competitors, Mr. McNamee has expressed thoughts
that only a real fossil fuel zealot could have," Schumer said. Saying that
McNamee had made false claims about clean energy technologies, "he has labeled
support for renewable energies 'organized propaganda' and likened its boosters
to supporters of 'tyranny.'" Schumer warned against confirming someone with such
"regressive views" as the climate is experiencing extreme change.

Wyden was also critical of the nomination, citing an Energy Department plan,
authored by McNamee, to bail out the coal and nuclear industries that was
rejected by Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. "If Mr. McNamee takes a seat
on the commission, it will mean that Christmas is coming early for the executive
who wants big, dirty energy bailouts," Wyden said.

But U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who had sponsored McNamee's nomination and
presented him to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said in a
statement, "Having worked with Bernie, I know firsthand he is both a
well-qualified and hardworking public servant. He cares deeply about
implementing policy that will benefit the American people, and understands the
importance of competition in lowering prices and benefiting consumers."

Democratic senators cited a McNamee speech earlier this year in Austin at an
annual conference of the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation before
Texas legislators in which he laid out his support for fossil fuels and
criticism of renewable fuels such as wind power.

A video of the speech surfaced after his confirmation hearing and just before
the committee vote last month. McNamee, an energy attorney who has worked for
Energy Secretary Rick Perry, Cruz and Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, was
making the presentation while he briefly worked at the Texas Public Policy
Foundation.

Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska,
expressed concern about McNamee's remarks captured in the video before the
committee vote but on the floor Wednesday said, "I believe Mr. McNamee
understands and understands well that FERC is an independent agency and that it
must continue to function as such. I take his commitment to uphold FERC's
autonomy and maintain an independent role as a commissioner at face value. I
also expect him to be fuel-neutral and not a champion of one resource over
another."

Manchin said Wednesday that he was swayed by the video of McNamee's February
speech. "After viewing video footage, which I had not previously seen, where
Bernard McNamee outright denies the impact that humans are having on our climate
, I can no longer support his nomination to be a FERC commissioner," Manchin
said. "Climate change is real, humans have made a significant impact, and we
have the responsibility and capability to address it urgently."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                27 December 2018

Smith retires after 32 years in Congress;
Smith, long a bete noire of liberal Austin, has served for 32 years San Antonio
Republican, for years a bete noire of liberal Austin, has served in Congress for
more than three decades

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1217 words


In a farewell speech on the floor of the U.S. House this month, U.S. Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-San Antonio, closed by thanking his constituents "for trusting me to
represent you all these good years."

Voters in the liberal Austin precincts of Smith's 21st Congressional District,
drawn like most Austin-area districts to elect a Republican, might beg to
differ: Even as Smith regularly rang up double-digit election-night victories,
carrying whole counties of the conservative Hill Country, many voters in
Austin's West Campus, Old West Austin, downtown Austin, and a wide swath of
South Austin -- some of the bluest spots of Texas -- found themselves
represented by someone who tends to hold views ideologically opposite their own.

Smith, 71, told the American-Statesman he was retiring to spend more time with
his grandchildren. His tenure as chair of the U.S. House Committee on Science,
Space and Technology was coming to an end, anyway, and with a tough election
climate ahead -- one that spelled an end to a Republican-led U.S. House -- he
also thought to himself, "It's a lot better to be in the majority than in the
minority."

He will be replaced by Chip Roy, a former chief of staff for U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz,
R-Texas, and deputy to Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton.

Perhaps nowhere was the gap between Smith and his Austin-area constituents as
obvious as it was on his approach to environmental regulation, on show in his
committee chairmanship.

In early December, a group of Capitol Hill staffers, Congressional colleagues,
and friends and family of U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith gathered in Washington for the
unveiling of his official portrait to hang in the committee room, in which he
had decried the "extreme climate agenda" of some government scientists.

Smith's portrait, by artist Laurel Stern Boeck, depicts Smith leaning on a desk.
On it are a picture of his family, as well as a copy of "Life in the Universe,"
a book speculating about the prospect of extraterrestrial life. (A bookish sort
-- he went to Yale, but kept that fact out of his campaign material -- Smith has
long had a nerdy jones for questions about how soon we might get to Mars or the
need for the sort of Space Force envisioned by President Trump. "Quite frankly,
future conflicts might occur in space," Smith says.) In the background, the
Capitol is visible, beneath a starry sky.

The Science, Space and Technology committee declined to release details of how
much the painting cost, but according to Boeck's website, her portraits cost at
least $15,000.

At the Statesman's request, Smith disclosed a list of contributors to a private
fundraising campaign for the painting. The list of donors included music
recording industry lobbyists and companies -- Smith had been a vocal proponent
of a controversial anti-piracy law favored by recording corporations. Also among
the donors were aerospace companies and lobbyists and energy and manufacturing
lobbyists and trade associations, such as the American Chemistry Council, whose
clients and members stood to benefit from looser regulation from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, one of the federal agencies Smith's committee
oversees.

It was in the oversight role that Smith, in the last of his 32 years in
Congress, drew the most barbs and praise.

In 2015, President Barack Obama signed Smith's STEM Education Act, passed
unanimously in both the House and Senate. The law strengthened science,
technology, engineering and math education efforts and expanded the definition
of STEM to include computer science.

But, that year, fed up with climate-change naysaying, a few dozen Austinites
descended on Smith's South Austin field office to give him a "Flat Earth" award
after he accused federal scientists of altering data to get "politically correct
results" and accused them of pushing an "extreme climate agenda."

The award's citation said it honored Smith's "tireless work rejecting
well-established and obvious scientific fact in the grand tradition of flat
Earth believers everywhere, and his skillful use of Congressional power to
undermine uncomfortable and inconvenient scientific research."

When Trump won the presidency, Smith's posture on agencies like the EPA was
suddenly amplified. In 2017, Smith, a supporter of Trump, who gets more campaign
money from oil and gas than any other industry, convened a panel titled: "Making
EPA Great Again."

The Statesman reported at the time that Smith, who has called climate science
"wishy-washy," had called far fewer scientists to testify before his committee
than people associated with the types of industries the EPA is charged with
regulating.

Though he fashions himself a champion of scientific inquiry, Smith has alienated
associations of American scientists, who have said subpoenas he has issued to
scientists have a chilling effect on research.

"My position is that (industrial emissions) has some impact (on climate change),
but far less than alarmists are ascribing to it," Smith said in the interview
with the Statesman.

In 2017, after then-EPA administrator Scott Pruitt ousted members of the EPA's
Board of Scientific Counselors, which advises on work by agency scientists,
Smith told the Statesman that he supported the move.

"This decision increases transparency, reduces conflicts of interest and ensures
balance on expert panels," Smith said, adding the EPA's science advisory boards
serve as "echo chambers to rubber-stamp costly and burdensome regulations."

The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, which Smith co-sponsored and which
passed the House last year but never got a Senate vote, would have barred anyone
who has an ongoing EPA research grant from serving on the EPA's Science Advisory
Board and prohibited board members from applying for grants for three years
after they step down from the panel.

The measure would have effectively prevented many scientific experts from
serving on the oversight board.

Smith has routinely won high ratings from the Legislative Effectiveness Project,
a ranking of lawmakers by their ability to advance agenda items through the
legislative process. Asked if he had any regrets about his tenure, he said there
are "at least a half-dozen votes to increase spending that I probably regret."

Though a long time fiscal conservative -- he was fond of excoriating the Obama
administration's spending policies -- he deflected a question about his vote on
a major tax cut last year, one that has already inflated the deficit, by saying
that he has also voted in favor of balanced budget laws.

"I still think growing deficits is not good for the economy," he said.

Roy promises to be as conservative as Smith, who had won high marks from the
National Rifle Association and failing ones from NARAL Pro-Choice America. In
November, Roy won election by fewer than 3 percentage points over Democrat
Joseph Kopser.

"That'll be his toughest race," said Smith, who noted that Kopser was a
well-financed candidate running in a tough year for Republicans. "I expect (Roy)
to widen that margin in the future. "

Smith told the Statesman he still plans to work in Washington. He did not rule
out lobbying. (Currently, House members are banned from lobbying for one year
after they leave office.)

"I'm not one of those members of Congress slamming the door and never looking
back," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                20 December 2018

Single-use plastic bags a luxury we don't need

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 671 words


Single-use plastic bags a luxury we don't need

Re: Dec. 13 article, " Austin legislator seeks to revive bag bans."

Hooray for Rep. Gina Hinojosa for her bill to re-enact plastic bag bans.

Legislators should heed the advice of the two Texas Supreme Court justices and
"directly tackle the problems caused by disposable bags."

According to new research from National Geographic's "Planet or Plastic" series,
tiny particles called "microplastics" are found in food chains, from insects to
fish and our own human bodies.  Consumers should continue to avoid plastic bags
and Styrofoam cups. Good corporate stewards like H-E-B should continue the bag
ban in Austin and expand it to every Texas store.

The plastic bag industry has a problem with creative thinking. As a petroleum
product, it is wasteful to make single-use plastic bags. They could manufacture
durable reusable bags instead of future plastic-bag trash.

Compostable paper bags and reusable bags are easy alternatives to single-use
bags. It is a throw-away luxury we can easily do without.

Jenny Clark, Austin

Border wall argument built on shifting sand

Re: Dec. 16 commentary, "There's a word for the Democrats' negotiating strategy:
Insanity."

Marc Thiessen's articles are generally built on shifting sand. In his Dec. 16
commentary he states that the Democrats won't give Trump his wall "because he
wants it and they despise him."

Reasonable people know that Trump's wall is a very expensive, ineffective
solution to illegal immigration. Thiessen repeats the lie that when Obama was
elected, Dems controlled all three branches of the government. In fact, they did
not have a Senate supermajority; instead had a Senate minority leader who vowed
to block anything supported by Obama. He states there's no "moral" difference
between Trump's wall, (which Trump has variously described as impenetrable, and
30 to 65 feet tall), and current fencing, (wire and barriers mostly designed to
stop cars, not foot traffic).

He suggests that Dems are "insane" not to give Trump this "concession" as a
compromise. Talk about cognitive dissonance.

Dru Edrington,  Georgetown

Quid pro strategy isn't possible with Trump

Re: Dec. 16 commentary, "There's a word for the Democrats' negotiating strategy:
Insanity."

Marc Thiessen is a fine example of a hagiographer masquerading as a columnist.
His suggestion that the Democratically controlled House could leverage their
plan to offer a path to citizenship to illegal immigrants by releasing billions
for the border wall is predicated on some quid pro quo strategy that by now any
thinking person would understand Trump is incapable of upholding.

Thiessen even launches his rambling screed with the howler that Democrats could
do this to help Trump fulfill one of his campaign promises. No promise is kept
if the American taxpayer becomes the checkbook for this ridiculous wall -- that
was to be Mexico's charge.

It only shows once again that our duplicitous chief executive and the
cheerleaders of the once GOP are content with governance by fiat and more
comfortable with the kakistocracy we have elected.

Jeff Niemeyer, Austin

The two issues with most potential for crisis

Re: Dec. 14 articles, " State report on Hurricane Harvey warns of changing
climate, without mentioning 'climate change '" and " Amid growing apprehensions
at border but no 'caravan,' a quiet Army set to depart Texas."

I was struck with the prescience of the Statesman's front page news about
immigration and climate change. Combined, these two issues constitute the most
important potential for future crisis facing America.

As the regions closer to the equator get warmer, increasing numbers of people
will be forced to flee. Eventually, not even a wall would be able to completely
stem the flow. Also, I was especially amused by Asher Price's pointing out that
the term "climate change" was carefully avoided in the state report on what and
how to build in preparation of global changing weather patterns.

Roaney Giles, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 23, 2018 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Recipes to help you enjoy some of summer's bounty

BYLINE: Addie Broyles American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 2105 words


Ever since her 2008 book, "Bon Appetit, Y'all," Virginia Willis has been one of
the best-selling (and best-loved) Southern food writers.

Willis, who ran the TV kitchens for Martha Stewart, Bobby Flay and Nathalie
Dupree, has been building her own career for a while and is a frequent guest at
the Central Market Cooking School in Austin. She recently taught a sold-out
class for her latest book, "Secrets of the Southern Table: a Food Lover's Tour
of the Global South" (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $30).

The new book chronicles the vast and varied stories of food and food makers
throughout the South today, incorporating a much more diverse perspective on
what we call "Southern food" than we typically see in books on this regional
cuisine, such as recipes descended from the Chinese immigrants who moved to the
Mississippi Delta during Reconstruction.

You'll find profiles of (and recipes from) arepa-makers in Atlanta, quail
farmers in South Carolina and Moravian bakers in North Carolina whose families
settled the area in the 1740s, as well as recipes from Willis' own family
history.

This summer squash dish is a perfect example of how she takes a recipe with a
personal connection and explores it through the lens of a fellow Southerner. In
this case, that's the chef behind a Moroccan restaurant in Atlanta, who uses
both harissa and a garlic paste, which she explains how to make in the headnote.

YFor more fresh flavors of the season in your kitchen, we've also included
recipes for a queso fresco cheesecake from Half & Half magazine and homemade
gnocchi from chef and cookbook writer Alon Shaya, who was also recently in
Austin. He shared his quick fresh tomato sauce, which will be useful as the
summer progresses.

Pan-Seared Summer Squash With Spiced Lemon Vinaigrette

Summer squash thrive in the semitropical South. My grandparents always had a
garden with many mounded rows of squash, and my grandfather taught me that
summer squash bear both male and female flowers. The female flowers are easy to
identify by looking for a miniature squash just below each blossom. Male flowers
sit directly on the stem and do not produce fruit. Pick these male blossoms for
using the flower. If you pick the females, you won't have any squash. Simple
biology.

This dish was inspired by chef-owner Rafih Benjelloun of Imperial Fez, a beloved
Atlanta institution for more than 25 years. At his restaurant, guests are
magically transported to Morocco - the tea is mint, not sweet; diners rest on
comfortable pillows surrounded by opulent colors; shoes are left at the door;
and belly dancers dance and sway to the music.

Harissa is a spicy, aromatic and flavorful chili paste used in Middle Eastern
and North African cooking. The blend differs from country to country, but it's a
puree of hot chili peppers, garlic, olive oil and spices such as cumin,
coriander and caraway. It can be found at Middle Eastern markets, well-stocked
gourmet stores and natural foods stores.

To prepare the garlic paste, place the unpeeled garlic on a cutting board,
broad-side down, set the flat side of a chef's knife on top, and give the knife
a quick whack with the palm of your hand to crush each clove. Remove the papery
skin and trim away the tough basal plane at the end of the clove. Halve the
garlic and remove any of the green shoot, if present, as it is bitter. Coarsely
chop the garlic, then sprinkle it with a pinch of coarse salt. (The salt acts as
an abrasive and helps grind the garlic.) Using the side of the knife like an
artist's palette knife, press firmly on the cutting board and crush the garlic a
little at a time. Repeat until the garlic is a fine paste.

- Virginia Willis

3 or 4 small yellow squash (about 1 pound)

3 or 4 small green squash (about 1 pound)

Zest of 1 lemon and juice of 1/2 lemon

2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

3 garlic cloves, mashed to a paste with a pinch of salt

1 teaspoon harissa or chili paste, or to taste

1/4 teaspoon ground cumin

Coarse kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

Trim the stem and flower ends of the squash, and then use a chef's knife to
quarter each one lengthwise. Using the tip of your knife, trim away the seeds.
(The seeds can make the dish watery.) Cut the squash into 1-inch pieces.

Heat a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Without crowding, add the
squash to the dry skillet and cook, stirring often, until lightly blistered on
both sides and tender to the point of a knife, 5 to 7 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a small bowl or jar with a lid, combine the lemon zest, lemon
juice, oil, garlic, harissa and cumin to make the dressing. Stir or shake to
combine. Season with salt and pepper.

Place the squash in a large bowl and drizzle some of the dressing over the top.
Toss to coat and combine, and add more as needed. Sprinkle with the parsley.
This dish is excellent served hot or room temperature or cold as a salad. If you
serve it cold, make sure to taste and adjust for seasoning with salt and pepper
before serving, as chilling dulls the seasoning. Serves 4 to 6.

- From "Secrets of the Southern Table: A Food Lover's Tour of the Global South"
by Virginia Willis (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $30)

Queso Fresco Cheesecake

We've been on a cheese kick in my house, with both of my kids embracing tangy
goat cheese and even the intense flavors in brie and blue cheese. They can't get
enough cream cheese on their bagels, so this queso fresco cheesecake is a
natural next step. This recipe from Half & Half, a magazine dedicated to dairy
(halfandhalfmag.com), calls for adding the savory queso fresco to the cream
cheese filling for even more complex flavors. The writers suggest topping the
cheesecake (or cheesecake bars) with dulce de leche to tie together the sweet
and salty profiles.

- Addie Broyles

For the crust:

1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs

1/3 cup unsalted butter, melted

3 tablespoons sugar

For the filling:

3 (8-ounce) blocks cream cheese, softened

4

3/4 cup sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

3 eggs

4 ounces queso fresco, crumbled

Heat oven to 325 degrees. In a medium bowl, mix together graham cracker crumbs,
butter and sugar until combined. Press into a 9-inch springform pan. (If you
don't have a springform pan, a 9-inch-by-9-inch baking dish will work for
cheesecake bars.)

In the bowl of a food processor, combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla and eggs
until smooth. Sprinkle in the queso fresco and pulse two or three times until
combined. Pour filling into prepared crust. Bake 50 to 55 minutes or until a
toothpick inserted comes out clean.

Cool completely before removing springform ring. Serve as is or with warm dulce
de leche or caramel.

- From Half & Half, halfandhalfmag.com

Gnocchi With Fast Tomato Sauce

Alon Shaya, the James Beard Award-winning chef who made his name in New Orleans,
is keeping his eyes focused on the future with a new restaurant in the works in
Denver.

He's also in the middle of a book tour for his debut cookbook, "Shaya: An
Odyssey of Food, My Journey Back to Israel" (Knopf, $35), which included a stop
at the Central Library in Austin last week. Before opening his modern Israeli
restaurants, Shaya specialized in Italian cuisine, which is why you'll find this
recipe for gnocchi and tomato sauce in the new book. It's the perfect way to use
up some of those summer tomatoes that are starting to show up at the farmers
markets and in CSA boxes.

He offers some tips on weighing the potatoes and not overworking the dough: "Be
precise about the weight of your peeled potatoes (too much or too little will
alter the final texture); use a potato ricer or food mill, and work rapidly,
while everything is warm, since the starches get gummy if you beat them up or
allow them to cool," he writes.

Prepare your ingredients and equipment before you start. If you can resist
overworking the dough, you'll get the lightest, fluffiest gnocchi you've ever
had. Don't feel like tomatoes? You can serve these in brown butter or even in a
really good olive oil.

- Addie Broyles

1 gallon plus 2 quarts water, divided

2 tablespoons plus 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided

2 or 3 large Yukon Gold potatoes (18 ounces peeled)

4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened

4 egg yolks

1 1/3 cup all-purpose flour plus more for dusting

1/4 teaspoon finely grated nutmeg

2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving

1 recipe fast tomato sauce

1/2 cup finely grated Parmesan cheese

Heat the oven to 400 degrees. Fill a pot with 1 gallon water and 2 tablespoons
salt, and let it come to a boil. Cover the pot and leave it on low heat, so it's
ready when you need it.

Peel the potatoes and measure out exactly 18 ounces. Cut them into eighths,
place them in a large ovenproof pot or saucepan, cover them with 2 quarts cold
water and put the pan over high heat. Once the water boils, decrease the heat to
medium and simmer until the potatoes are easily pierced with a fork, 10 to 12
minutes.

Drain the potatoes and place them back in the ovenproof pot. Bake until they're
rid of excess moisture, 4 to 5 minutes. While they bake, use a fork to beat
together the butter and yolks until they're as smooth as you can get them; set
the bowl aside.

As soon as the potatoes are out of the oven, pass them through a ricer or food
mill into a large bowl, making sure you scrape the bottom. Fold in the butter
mixture until it's incorporated, then add the flour, nutmeg and last 1/2
teaspoon salt all at once, using your spatula to cut these ingredients in with
minimal stirring. It'll look crumbly, almost like pie crust.

Generously flour an unrimmed baking sheet and your work surface. Dump the dough
onto the surface and gently press it into a ball. Cut it in quarters, and work
with one piece at a time, leaving the rest covered with a dish towel to stay
warm.

Roll each piece of dough into a long, skinny log, about 3/4-inch wide; dust with
flour as you work, to prevent it from sticking. With a floured paring knife or
bench scraper, cut the dough into 3/4-inch dumplings, keeping the blade clean as
you work. Add all the dumplings to the baking sheet and repeat with the rest of
the dough, working quickly so the potatoes don't get too starchy as they cool.

Shape the gnocchi, one at a time, by pressing the dumpling between the pad of
your thumb and a gnocchi board or the back of a fork. Roll it steadily, parallel
to the board's ridges or the fork's tines, so it curls around itself.

Gently drop the gnocchi from the baking sheet into the boiling water. A bench
scraper or wide spatula can help you make sure they aren't misshapen in transit.
Watch for them to float - should be about 1 minute - then cook for another 30
seconds. They're done when the centers resemble pound cake, with the same
consistency throughout. Drain and toss with the olive oil.

At this point, you can add the gnocchi to the sauce and eat them with plenty of
Parmesan, or refrigerate them in an airtight container for a day or two. To
reheat: Drop them into boiling water for about 20 seconds, just until they're
warm all the way through, before adding sauce; reheating them this way restores
the light, fluffy texture.

- From "Shaya: An Odyssey of Food, My Journey Back to Israel" by Alon Shaya
(Knopf, $35)

Fast Tomato Sauce

This is my go-to pasta sauce, as fast as it is delicious. Make it with the best
in-season tomatoes you can find - the screaming-hot oil allows you to hold on to
their fresh, raw sweetness and acidity while concentrating them into a thick
sauce. Needless to say, this sauce is good on any pasta you feel like making, so
don't limit it to showstoppers like gnocchi. Just be sure you wear an apron, so
you don't get tomatoes and oil splattered on your clothes!

- Alon Shaya

1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil

1 1/2 pounds tomatoes, cored and roughly chopped

3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced

9 fresh basil leaves, torn

3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, to taste

3/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes

Pour the olive oil into a large skillet with high sides or a Dutch oven over
high heat, and cook until it's smoking-hot. Being extremely careful, add the
tomatoes and garlic; they will give off a lot of smoke as soon as they hit the
oil, so it's easiest to have the tomatoes on a flexible cutting board or in a
bowl that you can dump from.

Use your spoon to spread the tomatoes in a single layer, then add the basil,
salt, and red pepper. (Editor's note: Remember Morton and many store-brand
kosher salts are twice as salty as Diamond Crystal, so be sure to adjust to
taste depending on what brand you use.) Give everything a good stir, and cook
another 4 to 5 minutes, until the sauce thickens. Serves 4.

- From "Shaya: An Odyssey of Food, My Journey Back to Israel" by Alon Shaya
(Knopf, $35)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 21, 2018 Thursday
                                 State Edition

The Texas GOP's platform, by God

BYLINE: Ken Herman American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 868 words


Due to a family commitment (and no, wise guy, my family was not trying to have
me committed), I skipped last week's GOP state convention in San Antonio.

But thanks to the glorious gift that is the written word, we can peruse and
behold in wonderment the document that is the official, by-God platform of the
Republican Party of Texas.

First, however, please be assured that I will cast a similar eye on the platform
to be adopted this week when the once-great Texas Democratic Party gathers in
Fort Worth for its biennial Festival of False Optimism, which this year includes
a Thursday night event called "Still F*cking Standing."

The GOP platform includes 331 planks. Plank one begins with "Affirming our
belief in God..." Plank 331 opposes unfunded mandates. In between, there's a
bunch of reasonable stuff, reasonable for those of us GOP primary voters who
prefer less government and more individual responsibility.

And there's also other stuff, a smorgasbord of the just plain odd and not gonna
happen. Let's have a look, shall we?

In the principles section, and reflected throughout, is the notion of "the
traditional marriage of a natural man and natural woman." No leeway is given for
anyone who is made to feel like a natural woman, a notion so movingly
memorialized in song by Carole King.

In plank 16, we're told, "â  Climate change' is a political agenda promoted to
control every aspect of our lives."

Hmm. I thought we'd reached something approaching consensus on climate change as
real, though with marginal dispute as to cause.

As usual, the GOP platform includes several planks condemning U.S. participation
in the United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization and
World Bank. The Texas GOP wants us out of all of those world entities, though
we'll assume the party's OK with the Houston Astros participation in last year's
World Series.

Plank 24 urges the Texas Legislature to review all "business/professional
licensing programs" with an eye toward "abolishing as many as reasonably
possible." Plank 29 supports "allowing any person to sit for the Texas State Bar
Exam regardless of where he or she received their law education."

My plain reading of that means it includes those who received their law
education in a comfy recliner, a perfect place for a barrister to rest his or
her case.

Plank 32 involves the repeal of laws you didn't know still exist. Longer-time
Texans will recall the so-called Blue Law that de facto forced the Sunday
closing of stores because of a bizarre list of items that could not be sold on
both weekend days. It was largely repealed in 1985, but the law still applies to
the sale of cars and some alcoholic beverages. The GOP wants those bans lifted.

FYI, there is no law barring the sale of tasty chicken sandwiches on Sundays.
Chick-fil-A closes voluntarily.

GOP Plank 46 calls for an end to state safety inspections for noncommercial
vehicles. Plank 47 says, "Vehicle registration should only be a one-time
occurrence at the point of sale." Plank 56 calls for the end of the election of
U.S. senators, favoring a return to the system, in use until 1913 ratification
of the 17th Amendment, in which state legislators pick U.S. senators. That might
be entertaining.

Plank 67 - "Preservation of the Republican Form of Government" - includes
opposition to "socialism in any form."

Democrats, of course, support socialism in any form. At least that's what Texas
Republicans want you to think. I'll watch to see if the Democrats declare Karl
as their favorite of the Marx Brothers.

Plank 121 calls for a state ban on "the teaching of sex education, sexual health
or sexual choice or identity in any public school in any grade whatsoever."
There is no mention of storks.

The GOP, in Plank 135, comes out in favor of science, though with skepticism:
"We support objective teaching of scientific theories, such as life origins and
environmental change. These should be taught as challengeable scientific
theories subject to change as new data is produced."

Seems reasonable, just as it did when a 5-year-old I know recently questioned
the existence of dinosaurs because nobody has any photos of them. It's possible,
I assume, that the bones that have been found are just proof that barbecue
predates humankind.

Plank 140 states unequivocally, "The official position of the Texas schools with
respect to transgenderism is that there are only two genders: male and female."
Plank 240 says, "We believe it should be illegal to remove healthy body parts in
minors in an effort to try to transition to the opposite sex."

Plank 307 opposes Daylight Saving Time, and Plank 308 supports the Electoral
College. That last one's a no-brainer for a party that hasn't had anyone not
named Bush win the presidential popular vote since 1984.

We'll end with Plank 16 on "Homosexual Behavior."

"We affirm God's biblical design for marriage and sexual behavior between one
biological man and one biological woman, which has proven to be the foundation
for all great nations in Western Civilization."

How blessed are we to have a political party with a direct line to God, and a
willingness to share it, through law, with any among us not so blessed.

kherman@statesman.com; 512-445-3907

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 8, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Natural gas group pushed energy curriculum

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2745 words


Concerned that environmental groups were winning the hearts and minds of Texas
schoolchildren - filling their heads with statements of the ills of fossil fuels
- a politically connected Texas natural gas industry advocacy group devised a
plan to fight back.

The group, the Texas Natural Gas Foundation, whose founding members include
academics and politicians with ties to the natural gas industry, collaborated
with a state energy office and the University of Texas to develop classroom
materials for teachers to present both the pros and cons of traditional and
alternative energy sources.

Already, at least 20 teachers have been trained in the material and taken it
back to their classrooms - including at least one teacher in Austin, one from
Round Rock and one from Georgetown - and the Texas Natural Gas Foundation is
raising money to promote the material in classrooms across Texas and beyond.

People involved in the project, including the curriculum writers and members of
the Natural Gas Foundation, say there was no undue influence. Money to get the
$165,000 project off the ground came chiefly from a federal grant, and no money
appears to have been paid by the natural gas industry to the teachers developing
the curriculum.

An investigation by the American-Statesman, however, shows how industry
advocates pushed the development of the curriculum and then worked closely with
the curriculum writers, briefing them on energy issues and offering edits to the
curriculum material.

"Mainly they were reaching for kinder, gentler language," a UT official
explained in an email in June 2016 passing along edits from the natural gas
officials.

At least two experts in energy education who were asked by the Statesman to
review the material - a teaching guide to approaching energy issues - said it
provides incomplete or misleading information about energy that appears out of
the fossil fuel industry's playbook:

It describes solar and wind power as "perceived" renewable energy sources and
says there is a "debate" about whether using renewable sources is better for the
environment.

Instead of contemplating a gradual shift to renewable energy, the curriculum
describes the ending of nonrenewable energy as "devastating to us socially as
well as economically."

There is no mention of climate change or global warming, except to direct
teachers to another energy curriculum, one also developed in partnership with
oil and gas companies, if they have questions on those topics.

Some of the material "seems to be aiming at misdirection," said Charles
Anderson, a Michigan State University professor of teacher education who
specializes in the teaching of science in classrooms. The material is "notable
for its lack of actual science content."

â  Get the bias... out

of our schools'

State Rep. Jason Isaac, R-Dripping Springs, told the Statesman he was moved to
address middle school energy education a few years ago after one of his sons,
then in sixth grade, came home from school with some preparatory material for
the state standardized test for science.

Only one question, he says, "had anything to do with energy."

As he remembers it, the question said: "Which of the following fossil fuels
causes global warming? Oil, gas, coal or all of the above."

"It should have been â  none of the above,' in my opinion," said Isaac, whose
campaigns for state representative took in $43,501 from the oil and gas industry
between 2013 and 2017, according to an analysis by government watchdog group
Texans for Public Justice. "It's such a biased question. It's making their minds
up for them. It's very negative. You're striking fear in children that oil and
gas and coal are bad."

And so he and other founding board members of the newly formed Texas Natural Gas
Foundation set about developing new classroom material, he said, as "part of my
personal effort to get the bias against certain Texas energy resources out of
our schools."

The foundation had formed as the energy landscape in Texas was shifting:
Drilling innovations had made natural gas the dominant energy source, but the
state also had become the leading wind power producer in the country.

Another founding board member, Mary Bell, at the time head of special projects
for David Porter, then-commissioner at the Texas Railroad Commission, the state
oil and gas regulatory agency, alerted the board that a U.S. Energy Department
grant to update science education material had gone unused.

Soon, after a call from Porter's office, the State Energy Conservation Office
signed on to administer the grant money.

In summer 2015, according to emails, the Natural Gas Foundation's executive
director, Heather Ball, contacted the University of Texas Regional
Collaboratives, a program that provides science and math professional training
for schoolteachers across the state. The Texas Natural Gas Foundation wanted a
proven partner who could assemble curriculum writers whose work would pass
muster with Texas education standards.

"Heather says she has experts on all these topics at her disposal," Mary Hobbs,
the UT Regional Collaboratives coordinator for science initiatives, wrote in an
internal email to another UT official on July 28, 2015. "I suggested that maybe
we convene a conference of her experts and our writing team members as the
official kickoff to the project to update existing units."

â  Touting the benefits of natural gas'

One day in late January 2016 in an Austin hotel conference room, a trio of
instructors convened by UT were briefed by Ken Morgan, another Natural Gas
Foundation board member and the director of the Energy Institute at Texas
Christian University, about energy resources.

The curriculum writers, college professors and educational consultants who had
served as science teachers, were selected by UT for their experience and
dependability, Hobbs told the Statesman.

Morgan, a geologist and civil engineer by training whose institute's board of
advisers is composed almost entirely of gas company executives, told the
Statesman that in his four decades as a professor he has noticed a "drift away
from appreciation of all our energy resources."

Many of his college students, he said, "think the industry is only about money
and not always about having a public good in mind and not taking the environment
into consideration."

"Those are pretty easy things to tag on to. But if you're not careful, you start
thinking negative. What if you consider all the countries without energy? What
if you consider a continent like Africa?" Morgan said.

Morgan - now an informal science adviser to Railroad Commissioner Wayne
Christian, who has rejected claims that fossil fuel emissions contribute to
climate change - said it's time for "all hands on deck to push for energy
education in the state of Texas. We should push for energy education through our
teachers, rather than coming out and brainwashing the students of Texas."

Also sitting in on the meeting were officials from UT, the executive director of
the Texas Natural Gas Foundation and Isaac.

No environmental groups or other experts were on the agenda to speak.

But one of the curriculum writers, Carolyn Schroeder, said there was no pressure
from the natural gas industry to promote natural gas.

"They felt like natural gas is the best, and it would fall out and kids would
see it had these advantages," said Schroeder, an associate research scientist at
Texas A&M University who had a three-decade career as a teacher. She and the
other curriculum writers were paid roughly $6,500 apiece to do the work. "They
felt like if we presented a balanced picture of all the resources, it would rise
to the top because of its cleanliness and its availability."

Hobbs, the UT administrator who helped organize the partnership, said, "We were
not subject to much if any pressure at all, although as I mentioned it seemed
like there was interest in touting the benefits of natural gas."

Todd Hutner, another official with the UT STEM Center who was helping oversee
the project, said the group "didn't feel pressure to misrepresent the science or
the social aspects of the energy situation."

"I was very clear we would not be part of a propaganda machine," said Hutner,
who is a former high school science teacher. "If we're going to do this, energy
is not a simple problem to solve. We can't just say we're not going to use
gasoline starting tomorrow. The world is going to come to a pretty screeching
halt. It's important for students to understand those complexities. If we got
rid of all oil, that's going to have some impact on the lives of people in
Texas. I think global warming is a thing, pollution is a problem, and we should
be moving towards solutions to our energy problem. But we shouldn't bury
trade-offs to make extreme moves tomorrow."

In March 2016, Isaac and Morgan laid out their aims in an article in Shale
magazine.

"We recently took part in a discussion with a group of Texas science teachers
about the need for an energy curriculum in Texas public schools," they wrote.
Science teachers "weren't aware that renewable energy technologies also have
environmental impacts" - singling out the rare earth metals mined in China for
hybrid car batteries, wind power generators and solar panels.

The article also said, "The link between energy and quality of life is missing
in the discussion." Most children, they observed, "have no idea what it takes to
power their cell phones, provide them with clean water and allow Amazon to
deliver their games."

That April, as the curriculum writers were drafting the material, two of the
three writers traveled to Fort Worth, at Morgan's invitation, to listen to a
presentation by Alex Epstein, author of "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels," which
argues that fossil fuel use has led to a wide range of improvements for
humankind, including life expectancy. Epstein, who has argued in U.S. Senate
testimony that rising carbon dioxide levels "benefit plants and Americans," had
been invited to the TCU campus by Morgan's institute.

â  I've never been bought by any oil company'

The curriculum, which was specifically drafted to follow standards set by the
State Board of Education so that it could be used in classrooms across the
state, includes engaging classroom exercises such as asking students to write up
infomercials about an energy they're assigned - anything from nuclear to solar.

The material touts traditional energy sources and says there is a "debate" as to
the renewability of some energy sources, making some of the same rare-earth
metal arguments that Morgan had laid out.

"When we consider the manufacture of components used in some renewable energy
sources such as solar or wind, we find they are not completely renewable," the
material reads. "Additionally, the carbon footprint of some renewable energy
sources may exceed the footprint of some energy sources considered to be
non-renewable."

That subsection concludes, according to a version posted on the UT website:
"With recent discoveries and technological advancements, some non-renewable
energy sources may be more plentiful than previously thought and be able to be
harnessed without devastating the environment."

But the same version of the curriculum posted on the Texas Natural Gas
Foundation website includes a change in that language: "able to be harnessed
while protecting the environment," it says.

Ball, the natural gas foundation executive director, said that after UT finished
up its piece of the project in 2016, her group "volunteered to maintain and
expand the information contained in the units, as well as collaborate with Texas
Christian University to provide workshops for teachers on how to use them."

Even in the first version, the open-ended language is misleading, said Anderson,
the Michigan State professor who studies grade-school science instruction. The
discussion of renewable versus nonrenewable energy sources "reflects a typical â
doubt is our product' strategy," said Anderson. "Everything in that section is
factually correct, but it avoids the main environmental question about energy
sources, which is not whether they are renewable but the environmental impact of
their production and use."

The curriculum material is "painting a picture that there are many shortcomings
with renewables and that devastation of our social and economic systems will
result from switching away from the use of nonrenewables," said Jay Banner, a UT
geologist who runs the university's Environmental Science Institute. "That's not
a very forward-looking way to work the problem of our energy future."

The author of that section - Lisa Bellows, chairwoman of the science division of
North Central Texas College in Gainesville - declined interview requests and
declined to give examples of how "the carbon footprint of some renewable energy
sources may exceed the footprint of some energy sources considered to be
non-renewable."

"I've never been bought by any oil company, energy company or anyone else for an
unethical, immoral, or tainted reason," she wrote in an email. "I didn't accept
money from nor was I influenced by the Natural Gas folks."

â  We put all the information out there'

Over two days in late June 2016, 20 middle school science teachers, from Wichita
Falls to San Angelo, from Waxahachie to Conroe, descended on Austin, each
teacher receiving up to $500 to pay for their time and travel, according to
budget information, to attend a workshop in Austin on the curriculum material.
The program was cloaked with the imprimatur of the University of Texas; the
agenda for the event did not mention the Texas Natural Gas Foundation's
participation in the project.

Dissemination of energy curriculum materials developed in conjunction with the
oil and gas industry is not unique to Texas. In Oklahoma and Kansas, teachers
have learned how to teach math and science through oil-related lessons, such as
calculating the mileage of tanker trucks.

And the National Energy Education Development Project, a nonprofit whose
sponsors are primarily oil and gas companies, provides supplementary science
materials for teachers nationally. Students learn about "cleaner-coal
technology" and "research nuclear energy as a growing option for generating the
nation's electricity," according to the project's website.

The Texas Natural Gas Foundation has turned its attention to raising money to
spread the curriculum material. One solicitation calls for training 275 teachers
in the next year.

"A middle school science teacher typically teaches 100 students, which means TCU
would reach 27,500 middle school students in the first year with Texas Energy
Education Project curriculum," says the solicitation. "We need the involvement
of the Texas energy industry to make this project a success."

Another fundraising note observed: "Although the units will focus on Texas
energy, they are designed to be picked up and customized by other states."

An Oct. 10, 2017, Facebook post by the Texas Natural Gas Foundation shows Isaac
appearing to accept a check: "Thanks to #british petroleum for donating to TXNG
to increase public awareness & support of TX energy resources and develop STEM
curriculum."

Texas Natural Gas Foundation officials said they had hoped to host another
workshop this summer; instead, with fundraising slower than expected, they are
now aiming for next summer.

Terri Henry, one of the teachers at the June 2016 summit, said the curriculum
material echoed things she was already teaching at Benold Middle School in the
Georgetown school district. A town hall exercise, for example, in which students
are assigned different parts during an energy debate reflected a classroom
activity in which students hash out which two types of power they want for their
own city.

"We put all the information out there for the kids, and they learn about it all
equally," she said.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

Twitter: @asherprice

Expert Reporting
  Asher Price has covered energy and the environment for the American-Statesman
 since 2006. In numerous stories, he has explored the close relationship
between top state officials and the oil and gas industry. Most recently, he
examined a decision by commissioners overseeing the state oil and gas
regulatory agency to forgo penalizing a gas pipeline operator over a pipeline
leak, contrary to the recommendations of the agency staff. He's the co-author
of "The Great Texas Wind Rush: How George Bush, Ann Richards, and a Bunch of
Tinkerers Helped the Oil and Gas State Win the Race to Wind Power."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                17 October 2018

Bridge is area 's 3rd to fall in 3 years;
The RM 2900 bridge over the Llano River wasn't made to withstand modern flood
levels.

BYLINE: Sean Collins Walsh scwalsh@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 835 words


Built in 1969 and designed to withstand a 50-year storm, the two-lane causeway
in Kingsland that succumbed to a flooded and raging Llano River was the third
Central Texas bridge to be destroyed by floodwaters in recent years.

Experts say it likely won't be the last as climate change and construction
exacerbate the natural factors that led meteorologists to name the Hill Country
"flash flood alley."

With more than 53,000 bridges, Texas has more than any other state, and many
were built in the mid-20th century based on federal weather data from the 1950s.
Intense rain events are now more common, and rapid exurban development has
created more impervious cover, leading to more runoff.

"It's inevitable that we will see more major bridge damage in the future, likely
sooner rather than later," said Bruce Melton, an Austin-based civil engineer and
founder of the nonprofit Climate Change Now Initiative. "The 100-year storm is
now the 25-year storm in Austin."

The river crested at 39.9 feet Tuesday in the city of Llano, the closest flood
gauge upstream from Kingsland, according to the National Weather Service. That
was the highest flood level recorded in Llano since the record-setting 1935 mark
of 41.5 feet.

Most bridges on Texas Department of Transportation-constructed roads are built
to withstand 25- or 50-year storms, while interstate highways are designed to
withstand 100-year storms, said Travis Attanasio, a civil engineer in the Fort
Worth area and an officer with the American Society of Civil Engineers. Some
large Texas cities in recent years have started requiring bridges to be designed
to withstand 100-year floods.

A 100-year storm is a rain event that has a 1 percent chance of occurring in any
given year based on federal weather data. Those data, however, are being
re-evaluated to reflect higher rainfall totals in recent years. Texas, for
instance, has seen 500-year floods in each of the last three years.

TxDOT spokesman Chris Bishop said the RM 2900 bridge was built with the
assumption that the water levels in the Kingsland area, where the Colorado and
Llano rivers meet at the top of Lake LBJ, are expected to stay stable.

"That section is considered to be for the most part a constant-level lake, so
it's not expected to do this. It normally would handle that, and it has for 50
years," Bishop said.

TxDOT will not be able to estimate the reconstruction cost until after its
inspectors evaluate the damage, Bishop said. Replacing a bridge of that type and
size typically costs about $20 million, Attanasio said.

In 2015, the deadly Memorial Day weekend flooding along the Blanco River
destroyed two bridges between Blanco and Wimberley. As the state took a year to
rebuild them, the Army Corps of Engineers constructed a temporary span for the
Fischer Store Road Bridge upstream from Wimberley.

Austin bridges

The city of Austin maintains six bridges over Lake Austin and Lady Bird Lake,
including the Ann W. Richards Congress Avenue Bridge and the Pleasant Valley
Road bridge at Longhorn Dam. Most of those bridges are at or near the 100-year
flood plain, said Pirouz Moin, interim city engineer.

Redbud Trail downstream from Tom Miller Dam at Lake Austin is one of the bridges
in the 100-year plain, but it is slated to be replaced if voters approve a $160
million transportation bond on Nov. 6.

The city also is updating its flood plain maps, which could place several city
bridges under the specification.

Moin said new bridges are built to withstand 100-year floods. However, it is
impossible for many of Austin's roughly 1,700 bridges to be built at that height
because they are in low-lying areas and could not serve roads that feed into
them or provide access to surrounding properties.

Requiem for a causeway

The opening of the RM 2900 bridge came during a golden age for Kingsland, as the
tiny town saw a population boom and a series of major construction and
transportation projects.

Local merchants bought a newspaper ad encouraging residents from nearby Sunrise
Beach, Sandy Harbor and Blue Lake Estates to "cross the bridge and save in
Kingsland," according to Highland Lakes Weekly.

The unincorporated city now has about 6,000 residents and is home to the Antlers
Hotel, where 1973's "The Texas Chain Saw Massacre" was filmed.

The bridge has become a vital connection between the town and smaller
communities on the other side of the Llano River. Each day about 5,600 drivers
use that stretch of RM 2900, according to TxDOT traffic estimates.

Although video of the bridge breaking apart seems to show that the flood's wall
of water simply overpowered it on Tuesday, Attanasio said the bridge likely met
its end because of debris that accumulated underneath it.

"More than likely it was some kind of debris that hit the support columns,
whether it be a large tree or a boat that broke away," he said. "Weird stuff
washes down the creek when it rains."

Statesman reporters Eric Dexheimer and Philip Jankowski contributed to this
article.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                14 November 2018

Expected flood map changes drive $22M jump in Travis Co. bond budget

BYLINE: Taylor Goldenstein tgoldenstein@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 497 words


Travis County will spend an additional $22 million on its 2017 road and drainage
bond projects in anticipation of expanding floodplains after a federal report
predicted Texas will see more extreme rain in coming years than previously
expected.

County commissioners on Tuesday unanimously approved raising the budget for
Proposition A, which voters approved at $93 million, and boosted the amount the
county will raise from nonvoter-approved bonds by about 10 percent, from about
$95 million to about $105 million. Staffers told commissioners Tuesday they are
working to identify funding sources for the increase and expect to present
options to commissioners in December. Budget Director Travis Gatlin said the
money will likely come from selling nonvoter-approved bonds.County staffers said
the change will not affect the expected five-year timeline for the bond
projects.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Atlas 14 report, the
first of its kind in 50 years, redefined 25-year, 100-year and 500-year storms
in Texas using climate records and historical rainfall data. In Austin, the new
data show that a 100-year storm will bring closer to 13 inches of rain in some
parts of Austin, similar to what has been expected of a 500-year storm.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency, as well as the city of Austin, Travis
County and other local governments, will need to update floodplain maps to
reflect the changes. In the meantime, the county will use the 500-year
floodplain in place of the 100-year.

County officials and climate experts have said the report will have widespread
implications on urban planning, land development and engineering. Increasing the
budgets for the 2017 bond projects is one of the first public effects since
Atlas 14 was published in September.

"It is a cost increase. It's outside of our control, but it's within our grasp,"
County Judge Sarah Eckhardt said.

In addition to putting more of Travis County inside floodplain boundaries, the
report means the county will have to spend more on infrastructure, particularly
drainage. Those systems will need to be bigger and more plentiful to accommodate
heavier rains, said David Greear, assistant public works director.

The budget adjustment represents about a 13 percent bump in the cost of
Proposition A, which consists of roads, drainage, bridge, and bike and
pedestrian projects, bringing the total to roughly $106 million. Commissioners
didn't change the budgets for Proposition B, which includes $91.5 million in
parks work not affected by the rainfall report.

Greear said the additional money will pay for larger detention ponds, more
stormwater inlets and larger stormwater pipes. It will also fund higher and
longer bridge spans, larger driveway culverts and wider ditches, he said.

County staffers last month told county commissioners that the increase would be
about $31 million, but after further review and cost-cutting, they presented the
revised $22 million proposal Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                2 December 2018

In 2014, for the first time ever the U.S. Border Patrol repo

BYLINE: Nestor P. Rodriguez

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 773 words


In 2014, for the first time ever the U.S. Border Patrol reported apprehending
more non-Mexicans than Mexican unauthorized border crossers. The non-Mexicans
were primarily Central Americans from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, and
their numbers today continue to be much lower--less than a fifth--than the
high-volume watermarks of unauthorized Mexican migrants apprehended before 2014.
Central American migration includes men, women and unaccompanied minors fleeing
violent environments. Some literally are fleeing for their lives. Some are
economic migrants. The weak states in these nations do not protect their most
vulnerable citizens.

Migrants adversely affected by climate change add to the mix -- a recent report
indicates that 20 percent of apprehended Honduran migrants come from farmlands
experiencing long-term drought associated with El Niño climate change.

For three decades, working with other social scientists and graduate students, I
have interviewed hundreds of Central Americans in the U.S. and in Central
America. The research in Central America has included settings where poverty
affects well over half the population and where lack of adequate nutrition and
medical care keeps infant mortality at three to four times the U.S. rate. My
research on violence in Guatemala includes these grim notes: armed gangs extort
residents and businesses, political rivals shoot each other, paramilitaries
assassinate a young human rights worker, and gang members retaliate against a
neighborhood which called the police on them, shooting and killing five women at
a bus stop on their way to work in the early morning.

Central American migration to the U.S. occurs within a century-old interregional
relationship in which Central Americans have supported U.S. business and
military involvement in the isthmus. Large-scale migration to the U.S. first
emerged in the 1980s during intense U.S. military involvement in Central
America.

Central Americans migrating without visas face many dangers, some deadly, a
reason why some migrants seek safety in caravans. Mexican authorities detain and
deport thousands of Central Americans annually, and according to a Doctors
Without Borders study in 2015-16, two-thirds of Central Americans crossing
Mexico experienced violence, and one-third of the women experienced sexual abuse
or rape.

Central Americans are among the 250-490 migrants who die each year trying to
cross the U.S.-Mexico border without visas, through deserts or dangerous
waterways -- the actual number of migrant deaths is larger, since not all deaths
are known. Mexican criminal organizations have also targeted Central American
migrants and refugees to kidnap and hold for ransom, killing hundreds when their
families cannot pay.

These dangers would seem enough to deter the Central American streams to the
U.S., but as a Salvadoran young man wanting to migrate due to gang threats at
home told our researchers, "In Mexico, the dangers are only a possibility. Here
(lethal) dangers are with me every day."

Migrant remittances sent to families back home account for 10 percent to 20
percent of the gross national product in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
This fact is not lost on the national governments, which have supported
Washington foreign policy in order to maintain favorable status. The Salvadoran
government sent soldiers to fight alongside American forces in the U.S. invasion
of Iraq, and the Guatemalan government recently announced it was following the
U.S. and moving its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. A maelstrom
awaits Central Americans in the U.S., however, as the Washington administration
is ending temporary protective status for about 250,000 Salvadorans and
Hondurans, who will be pressured to return to Central America in 2019.

Central American women migrating with small children in "family units" present a
moral force attracting widespread support. Millions of male migrants have been
detained and deported to Mexico and Central American countries since the 1990s
without interruption, but the recording of a small child crying as she faced
possible separation from her Central American mother at the border produced a
global resonance of moral indignation that ended the policy of separating
children from their parents at the border.

The U.S. cannot accept every migrant that arrives at its borders, but neither
should it retreat from its mandated responsibility of providing due process
under U.S. law for those who seeks its protection.

Rodriguez is a professor of sociology and a research associate of the Population
Research Center at the University of Texas.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 21, 2018 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Community news

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 794 words


TRAVIS COUNTY

NORTH AUSTIN

TreeFolks to give away 1,200 trees

TreeFolks will distribute 1,200 fruit and shade trees to Austin Energy customers
from 9 a.m. to noon Saturday at the Austin Community College Northridge Campus,
11928 Stonehollow Drive, in the first tree giveaway of 2018.

Free trees are available for Austin Energy customers, who may bring their ID or
utility bill as proof of residence. Offerings include fruit trees, understory
trees and large stature shade trees. Available species are Mexican plum; Texas
kidney-wood; lemon; fig; pomegranate; anacacho orchid; and chinkapin, red and
Monterrey oaks.

The trees will be in 5-gallon containers and are about 3 feet to 5 feet tall,
depending on the species. TreeFolks staff will be present to answer questions.
The event is first-come, first-served, with a one tree per person limit.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

AUSTIN

Camp for teens with sickle cell

The Sickle Cell Association of Texas Marc Thomas Foundation will offer its
second annual Camp Next Level, giving teenagers the opportunity to prepare for
transitioning into adulthood with sickle cell disease, meet friends and discover
interests.

The camp runs March 9-12 at Camp for All in Burton, between Giddings and
Brenham.

Camp Next Level's mission is to better prepare young adults living with sickle
cell disease for adulthood by offering disease education and maintenance,
college preparation and educational tools.

Camp Next Level combines education and preparation segments with traditional
outdoor activities, such as swimming, crafts and horseback riding.

For information: sicklecelltx.org; 844-994-4673.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

WILLIAMSON COUNTY

HUTTO

Faculty job fair Thursday

A faculty job fair for Temple College and Texas State Technical College will be
from 4 to 7 p.m. Thursday at the East Williamson County Higher Education Center,
1600 Innovation Blvd.

The colleges are seeking full-time and part-time faculty members to expand
course offerings in Hutto. Adjunct faculty members are needed to teach general
academic courses, as well as technical and continuing education courses. Anyone
who is qualified to teach college-level courses is encouraged to attend.

For more information: 512-759-5900; templejc.edu/job-fair.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

GEORGETOWN

Naturalists discuss climate change

The Williamson County Texas Master Naturalist Good Water Chapter will host a
meeting at 6 p.m. Thursday at the Williamson County Texas A&M AgriLife extension
office, 3151 SE Inner Loop.

Janis Bookout will be the featured speaker, presenting "Climate Change for
Master Naturalists." She is the outreach manager for Austin Earth Day Festival
and a co-founder of 2020 or Bust, a global citizens climate initiative.

The event will include a social time with light refreshments, a chapter business
meeting and a question and answer session if there is time.

For more information: txmn.org/goodwater.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

HAYS COUNTY

SAN MARCOS

Dance for 50 and older Feb. 9

The San Marcos Parks and Recreation Department will host the 19th annual Golden
Sweethearts Ball for couples and singles ages 50 and older from 6 to 10 p.m.
Feb. 9. Tickets will be sold through Feb. 7 for the event that will be at the
San Marcos Activity Center, 501 E. Hopkins St.

The ball will include a buffet dinner, door prizes and music by Sound
Experience. Tickets are $16 if purchased before Feb. 3 and $20 from Feb. 3 to 7.

For tickets: 512-393-8400; sanmarcostx.gov/activesmtx.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SAN MARCOS

City gets native tree grant

The city of San Marcos received a grant from the Houston-based Apache Foundation
to provide 200 native trees to be planted in several of the city's public green
spaces.

The city hosted volunteer workdays in November and January to plant the
1-gallon, containerized trees in Stokes Park, Prospect Park, Spring Lake Natural
Area and Schulle Canyon.

Volunteers came from the Habitat Conservation Program, San Marcos Greenbelt
Alliance, Texas State University students, Master Naturalists and First Lutheran
Church.

Some of the notable native trees planted included roughleaf dogwood, western
soapberry, Mexican plum, chinkapin oak and flameleaf sumac.

- AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

VETERANS' BIRTHDAYS

World War II veteran Gerald B. Champagne of San Marcos turned 94 on Monday.

World War II, Korean and Vietnam war veteran Putnam Monroe of Austin turned 96
on Wednesday.

World War II veteran James P. ( J.P.) Williams of Austin, formerly of Chelyan,
W.Va., turned 98 on Wednesday.

World War II veteran Bernard Snyder of Austin turned 92 on Sunday.

We print birthdays for World War II veterans from Central Texas on Sundays as
space allows. Email the name, birthdate and current hometown to
communitynews@statesman.com

News: communitynews@statesman.com or 512-445-3863

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 31, 2018 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Co-working space's startups to seek social change

BYLINE: Lori Hawkins American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 360 words


Austin startups tackling big social and environmental issues will soon have a
new place to work and collaborate.

The Center for Social Innovation is launching a 10,000-square-foot co-working
space for founders tackling issues such as education, climate change, access to
health care and poverty.

"The world is experiencing an emergence of social enterprise spilling out of our
universities, nonprofits and for-profit businesses," said Dan Graham, a local
tech entrepreneur and founder of philanthropic venture Notley. "As Austin
becomes the next social innovation capital, this co-working model is poised to
provide an important missing piece - a space for people inciting action around
social causes."

The co-working space will be inside the Center for Social Innovation, a
mixed-use campus that Notley is building in East Austin.

Notley is partnering with Capital Factory, the downtown Austin co-working space
and startup accelerator, to provide fundraising opportunities, educational
programs and a network of mentors at the new space.

The co-working space will include private studios, dedicated desks, conference
spaces and lounge areas, as well as 5,000 square feet of meeting space.

Membership applications are currently being accepted. Prices start at $325 a
month for an unassigned desk, conference rooms, access to member programming and
other services. The cost for a dedicated desk is $450 a month.

Notley was founded in 2015 by Graham, founder and former CEO of BuildASign.com,
and his wife, Lisa, to fund and support businesses, nonprofits and programs
making positive change in the world.

The Center for Social Innovation is being built at Springdale General, a
165,000-square-foot real estate development near Springdale Road and Airport
Boulevard that will open later this year.

Springdale General describes the 10-acre site, which was designed by architect
Michael Hsu, as a campus of affordable maker studios, creative office space,
test kitchens, and workshops.

Tenants listed on the Springdale General website include Caffe Medici, Zhi Tea
and Austin Parks Foundation, as well as local artisans and design firms.

Contact Lori Hawkins at 512-912-5955.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                15 October 2018

You say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 741 words


Pflugerville ISD bonds deserve voter support

I urge all voters within the Pflugerville Independent School District to vote
for the upcoming bond and tax ratification election items.

The $332 million bond proposal will help address security and on-going growth in
the district without raising taxes. It will fund two new elementary schools, one
middle school, classroom additions, roof repairs and a host of other needed
improvements.

The tax ratification election is a "swap and drop" proposal which would drop
the district's overall tax rate two cents ($1.54 to $1.52 per $100 of assessed
property valuation) and possibly lead to $4.1 million in additional state
funding that could be used on everyday expenses like teacher salaries, classroom
materials and routine maintenance.

Quick facts on both are at pfisdbond.net/assets/pfisd-quick-facts.pdf and a
detailed explanation can be found at
pfisdbond.net/assets/2018-pfisd-bond-presentation_final.pdf.

Vote early Oct.  22-Nov. 2 or on election day Nov. 6. Whenever you vote, vote
for both proposals.

David Larsen, Pflugerville

What the religious freedom lawsuits are really about

The lawsuits filed show the hypocrisy of those who preach love and practice
hate. This is not representative of all Christians, many of whom are not bigots
and believe in equality for all.

These two lawsuits claim religious freedom is being impeded by not allowing the
anti-gay crowd to discriminate. Freedom to practice religious beliefs is
guaranteed by law and is not in jeopardy. What this is really about is the loss
of religious power.

Thankfully, our founders had the good sense and foresight to give us a nation of
secular laws which is the best defense against a theocracy. The Christian
community should be embarrassed by the actions of their leaders.

John Nugent, Georgetown

Ordinance protects diverse beliefs as does Constitution

Re: Oct. 10 article, " Pastors group seeks to overturn Austin's LGBT hiring
protections."

The conservative U.S. Pastor Council would have you believe that there is a long
line of women, LGBTQ persons and those of diverse beliefs who wish to work for
them, and subject themselves to their bigotry every day. They also wish you to
believe that these religious beliefs are not protected by the Constitution.
Nothing could be further from the truth.

As a local pastor, I have read the ordinance and can assure those concerned that
diverse religious beliefs are protected in the local language just as they are
in the U.S. Constitution. This tactic by the U.S. Pastor Council is simply a dog
whistle to continue to rally like-minded to their side  and intimidate those who
are not a threat to them, but who, for too long, have dealt with their liberties
being limited for the sake of the comfort of conservatives.

Kyle Walker, Austin

If it were a job interview, Kavanaugh didn't pass

If the Kavanaugh confirmation hearing were a job interview, he failed it.

One absolutely must put aside what's going on in their personal life or any raw
emotions when interviewing for a job. Aside from his evading answering yes or no
to questions and showing his partisanship, his temperament was not professional
during the hearing and not becoming of a Supreme Court nominee and disqualifying
in my opinion.

All of this should have been taken more into consideration in the selection
process as much as the allegations against him.

Chico Guevara, Austin

No need to wait to gauge carbon pollution's effects

Re: Oct. 9 article, "Climate report: Crisis as early as 2040"

The United Nations Panel on Climate Change concluded that continued inaction on
heat-holding carbon pollution has even more severe consequences than previously
thought.

As if to add an exclamation mark to the announcement, practically overnight
Hurricane Michael burgeoned to the most powerful storm to hit the U.S. in 50
years, decimating parts of Florida.

Make no mistake: Just like with Harvey, the fuel for the turbo-charged Michael
was additional heat in the Gulf of Mexico. We don't have to wait until 2040. The
consequences of carbon pollution are already here.

I implore our representatives in Congress to fill the policy vacuum that exists
at the federal level. Pass a revenue-neutral carbon fee and dividend, which
experts on the right and the left agree is the best way to tackle the challenges
of climate change.

Please don't delay. We need you to act now.

Juli Berwald, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                19 October 2018

You say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 656 words


Schoolteachers can have clout at the midterm polls

Attention public schoolteachers and retirees. Elections are right around the
corner. Let's remember a few key things as we go to the polls:

o In 2011, a certain governor and his political party cut $5 billion out of the
education budget.

o A former State Board of Education member (whose children went to private
school) called public education a "subtly deceptive tool of perversion."

o With $10 billion in the Rainy Day Fund and a governor that touts a Texas
economy as robust and vibrant, there is no mention of extra dollars for
education or retirees.

o A certain lieutenant governor wants to take public tax dollars and give them
to private schools.

o And don't you just love what they've done with health insurance?

So, when you go to the polls, take another registered voter with you. Lawmakers
know public schoolteachers have no political clout. Use your constitutional
right to make a difference and vote.

Tip Giles, Austin

View of Dems shaded GOP's 'ruthlessness'

Re: Oct. 14 commentary, "We have not yet plumbed the depths of Democratic
ruthlessness."  Sunday's Statesman featured on your Opinion page Marc A.
Thiessen's view of American Democrats.

He said that Brett Kavanaugh was poorly treated. It's not surprising to hear
that type of opinion from the other side, considering their well-established
game plan. The so- called conservative approach is to reflect their naughty,
misleading stories on to the other side, intending to shade their own
"ruthlessness." I cast my first presidential vote for Eisenhower in '52, and
again in '56, under the GOP label. Then along came JFK, and an entirely new
political atmosphere.

I once again voted for the GOP candidate, Gerald Ford. From then on, the
Democrats' progressive outlook smothered the selfish, bigoted conservative mold.
Thiessen seems to have overlooked the real story, and made up his own devilish
tale. Try again, with your eyes and ears open.

Michael W. Henry Sr., Marble Falls

A reader says Cruz sold soul to stay an insider

Polls show Beto O'Rourke close but no cigar against Ted Cruz in a race for
senator. Yep, I have a lot of confidence in polls. 2016?

Sen. Cruz was dubbed  Lyin' Ted  by his newest, biggest fan Donald Trump.
Pollsters and professional politicians urge Beto to define Ted Cruz with
negative ads. Ted Cruz's record in the Senate defines him well enough. Being a
part-time senator and full-time presidential hopeful showed Cruz could be nasty
when attacked, calling Trump a "sniveling coward" and a "loud New York bully."
Undeterred, Trump attacked Ted Cruz's wife and father. Now they're best friends?

How can Texas support a man who won't stand up for his own family. Is there any
integrity left in Ted Cruz? Cruz has sold his soul to remain a Washington
insider politician. Ted is not Texan. Ted is not Republican. Ted doesn't
recognize Ted anymore.

Glenn Kelly, Leander

No need to wait to gauge

carbon pollution's effects

Re: Oct. 9 article, "Climate report: Crisis as early as 2040"

The United Nations Panel on Climate Change concluded that continued inaction on
heat-holding carbon pollution has even more severe consequences than previously
thought.

As if to add an exclamation mark to the announcement, practically overnight
Hurricane Michael burgeoned to the most powerful storm to hit the U.S. in 50
years, decimating parts of Florida.

Make no mistake: Just like with Harvey, the fuel for the turbo-charged Michael
was additional heat in the Gulf of Mexico. We don't have to wait until 2040. The
consequences of carbon pollution are already here.

I implore our representatives in Congress to fill the policy vacuum that exists
at the federal level. Pass a revenue-neutral carbon fee and dividend, which
experts on the right and the left agree is the best way to tackle the challenges
of climate change.

Please don't delay. We need you to act now.

Juli Berwald, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                28 November 2018

Texan clears hurdle for energy commission despite concerns;
Bernard McNamee criticized renewable energy and mocked environmentalists Bernard
McNamee faced criticism over comments about environmentalists

BYLINE: Maria Recio AmericanStatesman correspondent

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 736 words


WASHINGTON -- Texas lawyer Bernard McNamee, a former aide to prominent Texas
Republicans, drew criticism Tuesday from members of the Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, before the panel narrowly advanced his nomination
to the powerful Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, chairwoman of the energy panel, echoed concerns
raised by some Senate Democrats and environmental advocates over a video that
recently surfaced of McNamee promoting a national campaign to boost fossil
fuels, criticizing renewable energy and mocking environmental groups, in remarks
to Texas legislators in Austin in February.

"I find that some of the comments that he has made on that video were
unfortunate," said Murkowski, who said she had reviewed McNamee's presentation
at the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation. "When it comes to renewable
energy resources, I think that as we recognize that fossil fuels have made a
great deal possible. ... I think that we continue to need them, but we also
recognize their role in the changes we're seeing in our climate."

President Donald Trump has all but disavowed a landmark report government
officials released last week that warns of severe consequences in the near term
of a warming climate due to the burning of fossil fuels.

Just before saying she would support McNamee, Murkowski said, "But I do expect
him, I will expect, that he be fuel-neutral and not a champion for one resource
over another."

McNamee said, in a video obtained by Utility Dive, a trade publication, that the
fossil fuel industry needed to be promoted. "What this is really about is
changing the hearts and minds of the American people about what they think about
energy and to start believing in it again. Understanding that fossil fuels are
not something dirty, something we have to move and get away from, but understand
that they are key to our prosperity, our way of life and also to a clean
environment."

Murkowski, known for her independence, also rebuked McNamee for having said,
"Renewables, when they come on and off, it screws up the whole, the physics of
the grid."

Murkowski said Tuesday: "It is more appropriate to look at renewables as
technical challenges for the grid and one that we will overcome."

But she said she had spoken with McNamee and believed he would honor the
independence of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to regulate oil and gas
pipelines and the transmission of electricity.

The committee voted 13-10 to move the nomination to the Senate floor, with
Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia voting with Republicans to approve
McNamee.

Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., said, "I would have liked to take Mr. McNamee at
his word when he assured me that he would be 'a fair, objective, and impartial
arbiter,' and that he would decide these matters coming before him 'based on the
law and the facts.' But after the video surfaced of Mr. McNamee's speech on
fossil fuels, I find it hard to believe that he is going to be an impartial
reviewer of these issues."

"Mr. McNamee's speech shows him to be neither fair nor judicious. His views
expressed are out of the mainstream," she said.

In a statement provided to the American-Statesman, McNamee said: "I recognize
the significant role that renewables play in our energy mix, and I stand by my
statement that if confirmed as a commissioner, I would be an independent arbiter
basing my decisions on the law and the facts, not politics."

McNamee has worked on energy and conservative policy issues for years. He was
counsel and senior domestic policy adviser to Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and chief
of staff to Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton. More recently, he has served two
stints alongside U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry and was the architect of a
Perry proposal to bail out the coal and nuclear industries.

Earlier this year, he worked for the Texas Public Policy Foundation. Another
former Texas Public Policy Foundation official, Kathleen Hartnett White,
withdrew in February as the nominee to head the Council on Environmental Quality
after her views on climate change proved to be too controversial for her to be
confirmed.

Also Tuesday, the committee approved David Vela, also a Texan, to be director of
the National Park Service. He would be the first Latino to head the agency.

The nominations must be voted on by the full Senate by the end of the year, or
they will expire.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                1 December 2018

you say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 410 words


Worried about voter fraud?

Serve as an election clerk.

I am very concerned about voter fraud claims. I feel it's like yelling "fire" in
a crowded theater, creating fear and doubt about the election process that is
not based on fact.

I suggest that those who are concerned volunteer to be an election clerk at your
local election office. You'll be trained and see the process first-hand.

In Burnet County, we go through training before every election. You're able to
see the checks and balances in place to make sure each person's vote is
correctly recorded. It's virtually impossible, from what I have observed, to
vote more than once.

If there are any discrepancies, there are provisional and limited ballots which
can be double-checked to make sure they are valid. I have the highest confidence
in our election officials in Burnet County.

Kudos to those great public servants who work hard to ensure a secure and
accurate vote count.

Nancy Hill, Marble Falls

Why don't we believe the climate scientists?

Re: Nov. 27 article, "NASA lands on Mars."

We're jubilant when our scientists engineer the fantastic feat of exploring
Mars. We weep with joy when they find a way to cure our cancer. But we yawn when
presented with scientific findings on climate change and the dire consequences
that loom ahead.

Why do we believe the best scientists in the world only when it doesn't
inconvenience us?

Jorjanna Price, Austin

The president forgets migrants are people, too

Recently hundreds of Central American migrants in caravans suffered tear gas
spray when attempting to cross from Tijuana, Mexico into San Diego. In response,
President Trump claimed the caravans were a way for Central American governments
to "get certain people out of their countries. He implies the migrants were
criminals forced from their home countries.

His lying is a way to justify the physical and emotional harm being done to the
most desperate among us. These migrants escaped the violence inflicting their
home countries only to be met with tear gas and hatred from the authorities they
sought to protect them. In many cases, President Trump's denial of the
opportunity for them to cross the United States border will result in
deportation back to violence and poverty.

The foundation of American democracy was based on all people having been created
equal and with unalienable rights. President Trump is forgetting the migrants
are people too.

Alexandra Lopez, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 18, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

A community weighs in on Amazon's HQ2 impact

BYLINE: Sebastian Herrera and Omar L. Gallaga American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 3224 words


By now, it's common knowledge that Austin is a potential site for the Amazon's
planned second headquarters.

The Austin area is one of 20 finalists in the United States and Canada where the
online retailer could build the project known as HQ2, a development expected to
create 50,000 high-paying jobs and upend the winning city's economy during
coming years. Amazon said it will pick its destination this year, and so far,
there's been no sure indication where the project could land.

But the mere possibility of such a project already has reverberated across the
Austin metro area, where residents and influences throughout various industries
and populations - from entertainment to education to real estate - have been
discussing the possible impact of HQ2 here.

Some of those thoughts, collected through more than a dozen interviews with the
American-Statesman, show both the eagerness and nervousness of a city waiting
for one of the biggest economic development project announcements in recent
memory.

Here's a look at the impact landing Amazon's $5 billion HQ2 project could have
on a variety of Austin sectors:

COST OF LIVING

Austin voice: Robin Wilkins, stay-at-home mother

Wilkins has been through this before. And if HQ2 happens in Austin, she hopes
she can keep her home this time.

Wilkins, who lives in a three-bedroom Southeast Austin apartment with her
11-year-old son, adult daughter and grandchild, fell in love with Austin when
she moved here from California in 1984.

Two and one-half years ago, she had to move out of an apartment in the same ZIP
code, 78741, when high-tech company Oracle bought up property in the Lakeshore
area of East Austin.

"It was our home for five years. My son grew up in that place, had friends, had
places to play. We were taken from that spot and forced out of that spot so a
large company could come in," Wilkins said.

Her new place is home. Her mother lives nearby. So do her other grown kids. "I
don't want to leave this area," she says, and she certainly doesn't want to
leave Austin.

But as a member of the board of the Austin Tenants Council, she's learned how
these things work and she knows that as far as HQ2 goes, her apartment's
location could be a prime target, so to speak.

"You've got downtown on one side, the airport on this side. You're connected to
everything around here," including major highways, Wilkins said. She lives near
major operations for tech companies including Tokyo Electron and Samsung, as
well as Oracle.

Her housing situation caused her to become a more active volunteer and activist
for fair housing, public transportation and accessibility. She said she counts
herself lucky to live in such a great spot, but fears others won't be so lucky
if they have to move farther out.

"Wherever you live, you should have access to transportation so you can go to
your doctor, to the grocery store," she said. "There needs to be accessibility."

Wilkins pays $1,220 a month for her apartment under a tax credit-property
program. Her rent was $1,151 when she moved in.

She said she bears no ill will toward Amazon if it chooses Austin for HQ2. "It's
high tech, it's evolving, it's taking us into the next generation. It's an
awesome business," she said. "But if you're going to come to Austin, where are
you going to be? Are you going to displace anyone, are you going to make
people's property taxes go up, and if you are, what are you going to do to make
people right and whole and balance it out so no one is suffering from the
repercussions?

"I've been here a long time, I love this location," Wilkins said. "To me this is
my home, this area. I don't think I would be happy anyplace else."

TRANSPORTATION

Austin voice: Lyndon Henry, former data analyst at Capital Metro

Mobility is one of the key challenges facing Austin if HQ2 is built in Central
Texas. Austin residents who already see gridlock during rush hours say they
wonder how the city could handle the influx of residents HQ2 would bring.

During the 2000 s, Henry saw first-hand from his position at Cap Metro the
transportation challenges Austin faced. Those challenges would be further
exposed with HQ2, Henry said, giving the city no option but to move
aggressively.

That would have to start with major improvements to the area's public
transportation system, including an extended rail system, something Henry has
been pushing for years.

"We've now lost decades of development because of the city's inability to come
to a decision. If you look at Atlanta, or other (HQ2 finalists), they've been
able to have multiple-line rail systems. Some are way ahead of Austin in terms
of development of public transportation," Henry said. "If you had a light rail
system that all of these new (Amazon) employees could access the new
headquarters, that would be an enormous step ahead, along with a street bus
system connecting light rail. Traffic needs to be alleviated."

Beyond rail, Austin transportation leaders would need to examine the bus system
depending on where HQ2 might be built and help make changes to traffic patterns.

Funding for these projects would remain a major obstacle, Henry said, but
solutions beyond just adding roads also would need to be part of the equation.

"You can't put your eggs all in one basket," Henry said.

Austin voice: De Peart, CEO of the Downtown Austin Alliance

As part of finding the right solutions for Austin mobility, city leaders would
need to ask the right questions of Amazon, Peart said. What will employment look
like? What will each phase of the project consist of?

"The city would fully need to understand the company's strategy," Peart said.

But it also would be critical to remember how much technology could help, Peart
said. At the Downtown Austin Alliance, he regularly has to examine the impact of
development in Austin's core, which already is becoming crammed, but also is
seeing testing of new mobility technology such as autonomous vehicles and
delivery robots.

"No doubt projects like expanding I-35 would be critical, but we also would need
to think creatively," Peart said. "We need to think about 10, 15, 20 years from
now, and how technology is changing the way we commute through autonomous
vehicles, ride-sharing, etc. People will travel differently."

EDUCATION

Austin voice: John Ekerdt, assistant dean of research at the University of Texas
Cockrell School of Engineering

Since 1979, Ekerdt has helped guide UT's engineering school, which is recognized
as one of the nation's top programs. Its brand, Ekerdt said, already has brought
the school in close contact with major companies.

With more than 7,700 students, the school has an advisory group that regularly
listens to corporate input as curriculum is being formed.

"We're always asking our stakeholders on the outside, â  How do we need to be
educating our students so that they can compete over the next 40 years of their
career?' That's the conversation we would have with Amazon," Ekerdt said. "HQ2
would create a number of opportunities for our researchers, for our students
doing internships, attracting talent and growing our portfolio. We have amazing
talent for Amazon to leverage."

But even with its success, the school also has seen many of its graduates move
to Houston and other cities to find jobs. HQ2 would help change that, Ekerdt
said. Austin would be able to keep more of its local talent here, since some
engineering students would be expected to find jobs at Amazon.

Competition at the school would increase, Ekerdt added. But he thinks that would
only be for the good.

"Amazon would create a buzz," he said.

Austin voice: Edmund Oropez, chief schools officer for teaching and learning,
Austin Independent School District

At AISD, about 13 percent of high school students are following a science,
technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum path. The school district
already is a partner with other corporate giants. Google provides its
Chromebooks to schools, and Round Rock-based Dell Technologies began a new
health professional program at AISD through UT's Dell Medical School.

Amazon's HQ2, Oropez said, could have an even larger impact on AISD.

"We would welcome their input, and that could help us drive our curriculum," he
said.

But the population influx from HQ2 also would put pressure on housing, Oropez
added, potentially impacting AISD schools and zoning. AISD has experienced both
overcrowding and under-enrollment at some of its campuses.

"We would have to study the potential impacts," Oropez said. "We work with our
city demographers, and we can plan accordingly. Depending on the location, we
would have to look at our boundaries and new schools."

Even if HQ2 were built outside of AISD, its employees and their families still
could live inside the school boundaries, and AISD could see transfer students,
Oropez said.

Austin voice: Drew Scheberle, senior vice president of advocacy, mobility and
talent at the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce

Back in the 1980s, Austin didn't plan for growth because it didn't want it,
Scheberle said.

But times have changed, he said, and Austin now takes planning seriously.

This can be seen with the city's current pursuit to change its land use code,
and by the regular discourse around growth throughout Austin's various
industries, Scheberle said.

The chamber, which tracks post secondary statistics and local workforce numbers,
has seen an uptick in students pursuing tech-related jobs. As Austin continues
to create new jobs, Scheberle said, Amazon would account for a significant
percent of that if HQ2 were here.

"It's all manageable if you plan for it," Scheberle said. "Regardless of if
Amazon comes here, we have massive changes happening in the workforce here."

REAL ESTATE

Austin voice: Juliana Gonzales, executive director of the Austin Tenants Council

New tech employment is great, Gonzales believes, but when new jobs come to town,
that can be bad news for renters, particularly those with low incomes.

"I think our concern anytime that high-paying tech jobs come into the city is it
doesn't raise the income for all jobs," she said. "It doesn't raise the income
of the renters already living in a barely affordable housing market." She
pointed out that residents on fixed incomes also would be impacted by rising
costs of living.

While reports suggest rent prices have stabilized, at least for now due to
increased supply and softening demand, Gonzales said that the trend for the last
10 years has been that "rent rates have risen insanely" in a city in which
renters are in the majority.

Other impacts that Amazon HQ2 might have if it comes to Austin, she said, could
be that if the median family income goes up in Austin, it could affect
eligibility for assisted-housing programs for some families.

"I may find myself in a much poorer (income) bracket and less eligible for these
missing-middle housing options," Gonzales said.

The city's already growing population, coupled with 50,000 additional workers,
also could strain city resources and drive people farther out from the urban
core, she said. "What we've seen in the past is that the poor move out. They end
up in Del Valle, Manor, the edges of the county."

She said she also worries that not all of Amazon's moves are resulting in
top-tier employment; she's read about low-income cities that are instead the
home to Amazon's warehouse jobs.

Nevertheless, Gonzales said she is heartened that the city is not offering
financial incentives to Amazon in its proposal. She said she hopes that if
Amazon chooses Austin, it would invest in affordable housing and help the city
find infrastructure solutions.

"We'd need to build out what needs to build out to accommodate 50,000 more
people," Gonzales said.

CREATIVE ARTS

Austin voice: David Hartstein, Austin film producer

Hartstein has been in Austin since 2000, when he studied at the University of
Texas at Austin Radio-Television-Film department.

Eighteen years later, he's had success as a film producer, working on
commercials, documentaries and feature films.

He wonders if a 22-year-old starting out like he did could make it in Austin
today, especially if the cost of living continues to rise should Amazon choose
Austin for HQ2.

"I've been very fortunate," Hartstein said. He does work for a corporate client,
Indeed, and has benefited from Austin's tech boom. "I've been able to keep up
and service them and keep the lights on to do creative work."

But young filmmakers, he says, might struggle to make ends meet as they seek
those same kinds of opportunities.

Hartstein says growth is inevitable and the theoretical Amazon deal will impact
Austin based on the details; he hopes Amazon would be a good community partner.

"Austin is still the Austin that it was 18 years ago," Hartstein said, "it's
just bigger and it's harder to find parking."

He says that from an office overlooking development at the Mueller community,
which he says gets closer to his work at Austin Studios.

"They've got to go somewhere," he says of Amazon HQ2, "I think we could handle
it."

RETAIL

Austin voice: Bart Matheney, principal at Aquila Commercial real estate firm

The past decade has completely changed Austin's retail industry. The metro area
has added almost 12 million square feet of retail space during that time, with
the total now at 48.8 million square feet (according to commercial real estate
firm Weitzman).

HQ2 could add a trove of new residents to Austin, further reshaping the retail
sector.

But that doesn't necessarily mean that every part of the sector would be
boosted, Matheney said.

Big-box stores still would be under threat from the e-commerce world Amazon
helped foster, and nothing is stopping the changing climate of traditional
retail.

"Retail doesn't grow like it used to," Matheney said.

At the same time, HQ2 could spur a large mix-use project next to it that would
boost that immediate area.

"It could drive another (The) Domain type of project," Matheney said.

EVENTS

Austin voice: Hugh Forrest, chief programming officer for South by Southwest

Technology was one of the driving factors in growing South by Southwest from a
music festival when it began in 1987 to one that now also encompasses film,
tech, fashion, sports, health and politics as one of Austin's largest annual
events.

Last year, its conference attracted 70,696 attendees, and the entire set of
panels and festival events had 421,900 direct participants, according to SXSW.

Forrest, who for many years was in charge of the Interactive portion of SXSW,
said having HQ2 in Austin would likely make South by Southwest a bigger draw.

"Amazon's focus on innovation strongly aligns with so much of what we focus on
at SXSW," Forrest said. "Their presence in Austin would make SXSW an even more
compelling destination for digital creatives across the U.S. and all over the
world."

SERVICE SECTOR

Austin voice: Shawn Cirkiel, chef at Parkside Projects restaurants

Austin's service industry could be one of the beneficiaries of HQ2. Personal
gyms, salons, lawyers, travel agents and many others could experience a boost in
business.

As a native Austinite, Cirkiel has witnessed the explosion of restaurant and
other service businesses in the city throughout the years. Cirkiel opened
Parkside in 2008 on Sixth Street, and has since opened multiple other
restaurants in Austin.

He said HQ2's effect would be straight forward: Any type of restaurant would
benefit.

"Whether it's very suburban restaurants or high-end corporate clients, it would
be valuable across the board," Cirkiel said. "Everyone has an expectation that
it will only be millennial (type of restaurants), but they all marry eventually
and have kids and will look to other types of restaurants."

While Austin already has an over-supply of restaurants, Cirkiel said, HQ2 would
likely still be a catalyst for more eateries and other service facilities
because of the potential for customers. That could cause construction hassles,
he said, but that would only be a short-term problem.

NONPROFITS

Austin voice: Rebecca Campbell, CEO of Austin Film Society

In addition to becoming a retail powerhouse, Amazon also has in recent years
flexed its muscle in entertainment, launching popular consumer tech products
such as the Amazon Echo, and racking up awards in television and film for series
including "Transparent" and films such as "Manchester by the Sea."

This wing, Amazon Studios, has also been a sponsor of nonprofit Austin Film
Studios and even put out Austin filmmaker Richard Linklater's most recent film,
"Last Flag Flying."

"Amazon Studios has been really generous with AFS," Campbell said. "That
sponsorship allows us to do our mission: show movies, help filmmakers, educate
the community. I'm favorably disposed toward Amazon Studios, for sure," she
said.

If Amazon increased its Studios presence in Austin, or continued to beef up its
video-game tools business, Lumberjack, it could create more opportunities for
up-and-coming filmmakers and video-game industry workers.

"It could be incredible jobs for people," Campbell said. "Because Amazon is in
the content business, I see jobs for creatives - animators, artists, graphic
designers, writers. A lot of emerging filmmakers have to have a day job. While
they're honing their craft, it could position them to pursue their art on the
side."

But she also recognizes the impact that 50,000 workers and a giant campus in the
area could have on the local film scene.

Affordability, she said, is a key issue for those creatives and others AFS
serves. "Housing costs are a huge concern for independent filmmakers, even for
the staff we employ, and the people who attend the films that we show are very
cost-conscious."

She said the tech industry has greatly benefited AFS over the years, allowing
the group to give more money to filmmakers and to educate kids on the skills
they need to find their voices in the medium. Campbell said she thinks city
leaders and Amazon could find a way to make HQ2 a win-win for Austin and its
residents.

"It seems as if there's got to be a way it could be done right, and if it's done
right, it could be really great for prosperity in Austin."

GAME DEVELOPMENT

Austin voice: John Henderson, program coordinator, Game Design & Development Lab

Henderson has been working to get more young people into the Austin video-game
industry and has been keeping up with Lumberjack, an Amazon game-development
project that has been hiring in the area.

Lumberjack is a tool to build video games inexpensively (which Amazon could then
host on its cloud servers), and the team around it has been growing. If HQ2 were
to come to town, Henderson says, it would be very positive for Lumberjack and
possibly for those seeking jobs in game development.

"If HQ2 were here, it would give us more access, visibility, leverage, tons of
money for development," Henderson said. On the flip side, Henderson says the
demand for technical talent in Austin could sharply increase.

For those who want to create the next great game studio, an Amazon HQ2 could
squeeze those seeking office space in the same way rising costs in the area have
affected other Austin forms of entertainment.

"The loss of places to rehearse and live music venues has been really painful
for the city," Henderson said, "it just becomes harder to put a game studio
together. You have to run on a shoestring until you have that hit."

Contact Sebastian Herrera

at 512-912-5933.

Contact Omar L. Gallaga

at 512-445-3672.

Twitter: @omarg

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                28 October 2018

The highlights of happening Helsinki

BYLINE: Rick Steves Special to the AmericanStatesman

SECTION: TX FEATURES; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 827 words


Helsinki -- Europe's youngest and northernmost capital city -- feels like an
outpost of Europe. While it lacks the cutesy cobbles of Copenhagen, the
aristocratic setting of Stockholm or the futuristic vibe of Oslo, Helsinki holds
its own among Nordic capitals with its creative spirit, zest for architecture
and design and a steamy love of saunas.

Perhaps the best way to understand Helsinki's origins is to take the short ferry
ride across the harbor to the island-fortress of Suomenlinna (now a popular
park). Little Finland was long caught up in the superpower chess moves of its
big neighbors, Sweden and Russia. The Swedes dominated the country from medieval
times until 1809, when they lost it to the Russians, who held it until 1917.

The Swedes built Suomenlinna in the mid-1700s to counter Russia's rising power.
Peter the Great had just created his new capital nearby, at St. Petersburg, and
he was eyeing the West. With 5 miles of walls and hundreds of cannons guarding
the harbor, Suomenlinna squelched the Russian threat (at least for the time
being). With all that activity, small-time Helsinki took off, becoming a
boomtown in support of the grand strategic fort.

Helsinki is buffered by more than 300 islands, and its harbor is always busy.
Frequent passenger ferries cross the Baltic Sea from Stockholm, Tallinn and even
St. Petersburg. The arrival of cruise ships -- sliding through tight passages
between the surrounding islands -- energizes the city each day. Mighty ice
breakers moored in their summer slumber are the only reminder of the bitter
Baltic winters.

Almost everything worth seeing is walkable from the harbor. Most visitors head
directly to Helsinki's fun harbor square, called Kauppatori. This colorful
outdoor food bazaar is the place in town for a casual, quick-and-cheap lunch
(moose meatballs are a favorite). Everyone from the Finnish president to
visiting tourists stops by for a dash of local flavor.

Daily bus tours run from the docks for a rapid-fire overview of Finnish history
and a quick look at the top monuments and churches. Or you can stretch your legs
along Helsinki's grand boulevard, the Esplanade, leading from the water into
town. With wide sidewalks and a friendly park sandwiched in the middle, this is
the city's best stroll for window shopping, people watching and sun worshiping.

Then delve into the boutiques of the Design District for some of Europe's most
eye-pleasing fashion and home decor. A surprising number of global trends --
from Marimekko's patterned fabrics to Nokia's pioneering mobile phones to the
Angry Birds gaming empire -- have been born right here in design-conscious
Helsinki. (The local Design Museum displays these innovations and more.)

Helsinki is famous for its 20th-century architecture, from its central train
station, an Art Nouveau masterpiece by Eliel Saarinen, to the modernist
simplicity of the Finlandia concert hall by Alvar Aalto. The city also boasts
beautiful and diverse churches: the gleaming white Lutheran Cathedral, a
Neoclassical gem; the red-brick Russian Orthodox Cathedral, a reminder of
Russia's long dominance here; and the underground Temppeliaukio Church, blasted
out of solid granite and capped by a copper and glass dome.

There's also the little Kamppi Chapel. Sitting unassumingly on a city plaza, the
spruce structure encloses a windowless cylinder of silence. Inside, indirect
light bathes the alder-wood paneling in warmth and tranquility. Does it resemble
Noah's Ark? The inside of an egg? Although it's a church, there are no services;
it's open to anyone needing a reflective pause.

Overall, I find Finns to be pretty quiet and contemplative. I once wandered into
a flea market in Helsinki, closed my eyes and listened to the soundtrack of 300
Finns. It was almost silent -- I could have been in a mountain meadow. So I was
surprised to discover the Finnish love affair with lotteries and gambling. Slot
machines and games of chance are everywhere, including restaurants and
supermarkets, manned by Finns eagerly stuffing in coins. There's even a roulette
lounge at the Helsinki Airport.

A more traditional touchstone of Finnish culture is the sauna. These days, with
so many Finns affluent enough to have saunas in their homes (5.4 million Finns
have 3.3 million saunas), some of the working-class spots I've long enjoyed have
gone upscale. The chic Löyly complex is typical of the new trend, with its
saunas finely crafted from warm woods, a restaurant serving fashionable Nordic
cuisine and a seaside terrace for lounging.

Helsinki seems designed to promote a sense of community, and when the weather
warms, everyone takes full advantage. The city blooms with bikers, picnickers,
runners and walkers, and cafés push their tables out to the sidewalk. Café
Kappeli, an Old World oasis of pastry and relaxation, sits proudly at the
harbor's edge. It's the perfect spot to sip a coffee while waiting for your
ship, already savoring your Helsinki memories.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 6, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Republicans race to right in 21st Congressional District

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2738 words


The 21st Congressional District, which meanders its gerrymandered way from the
Drag across from the University of Texas south to Alamo Heights in San Antonio
and west about 200 miles to the western fringes of the Hill Country, is not the
reddest stretch of Texas. President Donald Trump won here in 2016 by just a
shade more than his 9-point margin statewide.

But barring a blue tsunami in November, the 21st is likely to send to Congress a
representative more resembling U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Tyler, the incendiary
arch-conservative, whose Texas district preferred Trump by a 49-point margin,
than retiring U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, who, for all the attention
given his climate change skepticism, spent three decades in Congress
accumulating and dispensing power in a more temperate mien.

Chip Roy and Matt McCall, who will face off in the May 22 Republican runoff in
the district, are both constitutional conservatives committed to paring American
government back to its early essence, the only unsettled question in their race
being who would more proficiently and profoundly rock the boat.

The victor will face the winner of the runoff between two Austin Democrats -
Mary Wilson and Joseph Kopser - in a district that the two leading national
forecasters, the Cook Political Report and Sabato's Crystal Ball, both rate as
"likely Republican" wins in the fall.

Roy, a former chief of staff for U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, wants to scrap the
federal income tax and replace it with a limited national sales tax, jettison
birthright citizenship - "you should be a citizen if you're born to an American
citizen, not just because you come across an arbitrary line" - and focus the
federal government on "a strong economy and a strong military and leave
everything else to the states."

"Let Texas be Texas; let California be California," Roy said.

McCall, who in 2014 and 2016 ran tea party primary challenges against Smith,
recently pledged to the Kerrville Rotary Club: "I will never vote for any debt
ceiling increase that does not include the elimination of at least one
department of government. Never."

McCall offered the departments of interior and energy as worthy starters for
elimination.

"I would love to be a part of crashing the D.C. real estate market," McCall
said, when asked at an April 24 Comal County GOP forum about decentralizing the
federal government. "I would like to see congressmen be able to vote
electronically so that we can be here in the district and vote and be surrounded
by the people when we vote for who the speaker of the House is going to be."

McCall would repeal the 17th Amendment, a product of the Progressive Era that
provides for the direct election of U.S. senators by voters, and return that
responsibility to state legislatures.

"One of the roots of all evil is taking away the states' right to appoint the
senators," McCall told the Comal County gathering, calling senators akin to
"long-term congressmen."

On immigration, McCall said, "If we're going to be getting immigration, it
should be from Christian countries."

Roy with 27 percent, and McCall with 17 percent, finished first and second in
the unwieldy field of 18 candidates in the March 6 primary.

No two candidates of the 18 were more alike in philosophy or more different in
temperament than McCall and Roy. But nothing about their shared beliefs has kept
their race from taking a nasty, personal turn.

â  I can hire staffers like you'

In the realm of what is known as movement conservatism, Roy appeals to the head
and McCall tugs at the gut. Whoever better reaches the heart of what is now a
hybrid tea party/Trump electorate will prevail.

Roy is the movement's pedigreed and anointed candidate, having worked for U.S.
Sen. John Cornyn on the Senate Judiciary Committee, for Gov. Rick Perry - ghost
writing the book, "Fed Up!: Our Fight to Save America from Washington," Perry's
paean to the Tenth Amendment, which declares that "the powers not delegated to
the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are
reserved to the states respectively, or to the people" - and for Texas Attorney
General Ken Paxton, as his first assistant attorney general, and most especially
as Cruz's chief of staff and alter ego.

Roy most closely resembles Cruz in his philosophical and political approach and
he never misses an opportunity to describe the "battle scars" he shares with
Cruz, U.S. Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, House Freedom Caucus leaders, U.S. Reps. Mark
Meadows of North Carolina and Jim Jordan of Ohio, and his impatience to join
them on the front lines.

"I know what I believe, and I know what I'm running on," Roy told a sometimes
contentious April 23 Hill Country Tea Party Patriots candidate forum at a senior
citizen center in New Braunfels. "I know what I've been fighting for - against
amnesty, against gun registry, for lower spending, against earmarks."

"You don't have the first clue from experience what my opponent will do or not
do when push comes to shove in Washington," Roy said. "Running to be someone
who's going to transform the discussion in the House or the Senate, requires
knowing who to team up with to make that happen, and the people you are trusting
now are the people who have endorsed me."

Taking the microphone, McCall offered a caustic rebuttal.

"I think it's a bunch of rubbish and I think it's an un-American idea. It's an
un-American idea that we need a ruling class. I can hire staffers like you,
Chip," McCall said. "He's taking credit for all the things his bosses have ever
done. Now I'm really irritated. I'm irritated because he is saying that we the
people aren't smart enough to do it ourselves."

McCall, 54, has promised if he is elected he will serve three terms, at the end
of which, he said, anyone who is doing the job right will be burned out and
should give another citizen-legislator a turn.

"It's like Jesus," McCall said at the Comal County Republican forum. "Satan
didn't tempt Jesus until after he was really tired."

Roy, 45, said he backs term limits but, until they are enacted, "I don't believe
in unilateral disarmament."

"That's how he's just like Lamar," McCall said. "He intends to go for 30 years."

If the people of the 21st Congressional District elect Roy, McCall said,
"They're going to get him for a long time, a long, long time because it is very
hard to unseat an incumbent because the whole system is stacked against it, and
I know something about that."

McCall won 22,681 votes, or 34 percent of the vote against Smith in 2014, and
33,624, or 29 percent of the vote, in 2016. He had not planned to challenge
Smith if he had run again his year, having learned, as he puts it on the stump,
that Smith is more popular with Republicans in the district than the law ought
to allow. McCall won 12,088 votes in March.

McCall estimates turnout in the runoff will only be about a third to a half of
what it was in the primary, and there are enough people who have already voted
for him three times in the past and will do it a fourth time to score an upset
victory.

Trading in â  half loaves and slices'

The last Republican runoff in the 21st District was the one that nominated Smith
in 1986.

Smith's reputation has hardened in recent years because of his role, as chairman
of the Science Committee, as the most consequential climate change skeptic in
Congress (Roy and McCall agree with Smith on the issue), and as a longtime
critic of what he says is the mainstream media's liberal bias. In a floor speech
in the House at the outset of the Trump administration, Smith said it was
"better to get your news directly from the president."

"In fact," he said, "it might be the only way to get the unvarnished truth."

But in his three decades in Washington, Smith was a man of the House, an
assiduous lawmaker who chaired the Judiciary and Ethics committee before taking
the gavel at Science.

In a conference call with reporters on the day last fall that he announced his
retirement, Smith apologized for bragging about himself, noting that "sometimes
I think legislators would better be called bakers because we trade in
half-loaves and slices and even crumbs."

"You're never going to throw a touchdown pass, you're never going to hit a grand
slam," Smith said. "You're just going to grind out singles and first downs, but,
over time, that can add up."

McCall and Roy would both arrive with a different approach.

Asked at the Comal County forum which congressional committees they would want
to serve on, both men named their picks but suggested their intention to arrive
as institutional pariahs would deny them their preferences.

"As the new guy who is going to join the House Freedom Caucus, I don't think
they are going to ask me what I want," McCall said.

"I always remind folks that the first thing you've got to be aware of is that
the dangling of committees is the first thing to take your eye off the ball,"
Roy said.

Cruz has christened several candidates in Texas and elsewhere this year as his
picks, but none more so than Roy.

"If and when you elect Chip to Congress," Cruz told a crowd of some 250 in the
back patio at Krause's Cafe Tuesday in New Braunfels, "he will hit the ground
running as one of the strongest leaders in Congress."

"He's running as Ted," McCall said. "Ted Cruz doesn't live in this district,
doesn't vote in this district, and he's telling us to vote for a guy who doesn't
live or vote in this district. It's not playing well."

One need only live in Texas, and not in the particular district, to run for
Congress in Texas.

McCall lives in his childhood home in Boerne, located in the district.

Roy was born and raised in the Washington, D.C., area and lives in Dripping
Springs, in U.S. Rep. Roger Williams' 25th Congressional District, but cites his
Texas ancestry on the campaign trail.

â  Political swamp-type maneuver'

Beyond finishing first in the primary, Roy has obvious advantages heading in to
the runoff.

As of the end of March, his campaign had raised $543,000 and spent $301,000.
McCall had raised $196,000 and spent $131,000.

The Club for Growth, the limited government advocacy group that was pivotal to
electing Cruz and key allies to the U.S. Senate, has poured more than half a
million dollars through its super PAC, Club for Growth Action, into helping Roy,
the most so far for the group in any congressional district nationally,
according to figures compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington, with more to come.

"We think Chip will be the better, reliable conservative, both in his votes but
also in his tactics, and knowing, from the day he gets to Washington, how to
represent those values in Congress," Club for Growth President David McIntosh, a
former congressman, told the American-Statesman.

McIntosh said the super PAC will launch a TV ad blitz, first on satellite and
then cable, starting Monday, opening with positive portrayals of Roy and then
going negative on McCall as needed.

"Once we make an endorsement, the club is all in, and we're going to support
that person hopefully all the way through to victory in November," McIntosh
said. "In the closing days we'll probably try to make the contrast that Chip can
win and hold the seat, and we're not sure with Matt's record of losing a couple
of times, he would."

For his part, McCall says he's being unfairly attacked.

"They just did a mailer that tried to pair me with Nancy Pelosi, which is
absurd," McCall said of a Club for Growth mailer.

The mailer features darkly sinister photos of McCall and the House Democratic
leader.

"What's the difference between Matt McCall & Nancy Pelosi," it asks. "Nancy
Pelosi is honest about being anti-Trump," it answers.

On the flip side, it says, "Matt McCall claims he supports President Trump's
agenda, but on the campaign trail he cynically dredges up the same false
conspiracy theories that liberals use to try to discredit Trump's historic
election victory."

"It's a straight-up lie that I am anti-Trump," McCall told the Statesman. "Who
would ever think that that's ever heard me? I've been running on Trump's
policies since before he was running on them."

"They just made it up out of thin air," McCall said. "This is who they are. He
is part of the swamp. This is what the swamp does. These are his supporters."

Asked to explain the mailer, McIntosh said, "the liberal press and Nancy Pelosi
were trying to lump Trump with Cambridge Analytica and all the problems they had
on Facebook, and McCall had tried to do that to Chip in one of the debates, that
he had worked with Cambridge Analytica, sort of taking the same kind of personal
swipe at Chip the way Pelosi and liberals do every day up here in Washington
against Trump."

"It's the type of political swamp-type maneuver that the Democrats use against
Trump and it looked like McCall was willing to do that against Chip," said
McIntosh, who said he stood by the fairness of the attack on McCall.

Cambridge Analytica, which has been accused of inappropriately harvesting data
from more 50 million Facebook users on behalf of the Trump campaign, had earlier
done work for the Cruz campaign and a Cruz super PAC.

Government contractor

At the Tea Party Patriots forum, Tonya Benson of Fredericksburg, asked Roy if he
was aware of a push poll - a reference to an ostensible opinion poll that is
really intended to sway voters with loaded questions - as in, if you knew that
Matt McCall received hundreds of thousands of federal dollars, would that make a
difference to you.

McCall's business is selling human tissue for transplants to U.S. military
hospitals in Europe and Asia, contracting with the federal government.

"It's no secret that my opponent is a government contractor," Roy replied. "The
reason we wanted to know the response on that is because my opponent makes
charges about me and my career."

"I thought it was important to understand, and for constituents and voters to
understand that my opponent has built his career in significant part on
government contracting," Roy said. "I don't begrudge that. But it's important to
put that truth side by side with the truth of my experience."

"You ask questions in a push poll to find out where folks stand and that's all
that was for," Roy said.

McCall responded, "I was at a gun show last Sunday, and I had one of my very
first employers walk up to me and he almost didn't want to shake my hand and he
said, â  Matt, have you been lying to me or has the person on the phone been
lying to me about you?' I said, â  Frank, what did they say?' and he said, â
Well, they insinuated that you're a liberal and you don't support Trump.'
Really? So they're calling up 80-year-old people and they're distorting the
truth. They know what they're doing. This isn't just cool, it's not just a
tactic. It's sleaze."

The next day, Roy's wife, Carrah Roy, tweeted, "To be 100% clear: the @chiproytx
campaign did not conduct a push poll. If anyone did (I don't know), it wasn't
us."

Rachael Slobodien, the Club for Growth communications director, said it wasn't
them.

"We don't do push polls," she said.

By law, super PACS and campaign committees cannot coordinate with one another.

After Tuesday's rally with Cruz at Krause's Cafe, Roy told the Statesman his
reply at the tea party forum was inexact.

"We didn't do a push poll," he said. "We did a normal poll."

Asked about the Club for Growth McCall-Pelosi flier, Roy said, "You'd have to
talk to the club about it. Obviously, legally I'm not allowed to know what
they're doing or what they're saying about it. So, I didn't actually spend much
time looking at it. I think they're just trying to make the case they're making,
but I haven't looked at it."

McCall expects that if he wins, Gohmert - along with Cruz the only Texans on
Conservative Review's list of the top 10 conservatives in Congress - will remain
his role model, even though Gohmert supported Roy in the runoff.

"He's a fine man, he loves the country, he loves the Constitution, he gets along
with people, and he's still voting right," McCall said of Gohmert. "I'd love to
have him as a mentor."

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

Coming soon
  This week, the American-Statesman is profiling the two Democrats and two
Republicans competing for the first open congressional seat in Austin since
2012.
  Early voting is May 14-18. Election day is May 22.


Expert reporting
  Jonathan Tilove is chief political writer for the American-Statesman. He's
covered politics in Texas and Washington for three decades.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 15, 2018 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Chamber starts petition to alter liquor laws in part of city

BYLINE: Round Rock Leader Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 368 words


The Round Rock Chamber has announced efforts to change little-known laws within
a portion of the city with stricter regulations on how restaurants serve mixed
drinks.

The chamber is launching a petition to dissolve laws forcing at least two
restaurants to create "club memberships" for any customers wanting to purchase
drinks mixed with liquor. If the chamber collects 6,500 signatures by July 7,
the rule change could be put to voters on a November ballot, according to
chamber CEO Mike Odom.

"This is an economic and business climate fairness issue," Odom said in a news
release. "Over time, these patchwork set of laws are hurting our current
businesses and keeping us from realizing our full potential."

The area under stricter regulations extends west to Interstate 35, north to U.S.
79 and east past Texas 130, according to a map provided by the chamber. Arterial
roads such as Gattis School Road, Red Bud Lane and A.W. Grimes Boulevard are
within the area.

Odom said the laws are detrimental to establishments such as Buffalo Wings and
Rings at the intersection of A.W. Grimes and Gattis School. Current laws put the
restaurant at an unfair disadvantage, he said.

The restaurant "is on the wrong side of the road according to current alcohol
laws," he said.

Restaurants forced to create "club memberships" spend as much as $20,000 to
remain in compliance with state law, according to the Texas Restaurant
Association.

Stricter regulations on liquor service stem from laws reaching back to the end
of prohibition in the early 1930s.

Those stricter regulations lasted until 1983, when Round Rock voters approved
all alcohol sales within what was then city limits, according to the chamber.
Several years later, a justice of the peace approved all alcohol sales for
portions of the city annexed in the north and west.

Voters last approved lighter regulations on local alcohol sales in 2002,
according to the chamber. But further annexations in the southeastern portion of
the city have yet to receive the same approval for alcohol sales.

Odom said the chamber is having people in yellow shirts canvassing neighborhoods
seeking signatures. Petition are also are available at the chamber office at 212
E. Main Street.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 24, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Earth really is on a long hot streak

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 745 words


A reader inquired about an Austin weathercaster saying the planet has sweltered
through hundreds of months of consecutive record temperatures.

"Last week, Jim Spencer said during his weather forecast that record-breaking
heat has been going on for over 400 months," the reader said.

KXAN-TV's Spencer, the reader said, had called April 2018 the 400th straight
month with global temperatures above the 20th century average and that when May
data was official, that would mark month 401.

We didn't track down video of the broadcast. But when we asked Spencer about
making the statement, he pointed to his June 18 blog post stating that May
"marks the 42nd consecutive May and the 401st consecutive month with" global
land and ocean "temperatures, at least nominally, above the 20th-century
average."

All those months? We launched this fact-check.

Spencer told us he relied on information posted online the day of his post by
the National Centers for Environmental Information, which is part of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

In May 2018, the assessment states, Earth's temperature across global land and
ocean surfaces ran 1.44 degrees Fahrenheit above the 20th century average of
58.6 degrees.

The report also says: "The years 2014-2018 rank among the five warmest Mays on
record, with 2016 the warmest May at 1.58 degrees F above average. May 2018 also
marks the 42nd consecutive May and the 401st consecutive month with
temperatures, at least nominally, above the 20th-century average."

That 20th-century average serves climate scientists as a benchmark for global
temperature measurements.

Land temperatures alone, the centers' assessment says, ran 2.05 degrees above
the comparable 20th-century average of 52 degrees.

In May 2018, the report says, record "warmth was observed across parts of North
America, Europe and Asia as well as the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans.
Record cold May temperatures were limited to northeastern Canada and the
northern Atlantic Ocean, off the southern coast of Greenland." An accompanying
text box says: "As a whole, North America had its highest May temperature since
1998 and the second highest since continental records began in 1910. The
contiguous U.S. had its warmest May since records began in 1895."

For another perspective, we asked John Nielsen-Gammon, the Texas state
climatologist based at Texas A&M University, about Spencer's citation of the
global temperature analysis.

Nielsen-Gammon credited Spencer with accurately rendering NOAA's 401-month
finding. He also noted that other researchers analyze changes in temperature
over time, reaching varied consecutive-month conclusions.

"NOAA happens to have the longest streak of temperatures above the 20th-century
average, which may be why that particular statistic seems to be quoted most
often with the NOAA data," Nielsen-Gammon wrote.

The climatologist said other analysts reported ongoing streaks ranging from 399
months, per figures compiled by British researchers, to as few as 291 months,
according to figures analyzed by Berkeley Earth, a California-based nonprofit.

"So speaking scientifically, it has almost certainly been at least 291
consecutive months of global temperatures above the 20th-century mean, and
probably much longer, with 399 or 401 months being the best estimates,"
Nielsen-Gammon said. "If you believe the NOAA estimate, it's 401 months."

Nielsen-Gammon elaborated: "What this means is that average global temperatures
have increased so much that not even natural variability can produce a month
colder than the 20th-century average, and hasn't been able to do so for some
time. The global warming signal is well above the noise level. At this rate,
about the only thing strong enough to cancel out global warming for a month
would be a volcanic eruption much stronger than Krakatau."

Our ruling

Spencer wrote that May 2018 marked the 401st straight month of global
temperatures exceeding the 20th century average.

This claim accurately echoes the findings of respected NOAA researchers. But it
was missing clarification that other entities have reported fewer consecutive
months that this pattern has held, possibly as few as 291 months.

We rate Spencer's claim Mostly True.

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 512-445-3644.

Twitter: @gardnerselby @politifacttexas

Sorting out the truth in politics.

www.politifacttexas.com

Jim Spencer
  Statement: Says May 2018 marked the 401st straight month of global
temperatures exceeding the 20th-century average.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                21 October 2018

Community news in brief

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 660 words


Lenders group wins Green Cup Challenge

The city of Austin recently hosted the annual Green Cup Challenge to celebrate
October's recognition as Climate Change Awareness Month.

Business and Community Lenders of Texas won the challenge this year for its
first time.

The challenge encourages members of the city's Green Business Leaders program to
compete and track the impact of their sustainability actions. Austin Green
Business Leaders participating in the challenge were able to avoid 8,400 pounds
of greenhouse gas emissions; save almost 35,000 gallons of water; and divert
nearly 1,000 pounds of waste from landfills this year.

EAST AUSTIN

Meeting set for Wednesday on Walter E. Long Park plan

The Austin Parks and Recreation Department is hosting the third community
meeting for the Walter E. Long Park Master Plan from 6 to 8 p.m. Wednesday at
Decker Middle School, 8104 Decker Lane.

All are encouraged to participate in the third family-friendly event to provide
feedback on the future of Walter E. Long Metropolitan Park. Additional concepts
were created based on community feedback from the previous meetings, and
community members are encouraged to comment on the concepts.

Walter E. Long Metropolitan Park is west of Texas 130 and is accessed via Blue
Bluff Road. Some of the facilities in the park include hike and bike trails,
picnic areas, volleyball courts, boat ramps and fishing piers. A skeet shooting
range and model airplane area are also operated by organizations within the
park.

For information: bit.ly/2G7PxMH.

SAN MARCOS

Open house Wednesday for Small Area Plan Program

The city of San Marcos Planning and Development Services Department will host an
open house introducing the city's Small Area Plan Program from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday at the Price Center, 222 W. San Antonio St.

The open house will give residents an opportunity to review the draft program
and provide input. The presentation will be given at 6 and 7 p.m., and planning
staff and consultants will be available to answer questions and discuss the
program.

The Small Area Plan Program is designed to empower and assist residents and
community groups in planning for growth in the community. Residents may also
share their input by taking a survey available at sanmarcostx.gov/smallareaplan.
The survey is open until Oct. 31.

For information: agillfillan@sanmarcostx.gov

GEORGETOWN SCHOOLS

50 Fellas Foodfest supports district students

The Georgetown school district 's Education Foundation will host its third
annual 50 Fellas Foodfest at 6 p.m. Saturday at the ACS Avionics Hangar at the
Georgetown Municipal Airport, 600 S. Hangar Drive, to support students in the
district.

Nearly 50 teams will showcase their culinary talent with appetizers, entrees and
desserts. Entries will be sampled and judged by guests with awards given by
popular vote.

Tickets are $50 each and include tastings from each team, plus complimentary
beer, wine, tea and water. Funds support innovative teaching grants and the
district's SeaPerch underwater robotics program.

For more: gisdedfound.org/50-fellas-food-fest.

CEDAR PARK

Wear costume to library's 'Fable Fest' on Saturday

The Cedar Park Public Library will host Fable Fest from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Saturday at Elizabeth Milburn Park, 1901 Sun Chase Blvd.

Attendees can celebrate storytelling and imagination with treats, games,
inflatables, food trailers, demonstrations, a petting zoo, blacksmith and
jousting. Proceeds benefit the library.

For information: cedarparkbooks.org/fable-fest. Costumes encouraged.

World War II and Korean war veteran Howard Dugas of Lockhart turned 93 on
Thursday.

World War II veteran John E. Price of Georgetown turned 95 on Thursday.

World War II veteran George C. Carruthers of San Marcos turned 95 on Friday.

We print birthdays for World War II veterans from Central Texas on Sundays as
space allows. Email the name, birth date and current hometown to
communitynews@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                17 November 2018

you say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 425 words


Governor must lead and fix school finance

Re: Nov. 12 letter to the editor, " An appeal to governor: Solve school
finance."

I would like to echo the Nov. 12 letter to the editor.

One of the top issues -- many people I know would say the biggest issue --
confronting many Texas residents is the current recapture school finance
practice and its impact on property taxes, particularly in urban areas.

The current implementation is a leading cause of the urban unaffordability
crisis many express concern over, and also forces too many older, retired Texans
to sell the homes they have lived in for years and relocate to a less-expensive
area, sometimes resulting in separation from immediate family.

Texans need the governor to make school tax finance reform one of his top
priorities in this next legislative session and provide the leadership necessary
to permanently fix the ever-escalating property tax problem.

Tom Wilson, Round Rock

State's policies reason for last-place ranking

We like to think of ourselves as pretty free in Texas, so it is worth noting
that the Cato Institute's annual survey Freedom in the 50 States has again
ranked Texas dead last in personal freedom.

Big reasons are the medieval drug laws and the "lock 'em up and throw away the
key" attitude toward incarceration. Those aren't conservative policies -- I
consider myself a conservative -- they are reactionary and stupid, and expensive
and ineffective to boot.

Geoff Bradford, Austin

Does senator know more than science experts?

A person experiencing an illness will see a doctor or in some cases seek
treatment by an expert or at a premier medical facility. Why? Because such
medical advice is based on the critical knowledge and experience that the ill
person lacks.

The National Academy of Sciences, The Royal Society, and  32 other academies of
science accept that climate change is happening, is caused by human activity and
is likely to have catastrophic effects if we do not reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases. All internationally recognized science organizations in the
world agree (e.g., American Meteorological Society, American Association for the
Advancement of Science). The members of these organizations are the most
knowledgeable and respected scientists in the world (many have received the
Nobel Prize).

Sen. Cruz claims "The scientific evidence doesn't support global warming." s
Does Cruz believe he is more knowledgeable that the members of these
organizations?

What kind of future will your grandchildren have?

Edward Silha, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                28 November 2018

you say

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 510 words


School funding fixes are long overdue

Re: Nov. 25 commentary, " Get school finance reform right in 2019 session."

Your Nov. 25 editorial imploring the Legislature to  get public school financing
right was spot-on. Previous legislatures have decided to "kick the can down the
road" for far too long. Continuing reliance on local property taxes to pay the
lion's share of school funding is not only punitive, but also discriminatory.

The quality of a child's education should not depend upon his or her ZIP code.

Gary Gius, Kyle

Climate change, weather are not the same thing

Our current occupant of the White House tweets "Brutal and Extended Cold Blast
could shatter ALL RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?"

It's been said a million times before, but bears repeating. Bouts of
particularly cold, or hot, or dry, or wet weather do not prove or disprove
global warming is occurring. Long term empirical data and science prove it.
Everyone should stop paying attention to the abysmal ignorance floating around
on the topic of global warming.

Mark Warren, Austin

Tribal wars could bring America's demise

Politics and the media have developed into tribal war. In my early years my
parents told me to respect educators, law officers and friends. Universities,
news media and the entertainment industry followed these same principals.
Debates on issues were based on facts, not by shouting over your opponent.

Those involved in politics, television, written media, educators and the
entertainment industry are corrupting our minds, especially our young people.
Watch television, cable news or read newspapers and you will understand my fear.
America was built on capitalism, which made America great. Countries that have
followed other forms of government have not been great. Young people need to be
educated on the differences between capitalism and liberalism.

America's success is why immigrants want to come to our country. If we follow
the path of progressive liberalism, we will solve our immigration problem
because no one will want to come to America.

Jack Stroobandt, Georgetown

Money trumps morals in this White House

President Donald Trump sells out again on human rights! Trump fails to hold
Saudi Arabia and the Saudi crown prince accountable for the brutal and horrific
murder of Jamal Khashoggi! He sides with the crown prince, even over U.S.
intelligence, and his failure to punish them embarrasses our country.

Trump's lack of action demonstrates that it is open season for any despotic
government to attack, torture or murder a U.S. resident, without any reprisal
from the United States. Trump's lack of moral compass and disdain for human
rights are embarrassing. He is clearly driven purely by money, even if it is
blood money.

The world is watching and we are becoming a country where money trumps morals.

Once, we were the beacon of human rights and we stood up against despots. Not
anymore. Congress must show some backbone, call out Trump and put our country
back on the right track.

William Clark, Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                30 December 2018

Of course not.

SECTION: TX OPINION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 662 words


Of course not.

As a year ticks into its final hours, old acquaintances are front of mind,
sometimes painfully so. It lends a certain melancholy sweetness to the whole
ritual. We mark a milestone reached, but we also remember all that we have lost
along the way.

Meaning personal losses, yes: a dad, a friend, a child, a husband or a sister
who once was here but has since turned to memory. But it's a moment for
remembering our public losses, too.

Like Sen. John McCain and former President George H.W. Bush, two towering
statesmen who died at a time when statesmanship is in short supply. We lost
Dennis Edwards, whose raw, serrated vocals lifted the Temptations to "Cloud
Nine." We lost the Queen, Aretha Franklin, whose voice was a kinetic fire,
burning away everything but truth. And we lost Stan "The Man" Lee, the creative
genius who made generations of us believe in spider powers, misunderstood
mutants, a rainbow bridge and the sovereign nation of Wakanda. 'Nuff said.

But the signature loss of this year was neither personal nor public. No, 2018
will go down as the year we lost ourselves. Although, granted, we've been losing
ourselves for awhile now.

Americans cherish a self-image as a people who, while they may make a wrong turn
here and there, are ultimately noble, compassionate and driven by vision and
values that make us unique among nations. Or as Bruce Springsteen sang in the
"Long Walk Home," "That flag flying over the courthouse means certain things are
set in stone -- who we are, what we'll do, and what we won't."

He sang that back in 2007, searching to bridge the gulf between America's ideals
and practices back when the Iraq War and Hurricane Katrina were still fresh
wounds. But his assertion of American identity seems critical now in ways that
were unimaginable then.

Meaning, back before we were a nation where survivors of a mass shooting were
derided as "crisis actors."

A nation whose president defends Russia and Saudi Arabia against the American
intelligence community.

A nation where the government ignored a government report forecasting dire
climate-change consequences.

A nation where Republicans commit voter suppression and other acts of political
thuggery in plain sight.

A nation that used tear gas against children in diapers.

"This isn't us." That's what people keep saying. But it is. That's the entire
point. The abiding anger, the situational morality, the disregard for fact, the
cruelty, the political gangsterism, these things are what America, writ large,
now stands for. And when Springsteen sings of "who we are, what we'll do and
what we won't," well, who the hell knows any more?

And yet...

This was the year women ran for office in blockbuster numbers, as Democrats won
the House, picked up red-state gubernatorial wins and served notice. Because for
all the talk of a blue wave, this was actually a wave of youth, femininity and
color as Democratic voters sent to Congress its first Native American and Muslim
women and the youngest congresswoman ever. Yes, 2018 was also the year Stacey
Abrams, Andrew Gillum and Beto O'Rourke lost their races in Georgia, Florida and
Texas, respectively, but even in that, they electrified the electorate,
fracturing the conventional wisdom that a progressive agenda cannot gain
traction.

Conservatives understand what happened here, and it has them scared. Liberals
must understand it, too. It will lend them hope. And hope will help people who
may not have considered politics before to realize that they have the ability
and the responsibility to create government that looks like all of us and
reflects the majority's values. Maybe this, in turn, will breed more waves of
youth, femininity and color, as more of us take America at its word about
forming that more perfect union.

Springsteen was right. It's going to be a long walk home. But at least now, for
the first time in a very long time, we seem to remember the way.

Pitts writes for the Miami Herald.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 25, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Sport's iceberg awaits

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 815 words


The Division I college basketball program desperately needed the out-of-state
recruit to fill a big gap on the roster, and the head coach dispatched his top
assistant to scope out their chances.

Sitting in his office soon after, the head coach received a call from the eager
assistant on the road with the message that the big-time player was willing to
come. With just one catch.

"What's that?" the head coach said.

"He said he'll come," the aide said, "if we fix his carburetor. And it costs
$200."

The head coach said no. The player signed with another school. And presumably
got a working carburetor.

And that's only been about four decades ago. Not much has changed in the years
that have followed, although more players have gotten cars than carburetors as
well as shell jobs and a whole lot of cash. It's a dirty business.

Consequently, the biggest shock from the FBI investigation that has named at
least 25 basketball players from more than 20 programs, many of them the blue
bloods of the sport, should be that anyone is shocked at all. Does anyone think
Andy Miller of ASM Sports is the only unscrupulous agent in the land?

When that head coach was asked how many of the 328 Division I basketball
programs today are probably totally clean, he smirked and said, "Probably not
very many."

This is known as the price of doing business, and greedy agents and runners and
AAU coaches and relatives and college coaches have been in cahoots in the buying
and selling of athletes for as long as players have dribbled a basketball.
Texas, too, got caught up in the sordid ordeal when it was disclosed that guard
Eric Davis Jr. was named in FBI documents as taking a $1,500 payment from
someone working with an ASM Sports agent.

Texas, as per its custom, operates on the side of caution and Friday suspended
Davis indefinitely, starting with Saturday's game against Oklahoma State. While
Davis sat in street clothes on the bench - next to star center Mo Bamba, who
missed the second half with a toe sprain - his resilient teammates rallied from
a 10-point deficit to win in stirring fashion on Kerwin Roach II's last-second
layup.

The Longhorns could have used Davis because, as Shaka Smart said, his team "is
not overflowing with scoring options." It's quite possible that Davis, a junior,
might never suit up again for Texas, which at 7-9 in the Big 12 needs every win
it can get to become NCAA Tournament-worthy.

This FBI probe about illegal bribes and payments from agents and runners
stemming from wiretaps and financial records could well lead to coaching
resignations and federal charges of wire fraud and money laundering. Already,
Arizona coach Sean Miller has been suspended by his school after it was reported
he was discussing a $100,000 payment from a runner to his star player, Deandre
Ayton.

"This is very serious," Texas Athletic Director Chris Del Conte told me
Saturday. "We need to clean it up."

But how? These allegations are nothing new, except for the FBI's involvement,
which means wiretaps and subpoenas and Do Not Get Out of Jail cards.

Some quickly throw out the idea of paying the players, but with only a dozen or
so self-sufficient programs in the country, that's an oversimplification. A
small fraction of schools, if any, could afford to shell out "salaries" for men
and women in all sports, as Title IX would mandate.

But maybe the concept of amateurism is archaic and needs to give way to an
Olympic model of businesses sponsoring whichever college athletes they want or
have an open market in which any alumnus or donor can offer an athlete anything
he or she wants.

"Pay to play, that's how I feel," Roach said. "A lot of allegations will be
taken care of if you could find a way for everybody to get paid."

Asked if that's realistic, teammate Dylan Osetkowski, said, "Someday down the
road."

The allegations about Miller as well as four college basketball assistants who
were arrested in the fall might well represent the tip of the iceberg. And you
know the iceberg's RPI. Last look, its record was Iceberg 1, Titanic 0.

Smart lamented the current climate in his sport and said he would welcome
meaningful change.

"Things have to change, and people need to follow the rules better," Smart said.
"We have a long haul ahead of us as a sport. There's no easy answer. There's no
quick fix."

Not sure paying players will ever get off the ground. Persuading the NBA to
change its silly sham of a one-and-done rule would help some because the best
players who don't want to go to college could turn pro out of high school. Del
Conte thinks more should be done to rid the game of abuses at the AAU level.

"The time is coming when there will be less regulation," Smart said. "The way
the model works right now, obviously the regulations are not working."

Until a proper solution arises, wait for the rest of the iceberg to show itself.

Contact Kirk Bohls at 512-445-3772.

Twitter: @kbohls

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 29, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

GUARDIANS OR WARRIORS?

BYLINE: Tony Plohetski American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2490 words


The 38-year-old former tech employee was ready for a career change - a job that
would test her physical and mental stamina.

What happened during the next two months left her defeated and disappointed in
how Austin police are taught the basics of the job.

She says instructors told the cadets they would "punch you in the face" if you
said you wanted to be an officer to help people. Spisak says academy staffers
also told students that a suspect who resists arrest or who fights with an
officer "just earned a legal ass-whooping."

Michael Gibbons was ready for paramilitary training. He had gone through boot
camp as a U.S. Navy recruit and served four years.

But at the Austin police academy, he says, he was stunned when an instructor
told the cadets about sitting in a patrol car and watching two women fight
instead of intervening "to get a laugh out of it."

Jonathan Murray says instructors repeatedly degraded homeless people and
prostitutes, referring to them as "cockroaches" and encouraging cadets to "find
a transient" if they were bored and wanted an easy felony arrest.

Spisak, Gibbons and Murray are among 10 former cadets with a broad range of life
and professional experiences who did not complete the academy training course -
two were kicked out - and spoke in recent months to the American-Statesman.

They say what they were being taught at the academy is out of step with reforms
being promoted by the Austin Police Department publicly and in law enforcement
agencies across the country. To them, the training course for rookie Austin
officers is unnecessarily aggressive - a climate they fear pervades the force of
1,800 officers and spills onto the street.

In the absence of a recording or other evidence, it is impossible to establish
the accuracy of the former cadets' accounts or whether the objectionable
comments they report are the result of misunderstandings or
mischaracterizations. There are many consistencies in their accounts, however,
and Spisak, Gibbons and Murray documented their concerns in a letter to Police
Department brass this year. They have not filed a lawsuit but say they want the
problems they saw addressed.

City attorneys said they saw no reason for concern after reading the detailed
description of the experiences of the three former cadets.

Interim Police Chief Brian Manley said he stands behind the training and that
the former cadets' recollections are not accurate. Yes, he said, instructors are
sometimes confrontational and may curse. Yes, he says, they may at times create
an atmosphere more like boot camp than college. But he said they still promote
some of the most important values of being a police officer.

"We are giving them the requisite knowledge they need to go out and succeed in a
very difficult profession," Manley said. "I am very satisfied with how we are
training the men and women of the Austin Police Department. If I wasn't, I'd
make changes."

Police trainers say high-intensity instruction is necessary to prepare officers
so they can remain professional in the situations they might encounter on the
job. Manley added that the department has changed aspects of training over the
years to more closely reflect best practices or to align with community
expectations.

The former cadets' complaints come at a time when the Austin City Council and
community groups are pushing for reforms. Long considered a model of progressive
policing, the department has been the target for months of critics who say a
long-functioning civilian oversight panel lacked enough power to properly hold
officers and the department accountable.

Officers who use excessive force still are not disciplined appropriately, the
critics say. This year has brought indictments against three officers in two
use-of-force encounters, including one in which police are accused of needlessly
using a Taser on a man who witnessed a downtown shooting.

In January, Manley put in place a policy requiring officers to attempt to
de-escalate volatile situations, a move cheered by police watchdog groups who
worked with the department to draft it.

Yet experts say it is the culture of a training academy that most directly
defines a department's culture. Taken together, the cadets' experiences paint a
picture of a program that leaves some wondering whether the academy prepares
officers for the challenges of modern policing.

Guardians

or warriors?

Despite the importance of police cadet training, the law enforcement profession
lacks consensus on the academy culture that best prepares officers.

In recent years, experts increasingly have debated the notion of what they call
a "guardian versus warrior" training mentality. Guardians are community
protectors trusted to help people. The warrior mindset emphasizes officers as
enforcers of the law who, given the potential for violence, should be constantly
ready for battle.

Sue Rahr operates the statewide training academy in Washington, one of only a
few states requiring all cadets to attend the same facility, no matter where
they'll work. When she took over the agency in 2012, she said, the facility
embraced a "fairly military-style training where recruits were treated like boot
camp recruits."

Rahr changed that.

"Basically, I said to the training staff here, â  This doesn't make any sense,'"
Rahr said. "We need to equip officers to do the job they have been hired to do
and practice the skills they are going to need in the community. One of the most
critical skills is initiating a conversation with someone in the community, a
stranger."

Rahr ended a requirement for cadets to snap to attention when a commander walked
by. She replaced a trophy case with a mural of the Constitution. Instructors
generally are not permitted to yell or curse at cadets, because, she said,
that's not how police should speak to citizens.

"You don't have to lose your humanity in order to be safe," she said. "It takes
courage to demonstrate compassion. That really is the message."

The Washington training facility still teaches cadets how and when to use force,
including lethal force, and how to defend themselves when a suspect is
aggressive or resisting.

Some who work in police training say they fear focusing on a softer side of law
enforcement might not equip officers for the reality of violence and other
confrontations, putting them at risk.

No in-depth studies have been done to examine benefits or shortcomings of either
approach.

"We do need to do more research to look at the behavioral evidence," Seattle
University criminal justice professor Jacqueline Helfgott said. "What happens in
the field in terms of the use of de-escalation and the implication of the
guardian training elements."

Texas is much like the rest of the nation, with academy philosophies differing
among the state's 108 licensed facilities. Each must meet state training
standards on the number of hours spent on particular subjects; otherwise, the
culture of each varies.

Kim Vickers, executive director of the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement,
which licenses officers, said he thinks academies should emphasize
problem-solving and de-escalation techniques.

Vickers knows that everyone does not agree. In a speech to a law enforcement
group last year, he remembered getting odd stares and being challenged afterward
by officers in the crowd.

"You've got to have the warrior side of you ready, but you can't treat everybody
like we are at war all of the time," Vickers said. "They don't deserve to be
treated that way, and that type of treatment is not conducive to relationships
between the public and the police."

â  Winning warrior mentality'

Several of the former Austin cadets interviewed by the Statesman are just the
type of applicants the Police Department says it wants - recruits with college
educations and either military experience or other career backgrounds.

Spisak moved to Austin about 10 years ago to attend graduate school in
architecture at the University of Texas but left to work in business operations
for Intel, a career she had for eight years. She was moved to work in law
enforcement after the Dallas police shootings in 2016.

During her nine weeks at the Austin police academy, she said, she was met with
what she felt was unnecessary aggression from instructors.

After a training exercise in which instructors sprayed cadets with pepper spray,
she said she had blurry vision for five weeks. While practicing take-down moves
with another cadet, she said, an instructor yelled that the other cadet should
"throw her down like a man." She said her shoulder was injured as part of that
training.

Within days, Spisak and other cadets were scheduled for firearms training. She
said instructors told her she would "have to deal" with a shotgun recoil, but
she resigned when her pain "combined with my ethical disagreement" became
unbearable.

Gibbons said he also was injured in a fight during self-defense training. He
said he suffered a fractured rib that led him to resign. Gibbons now teaches
elementary school in Hays County.

Murray, who now works as an account manager for a large tech company, said that
he also hurt a rib in the same self-defense class and that the instructor
screamed in his face that he was weak and "didn't (expletive) belong here."

Their letter to the city, written by Austin attorney Derek Howard, contained
more examples of training the former cadets say was abusive and inappropriate:

* An instructor told them they needed to achieve a "winning warrior mentality"
by picking out a person in their daily lives - preferably not an older woman or
a child - and visualizing themselves "shooting that person in the face."

* An instructor told cadets that "if an officer ends up in the hospital, that
the person arrested better end up in the hospital as well."

* "Instructors also showed videos/images of transients/prostitutes in the
classroom with the only apparent reason being to make fun of the individuals and
create a cadet buy-in of some despicable mentality."

The former cadets offered to meet with Manley or training staff members.

An assistant city attorney responded in a letter saying, "Many of the acts and
statements cited in your letter are either untrue or are being mischaracterized
or taken out of context. Cadet training is both physically and emotionally
taxing as it is intended to instill in the cadets an ability to withstand high
stress environments and instill in them the will to live."

The Statesman reviewed reported injuries from the academy and found a total of
87 in the past three years, 23 of which were caused by cadets being struck.
About 20 percent happened in the first week of training, and many of the
injuries were "for reporting purposes only" and did not require medical
treatment.

â  An intent behind it'

Austin police say their general goal is to make sure most cadets graduate. By
the time cadets start the academy, the department has already invested in
intensive screening and lengthy interviews. During the past three classes, 70
percent to 80 percent became officers.

Cadets are trained well beyond the hours required by the state because, Manley
said, "we want to teach them cultural competencies, because we want to teach
them an understanding of the very diverse community we have here in Austin and
the expectations we have here of our officers."

"We train our officers at the Austin Police Department to be guardians, but to
have the ability in the moment to become a warrior when it is necessary," he
said. "Law enforcement is a profession where you have situations where you have
to go in and use force to protect yourself or the community, but the vast
majority of the work we do requires that guardian mindset, that guardian
training."

As an example of the danger officers face on the job, police point to a recent
case in which an Austin officer was shot in the arm at a South Austin duplex
after responding to a 911 call. A second officer was injured while he scrambled
for cover, police said.

Andre Porter, who graduated from the academy in 2016 and was selected by his
class to speak at graduation, said the program prepared him.

"Everything that was done was very purposeful in preparing us to become police
officers," he said.

Porter said he never heard comments described by the former cadets, and he
understands the value in instructors yelling at cadets.

"When you are put in those situations, you can't react like a regular civilian
can act," he said. "I think the only way you can re-create that is to put them
in those situations."

In 2013, the city produced a video series that chronicled aspects of Austin's
training academy. Producers at times focused on the more boot camp-style
approach instructors took with cadets, including in their first week.

Officer Scott Truho, an instructor at the time, blasted the class with a
profanity-laden tirade for not having up-to-date records.

"We are sorely disappointed in you as a group," he yelled. "We've got people
showing up who have lived in Austin, Texas, for a (expletive) year and still
don't have the right address on their driver's license. Guess what? You're
showing up at the Police Department and you're violating the (expletive) law.
Grab your water bottles and get the (expletive) outside."

Instructor Michael Burgeson later said: "We're talking down to them because
that's what happens on the street all the time. People constantly test your
patience, so you have to be able to maintain yourself. Whatever they give you,
you have to maintain your professionalism."

Manley said that training is designed to ensure officers respond appropriately
to citizens and supervisors alike.

"Policing is still a paramilitary organization, and it still has a rank-and-file
structure," he said. "There is an intent behind it."

But the former cadets say they fear that such a training philosophy might limit
the number of people who wish to join the force, particularly those who have had
other professional experiences.

Nearly a year after she left the academy, Spisak has her real-estate license.
She no longer dreams of being an officer.

"I wanted to make a difference," Spisak said. "I wanted to be part of the
changing face of policing and have officers who respect the community."

Contact Tony Plohetski at 512-445-3605.

Summer Spisak walked into the Austin police training academy in May for her
first day, knowing the next eight months would push her to the brink.

how we got the story
  Investigative reporter Tony Plohetski has covered criminal justice and law
enforcement in Austin since 2002. He first learned of complaints about the
Austin police academy in January, after three ex-cadets sent a list of concerns
 to the city of Austin. Plohetski interviewed a half-dozen other cadets who had
 similar concerns and talked to experts who say the criticism of Austin's
academy echoes a national debate about police training. The complaints from the
 ex-cadets also come at a time when some in Austin are asking for stronger
controls on how and when officers use force.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 25, 2018 Friday
                                 State Edition

THE ARTS

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: AUSTIN360; Pg. T12

LENGTH: 2841 words


Theater & dance

"All My Sons." Arthur Miller's timeless masterpiece about one man's dogged,
deadly search for the American dream - and the destruction of his family as a
result of his actions - will once again grip audiences in this City Theatre
production. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Sunday through June 3. $10-$25.
3823 Airport Blvd. 512-524-2870, citytheatreaustin.org.

"Carmen." The Generic Ensemble Company takes the well-known opera as a
jumping-off point and presents an all-Latinx cast performing a devised theatre
piece exploring borders, survival, gender, and love. Set in El Paso, queer night
life clashes with ICE raids as we use telenovela tropes to reinvent the tale of
passion, jealousy, and familia. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday through June 2. $15.
The Dougherty Arts Center, 1110 Barton Springs Rd. geneco.org.

"The Merry Wives of Windsor." It's an Austin tradition: Shakespeare in the Park
returns this year with this production of one of Shakespeare's lesser known
comedy works. Toby Minor plays the legendary comic flirt Falstaff, who plans to
hustle his way to a comfortable retirement by seducing two wealthy "merry
wives." 8 p.m. Friday-Sunday. Free. Beverly S. Sheffield Zilker Hillside
Theater, 2206 William Barton Drive. austinshakespeare.org.

"Seminar." Pulitzer Prize nominee Theresa Rebeck's hit Broadway comedy, produced
by Jarrott Productions, is about four aspiring writers who take private classes
from an international literary figure and find that some thrive and others
flounder with his unorthodox teaching methods. 7:30 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 2:30
p.m. Sunday, with additional 7:30 p.m. performance May 21, through June 3. 901
Trinity St. jarrottproductions.com/seminar.

Literary calendar

Anne Keene. 7 p.m. Friday. The nonfiction writer speaks and signs "The
Cloudbuster Nine: The Untold Story of Ted Williams and the Baseball Team That
Helped Win World War II." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Amanda Johnston. 7 p.m. Saturday. The poet speaks and signs "Another Way to Say
Enter." Malvern Books, 613 W. 29th St. 512-322-2097, malvernbooks.com.

Michael Pollan. 7 p.m. Tuesday. The New York Times bestselling author speaks and
signs "How to Change Your Mind." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Joe Crespino. 7 p.m. Wednesday. The biographer speaks and signs "Atticus Finch,
the Biography." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050, bookpeople.com.

Julia Heaberlin. 7 p.m. Thursday. The thriller writer speaks and signs "Paper
Ghosts: A Novel of Suspense." BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 512-472-5050,
bookpeople.com.

Art

Art for the People. "Magnificence of Seven." Seven participating Austin artists
- Bryan Macilko, Connor Teseny, Evan Runyon, Janis Fowler, JR Rapier, Katie Ryan
Donohue and Scott Wilkes - are displaying works in a variety of mediums,
including acrylic, carbon steel, encaustic, gouache, scratchboard and
watercolor. Noon to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Sunday through June 16. 1711 S. First St.
512-761-4708, artforthepeoplegallery.com.

Art on 5th. "Inside Out." The show features the work of Jason Eatherly, who is
widely recognized in the local street art scene for his image of a queen wearing
a gas mask and is taking the plunge into the fine art world with
never-before-seen paintings, sculptures and art installations using found
objects from places of urban decay. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5
p.m. Sunday through June 10. 3005 S. Lamar Blvd. Suite C, 110 B. 512-481-1111,
arton5th.com.

The Blanton Museum of Art. "Meeting of Waters." The title of Clarissa Tossin's
new body of work is taken from the confluence of the Rio Negro and Amazon
Rivers, where the two bodies of water, each very different in color, converge
but remain separate. Her exhibition in the Blanton's Contemporary Project space
will feature the artist's sculptures, including a large, woven tapestry that
depicts the stretch of the Amazon River between the river's mouth in the
Atlantic Ocean and the city of Manaus. Plus, Ellsworth Kelly's monumental last
work, "Austin," is on display as part of the Blanton's permanent collection. 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday
through July 1. $5-$9. 200 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. 512-471-5482,
blantonmuseum.org.

Bob Bullock Museum. "Comanche Motion: The Art of Eric Tippeconnic." This new
exhibit tells the story of a thriving Comanche cultured rooted in the past but
evolving toward the future. Filled with symbolism and meaning, Tippeconnic's
paintings highlight the strength, beauty and grace of the Comanche past and
present. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday through Jan. 2.
$9-$13. 1800 Congress Ave. thestoryoftexas.com.

Camiba Art Gallery. "Liminal & Luminous." Misha Penton's visual works, with
their expressive movement and rich, shimmering colors, are emotional and
contemplative, while the sound side of this show is an ambient and immersive
voice-scape to accompany the paintings. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon
to 5 p.m. Saturday through June 9. 2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Suite
111. camibaart.com.

The Contemporary Austin. "Rodney McMillian: Against a Civic Death." This
immersive solo exhibition showcases work by McMillian, the recipient of the
museum's inaugural Suzanne Deal Booth Art Prize. Through Aug. 26. Plus new works
in the sculpture park at Laguna Gloria. Jones Center, 700 Congress Ave. 11 a.m.
to 7 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. Laguna Gloria, 3809 W. 35th
St. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Sunday (gallery); 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday (grounds). $3-$5 (free on Tuesdays).
512-453-5312, thecontemporaryaustin.org.

Davis Gallery. "Outside the Indoors." This solo show celebrating Sandra
Langston's versatile paintings, drawings and sculpture demonstrates her range in
subject matter, with a mix of landscapes - from sprawling Texas fields to the
rolling hills and mountains of Southern Italy - and expressive narratives. 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday through June 2. 837 W.
Twelfth St. davisgalleryaustin.com.

Dimension Gallery. "Residual Utterances" is a presentation of new sculptural
work from local sculptor Colin McIntyre, in conjunction with a soundscape inside
his celebrated pipe organ sound chamber the Resonant Lung, and displays his
signature abstract lifeforms. Noon to 5 p.m. Saturdays through June 16. 979
Springdale Road, Suite 99. dimensiongallery.org.

Dougherty Arts Center. "Coming Unraveled." Artist Jess Bee creates vivid worlds
rich with texture that explore dreams and nightmares by capturing personal fears
that are juxtaposed with haunting creatures and dreamlike landscapes. 10 a.m. to
10 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday
through June 9. 1110 Barton Springs Road. 512-974-4000, austintexas.gov/dac.

Gallery Shoal Creek. "Liminal." In Sydney Yeager's current body of work, a
collision between fluid lines and the brute force of the geometric shapes - "two
oppositional forces" - express a sense of imminent change and are in a state of
flux. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday through June 30.
2832 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Suite 3. 512-454-6671,
galleryshoalcreek.com.

Lora Reynolds Gallery. "Black and White." This exhibit of new drawings and found
photographs by Tom Molloy - an Irish artist who lives in France - takes the
image of American hegemony as its primary subject, exploring the global
dominance of the United States' military, economy, technology and pop culture.
Through June 2. "Fun Packed Holiday." Mariah Robertson's solo show displays her
unconventional photographic techniques: Shes uses no camera to make her prints,
instead creating them by manipulating light-sensitive paper with darkroom
chemistry. Through June 9. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday. 360 Nueces St.,
Suite 50. lorareynolds.com.

Mexic-Arte Museum. "Fotografía y Nuevos Medios: Selections from the Permanent
Collection" explores the plurality of resistance, highlighting various lineages
of Latinx and Latin American resistance. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Saturday and noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. 419 Congress Ave. mexic-artemuseum.org.

North Hills Art Gallery. "Celebrating Kathy Summers" is a display of selected
pieces created over a lifetime of accomplishment. Summers was a founding member
of Austin's Waterloo Watercolor Society and produced award-winning works now
featured in this show. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 12:30
p.m. Sunday through May 28. 7050 Village Center Dr. 512-345-4546,
nwhillsumc.org.

The People's Gallery. The 14th annual People's Gallery in City Hall features a
wide array of painting, sculpture, drawing and other media by more than 100
artists across Central Texas. 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday through Jan. 1.
Austin City Hall, 301 W. Second St. Free. 512-974-7700,
austintexas.gov/department/peoples-gallery.

Prizer Arts & Letters. "The Elder Child" is a selection of paintings by
legendary musician and artist Gary Floyd - an openly gay punk musician in the
1980s - with each piece of art showcasing his irrepressible creativity and sense
of wonder. By appointment and during events through May 31. 2023 E. Cesar Chavez
St. prizerartsandletters.org/.

Russell Collection Fine Art Gallery. "Vibrancy & Form" features the works of Ash
Almonte, Kevin Greer and Mark Yale Harris, who create distinctive paintings and
sculptures that evoke emotion, movement and joy. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Monday-Saturday through May 31. 1009 W. Sixth St. 512-478-4440,
russell-collection.com.

Stephen L. Clark Gallery. "Plum Creek" is a multi-artist show featuring the
works of Kate Breakey, who creates gold-leaf photographs, and Bill Wittliff, who
makes solargraphs. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday through June 23. 1101 W.
Sixth St. 512-477-0828, stephenlclarkgallery.com.

Texas Folklife. "The Upshaws of County Line" features photographs and oral
history collected by documentary photographer Richard Orton between the years of
1988-2009 and follows the lives of the Upshaws, an African-American family in
the rural East Texas community of County Line. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
through July 27. 1708 Houston St. 512-441-9255, texasfolklife.org.

Umlauf Sculpture Garden & Museum. Sherry Owens and Art Shirer have installed a
site-specific exhibit that has transformed the gallery at Umlauf into a wild,
turbulent environment, confounding our normal perceptions of the interior and
exterior. "Entangled" features giant spiral vortexes wound together from wire
and natural and manmade objects. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday-Friday, noon to 4
p.m. Saturday through Aug. 12. 605 Robert E. Lee Road. umlaufsculpture.org.

Wally Workman Gallery. The Los Angeles-based artist America Martin finds
inspiration in her love of form and figure as depicted by the Impressionists and
Modernists of the early 20th century. The show is a celebration of her passion
for discovering new mediums such as paper, fabric, wood and metal. 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Tuesday-Saturday through June 2. 1202 W. Sixth St. wallyworkmangallery.com.

Women and Their Work. "Good Luck with the Sun." Using the sun as her subject and
collaborator in this solo show of new multimedia works, lens-based artist Krista
Steinke explores the physical and psychological impact of our greatest energy
source. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, noon to 6 p.m. Saturday through June 7.
1710 Lavaca St. 512-477-1064, womenandtheirwork.org.

NEW THIS WEEK

Theater & dance

"Polly Mermaid: Apocalypse Wow." Puppetry group Glass Half Full Theatre takes on
an original composition by Mother Falcon. It's a dark comedy for adult audiences
featuring puppetry of objects, physical clowning and trash art. Opens May 25. 8
p.m. Thursday-Sunday through June 9. $15-$35. The Vortex, 2307 Manor Road.
512-478-5282, glasshalffulltheatre.com.

"Lucky Stiff." The Tony Award-winning team that wrote "Ragtime" has created this
hilarious, fast-paced murder-mystery produced now by Austin Playhouse. "Lucky
Stiff" is the story of Harry, an unassuming English shoe salesman who thinks his
luck has finally changed when he inherits $6 million from an unknown American
uncle. Opens May 25. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 5 p.m. Sunday through June 24.
$17-$40. 6001 Airport Blvd. austinplayhouse.com/lucky-stiff.

"Small Mouth Sounds." On a weeklong silent retreat in the woods, six wildly
different urbanites looking for life balance find that staying quiet doesn't
necessarily bring inner peace. Capital T Theatre is producing this wickedly
sharp look at mindfulness and the wellness industry. 8 p.m. Thursday-Saturday,
with additional 8 p.m. show June 11, through June 16. $25-$35. Hyde Park
Theatre, 511 W. 43rd St. capitalt.org./wp/.

"An American in Paris." Inspired by the Academy-Award winning film, this Tony
Award-winning play is the romantic story of an American soldier, a mysterious
French girl and an indomitable European city, all yearning for a new beginning
in the aftermath of war. 8 p.m. May 30-June 2, 2 p.m. June 2, and 1 and 7 p.m.
June 3. $30-$125. Bass Concert Hall, 2350 Robert Dedman Drive.
texasperformingarts.org.

"Much Ado About Nothing." Penfold Theatre's production of this much beloved
Shakespearean comedy - the eighth installment in the company's Penfold in the
Park series - is set on the Texas frontier and features live music as well as a
trimmed-down cast of six virtuosic performers. Opens May 31. 8 p.m.
Thursday-Saturday through June 23. Free. Round Rock Amphitheater, 301 W. Bagdad
Ave., Round Rock. penfoldtheatre.org.

Art

"Regional Fictions." The name of artists Jamal Cyrus and Julia Barbosa Landois'
exhibit redefines this literary term to examine the lies, falsehoods and
omissions present in the lore of a particular geographical region, specifically
as it is taught to school children. Opening reception 7 to 10 p.m. May 25. 5 to
8 p.m. Friday, noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday through July 7. Mass Gallery,
507 Calles St. 512-535-4946, massgallery.com.

Cynda Valle. The Los Angeles-based artist creates luminous portraits using an
antiquated technique of oil glazing and tempera paints, previously used by old
Renaissance masters such as Vermeer; the result is a series of bright colors and
eerie scenes that look like something out of a strange dream. Opening reception
7 to 9 p.m. May 26. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. Sunday
through June 24. Art on 5th, 3005 S. Lamar Blvd. Suite C, 110 B. 512-481-1111,
arton5th.com.

BoxText2

COMEDY THIS WEEK

Cap City Comedy Club. Ahmed Bharoocha, 7:30 and 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday,
$16-$23. Piranha! the Game Show, 8 p.m. Tuesday, $7-$11. Raul Sanchez, 8 p.m.
Wednesday and Thursday, $12-$19. 8120 Research Blvd. No. 100. 512-467-2333,
capcitycomedy.com.

ColdTowne Theater. The new improv comedy show "What Had Happened Was" turns the
audience's suggestion of a historical event into a tapestry of facts,
misunderstandings and laughs, as a way to tie the events that led to history's
greatest catastrophes to the events of today. These world-class improvisers may
well live, love, fight, die and probably get a lot of stuff wrong in the time
period of your choice. 8:30 p.m. Saturdays through June 2. $10. 4803 Airport
Blvd. coldtownetheater.com.

Esther's Follies. You can count on Esther's to keep up with the ever-changing
political climate and daily firings in the White House with special appearances
by Robert Mueller, Michael Cohen and Stormy Daniels. There's always more in the
"Never Ending Trumpstory," a tribute to Donald Trump and his castaways, such as
Kellyanne Conway. Plus, resident magician Ray Anderson will debut his newest
large-scale illusion straight from Las Vegas, albeit with a local twist. 8 p.m.
Thursday, 8 and 10 p.m. Friday-Saturday in May. $25-$35. 525 E. Sixth St.
512-320-0198, esthersfollies.com.

"¡Escándalo!" at Hideout Theater. Inspired by television shows like "Jane the
Virgin," "Teresa" and countless over-the-top telenovelas, "¡Escándalo!" is an
improvised show filled with danger, intrigue and backstabbing (and
front-stabbing). And passion. So. Much. Passion. The show is typically
bilingual, but as a bonus for Cinco de Mayo, it will be entirely in Spanish. You
are in great hands with this talented bilingual cast of Austin improvisers
including Cindy Brio, Laura Galán Wells, Gabriela Vargas, Karlie Lemos, Cristy
Salinas, Esperanza Rivadeneira, and Aaron Rubin. Enjoy the show (and watch your
back). 10 p.m. Fridays in May. $10. 617 Congress Ave. hideouttheatre.com. -
Brently Heilbron

Institution Theater. At "Anything Live!" the improvised comics of the
Institution present a cornucopia of entertainers, from stand-up comedians to
wrestlers - all the misfit entertainment acts that don't fit anywhere else. 8
p.m. Thursdays. Free. The Clubhouse, 3800 Woodbury Drive.
theinstitutiontheater.com.

The Velveeta Room. Chris Tellez with Joe Tullar, 9 p.m. Friday, 9 and 11 p.m.
Saturday. $10. 521 E. Sixth St. 512-469-9116, thevelveetaroom.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                27 October 2018

A state toxicologist who downplayed the health effects of smog is appointed to
board

BYLINE: Asher Price asherprice@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 870 words


Among the newly named members of a key U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
science advisory board is a deputy toxicologist for the state of Texas whose
work has been criticized as part of a state effort to downplay the health
effects of smog.

The toxicologist is at least the third person with current or former ties to the
Texas environmental agency to either advise or work at the EPA under the Trump
administration as it loosens federal environmental rules.

The appointment is the latest sign of how a state agency that was often at
loggerheads with federal environmental regulators during the Obama
administration is now on the inside, contributing experience, know-how and
scientific approach to air and water issues.

This month, EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler named Sabine Lange, the
toxicology division section manager at the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality, to the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, which provides
policymakers with advice on how to set smog limits to protect public health.

Lange, who will continue working at the Texas commission, and other experts
"will provide critical scientific advice to EPA as it evaluates where to set
national standards for key pollutants like ozone and particulate matter,"
Wheeler said. "They are highly qualified and have a diverse set of backgrounds
in fields like toxicology, engineering, medicine, ecology, and atmospheric
science."

But Elena Craft, a health scientist with Environmental Defense Fund, said that a
2015 Texas Commission on Environmental Quality smog workshop at which Lange
presented a paper was part of an effort " to undermine scientific underpinnings
of the (smog) standards."

Workshop participants, including Lange, "Presented a one-sided view of the
science and economics around the standard," she wrote in a 2015 blog piece about
the workshop. She accused Lange's analysis of oversimplifying the issue and
focusing on how healthy people are affected by smog, "effectively ignoring those
vulnerable members of the population," including seniors, obese people, people
with asthma and children.

Craft told the American-Statesman that Lange's appointment shows the EPA is
"trying to essentially populate (the advisory committee) with lots of scientists
who would be considered as having fringe opinions of the scientific literature."

Asked to respond to the criticism, Lange said that as a member of the committee
"I will be reserving my discussions and comments about standards for the (smog)
pollutants for the (committee) review."

"As a member of CASAC I will offer my scientific opinion of the ozone literature
and ozone analyses, and those opinions will be available to you and to all
members of the public in formats such as my responses to charge questions and my
discussions at meetings," she said.

She was nominated for the position by Bryan Shaw, former chairman of the Texas
environmental commission.

Shaw did not return a request for comment.

Remaking EPA boards

The appointment comes as the EPA remakes its science advisory boards. Finalists
for another EPA science advisory group, for example, include researchers who
reject mainstream climate science and have argued against environmental
regulations for years, according to a report last week in E&E News, an energy
and environment trade publication.

Last year, then-EPA chief Scott Pruitt, named Michael Honeycutt, director of the
Texas environmental commission's toxicology division, as head of the EPA's
Science Advisory Board.

He was recommended to lead the Trump administration environmental science board
by a Texas Republican donor.

Honeycutt has gained notoriety for what many scientists say are anomalous
theories about air quality. He has suggested, for example, that making smog
regulations more stringent will not cut asthma-related health problems and has
suggested assessments of the dangers of mercury and arsenic are overblown.

Smith's legacy

In some respects, the newfound Texas ties are the legacy of U.S. Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-San Antonio, who represents parts of Central Texas and is retiring at
the end of the year. As chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space and
Technology, Smith launched an effort last year to reshape an agency he had long
vilified.

"EPA has long been on a path of regulatory overreach," Smith said last year,
vowing to remake the agency, long a goal of industries that are regulated by the
EPA.

Relations between the state and the EPA probably reached a nadir in 2012, after
then-regional administrator Al Armendariz was forced to resign amid a barrage of
criticism from Republicans after footage surfaced that included him using the
word "crucify" to describe how he would go after companies violating
environmental laws.

Now the Dallas-based EPA regional administrator post is occupied by Anne Idsal,
who formerly served as general counsel to the Texas commission during Gov. Rick
Perry's administration. During her tenure, the state agency and the EPA sparred
over air and water quality rules.

"I know that the cooperative relationship between the states and the EPA will
continue to improve," Shaw, then-chairman of the Texas environmental commission
said last year in praising her appointment.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                5 December 2018

Green Gate 's East Austin farm to close for a year to make way for development

BYLINE: Addie Broyles abroyles@statesman.com

SECTION: TX FEATURES; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 775 words


For more than a decade, Green Gate Farms' East Austin property has been a hub
for school groups, locavores and beginning farmers.

In 2006, Erin Flynn and Skip Connett bought the historic Bergstrom property --
which was home to relatives of John August Earl Bergstrom, the namesake for
Austin's airport -- and turned it into an organic farm on the eastern edge of
Austin. This month, the couple will close the farm while a developer spends the
next year building tiny homes, a new farmstand, a greenhouse, a market and cafe
and other amenities for what's called an agrihood, a neighborhood built around
an agricultural center. The size of the farm will shrink from nearly 10 acres to
about 4, including the land that the old and new farm-related buildings are on.

There aren't many agrihoods in the country, and this will be the first
intentionally developed agrihood in Austin. Several urban farms are located in
already established neighborhoods, but the vision for this project is for the
farm to serve the families living in the planned 120 tiny homes and the 600
manufactured homes already on the 250 acres of land that Arizona-based developer
Scott Roberts purchased three years ago that included Flynn's property. Flynn
and Connett remain as tenants.

Flynn says that though some of the details of the agrihood are still being
ironed out, plans are firm enough for the farmers to know that they have to move
all farm operations to a 35-acre property they own along the Colorado River near
Bastrop for at least the next 12 months.

"In the course of these negotiations, almost all of our production has moved out
there," Flynn says. They are spending the next three weeks moving anything that
remains at the East Austin site about a mile south of the Travis County Expo
Center.

How will this move affect consumers? For the most part, not very much. Green
Gate won't have a meat CSA this year, but it will continue its CSA programs for
vegetables, flowers and eggs from the Colorado River property, Flynn says. Green
Gate Farms also has a nonprofit called the New Farm Institute, which offers
training to new farmers and will relocate to 3 acres on the river property.

Flynn says you might see them at local farmers markets from time to time, but
the East Austin farmstand, where most of their customers who are not CSA
subscribers buy their produce, will close until the new one opens at the Village
Farm development.

The East Austin property itself is changing significantly. "When we first bought
this property, it was still very rural," Flynn says. "We had lots of open space
and were farming about 5 acres of flowers and vegetables and another 5 acres for
the livestock."

Thanks to some mediation with the city of Austin and TBG Landscaping, which is
involved in the redevelopment, Flynn and Connett were able to secure the
preservation of the farmhouse, built in 1902, and its original outbuildings --
the original tiny homes on the property, Flynn says -- as well as the Aermotor
windmill and early-20th-century big red barn that for more than 10 years has
housed Green Gate's heritage pigs and other livestock.

With the reduced production capacity at the East Austin property but the
increased number of people living nearby, Flynn dreams of turning the barn into
a history museum dedicated to agriculture and the influence of Swedish and
immigrant settlers on farming in Central Texas. Although the property will
become more of a distribution hub and gathering space than a production farm, it
will still provide a glimpse into the farming life. "Skip and I want to spend
this coming year regrouping and putting some energy into what we love," she
says.

As the city side of the farm shifts focus to become a community center and
farmstand that serves people who live in the area, including residents of Mobile
Loaves & Fishes' Community First Village, the river property will change as
well. Flynn says they hope to add housing for agritourism, as well as a barn
that can double as an educational facility so they can continue to host school
groups. More than 2,000 students toured the farm this year, she says.

"We really want to create a state-of-the-art experience for people who are
concerned about climate change. We want them to come to the farm and see
integrated systems that are everything from tree planting to livestock
management," she says. The farmers are currently hosting an online fundraiser to
help pay for the new storage and education space on the river property.

"We're moving a little further out, but we're still going to be involved with
feeding and entertaining Austin," she says. "It's a good balance of old and
new."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 11, 2018 Thursday
                                 State Edition

THE LONG WEEKEND FIVE THINGS TO DO

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 546 words


1 ASLEEP AT THE WHEEL AT BROKEN SPOKE

9 p.m. Jan. 12. $25. 3201 S. Lamar Blvd. brokenspokeaustintx.net.

The unstoppable western swing machine rolls on, with plenty of regional and
national touring on the horizon as 2018 begins. Before they go, though, they'll
make a rare appearance at South Austin's storied honky-tonk, where leader Ray
Benson's head comes in dangerous proximity with the low ceiling. Benson's 2017
was largely about his partnership with Dale Watson on their "Dale & Ray" record,
but a new Wheel album is due this summer, after they play some high-profile
local gigs with the Avett Brothers (Long Center, March 3) and George Strait
(Erwin Center, June 3). - PETER BLACKSTOCK

2 DIFFERENT STAGES' 'WHEN WE ARE MARRIED '

Opens Jan. 12. 7:30 p.m. Thursday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Sunday, with additional
performance 7:30 p.m. Jan. 31, through Feb. 2. $15-$30. Trinity Street Theatre,
901 Trinity St. differentstagestheatre.org.

Different Stages is taking on this J.B. Priest ley comedy. "When We Are Married"
is about three couples, the Helliwells, the Parkers and the Soppitts, who are
highly respected pillars of the community -but not for much longer Married on
the same day in the same cha pel, they gather to celebrate their 25th wed ding
anniversary. Much to their horror, how ever, they discover the vicar wasn't
licensed meaning they aren't actually married and have been living in sin for
years.

3 SECOND STREET SOCIAL

5 to 8p.m. Jan. 11. Free. Second Street between Colorado and San Antonio
streets. 2ndstreetdistrict.com.

The shops and restaurants in the Second Street District have a whole new round
of deals planned for the monthly sip-and-stroll including a prix fixe meal at
Cru Food and Wine Bar. The dinner is $30 and will have one-night-only menu of
dishes. Other spe cials include an extended happy hour at La Condesa; a pairing
of drinks with the mus tards, pestos and jams sold at Con' Olio; and free mini
ice cream cones and homemade fudge samples at Yummi Joy.

4 SAVE THE NARWHAL

11 a.m. Jan. 13. Free. Pinthouse Pizza, 4729 Burnet Road.
facebook.com/events/410122722756579/.

This tasting at Pinthouse Pizza isn't just about drinking good beer - it's also
about giving back to a good cause. Pinthouse Pizza will donate $1 for every 12
oz. of Sierra Nevada's Narwhal Imperial Stout purchased to the World Wildlife
Fund, in an effort to help save the narwhal, a toothed whale, from climate
change-related issues endangering its habitat. The brewpub will have a four-year
vertical, from 2013 to 2016, of the malt-forward monster on tap, as well as
other Sierra Nevada brews.

5 ' CELEBRATING THE CERAMIC ART OF JALISCO' AT TEXAS FOLKLIFE

Opening reception 2 to 5 p.m.Jan. 14. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday and by
appointment through mid April. 1708 Houston St. texasfolklife.org.

The Mexican state of Jalisco is internationally famous for the wide variety of
maestros that local artists make in clay and other mediums, and Texas Folklife
will highlight these artistic gems in a curated exhibit. "Celebrating the
Ceramic Art of Jalisco" explores the ceramic statues of four towns in
particular: Tonalá, Tlaquepaque, El Rosario and Santa Cruz de las Huertas. In
spite of the proximity of these villages to each other, their art differs in
technique, style and focus.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 12, 2018 Friday
                                 State Edition

Mark MLK Day all weekend long with movies, march and more

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 587 words


Monday, Jan. 15, is Martin Luther King Jr. Day, which happens to fall on King's
actual birthday this year. To honor the civil rights hero, groups and businesses
around town are hosting special events.

Here are a few:

Friday

MLK Day film screening at George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center.
Starting at 11 a.m., the museum will screen "King: Go Beyond The Dream to
Discover the Man," "Eyes on the Prize: Vol. 5, Power! (1966-1969). The Promised
Land (1967-1968) America's Civil Rights Movement" and "Selma."

Sunday

MLK's birthday celebration, Selma screening and fundraiser at Slab BBQ and Beer.
Nonprofit BRAVE Communities is hosting a screening of "Selma" followed by a
panel discussion of how to make Austin a more inclusive city.

2018 MLK Celebration: The Science of Black Excellence at George Washington
Carver Museum and Cultural Center. A program featuring a keynote message by Bro.
Nuri Muhammad, the Indianapolis representative of the nation of Islam, will
honor King's lecacy.

Monday

25th Annual MLK Community March, Rally and Cultural Festival starting at the
University of Texas at Austin. The march will begin at 9 a.m. and move from the
MLK statue on campus to the south steps of the Capitol for a short program,
after which marchers will continue to Huston-Tillotson University, where
activities are planned until 3:00 p.m.

Free admission on MLK Day at the LBJ Presidential Library. Free admission for
all visitors, all day.

MLK Day Open Mic Poetry. The Vortex is hosting an a night of open-mic poetry to
honor the spirit and memory of Martin Luther King Jr. Bring your poetry to share
on-stage or simply listen to the free-flowing words of others. Sign-up begins at
6:30, open mic at 7 p.m. Monday. 2307 Manor Road.

- KATEY PSENCIK

MORE THINGS TO

DO THIS WEEKEND

Adelante New Year Barre & Shopping Event. Make 2018 your healthiest year yet
with a morning of wellness at Adelante Boutique that includes a 30-minute barre
workout by MOD Fitness, fresh juices from Jugo Austin and gifts from Outdoor
Voices. Plus, you can shop for a new yoga mat from Wild Arrow and get a
30-second antioxidant scan from NuSkin/Pharmanex while snacking on Kind Bars.
9:30 a.m. to noon Jan. 13. Free. 1206 W. 38th St. Suite
4104.eventbrite.com/e/adelantenew-year-barre-shoppingevent-tickets-41526872995.

Save the Narwhal. This tasting at Pinthouse Pizza isn't just about drinking good
beer - it's also about giving back to a good cause. Pinthouse Pizza will donate
$1 for every 12 oz. of Sierra Nevada's Narwhal Imperial Stout purchased to the
World Wildlife Fund, in an effort to help save the narwhal, a toothed whale,
from climate change-related issues endangering its habitat. The brewpub will
have a four-year vertical, from 2013 to 2016, of the malt-forward monster on
tap, as well as other Sierra Nevada brews. 11 a.m. Jan. 13. Free. Pinthouse
Pizza, 4729 Burnet Road. facebook.com/events/410122722756579/.

Wangechi Mutu at the Contemporary Austin. Want to learn more about the artist
whose work has been on display at the Jones Center and Laguna Gloria? The
Contemporary Austin is hosting a conversation between her; Heather Pesanti,
senior curator at the Contemporary Austin; and Kanitra Fletcher, curatorial
assistant for modern and contemporary art at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston,
where Mutu's art is also on view. She'll talk about her artistic process,
inspiration and ongoing interest in representations of the black female form and
labor. 1 p.m. Sept. 13. Free-$5. 700 Congress Ave. thecontemporaryaustin.org .

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 21, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Abbott's picks don't reflect diverse state

BYLINE: Editorial Board American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INST; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 913 words


Gov. Greg Abbott should look at fairness, justice and best practices - along
with qualifications - in making appointments to state boards and commissions.
Given his record, that clearly is not happening.

If those measures were used, Abbott's appointments would better reflect the
ethnic, racial and gender diversity of Texas. They don't, as an analysis by the
San Antonio Express-News shows.

Of the 889 people Abbott has appointed to boards or elevated to chairmanships
since January 2015, when he became governor, nearly 72 percent are Anglo and
more than 63 percent are men - more than 45 percent are both Anglo and male. The
analysis went on to break down those appointments by race, ethnicity and donors
who have contributed to Abbott's political campaigns over the years.

Figures show that 16.4 percent of his appointees are Hispanic, 6.6 percent
African-American and 3.3 percent Asian-American. Consider that Hispanics make up
39.1 percent of the Texas population - more than twice the percentage of
Abbott's picks for state policy-making boards.

Similarly, African-Americans account for 12.6 percent of the population, and
Asians make up 4.8 percent. Women make up just over half of the Texas
population.

Those deficiencies were tough enough to justify under previous governors,
including Republican Rick Perry, Abbott's predecessor. But in a
technologically-savvy Texas that is more diverse than ever, it's unacceptable -
and embarrassing. It's telling that none of the nine regents on the coveted
University of Texas System board is African-American.

Abbott's appointments are out of step with the state's diverse population.
Whites who are not Hispanic make up 42.6 percent of the population, and Latinos,
African-Americans and Asians account for 56.5 percent.

Express-News writers Peggy Fikac and Annie Millerbernd reported the findings
earlier this month. It's worth noting that their report showed about 29 percent
of Abbott's appointees are donors, with their contributions ranging from $25 to
more than $1 million from 2001 through October 2017.

Abbott's staff told the Express-News that he looks for the best-qualified
individuals, never takes contributions into account in making appointments and
pushes for diversity.

Best-qualified? That term resembles a similarly insensitive phrase state leaders
used in the past to exclude or limit minorities from high-level service: They
could not find enough qualified African-Americans or Latinos to fill the
numerous seats on boards and commissions.

It was lame then, and it's still lame, particularly with all the high-tech tools
available in identifying highly qualified appointees across racial, gender and
ethnic lines.

We don't question the credentials or qualifications of Abbott's appointees. The
Express-News concluded that they "typically appear qualified for their posts."

But qualifications alone don't yield the kind of pool a modern Texas needs to
properly or adequately serve all its people. The state needs people from
different walks of life who bring their experiences to policy making.

They might be obscure to the average person, but state boards and commissions
touch Texans in every walk of life, from birth to death. They oversee, regulate
or make policy for the state's public colleges and universities, prisons, social
service agencies, courts, parks, funeral industry, arts, juvenile justice and
transportation systems, among other things. During a four-year term, a governor
will make about 3,000 appointments.

Edmund "Ted" Gordon, UT-Austin vice provost for diversity, questions whether
policies and practices crafted by boards and commissions that have few or no
minorities can be fair to people of color if their voices are excluded or
diminished.

"Texas has a large population of African-Americans," Gordon said. "We pay our
fair share of taxes. We are citizens. But we have historically been shut out of
exercising our decisions and citizenship" on boards and commissions "when
governors are not sympathetic to the simple issue of justice and fairness."

State Rep. Gina Hinojosa, D-Austin, advised Abbott to look beyond political
labels or bank accounts in appointing people to boards and commissions.

"Our policies don't reflect the true needs or our diverse state," Hinojosa told
us. "If (Abbott) is pulling from people who contribute in Republican primaries
or appointing only Republicans, then that will limit racial diversity."

Hinojosa pointed to her own job in the Texas House to emphasize the importance
of gender diversity. The House has just 29 women among its 150 members.

"The men are setting the agenda," she said. " It's why we talk so much about
guns and sex. "

Aside from moral reasons, there are practical considerations for diversifying
appointments to state boards and commissions, as many successful businesses
strive to do.

In its 2015 study, management consulting firm McKinsey & Co. indicated that
workplaces with more gender and ethnic diversity were more likely to outperform
national industry medians.

Abbott is fond of touting Texas' booming economy. It stands to reason that
greater diversity on oversight boards might improve the state's business
climate.

Mexican American Legislative Caucus Chairman Rafael Anchia, D-Dallas, said the
caucus will be monitoring Abbott's appointments over the next year. That is
good. However, it would send a positive signal if Abbott immediately takes steps
to broaden criteria so that boards and commissions look more like Texas and
serve all Texans.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 18, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Ellsworth Kelly crowns Austin with an artistic jewel

BYLINE: Michael Barnes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1080 words


Patches of color drip ever so slowly down the walls, then pool onto the smooth
black granite floor. On sunny days, the tall white barrel vaults swim with
jewel-toned iridescence. Not only do the intense hues migrate minute by minute,
they alter from day to day according to the position of the sun above "Austin,"
a phenomenal new building that doubles as a monumental work of art on the
University of Texas campus. Even when the doors, made of Texas live oak, are
closed to the public, the light show continues. At night, interior illumination
shimmers through the windows, drawing passersby to its warmth. Designed by late
American modern artist Ellsworth Kelly, this $23 million project created by the
Blanton Museum of Art instantly takes its place as a crown jewel of Austin art.
"It will be a bold new landmark for the university and the city," predicts
Blanton Director Simone Wicha, who spent years putting together "Austin,"
colloquially known as the Ellsworth Kelly Building or just the Ellsworth or
sometimes the Kelly. "Inevitably, it will change the way the world sees Austin."

The 2,715-square-foot space is the first and only building designed by Kelly
(1923-2015), a painter, sculptor and printmaker considered among top innovators
in international postwar art. He imagined the original version, clad in stucco
rather than limestone, for aprivate collector at a California winery in 1986,
but a key introduction by a Houston art dealer led to the Blanton's coup.

Before his death, the artist donated his design concept, meticulously chose the
materials and supervised almost every aspect of its execution, from the curved
gray-to-white exterior limestone quarried in Alicante, Spain, to the 14
black-and-white marble panels inside, quarried in Carrera, Italy, and Belgium,
and the lighting, climate control and security systems.

After a series of VIP parties, the artwork will be unveiled to the public Feb.
18.

Already, art experts are applauding.

"Ellsworth Kelly's 'Austin' culminates the career of one of the greatest of
modern artists," says Richard Shiff, an art professor who directs UT's Center
for the Study of Modernism. "Kelly conceived of (it) as a single aesthetic
experience. 'Austin' is culture in a pure form. Its appeal is universal."

Sometimes described as a master of color-field or minimalist art, Kelly was
fascinated by spectra, grids and abstract combinations of black and white, as
well as other elements on display in this, his final project.

The colored glass windows poke through three walls. The color grid on the south
facade looks toward the Capitol. The tumbling squares on the east wall will  ire
up in the morning, and the starburst pattern on the west facade will glow in the
late afternoon.

Construction of the windows was a matter of minute concern for Kelly and his
artisans. To achieve the intensity of hue and textural detail that the artist
desired, the glass plates were mouth-blown by Franz Mayer of Munich, Germany,
with carefully calibrated stains. Then they were assembled on the interior and
exterior edges of the walls, with two plates on each side.

Not just a work of art and architecture, "Austin" redefines the southern border
of campus and, indeed, the pedestrian mall still known as Speedway, which serves
as the university's strongest north-south axis. The Kelly structure is not
oriented to that mall, but rather toward the Capitol, seen in perspective
through the angled Blanton buildings. This corrects an error going back to the
1880s in the visual linkage of the city's two most influential institutions.
Plans are already underway to transform the North Congress Avenue corridor
between the Capitol and "Austin" into a more inviting walkway, including the
addition of new buildings.

Although the intersecting barrel vaults - which appear much taller inside than
from the exterior - along with the 18-foot-tall "Totem," made of redwood and
curved to correspond to segments of an imaginary circle - give the place the
feeling of a chapel, it was not intended as such. The black-and-white stone
panels also parallel the Stations of the Cross in a Catholic Church.

"Kelly was not religious," Wicha says. "But after military service during World
War II, he was fascinated by old churches, such as France's Chartres Cathedral,
with its rose stained-glass windows, and the white chapels on the Greek islands,
which are echoed here."

Promising an experience akin to visiting the Matisse chapel in Vence, France or,
more familiar to Texans, the Rothko Chapel in Houston, it is meant to be a site
for joy and contemplation of all varieties.

An exhibit, "Form Into Spirit: Ellsworth Kelly's 'Austin,'" opens Feb. 18 and
runs through April 29 in the nearby east wing of the museum. It was put together
by Carter E. Foster, the Blanton's deputy director for curatorial affairs, to
coincide with the opening of the new building. Formerly with the Whitney Museum
of American Art, Carter remembers seeing the model for "Austin" in Kelly's
studio long before the Blanton acquired it. As was Kelly's habit with other
works of art, it was eventually named after the city where it was completed.

"'Austin' not only showcases Kelly's early appreciation of historical European
art and architecture," Foster says, "it also marries this passion with the
transformative themes that he would discover over the course of his life. I hope
that, with the help of this exhibition, everyone who visits the work will come
away with the same sense of awe that I do."

Having acquired the design, raised the money and completed the construction,
Wicha now turns her attention to its anticipated reception.

"The opening of 'Austin' further cements the Blanton as an international
cultural destination," she says. "The broad geographic support we received for
this project is reflective of the audience we anticipate visiting Kelly's
monumental achievement."

Contact Michael Barnes at 512-445-3970 or mbarnes@statesman.com

Twitter: @outandabout

EXHIBITION

"Form Into Spirit: Ellsworth Kelly's 'Austin'" When:Tuesdays-Sundays, Feb.
18-April 29. Times vary.

Where:Blanton Museum of Art, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard at North Congress
Avenue

Cost:Free to $9

Information:512-471-7324, blantonmuseum.org

SEEING 'AUSTIN'

Starting Feb. 18, Ellsworth Kelly's 'Austin' will be open during regular Blanton
hours; entry is included with museum admission. Go to the Visitors Services desk
inside the museum's east wing to obtain tickets; admission prices range from
free to $9.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 3, 2018 Thursday
                                 State Edition

Cap Metro to add hours, free rides

BYLINE: Ben Wear American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 789 words


Capital Metro, looking to build ridership and community goodwill after four
years of falling ridership, will make fares free for all primary and secondary
school students this summer, officials announced Wednesday.

The Austin transit agency's combined bus-and-rail ridership is now 12.4 percent
below the 2013 level. So, in another effort to boost boardings, the agency also
will extend the hours of MetroRail weekend service from June to August.

"The team feels that we will see an increase in ridership by operating these
trips," Capital Metro President and CEO Randy Clarke said in a May 1 memo to the
agency's board of directors. "It will also reaffirm Capital Metro's commitment
to the city of Austin's Vision Zero initiative by keeping distraught, fatigued
and impaired drivers off Central Texas roads."

Clarke said his staff will analyze the results from the free service for
children and added train runs, and then make a report to the board of directors
sometime in the fall so the agency can consider further steps. Asked about the
idea of building usage by, in one case, giving the product away, Clarke said
that transit providers in some places increasingly are looking at free service.

"A lot of transit, in Germany for instance, is moving toward free transit," he
said. Clarke left a vice president job at the American Public Transportation
Association to take over Capital Metro in March.

Capital Metro, which this year has a $262.4 million operating budget, will be
able to easily absorb the additional $100,000 or so in added costs and lost
revenue, Clarke said. Overall, Capital Metro this fiscal year expects about
$25.2 million in fare revenue, or about 9.6 percent of its operating budget.

In 1989, just four years into the agency's existence, Capital Metro's board
decided to eliminate fares on all of its bus service. Ridership skyrocketed 70
percent to 31.2 million boardings - more than a far larger Austin population has
yielded for Capital Metro in 2016 and 2017 - but the agency reinstituted fares a
year later after widespread complaints that homeless people were camping out in
the climate-controlled buses.

Ridership fell only about 12 percent the next year, resulting in much higher
ridership than had existed before the free-rides period.

Austin City Manager Spencer Cronk, who joined Clarke and Austin school
Superintendent Paul Cruz for Wednesday's downtown announcement of the pilot
programs, said the late-night MetroRail runs will be a particular boon in a city
known for an uneasy mix of music, drinking and driving.

"Sometimes, these music concerts don't end at midnight," Cronk said. "So it's
important that we provide safe ways to get home."

The last weekend trains from the downtown station now leave at 12:30 a.m.
Saturday and 12:03 a.m. Sunday. Under the extended hours, they will depart at
1:45 a.m. Saturday and at 2:30 a.m. Sunday, well after the bars close.

The extended weekend runs will last from June 8 through the last weekend of
August.

In addition, Saturday MetroRail service, which normally restarts at 4 p.m., will
instead begin at 10 a.m. for three Saturdays this summer: June 9, July 7 and
Aug. 4.

Clarke noted that community members during the past few years have urged Capital
Metro to have Saturday service start much earlier in the day.

The agency pays its rail contractor, Herzog Transit Services, on a per-hour
basis, and expects added MetroRail costs of about $52,500 and added ridership of
about 7,700 trips total during the 25 days involved, according to Clarke's memo.

The free fares for students cover those now in kindergarten through 11th grade,
not seniors graduating in May. The free rides will run June 10 to Sept. 1 and
should cost the agency about $45,000, Clarke told his board. Fares are already
free for children younger than 6. The agency could not estimate the added
ridership coming from the student fare pilot program, Clarke said in the memo.

Clarke said that older students may be asked to provide student identification
cards for boarding in some cases.

"This pilot (program) essentially creates a family pass for the summer, which
should encourage families to use Capital Metro more now that their children can
ride for free," Clarke said. "This pilot is an investment in the young people of
Central Texas."

Capital Metro already had announced that fares throughout the transit system
will be waived June 3-9, the first week of a system overhaul - dubbed Cap ReMap
- that will eliminate or change about half of the agency's 80 or so bus routes.

Clarke said Wednesday the programs are an initial sign of his bias for action
and experimentation, and he said the agency should be "embracing the idea of
succeed or fail fast."

Contact Ben Wear at 512-445-3698.

Twitter: @bwear

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 26, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Letters to the editor

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INST; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 735 words


Bishop McCarthy championed justice

I will never forget being summoned one morning by Bishop John McCarthy to the
Austin Club, along with another attorney, Ed McCarthy. He gave us a directive to
begin the rollout of the Red Mass, which coincides with the opening of the fall
term of the U.S. Supreme Court.

At the Red Mass, the legal community prays to be imbued with the understanding,
wisdom, fortitude and counsel for the right and just administration of their
positions, guiding both lawyers and judges in their pursuit of justice.

Bishop McCarthy valued the rule of law and the special place judges and lawyers
occupy in our community. His commitment to social justice issues was indeed
unyielding.

Bless you, Bishop McCarthy. You will be sorely missed.

JANET MONTEROS,

EL PASO

Texas Republicans avoiding opponents

Re: Aug. 24 article, "Dan Patrick challenges Geraldo, not election opponent, to
debate."

It's unsurprising to read that Dan Patrick has challenged TV personality Geraldo
Rivera to a debate while refusing to debate his actual opponent, Mike Collier.
This is par for the course with Texas Republicans, who seem to believe
transparency is beneath them.

Indeed, Attorney General Ken Paxton once said he'd debate "anybody" - but this
apparently doesn't include his opponent, Justin Nelson.

In my district, the 21st, Republican Chip Roy likes to mock those who disagree
with him on Twitter but seems less interested in looking his opponents in the
eye.

Meanwhile, the Democrat, Joseph Kopser, has said he's happy to debate in a
public forum.

These are serious times; we deserve serious representation. If you're unwilling
to get on stage and defend your views to voters, don't run in the first place.

LUCAS SCHAEFER,

AUSTIN

LCRA drying us out

to help rice farmers

So, Austin enters Stage 1 water restrictions, marinas and other lake businesses
scramble and look forward to financial losses - again.

Meanwhile, the Lower Colorado River Authority keeps sending water down river to
rice farmers for an unsustainable crop in Texas.

And the LCRA is planning another release before October, everyone else's
interest be damned!

Can't believe Gov. Greg Abbott can't or won't bring the LCRA to heel.

GREG DAVIDSON,

CEDAR PARK

Trump truth is ugly, but press not at fault

Re: Aug. 23 letter to the editor, "Liberal press doing its best Nazi
impersonation."

The author uses what might pass as an intellectual argument to implicate the
"liberal" press as a Nazi propaganda machine. He states: "The harsh truth is
there if one looks for it, but many prefer to embrace the comfortable â  Trump
is Satan' lie."

It is never comfortable to have to say awful things about your president, even
if it's true. President Trump's own actions and words have been recorded on
audio and video. His own tweets serve as evidence of Trump's sorry character.

The press does report it - and I'm thankful for that - but you can't hold the
press responsible for reporting what is directly in front of their eyes and
heard by their own ears. That's not called propaganda; that's called truth.

DRU EDRINGTON, GEORGETOWN

Solar, wind energy could save planet

I've been reading with interest the concern over the cost of solar. Some people
seem to think that it's too much trouble and too expensive, and that we should
just give up planning for the future.

Even if you don't believe in climate change or care about pollution caused by
fossil fuels, the earth has a limited amount of natural resources.

But, when the oil and coal are gone, we'll still have sun and wind.

It is my understanding that infrastructure is expensive - but the cost of
ignoring the need to update now will be greater for future generations. Don't we
all want the world to be a better place for our children?

LORI SHREVES, GEORGETOWN

Attacker of media victim of right wing

Re: Aug. 23 letter to the editor, "Liberal press doing its best Nazi
impersonation."

The writer gives a great description of the Nazi-controlled press in World War
II feeding propaganda to the German people.

The beautiful irony is that the writer is one of the uninformed or misinformed
of today's right-wing propaganda machine that includes Fox News, Breitbart and
conservative talk radio, along with Russian bots on social media. This machine
is working hand in glove with the Trump regime.

So the writer parrots by bashing the "liberal media," while informed people get
their news from multiple sources.

RONALD HEPLER,

ROUND ROCK

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 26, 2018 Sunday
                                 State Edition

UT wishbone left huge legacy

BYLINE: Kirk Bohls American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: SPOR; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 2333 words


Ted Koy took the phone call and instantly was petrified.

It was customary for Texas football players to receive a mimeographed sheet in
the mail from Darrell Royal during the summer with not-so-gentle reminders to
stay in shape before they reported for two-a-days.

On the line that August day in 1968, however, was Emory Bellard, Royal's newly
promoted, cerebral, pipe-smoking offensive backfield coach who had previously
worked with the linebackers. Bellard was wondering if it was possible for Koy to
check in for training camp a few days earlier than the team, which was coming
off a third consecutive four-loss season.

Koy gently prodded Bellard about whether he or Steve Worster would be the
starting fullback for the upcoming season since the decision hadn't been
resolved during spring training.

"He kind of paused," Koy said of Bellard, "and then he said, â  We're going to
put all of you in that backfield.' "

Koy hung up, a bit relieved but also totally bewildered.

All of them? In the wing T?

He knew the slithery Chris Gilbert would start at halfback after consecutive
1,000-yard rushing seasons. Koy, from the cotton fields of Bellville and long
Longhorns lineage, and the rugged Worster, from Bridge City, were pushing to
start at fullback.

But all three of them?

"Of course, back then, you didn't question the coach," Koy said. "If he said, â
Go out naked,' you'd go, â  Fine.' We'd do whatever they said to do."

And so that summer, the wishbone was born. And college football would never be
the same.

Born out of necessity

What was initially hatched by a desperate Royal to reverse Texas' lagging
fortunes and capitalize on a wealth of running back talent served as the genesis
for an electric offensive formation that revolutionized the game with its array
of options. The quarterback could hand off to one of his 205-pound fullbacks on
a dive play up the middle, keep it himself around end, or pitch it to Gilbert
with a lead blocker whom Royal coveted, giving defenses way too many things to
stop.

Plus, as Arkansas and UCLA would eventually learn, you could even pass out of
the wishbone when you had to because at least one thing that happens when you
pass can be a good thing.

And Bellard the creator was so detailed, so precise, you didn't dare disappoint
him or risk him calling you his curse word of preference. "You jack donkey," Koy
said.

Fifty years later, the wildly explosive offense that was the cornerstone of
football from the late 1960s to the 1980s and beyond has been reduced more to a
Smithsonian oddity of the past. Only a service academy such as Navy or a lesser
Power Five program such as Georgia Tech clings to the repetition-demanding
tactic to compete with bigger schools and their depth. It's proved to still be
effective for such teams if only because they are wedded to the triple-option
concept and preparing a defense for them can be nightmarish.

But to trace the life of the wishbone on its half-century anniversary, you have
to start in Austin in the fall of 1968 to see an innovation that grew partly out
of Bellard's fertile imagination but mostly out of necessity.

Royal had encouraged Bellard to concoct a more productive offense that could tap
the diverse talents. So the former three-time state high school champion at San
Angelo Central doodled away on his signature yellow legal pad and came up with
the most radical offense of the 20th century, toying around with a formation
that borrowed from the concepts of Cincinnati's Homer Rice and Houston's Bill
Yeoman.

What he came up with changed college football forever. The strategy with three
backs and a multitude of options altered the game's landscape for decades. But
not immediately. In fact, some even wondered if it would stick throughout 1968.

On a muggy night in September, I sat in the knothole section of Memorial
Stadium's north end zone with my father, Leon, who once played on the Longhorns
B team and was as big a Texas fan as there ever was. It was not without a lot of
trepidation that we cringed during a 20-20 season-opening tie with powerful
Houston and star running back Paul Gipson, but it felt more like a loss. The
Longhorns had stopped Gipson on the 1 late in the game, thanks to Corby
Robertson's and Loyd Wainscott's touchdown-saving tackle.

But most of us fans were more bewildered by Royal's decision to settle for the
tie at the Texas 38 in the final minute. Gilbert told me for the book "Long Live
the Longhorns!" - which I co-authored with John Maher - "I'd never seen a Texas
team booed, but I can't say I disagreed with them."

Many had doubts it would ever take root. The late quarterback James Street, one
of the most charismatic Longhorns ever with a personal 20-0 record, told me, "We
really didn't think it could work."

But work it did.

Sparking a revolution

The Longhorns followed that tie with a 31-22 loss to Texas Tech but played
better in the second half, and Royal switched from Bill Bradley to Street at
quarterback during that time. The next week, the 5-foot-9, 173-pound junior from
Longview, who said he had come to campus as Texas' seventh-string quarterback,
clobbered Oklahoma State 31-3, and the historic run began.

Later that year, after a mauling of Arkansas, Houston Post sportswriter Mickey
Herskowitz told Royal he had dubbed the formation â  the wishbone' in his
article as they talked at one of the customary postgame wind-down sessions with
the press in Room 2001 of the Villa Capri, where I was lucky enough to take part
as a Daily Texan scribe two years later.

"Mickey said if he had known it'd get that famous," Longhorns historian Bill
Little said, "he would have copyrighted it."

The wishbone catapulted Texas back into national relevance, helping the
Longhorns to back-to-back national championships in 1969 and 1970. It
resurrected Royal's career with a 30-game win streak, including a landmark
victory over Arkansas before a sellout crowd, President Richard Nixon and
evangelist Billy Graham that stood as Texas' biggest win in school history. That
was followed by a stirring Cotton Bowl win over a Notre Dame team that was
ending its 44-year ban on postseason games.

But the wishbone's imprint went well beyond that.

While it clearly saved Royal's hide, it had a big hand in bringing his career to
a premature, bittersweet end as well just seven years later at age 52. Because
he was willing to freely share the ins and outs of the pioneering offense with
both friend and foe, fierce rivals Oklahoma and Texas A&M used it to jump-start
their own ambitions and Royal's buddy Bear Bryant employed it to wreak havoc at
Alabama with three national championships.

OU and Alabama used the wishbone to cement their status as powerhouses. Bryant
wore out Royal with phone calls about the formation every Sunday and was so
appreciative he even offered to pay for one of the rooms in a new house the
Royals were building in Onion Creek.

"I tried to talk Chuck (OU coach Fairbanks) into going to the wishbone in the
spring of 1970, but he didn't want to," former OU coach Barry Switzer told me
this month. "He didn't want to copy Texas. I told him, â  Everybody copies
everybody.' Emory and I talked two or three times, and Darrell regretted it. And
don't forget Texas wasn't recruiting black players. We were getting them all.
Then Alabama went to it and turned its whole season around."

Changing the game

OU had beaten Texas to the punch by integrating its football team almost a
decade and a half earlier. Bud Wilkinson handpicked star running back Prentice
Gautt as OU's first black player in 1956, but Texas was the last all-white
national champion in 1970. Not until 1971 did San Antonio's Julius Whittier
become the first black player to letter as a Longhorn. Texas didn't have a true
black superstar until tailback Roosevelt Leaks, who also was the first black to
be named All-American in 1973.

Switzer calls the birth of option football the third-biggest advance in the
sport, right behind the evolution of the black athlete and the advent of
extensive strength and conditioning work. It could be argued that OU profited
from the wishbone as much as or more than Texas because, as Switzer said, it had
opened its doors to black players sooner and played at warp speed more than any
other school.

"Those were the most dramatic changes in college football in the last 50 years
for me," Switzer said.

Schools in the warmer climates of the South and Southwest that have always
favored speed and quickness adopted the formation, while those in the
power-laden Big Ten valued size and toughness and ball possession over an
offense they saw as finesse-based and high-risk.

Oh, Ohio State's Woody Hayes experimented with the wishbone and trotted it out
in a Rose Bowl with just a month's preparation with disastrous results, only to
discard the idea before the next season. And when Michigan State's Duffy
Daugherty called to inquire about the wishbone, Royal countered, "Duffy, you
don't want my offense. You want my fullback."

Switzer won back-to-back national titles with Steve Davis, won big with Thomas
Lott and J.C. Watts and even tooled the wishbone around the sophisticated
passing of Troy Aikman in 1984, but the quarterback broke his ankle against
Miami the next year and left for UCLA. Jamelle Holieway assumed the reins in his
absence, became a four-year starter and led the Sooners to the national title in
1985.

Maybe if Royal hadn't allowed Bellard to be so generous with his tutorials, OU
would not have embraced the wishbone as quickly or emphatically, and a worn-down
Royal might have stuck around beyond 1976, his lone non-winning season.

The wishbone at 50

Today, in the 50-year anniversary of the wishbone, the formation has largely
vanished from the scene. The Power Five conferences trend toward the flashy
spread formation, often with dual-threat quarterbacks who would have been great
wishbone play-callers, and recruits flock to those schools to prepare them for
the riches of the NFL. One OU insider said if the Sooners still employed the
wishbone, Kyler Murray could well become the greatest wishbone quarterback in
that school's history.

Texas coach Tom Herman joked that he's well-versed in wishbone lore. Some of the
classic wishbone games from the '60s run on a continuous loop on television
screens in the football complex. So was it the most revolutionary advance in
football?

"I don't know," Herman said. "The forward pass was pretty big."

As an innovation, the wishbone radicalized football like never before. But it
had its time, and the advent of seven-on-seven tournaments, the explosion of the
spread and the demand for pocket passers in the NFL combined to kill the
formation.

"You couldn't run the wishbone today," said West Virginia coach Dana Holgorsen,
who springs from the Hal Mumme-Mike Leach tree that has sprouted so many
successful coaches of the spread formation genre. "No players would want to play
in it."

Besides, it's boring. Or would be with today's fans and their gnatlike attention
span.

The offense so shocked the college football world and was so ruthlessly
efficient that Texas won by lopsided margins. Buck Harvey, the sports editor and
later editor of The Daily Texan, was so dulled by the action, he wrote in the
1970s that he was boycotting Longhorns games. Opponents would have loved that
luxury as well. Oklahoma and others ran roughshod over teams in the late '60s,
the '70s and even into the '90s with some elements of the wishbone. Arkansas'
Ken Hatfield won a couple of Southwest Conference titles with the flexbone,
eschewing passes to the point that it would enrage his own fan base in losses.

But today's coaches say the wishbone lives in principle. Smaller programs rely
on the offense for ball control and clock management, maximizing quick, decisive
quarterbacks and smaller linemen. Of the top five rushing teams last season,
three were at the service academies, led by Army and its 50 touchdowns on the
ground and Navy with a whopping 822 rushing attempts.

"Football is very cyclical," Kansas State's Bill Snyder said. "There really
isn't anything new."

The passing games at Army, Navy, Georgia Tech and Air Force ranked among the
five least prolific in 2017. Army took Royal literally about all the bad things
that can happen with a pass, put it in the air just 65 times and went 10-3.

Two years ago, Navy rode the wishbone's ball control to an upset of Notre Dame
as the Irish had just six possessions.

"There are some remnants of the wishbone in what we do," Holgorsen said. "But
you've got to be 100 percent in it."

Oklahoma's Lincoln Riley is already staying up nights worrying about Army's
wishbone for their showdown in Norman in Week 4.

"Yeah, I think we'll see it a time or two in practice," the Sooners' second-year
coach said. "Actually, we might have to see it a lot. But the wishbone and the
spread are two more similar offenses than you'd believe. There are so many of
the same concepts. You try to spread the ball around, and you do have a million
plays. It'll be a fun game, but it's not cool preparing for them. They're good."

Holgorsen joked, "I pity OU's defensive coordinator."

Iowa State's Matt Campbell echoes Riley's sentiments and sees the wishbone lots
of places.

"You're seeing a little bit of it in the spread formation," Campbell said.
"You've got the zone read option, run-pass options. College football is very
cyclical. It could come back in one shape or form."

Maybe.

"The game is more exciting to watch today," Switzer said. "These guys... try to
get the ball downfield and score on every play."

And 50 years later, would the world consider the wishbone revolutionary?

"I don't know," Koy said. "Hopefully, we did it right, and we won some games."

Contact Kirk Bohls at 512-445-3772.

Twitter: @kbohls

COMING THURSDAY
  Texas has played an even 50 games since Mack Brown's departure after the 2013
 season. We'll examine the football program's highs and lows over the past four
 years and look ahead to the 2018 college football season in our annual preview
 section.


Kirk
  Bohls
  Commentary


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 8, 2018 Saturday
                                 State Edition

Conservatives forecast more favorable future

BYLINE: Chuck Lindell American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 727 words


With the Legislature set to convene in four months, conservative Republican
lawmakers said Friday that the fight is not over on transgender-friendly
bathrooms and same-sex marriage.

Speaking at an Austin forum sponsored by Texas Values, a Christian public policy
advocacy group that is influential in GOP circles, the lawmakers said the issues
were too important to leave unsettled after their favored bills were defeated in
the 2017 legislative session.

"The only way that you fail is to not try," said state Sen. Lois Kolkhorst,
R-Brenham, author of unsuccessful bills to limit transgender-friendly bathrooms
and locker rooms in public schools and government buildings last year.

State Rep. Matt Krause, R-Fort Worth, said the time is ripe to advance
legislation to protect people and businesses opposed to gay marriage and other
policies because of deeply held religious beliefs.

The rapid pace of conservative judges appointed by President Donald Trump,
combined with a June decision by the U.S. Supreme Court that said governments
cannot be hostile to religious practice, should give social and religious
conservatives confidence heading into the legislative session that begins in
January, Krause said.

The pending retirement of House Speaker Joe Straus, a moderate Republican from
San Antonio who has thwarted several conservative priorities, should help as
well, he said.

"We should be able to get something signed, and because of the favorable climate
in the judiciary, I think it will be upheld as well," Krause said.

The lawmakers' comments came at the opening of Texas Values' first Texas Faith,
Family and Freedom Forum, a two-day gathering that is expected to become an
annual event intended to inspire conservative Texans to political action.

The forum sold out with 200 participants, organizers said.

Requiring bathrooms and locker rooms to be used based on the sex listed on each
person's birth certificate is a 2019 legislative priority for the Republican
Party of Texas, which sees the issue as a matter of privacy and safety.

The fight over transgender bathrooms, however, was one of the most contentious
issues during last legislative session, producing several all-night committee
hearings, numerous rallies and protests, and vigorous debates on the Senate
floor.

It also inflamed a long-simmering feud between Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who
presides over the Senate and made curtailing transgender-friendly bathroom
policies a high priority, and Straus, who said the bathroom bill was an
unnecessary and mean-spirited distraction.

When the House killed the Senate-passed bill, Patrick retaliated by holding up
essential legislation, forcing a special legislative session.

Gov. Greg Abbott started the cycle over again by making a transgender bathroom
bill one of 20 items on the special session agenda - and the Senate quickly
passed Kolkhorst's bill, only to watch the House kill it again.

The issue arose again in March, when state Rep. Byron Cook, R-Corsicana, a
prominent committee chairman, told reporters that Abbott's top aides worked
behind the scenes to thwart the transgender bathroom bill, saying the governor
opposed its passage. Abbott's office declined to respond to Cook's statements.

Kolkhorst said at Friday's forum that looking forward, attention should focus on
ensuring that public schools do not adopt policies that allow biological boys
who identify as girls to use female restrooms and locker rooms - policy changes,
she said, that have been adopted by some districts without input from parents.

"I really believed in my heart that this was an issue that we needed to look at
as a state and not have settled school district by school district, not town by
town," she said during a half-hour session titled, "Why are men in the women's
restrooms?"

Kolkhorst called it the "women's rights issue of our time."

Conservatives were a bit more successful on faith-based issues in 2017, when
Republicans filed more than a dozen bills intended to protect religious
practice, including measures to allow businesses, individuals and government
officials to opt out of serving gay couples over religious objections to
same-sex marriage.

One of the bills passed. It barred governments from punishing faith-based foster
care and adoption agencies that refused to place children with LGBT households.

Contact Chuck Lindell at 512-912-2569.

Twitter: @chucklindell

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 18, 2018 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

America might need Tim Gunn now more than ever

BYLINE: Eric Webb American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1205 words


Your Sunday: a day of rest. Tim Gunn's Sunday: getting slaughtered by teens with
sharp objects.

"Slaughtered" is Gunn's own word for what happens at weekly fencing bouts he's
recently taken up. Hyperbolic, sure, but you can't argue it doesn't paint a
picture. The longtime "Project Runway" mentor, who knows a thing or a thousand
about the power of image, says he took up fencing three years ago at age 62. He
takes three lessons in parrying and thrusting a week, he says. It's those bouts,
though, where "your brain can't be anywhere else" that Gunn has sewn into his
Sunday self-care routine.

"It's like chess," Gunn says in a telephone interview. "I'm just completely
rhapsodic about it."

Rhapsodic! Of course the man who once described the "wretched excess" of a
"Runway" design uses a word like "rhapsodic" in casual conversation. And who
couldn't use a little more rhapsody in these wretched days of increasing excess?
Daily invective on social media, a bleak outlook for Earth's climate, leggings
worn as pants: America might need Gunn now more than ever to show us that art,
style and a sense of sartorial proportion are a corrective to the particular
ills of 2018.

These days, Gunn says, "we all know in this nation" that the inspiration of art
is "critically important."

Luckily, Gunn's making an inspirational house call. He's set to appear as the
keynote speaker at this year's Jewel Ball Fashion Luncheon in Austin on Sept.
21. The annual luncheon and fashion show, hosted by the Women's Symphony League,
benefits Austin Symphony Orchestra and its youth programs and leads up to Sept.
22's Jewel Ball, a society gala and symphony fundraising event with a
decades-long history.

Gunn comes to town at a time of change. Earlier this month, he and "Runway" host
Heidi Klum announced they will depart the Lifetime reality series that's brought
them Emmy success to develop a show for Amazon Studios.

But back to the kind of escapist beauty you can pursue, even if you're not from
a family with a tiara budget. The whole fencing thing is relatively new for
Gunn. In a 2015 New York Times article, the fashion expert described what was
then his Sunday routine. Wake up. Breakfast at a diner. Suit up. Head through
Central Park to New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. Gunn says he still
frequents the Met on Sundays to visit his favorite piece, Pablo Picasso's
portrait of Gertrude Stein.

"She keeps moving around within the modern collection," Gunn says. "I'm
constantly looking. 'Where did they put her today?' Fortunately, I always find
her."

The painting's ochre and brown tones. Stein's "gaze off into space and how
profound it feels." These qualities take Gunn to the places he looks for art to
take him, places he describes with more million-dollar words: "I just find it's
purging, it's cathartic, it's healing, it's restorative."

OK, Picasso and fencing are sufficiently erudite habits for a man of Gunn's
tailoring. Does any modern pop culture cut through the noise for a man seeking
both style and substance?

"I'm just an old dinosaur covered with dust," Gunn says.

The past it is, then. Gunn says he's listened to a lot of Aretha Franklin since
the queen of soul's death in August. Those timeless tunes from America's pop
canon sound just as fresh to his ears as they did in 1968. They also (because
this is Gunn we're talking about) inspire a Merriam-Webster string of
adjectives: "It's fresh, it's powerful, it's passionate, and it's authentic,
it's sincere."

As for the Franklin song Gunn finds the most useful today, you get two guesses,
and the first one doesn't count if it's not "Respect." It all comes down to
message.

"We've become a society where we're hurling abuses at people," Gunn says. "Mr.
So-and-So in the White House has made us feel we're entitled to do that. We
really need to navigate the world with respect for ourselves and respect for our
fellow human beings. We're encountering this - well, I'm calling it new, but I
guess it's not so new, new for me - racial divide that is deeply troubling and
upsetting. When I first heard Aretha Franklin's music in 1968, that's exactly
what was amplified in this nation at that time. So in some ways, it's
interesting how things come full circle."

One piece of post-1968 pop culture that Gunn has time for is "Queer Eye,"
Netflix's reboot of 2000s makeover show "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy." He
likens the new version of the show to successful reimaginations of '60s or '70s
fashions, which Gunn says avoids simple nostalgia by looking through a lens of
contemporary culture.

"Queer Eye" sometimes feels like less a makeover show and more what Gunn calls a
"make-better." That show's dapper style mentor, Tan France, rarely asks his
charges to abandon their fashion identity altogether, even when you can tell
it's not the avenue down which he'd go. That intersection of personal style and
self-respect, Gunn says, is where fashion needs to be.

"I believe that fashion should be very personal," Gunn says.

There is one fashion trick peddled out by France that Gunn will not abide, even
if it's become a social media meme: the French tuck.

"Tell me what it is!" Gunn says when the subject comes up.

That's right. Gunn hadn't heard of a French tuck. Though when it's explained
that France's quick-and-easy way to class up a look - front of a buttoned shirt
tucked in, back of the shirt flowing free - Gunn needs no more explanation.

"That's called a French tuck? Well, this old fart will tell you, keep the entire
shirt tucked in," Gunn says.

The technique violates Gunn's three elements to always looking great:
silhouette, proportion and fit.

"I believe we look our best when we divide ourselves into a series of thirds,"
Gunn says. "One third on top, two thirds on the bottom. Two thirds on top, one
third on the bottom. So with a man and a shirt and pair of pants, when you tuck
the shirt in, you're one third on top and two thirds on the bottom. When you
leave the shirt out, you're dividing yourself in half. That's a desperately
unpleasing proportion."

Not that Gunn hates risks - in fact, he says he hates stagnancy. The unknown
doesn't bother him, he says. Even his rise to stitches-and-seams stardom was
marked by a certain deference to momentum. According to a July article from
Forbes, Gunn unexpectedly found himself in his longtime position at Parsons
School of Design's fashion department in New York, which eventually led to an
unexpected on-screen role on "Runway," which eventually led to such mainstream
surrealities as a cameo in the "Smurfs" movie.

"I wouldn't go backwards for a nanosecond," Gunn says.

Perhaps Gunn's embrace of the unknown is as valuable a lesson these days as
knowing which parts of your shirt to keep tucked in. Take it from him and what
he's learned from old pals like Aretha and Gertrude.

"We need to take care of ourselves, and we need to take care of our spirit,"
Gunn says. "We need a constant reminder of things that have longevity, staying
power. Things that are distractions in the moment, we think they aren't going to
alter our universe. We don't know. But you can't just obsess on it."

IF YOU GO

What: 2018 Jewel Ball Fashion Luncheon

When: 10:30 a.m. Sept. 21

Where: Zilker Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency, 208 Barton Springs Road

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                30 October 2018

Georgetown is already powered by 100 percent renewable energ

BYLINE: Claire Osborn cosborn@statesman.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 483 words


Georgetown is already powered by 100 percent renewable energy, but city
officials say they will be one step closer to having that energy produced
locally after the city won a $1 million prize Monday.

The Bloomberg Philanthropies U.S. Mayors Challenge awarded the prize to
Georgetown and eight other cities across the country for coming up with
potential solutions to the toughest problems cities face.

Georgetown 's idea was to start producing solar power locally by putting panels
on residents' roofs. The city runs on 100 percent renewable energy from a solar
farm in West Texas and a wind farm in the Texas Panhandle.

"Like all cities, we know in this radically changing world we need to be agile
and innovative to remain sustainable, competitive and resilient," Georgetown
Mayor Dale Ross said Monday in a statement issued by the city.

Georgetown will use the $1 million to install city-owned solar panels at 10 to
13 homes and place seven to nine batteries around those homes at multiple
locations, said Jackson Daly, an assistant to the Georgetown city manager. He
said residents will either get credit on their energy bills for having the solar
panels on their rooftops or they can choose to receive free backup power from
the solar batteries.

"It will help curb peak demand, for instance, in August late in day," he said.
Having the extra energy will help because the city is growing so quickly that by
2021, it will have to go out into the market and buy more energy, Daly said.

Bloomberg Philanthropies liked Georgetown's idea because "to become a completely
renewable energy-powered city is bold and audacious, and exactly the kind of
idea we aim to support through the Mayors Challenge," said James Anderson, head
of government innovation for the foundation.

In October, Ross said that in 40 to 50 years, local solar energy produced in
Georgetown could possibly produce half the energy needed by the city.

Georgetown entered the contest in October 2017 and in February was named one of
35 finalists to receive a $100,000 grant from the foundation to test its idea.
Ross said the city won the grant partially because it put solar panels on its
utility services building, the Westside Service Building, which proved that
solar energy could be produced more cheaply than the cost of buying electrical
energy on the market.

The city used the $100,000 grant for, among other things, developing a marketing
plan and meeting with focus groups to find out whether people would be
comfortable with having city-owned solar panels on their roofs, Daly said.

The other cities that won a $1 million prize were Denver; Durham, N.C.; Fort
Collins, Colo.; Huntington, W.V.; Los Angeles; New Rochelle, N.Y.; Philadelphia;
and South Bend, Ind. Among the problems those cities are working to alleviate
are homelessness, the opioid crisis, mobility, climate change and economic
opportunity, the foundation said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                1 November 2018

Their presentations are the only things, too, that silence t

SECTION: TX FEATURES; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 1082 words


Their presentations are the only things, too, that silence the wonderfully
chatty guests at the Four Seasons Hotel. Depend on the emcee -- this time
silver-tongued Jake Silverstein, formerly of Texas Monthly, now with the New
York Times Magazine -- to tame the roar with some timely humor in order to make
way for the authors.

Jacqueline Woodson, known for her youth writing but an author for all ages,
squeezed all sorts of wisdom about books, libraries and writers into just a few
minutes. Presidential historian Michael Beschloss, frequent contributor to NBC
and PBS, reminded us of our highly unusual political times, while also referring
to the roles of U.S. presidents in wartime, the subject of his latest book.

Vanessa Brantley-Newton and Celeste Ng added their fresh insights, but it was
Luis Alberto Urrea who had the audience in stitches with a memorized anecdote
from "The House of Broken Angels" that focused on an old woman trying to smuggle
a parrot into the U.S. from Mexico.

Meanwhile, the table chat at this event remains among the brightest in town. I
was seated with the family of festival executive director Lois Kim, each member
as accomplished and poised than the next. In the lobby before dinner and during
the necessary lulls, I caught up with authors, readers, editors, photographers,
illustrators, archivists, movie directors and generous backers of the fest.

Conclusion: Austin nurtures an unusually magnanimous literary community.

Tapestry Dance Company opens season

By design, emotion saturated the premiere of "Sound & Silence: The Rhythms of
Life" from Tapestry Dance Company in its season opener. Moody lighting, intense
colors and minimal but expressive costumes and props set the stage at the
Rollins Studio Theatre in the Long Center for the Performing Arts.

All this amplified the company's exploration of eight basic emotions in eight
short dances at the core of the show.

This took guts. Mimesis is not always the friend of dance. Anger can look like
fear which can resemble distrust and sadness. Trust and anticipation match up
easily with joy and surprise.

Yet each segment, which featured the primary company member who designed and
narrated that portion, employed personal visual and audio dialects within the
realm of rhythm dancing. The "silence" of the title was reinforced by the
supporting performers who danced "voiceless" without their tap shoes.

Tzahi Ben-Meir's "Anger" achieved a ferocious, digging intensity, while Zeke
Zimmerman's "Anticipation" an off-kilter frivolity. Siobhan Alexis' "Fear"
spiraled down an emotional drain; Jesse Berry's "Sad" shifted among ambiguities;
Denis Morita's "Trust" unfolded into a pan-dance of release. In Act II,
Madeleine Owens' "Distrust" pivoted between waltzy optimism and withdrawal;
Avalon Rathgeb's "Surprise" turned into a playfully executed ball game; Andrea
Torres' cheeky "Joy" radiated good feelings.

Yet my favorite numbers, put together by Tapestry artistic director Acia Gray,
were the group efforts, especially "Together Yet Lonely," set to the bubbly,
electronia version of "(One) Is the Loneliest Number" as recorded on "Brazil
Remixed" and featuring Leslie King. Often to congruent jazz, these larger
numbers seemed to unify and synthesize the emotions analyzed in the constituent
dances.

Root Ball for TreeFolks

Forgive me for beginning my report on the Root Ball benefit for TreeFolks by
describing the venue in a little detail. Previously, the group that has planted
more than 2.8 million saplings in the Austin area during its 30-year history
supped under the sheltering trees at Springdale Farm, which has since changed
hands.

This year, TreeFolks moved to a fresh special events venue called "C70" in the
former home of La V eatery on East Seventh Street. Although they had hoped to
spread out over the spacious landscaped patios, the autumn night was cold and
rainy, so the reception and silent auction took place in the eastern wing of the
L-shaped interior space, which worked out perfectly well.

Dinner was served in the western wing and speakers addressed the crowd from an
open corner of the room. Executive director Thais Perkins was particularly on
point about science and climate change, while Mayor Steve Adler and U.S. Rep.
Lloyd Doggett added apt political angles.

Yet the evening was anything but divisive. Honored were Hays County Commissioner
Will Conley, who helped drive the group's replanting of the ravaged Blanco River
Valley; State Rep. Carol Alvarado of Houston, who led the charge in a special
legislative session to prevent the gutting of municipal tree protection
ordinances; and Pilgrim Building Company for its "Respect for Trees in
Business."

Sneak preview: TreeFolks will receive yet another big grant to plant trees in a
Central Texas district, but we must wait for official word before reporting it.

Preservation Austin Merit Awards Luncheon

It's no secret that I revere the work of Preservation Austin, which has been
saving the best of our city's built environment and culture for 65 years. While
historical preservationists sometimes employ overheated rhetoric that makes me
wince or worse, no city should be stripped of its beautiful structures and
public art without due consideration.

The annual Preservation Austin Merit Awards luncheon at the Driskill Hotel,
built in 1886 in what could be called a Cattle Baron Baroque style, is doubly
meaningful because one of the group's biggest triumphs was saving the hotel
against all odds from the wrecking ball.

As reported earlier in this space, all of this year's winners were deserving in
different ways and include an East Austin mural, a community dance staged in old
swimming pools, smart redos of beloved buildings and fixes for at least three
major 19th century structures.

Instead of an out-of-town speaker -- they usually speak in generalities anyway
-- this year enlightened Realtor Clayton Bullock gave a rousing history of the
group, including a mention of his ancestor who built a hotel at Sixth Street and
Congress Avenue at the city's birth. The text of his speech should be
distributed far and wide.

Mayor Pro Tem Kathie Tovo regaled the guests with some of the best municipal
news in years: The addition of two new historical districts, the expansion of
the city's overextended preservation staff and, most thrilling, the devotion for
the first time of a portion of hotel taxes to parks and history. This is no
small revenue stream: $11 million the first time out of the gate.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                18 November 2018

Potential Democratic candidates

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 2516 words


There are at least 37 Democrats who are thinking about, or being talked about,
as candidates for their party's nomination for president in 2020.

They are, in alphabetical order:

Michael Avenatti

Upside: At the Texas Tribune Festival in September, the Los Angeles attorney who
represented porn star Stormy Daniels in her lawsuit against President Donald
Trump, said he has just the right "skill set" for a "match-up ... with this
dumpster fire of a president."

Downside: Many Democrats have concluded that Avenatti's arrogance does their
party more harm than good.

Joe Biden

Upside: The former senator and vice president has knowledge, experience and a
well-worn relationship with the American people.

Downside: Not just old-school, but old. He turns 76 on Tuesday, older than
Trump. Also famously prolix and gaffe-prone.

Michael Bloomberg

Upside: Successful businessman as founder, owner and CEO of Bloomberg.
Successful three-term mayor of New York, though never elected as a Democrat.
Eleventh-richest man on the planet who can spend whatever it takes.

Downside: Can an imperious billionaire, who waged campaigns against guns,
tobacco and the Big Gulp, reclaim America from the intuitive populist Trump?

Cory Booker

Upside: Football star at Stanford, Rhodes Scholar, Yale Law School graduate who
moved to inner city Newark, N.J., got elected mayor and then U.S. senator. He is
a big, positive, high-energy personality who will stand out even in a crowded
field.

Downside: Can get carried away with partisan anger and self-righteousness, like
his cringe-worthy "I am Spartacus" moment during the Brett Kavanaugh Supreme
Court confirmation hearings.

Sherrod Brown

Upside: With his raspy voice, rumpled mien and lunch-bucket politics, Brown, who
just won a third term in the Senate by 6 points on an otherwise bad night for
Ohio Democrats, could be the working-class hero who returns the swing state to
the Democratic column.

Downside: He might lose Ohio to Trump.

Steve Bullock

Upside: Re-elected Montana's governor in 2016 by 4 points as Trump was carrying
the state by 21 points. A pragmatic moderate who could appeal to the political
center and might be the answer to Democrats' rural problem. Hopes to do what
Jimmy Carter, the peanut-farming governor of Georgia, did in 1976, and use the
Iowa caucuses to connect one-on-one with enough small-town folks to put him on a
trajectory to the White House.

Downside: Carter first saw Iowa's potential and exploited it. Bullock won't be
alone

Pete Buttigieg

Upside: At 36, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., is a Harvard graduate, Rhodes
Scholar, Afghan veteran and gay. Two years ago, New York Times columnist Frank
Bruni wrote, "If you went into some laboratory to concoct a perfect Democratic
candidate, you'd be hard pressed to improve on Pete."

Downside: South Bend has a population slightly smaller than Round Rock. He ran
for chairman of the Democratic National Committee last year and fell short.

Bob Casey

Upside: The Pennsylvania senator just won re-election by more than 12 points
over U.S. Rep. Lou Barletta, an early Trump supporter, in a state that was
critical to Trump's victory.

Downside: Casey is a rare pro-life Democratic officeholder, which makes him
unacceptable to a significant bloc of Democrats.

Julián Castro

Upside: He could be the sole or most prominent Latino in the race. With his
twin, U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro, he has a great personal story. At 44, he is
young and looks younger, but has experience as mayor of San Antonio and
secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

Downside: His experience is pretty narrow for a presidential candidate. Passed
on testing his mettle by running statewide in Texas. Will have to prove he is
not running for the second spot.

Hillary Clinton

Upside: Been there, done that. Experienced, prepared, universally known, devoted
following.

Downside: Been there, done that. Lost the nomination to Barack Obama in 2008.
Barely hung on against Bernie Sanders in 2016. Already lost once to Trump, which
few thought could be done.

Andrew Cuomo

Upside: Governor, former attorney general of New York state and HUD secretary
with revered last name among Democrats of a certain age who feel cheated they
never got to vote for his father, Mario Cuomo, who served three terms as New
York governor and never ran for president.

Downside: Abrasive personality, lacking his father's poetry. "We are not going
to make America great again," he said over the summer during his re-election
campaign. "It was never that great."

Bill de Blasio

Upside: He governs New York City, which offers him immediate credibility and
entrée to voters' attention, as well as a lot of campaign cash.

Downside: America has a love-hate relationship with New York. We already have a
president from New York City, and more compelling New York mayors -- John
Lindsay, Ed Koch, Rudy Giuliani -- failed to achieve higher office.

John Delaney

Upside: A three-term congressman from Maryland who didn't seek re-election to
Congress this year to devote his full time to the campaign, which he launched in
July 2017. Has already visited all 99 Iowa counties. Has already run TV ads.

Downside: A three-term congressman from Maryland.

Tulsi Gabbard

Upside: The dynamic, 37-year-old Hawaiian, vegetarian Iraq War veteran is the
first Hindu to serve in Congress, to which she was just elected to her fourth
term, and is just as heterodox in her political views.

Downside: Maybe too exotic. The problem with being outside any particular box is
that people of all sorts will have occasion to find fault with you.

Eric Garcetti

Upside: Last year, Garcetti was re-elected mayor of Los Angeles, America's
second-largest city, with 81 percent of the vote. Would be the first Latino and
first Jewish president.

Downside: No politician has ever gone directly from City Hall to the White
House, and Los Angeles might be a little too "Blade Runner" for many Americans
to look to its leader for direction.

Kirsten Gillibrand

Upside: Named to replace Clinton as New York senator in 2009, Gillibrand just
won another term with two-thirds of the vote and $10.9 million left over. A
#MeToo standout, she was the first Democrat to call for then-Minnesota Sen. Al
Franken to resign.

Downside: Critics smell opportunism here and in Gillibrand's general lurch left.

Kamala Harris

Upside: The first-term senator from California is the 2020 candidate from
central casting. The 54-year-old daughter of immigrants from India and Jamaica,
she is the first woman to serve as San Francisco district attorney and the first
to serve as California's attorney general. She is the second African-American
woman and first South Asian-American senator in history.

Downside: Like the other Californians on this list, Harris would enable Trump to
run against that state as a separate country out of step with what makes America
Great.

John Hickenlooper

Upside: Leaving office after two terms as governor of Colorado, where he
demonstrated moderate, business-friendly leadership, and implemented the
legalization of pot, which he opposed. A former brewpub owner, he wrote a
memoir, "The Opposite of Woe: My Life in Beer and Politics."

Downside: Before President Obama, governors were in vogue. These days, in
Democratic primaries, the only thing in the middle of the road are dead
jackalopes.

Eric Holder

Upside: Obama's attorney general for six years, Holder could be the candidate
for those who revere the former president but wished he had sharper elbows.

Downside: Never been elected anything and his line while campaigning back in
October -- "When they go low, we kick 'em, that's what this new Democratic party
is about" -- suggests he might not have a knack for it.

Jay Inslee

Upside: Two-term governor of Washington state and former congressman who just
completed a successful tenure as head of the Democratic Governors Association.
Strong record of environmental advocacy.

Downside: His signature initiative on climate change was soundly rejected by
voters this year. Like Hickenlooper and Bullock, Inslee will have to persuade
Democrats that what they need in 2020 is a steady hand and not a quickened
pulse, and that, among several candidates who meet that description, he's their
guy.

Amy Klobuchar

Upside: The effective, bipartisan, low-key and supernormal Minnesota senator was
just elected to a third term with 60 percent of the vote. In an indelible
moment, she stared down Brett Kavanaugh when he turned a question about blackout
moments back on her. He later apologized.

Downside: Nice guys (and gals) finish last.

Mitch Landrieu

Upside: The former New Orleans mayor won praise for his courage and eloquence in
taking down Confederate monuments in his hometown.

Downside: Like Garcetti, he would have to make the unprecedented leap from mayor
to president. Unlike Garcetti, he would be unlikely to carry his home state.

Terry McAuliffe

Upside: No candidate has closer ties to the Clintons or is a more prodigious
fundraiser than the former governor of Virginia and chairman of the Democratic
National Committee.

Downside: With his Clinton and money ties, McAuliffe would not offer Democrats a
fresh face or a clean slate.

Jeff Merkley

Upside: The second-term senator from Oregon was the only one of Bernie Sanders'
Senate colleagues to back him last time, and he could emerge, at 61, as a
younger, more mild-mannered favorite of some Berniecrats.

Downside: Lacks Sanders' sizzle.

Gavin Newsom

Upside: Charismatic and handsome, the 51-year-old former San Francisco mayor and
current lieutenant governor is the newly elected governor of California.

Downside: He hasn't even taken office as governor yet. And ex-wife Kimberly
Guilfoyle is Donald Trump Jr.'s girlfriend and vice chairwoman of America First
Action, a pro-Trump super PAC.

Richard Ojeda

Upside: A retired Army paratrooper with the haircut to prove it, Ojeda, a West
Virginia state senator, is running for president coming off losing a race for
Congress in West Virginia by 12 points, dramatically narrowing Trump's 49-point
margin in the district.

Downside: He still lost by 12 points. He voted for Trump in 2016.

Martin O'Malley

The former Baltimore mayor and Maryland governor had what it took to run for the
Democratic nomination last time out, sharing the debate stage with Clinton and
Sanders. That means he has more experience running for president than anyone on
this list except Biden and Clinton. And he has continued to court Democratic
activists in early voting states ever since.

Downside: His first time out, in a small field where he couldn't help but get
some notice, he didn't create a ripple of interest.

Beto O'Rourke

Upside: In narrowly losing a Senate race to Ted Cruz in Texas, the previously
obscure three-term congressman from El Paso managed to create a national brand,
fundraising network and fan base, vaulting him toward the front of the pack,
ahead of everyone but Biden and Sanders in post-election polling, by offering a
feel-good, positive approach to opposing Trump.

Downside: Peel away the charisma and O'Rourke's record is very light for a
presidential candidate, and it is unclear whether his improvisational,
do-it-yourself style could sustain a national campaign without an injection of
the kind of professional help he has heretofore spurned in the name of
authenticity.

Deval Patrick

Upside: The former two-term Massachusetts governor is a close friend of Obama
and the favored choice of some in his inner circle who see him as a worthy
successor.

Downside: Patrick, who succeeded Mitt Romney as Massachusetts governor, joined
Romney's former firm, Bain Capital, vilified by Obama in the 2012 campaign, on
leaving the governorship and remains there.

Tim Ryan

Upside: If you're down with the attempted Democratic coup to keep Nancy Pelosi
from retaking the speaker's gavel, Ryan is your man. The 45-year-old congressman
from Youngstown, Ohio, unsuccessfully challenged Pelosi two years ago. He
believes the party needs to move to the middle, politically and geographically.

Downside: He's all about fighting Trump to reclaim the allegiance of the white
working class. Much of the rest of the party, while they would love for that to
happen, sees the party's future elsewhere.

Bernie Sanders

Upside: In the 2016 campaign, he built a remarkable grassroots movement from
scratch that nearly overcame Clinton and might have defeated Trump.

Downside: Would enable Trump to turn the 2020 election into a referendum on
socialism instead of a referendum on Trump. And he's 77.

Howard Schultz

Upside: The former Starbucks CEO built the coffee chain into one of America's
most ubiquitous and popular brands.

Downside: Voters crave authenticity, but is Schultz, an authentic corporate
white male without any political or governmental experience, really Democrats'
cup of tea?

Tom Steyer

Upside: The San Francisco billionaire has spent millions on an ad campaign to
impeach Trump and has the money and contacts to mount a serious campaign.

Downside: Do Democrats want to be arguing the merits of impeachment, a likely
political dead-end, when they are trying to achieve the doable -- defeating
Trump at the polls?

Eric Swalwell

Upside: Viewers of MSNBC will recognize the precocious Northern California
congressman, just elected to a fourth term, who appears to have a residency at
the anti-Trump cable network. He has already made a dozen political trips to his
native state of Iowa.

Downside: Swalwell, who turned 38 Friday, presents himself as the candidate of
the future, and appears is in a hurry to get there. But the future isn't here
yet.

Elizabeth Warren

Upside: Essentially a fiery Clinton, the Massachusetts senator might be best
able to harness the unrequited feminism of the 2016 campaign.

Downside: At a most inopportune time in late September when Democrats were
focused on the midterms, Warren did a distracting clinic on how to be owned by
Trump, releasing a DNA test that indicated she had a Native American ancestor
six to 10 generations ago -- and thinking that would get Trump to stop mocking
her as "Pocahontas."

Marianne Williamson

Upside: Oprah Winfrey may have sworn off any interest in running, but her
friend, writer and spiritual guru Williamson, released a video Friday saying
she's thinking about it. "We had a miracle in this country in 1776, and we need
another one," said Williamson, whose Love America tour, which hit 27 cities this
year, could be seen as an answer to Trump's rallies.

Downside: Every bit of conventional wisdom. She'll need a miracle.

Andrew Yang

Upside: Now for something completely different, Yang, a New York City
entrepreneur and the son of Taiwanese immigrants, is worried that a third of
American workers are at risk of permanent unemployment because of robots,
artificial intelligence and the like, and he thinks he has some answers.

Downside: American politics and political reporting does not generally reward
campaigns of ideas.

Jonathan Tilove

jtilove@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sidebar


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                21 November 2018

POLITIFACT;
Median income has reached record levels

BYLINE: D.L. Davis PolitiFact.com

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 526 words


Politicians often point to the success of America's middle class as a barometer
for the health of the broader American economy.

During the fall campaign, the West Virginia Republican Party tweeted, "Thanks to
President Trump and Republican policies, middle-class income rose to a record
level in 2017 as the strong economy lifted the fortunes of more Americans."

Is this accurate? We will give context for the party's claim of credit for the
Trump administration, but our fact-check is looking solely at the numbers.

"Middle class" is a vague term that does not have a consistent definition.
However, economists generally consider median income to be a reasonable
yardstick for the "middle class."

According to an annual study published by the U.S. Census Bureau in September
2018, the U.S. median income was $61,372 in 2017, a 1.8 percent increase from
the previous year after adjusting for inflation.

The new level of $61,372 represents a record high since the statistic has been
recorded, although the inflation-adjusted figure has come close a few times in
the past, census data show. In 1999, for instance, inflation-adjusted median
household income reached $60,062, and in 2007, shortly before the Great
Recession, it reached $59,534.

Less certain is the assertion that the record median income level is "thanks to
President Trump."

As we have frequently noted, economists say that presidents don't deserve either
full credit or full blame for employment trends on their watch. The president is
not all-powerful on economic matters; broader factors, from the business cycle
to changes in technology to demographic shifts, play major roles.

"I suppose President Trump could claim that the upward trend in per capita or
median income between 2016 and 2017 was due the policies that his new
administration adopted or pursued, in deregulation, taxation, immigration and
trade," said Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution. However,
he said, "that is not terribly compelling, because incomes had been improving
for several years before Mr. Trump took office."

Indeed, between the beginning of the post-Great Recession recovery in 2010 and
2016 -- a period when President Barack Obama was in office -- inflation-adjusted
median income rose by about 9 percent. Taking into account the longer period of
time, that's a little slower than 1.8 percent annual increase under Trump, but
it's not dramatically different.

So the bump in median income under Trump is largely similar to the trajectory
under Obama, rather than representing a major turnaround. That undercuts the
argument for crediting Trump exclusively.

Our ruling

The West Virginia Republican Party said that "middle-class income rose to a
record level in 2017 as the strong economy lifted the fortunes of more
Americans.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, median household income did rise to a
record high in 2017 of $61,372.

The party is on far less certain ground when it credits Trump, who, like any
president, deserves some -- but hardly all -- credit for the economy's
performance on his watch.

Looking solely at the numbers, though, the statement is accurate. We rate it
True.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                12 December 2018

Bourbon finally to come at Still Austin Whiskey Co.

BYLINE: Arianna Auber aauber@statesman.com

SECTION: TX FEATURES; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 528 words


Although Still Austin Whiskey Co. has been producing new make whiskey -- a
spirit drawing primary flavor from its base grain -- as well as rye gin for the
past year and a half, the urban distillery in South Austin has had a major goal
in mind from the start. And it's about to be realized: A full-fledged bourbon
made from all Texas-grown grain releases next year.

The bourbon featuring corn, rye and barley will be Still Austin's first aged
product. Already, head distiller John Schrepel has noticed the young whiskey is
maturing beautifully, in part because the hot Texas climate allows for swifter
aging than Kentucky's, where the bulk of the country's bourbon is produced. From
New York, Schrepel has had to adjust his thinking about the bourbon-aging
process as a result, but he's excited about the finished whiskey.

"We're changing some things down here," he said. "I feel like this one-year-old
bourbon is going to be comparable to a three-year-old bourbon in Kentucky or New
York. At seven months, it has a nice graham cracker nose and surprising
smoothness for being 110 proof."

Still Austin Whiskey Co. relies on a slow water reduction method to fine-tune
the flavor of the bourbon, according to the distillery's CEO, Chris Seals. Used
in France to make brandy, it's not a typical process for bourbon-making, and
Still Austin might well be the only whiskey distillery in the U.S. to do it.
Over the course of 10 months, water is slowly added to the barrels, lowering the
proof of the whiskey and drawing out distinct flavors that might not be pulled
out otherwise.

"It adds a lot of depth and complexity to the spirit," he said, noting that as
the Still Austin distilling team tastes the liquid in barrels from month to
month, it appears to change continually, influenced by both wood and water.

The process is labor-intensive but has been worth it so far, Seals said.
Additionally, the whiskey itself, the distillate that goes into the barrels, is
important, too. Comprised of 70 percent white corn, 25 percent elbon rye --
often used by Texas farmers as a cover crop -- and 5 percent malted barley, the
whiskey develops early flavors from these grains. In that way, Still Austin is a
pioneer as well.

Relying entirely on Texas-grown grains presents advantages and certainly
challenges. A major component of Still Austin's "grain-to-glass" program has
been to work with farmers, encouraging them to promote biodiversity and lay down
new kinds of grain that might not have previously been used in Texas spirits
before.

"We're not trying to create Kentucky bourbon here," Seals said. "We use the
ingredients that we have in our state and the right tools to bring the natural
flavors in those grains out. It was a big gamble initially because you don't
know what the grains taste like. No other distillery is really using Texas-grown
grains, so starting with those simple grains and crafting them into spirits,
that's been a lot of hard work."

The bourbon won't be released until the spring, but Still Austin hopes to draw
interest ahead of time in the spirit that defines most what the distillery, in
the heart of South Austin at 440 E. Saint Elmo Rd., aims to do.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                30 December 2018

On a windy day in late winter of 1984, I arrived home to fin

BYLINE: Paul Robbins

SECTION: TX NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 712 words


On a windy day in late winter of 1984, I arrived home to find my gas cut off
without notice. It was one of the many indignities I suffered while living
without sufficient income, but one indelibly etched in memory. I scrambled to
get service restored, but needed to make a hard choice about which other
necessity to do without. (You live by the hour when you're paid by the week.)

As winter closes in and heating bills spike, many consumers worry that their
bills will take away from meals and other necessities. Some may wonder if they
can afford their bills at all.

The main regional gas utility, Texas Gas Service, collected about $140 million
in Austin in 2017. As a consumer advocate, I have followed its local rates and
policies for decades and have reached some conclusions of late. The gas
company's rate structure penalizes low-income customers and conservationists.
Its policies do not align with the city of Austin's municipally-owned electric
and water utilities. Our gas bills are higher because of this. And several of
its energy conservation programs are not cost effective. I have also found that
the company is poorly regulated by the city agency charged to do so. More
specifically:

o Texas Gas has steeply regressive rates: The more you use, the less you pay per
unit of consumption. In contrast, Austin's municipal electric and water
utilities have progressive rates, where the more you use, the more you pay per
unit. Regressive rates hurt lower-income customers, who generally use less
energy. These rates also discourage energy conservation.

o Between 2008 and 2018, rates for the average residential customer (without
fuel charges) have gone up more than 50 percent after accounting for inflation.
While some of this is justified because safer plastic pipe is replacing old
metal lines, there is no indication of when these increases will end.

o Austin's municipal utilities generally charge the full cost to hook up new
customers to electricity, water, and wastewater. Because of this, our utilities
have experienced rate reductions. Yet full recovery fees do not exist for the
gas company, meaning that existing customers pay some of the cost of adding new
customers to the system. Austin ratepayers also pay for capital improvements in
cities and areas outside Austin's city limits.

o Some of the company's energy conservation programs are a waste of money.
Having been an environmentalist the whole of my adult life, it pains me to say
this. However, $4.5 million from Austin ratepayers will be wasted over the next
three years. The cost of tankless water heaters in homes is so high that they
will never recoup their savings during the appliance's lifetime. There is just
not enough use. And the high cost of efficient furnaces cannot be recouped in
relatively mild Texas winters. These are meant for colder climates like New
England and Alaska.

Over the last decade, the city's Office of Telecommunications and Regulatory
Affairs (TARA), which supposedly regulates the gas company, has acted more like
a hostage negotiator than a consumer advocate, bargaining from a position of
weakness. First, it has allowed rates to become more regressive. TARA has also
allowed the gas company to frivolously spend energy conservation money, while
allowing the company to hide information that could reveal if these expenditures
are imprudent. Finally, it has allowed the company to escape full capital
recovery fees and has never challenged Austin ratepayers' funding of capital
improvements outside Austin's borders.

This company is in business to begin with because the city granted them a
franchise to operate. If Texas Gas continues to act more out of self interest
than customer interest, Austin can refuse to renew the franchise when it comes
up in 2026. In that case, Texas Gas could sell its system to another company or
the city could offer to buy it. No one would lose service during such a
transition.As winter fuel bills spike, it is time for a change in attitude on
the part of city regulators. If they had been living in my home the day its gas
was disconnected, perhaps they would feel more motivated.

Robbins is an environmental activist and consumer advocate living in Austin. He
has been current on his gas bill since 1984.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article


                                 Copyright 2018
                              All Rights Reserved
