
                               2 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Austin adapts to climate changes

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1226 words


Not long after firefighters extinguished the last embers of the devastating 2011
Central Texas wildfires, Austin officials asked a question that could have come
out of a climate-change symposium: What if those kind of fires are becoming more
likely?

"One of the aspects we were talking about was that, while none of us in the
Austin Fire Department are meteorologists, we knew it's been consistently hotter
and drier" in recent years, Assistant Fire Chief Harry Evans said. "The new
normal has changed ... and that raises the level of the threat we need to
prepare for."

For much of the last decade, climate-change discussions have focused on just how
much human actions are influencing weather patterns and how much people can cut
back on activities that produce greenhouse gases. But in Austin and other large
cities around the country, there is now a growing consensus that no matter how
effectively communities curb greenhouse gases, climate change is bringing
pernicious side effects that are unavoidable - and to which communities must
adapt.

"We're observing these changes, and in this (context) it's almost irrelevant
what's causing them, man or nature," said Zach Baumer, Austin's climate program
manager. "It's almost an easier conversation to talk about being prepared,
making your community more resilient and mitigating risk."

Other cities have established aggressive climate adaptation plans, including New
York, Chicago and Seattle. The Chicago Climate Action Plan addresses, among
other things, managing heat, managing stormwater, capturing rain where it falls
and reflecting sunlight away from rooftops. It bluntly warns that "our familiar
cycle of weather may soon become a dim memory." New York made national headlines
last month when Mayor Michael Bloomberg rolled out a $19.5 billion plan with
proposals ranging from coastal levees to better protecting hospitals.

Austin, which, unlike New York, isn't threatened by the possibility of a rising
ocean and the associated billions of dollars in damages that could occur, is
pursuing a strategy that is less a bold initiative and more a gradual shift in
mindset. Austin has recently established a $1.6 million wildfire prevention
division within the Fire Department, accelerated the laying of pipes that allow
people to reuse water before it is discharged back into the Colorado River, and
even tweaked its lawn-mowing practices to allow more saplings to grow.

It is a less audacious approach than the city took when it adopted the Climate
Protection Plan in 2007. That plan focuses primarily on cutting carbon
emissions, which most climate scientists say exacerbate climate change. Austin
owes many of its environmental bona fides to its efforts to cut carbon
emissions, primarily through Austin Energy's nation-leading use of renewable
energy.

Tiered rates

target water use

Sascha Petersen, an Austin-based climate policy consultant, said he views
climate change like a train chugging down the tracks - even if society slams on
the brakes by cutting carbon emissions, "the train is still going to cover a lot
of distance before it stops, so we need to think about where it's going and the
impacts that will happen regardless of how quickly we reduce greenhouse gas
emissions."

The most pressing issues in Austin are fire and water.

"A big part of our approach is (assuming) there is less water coming into the
(Highland Lakes) in the long term, that certainly being the case in the short
term," said Daryl Slusher, an assistant director of the Austin Water Utility.
For instance, Slusher said, earlier this month the city reopened Roy G. Guerrero
Colorado River Park, which the city will maintain with so-called gray water -
water that has already been used for such things as bathing and washing dishes.
A "reuse" system doesn't require full treatment and uses less energy than a
system that makes water potable.

"This is approximately 10 million gallons a year that won't be coming from
potable water or from raw water" in Lake Travis, Slusher said. He said the city
is also trying to entice customers to use less water through steps such as
tiered rates, which rise as consumption increases.

In the midst of a severe drought, Lakes Travis and Buchanan, the region's main
reservoirs, are now 37 percent full - well below their level at this point last
year, which was one of the lowest ever for the beginning of the summer.

In a sense, Austin's adaptation strategies are simply putting more emphasis on
alleviating existing problems - an appropriate response to a phenomenon that
climate models suggest heighten the risks a region already faces, said Petersen,
who works with the federal government as well as with Seattle, Tucson and
several Pacific Northwest tribes crafting adaptation strategies. He is studying
the Great Plains region, which includes Texas, as part of the federal
government's National Climate Assessment, and he said the data suggest more
frequent droughts in Central Texas broken by the sudden deluges that earned the
region the nickname "flash flood alley."

The threat of wildfire is certainly not new. In 2003, an Austin assistant fire
chief who studied the area's wildfire risk determined that it was heightened by
the number of people moving into fire-prone areas. Nature uses small fires to
prevent big ones. But with more people living in the woods of Bastrop or atop
the hills of West Austin, the small fire that once cleared out underbrush and
then died out could now burn down a home, and so it's generally extinguished
quickly. Brush then accumulates.

The September 2011 wildfires scorched more than 33,000 acres in Bastrop County,
destroyed more than 1,700 homes and other structures and caused more than $325
million in insured losses. In Spicewood, 45 homes were destroyed. In Steiner
Ranch, 23 homes were destroyed.

Clearing brush,

mowing less

With predictions of more drought, Austin's City Council approved the
six-employee wildfire prevention division earlier this year. Jim Linardos, head
of the division, said one of its main tasks will be reducing the area's dead
underbrush that serves as kindling through controlled burns.

"The old ranchers keep telling us this is as bad as the (record) drought of the
1950s," Linardos said. "The national trend is more wildfires. We're preparing
with that in mind."

In some instances, adaptation is as simple as where to mow.

In some parks, the city has been mowing around large trees and disturbing their
seedlings in the process, said Mike Personett, an assistant director in the
city's Watershed Protection Department. This means fewer trees have been growing
during a time when the city's tree canopy - a point of civic pride - has been
shrinking because of the drought. Personett said the city is now leaving some
little-used corners of parks untouched to allow more trees to grow.

No choice is without consequences. Some have objected to what they perceive as a
lack of tidiness, but Personett said that is a short-term issue that should
disappear once trees begin growing and the tree canopy expands. Likewise,
planting trees in areas where the city tries to route rainwater improves their
chances of survival.

"Sustainability is in the middle of a lot of these discussions," Personett said.
"We want to approach these things with multiple objectives and get the most bang
for the buck."

Contact Marty Toohey at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: Friday's front-page story about the city of Austin's attempts to
adapt to climate change incorrectly stated the source of irrigation water in
Guerrero Colorado River Park. It is reclaimed water, which is treated effluent
from sewage plants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Team leads polar study

BYLINE: Farzad Mashhood American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 784 words


A team of University of Texas researchers recently discovered a swamplike system
of water under an Antarctic glacier the size of New Mexico - a finding that
might hold the key to how quickly the polar ice will melt and the seas will
rise.

From a nondescript office at the J.J. Pickle Research Campus, sweltering in the
midsummer heat like the rest of Central Texas, this research team has become
renowned for its study of some of the coldest places on Earth - not to mention
Jupiter's icy moon, Europa.

Their expertise on the Antarctic is not as improbable as it might seem. The
frigid continent has a rare combination of land, sea and ice, and the UT group
has specialists in each of those usually separate fields. Due to the
university's proximity to oil and natural gas drilling, UT has developed
technology for detecting what is underground, similar to detecting what is under
a glacier.

And a supercomputer at the Texas Advanced Computing Center is able to more
easily handle the data mapping the glacier.

"With the realization that ocean was eating these ice sheets away, (studying
Antarctica) became an important Earth system problem" to solve, said Don
Blankenship, who leads the research group and was a co-author on the paper about
the swamp system discovery, published last week in the journal Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences.

The recent findings by the UT Institute for Geophysics say scientists need to
consider the form of water under the Thwaites Glacier, already among the fastest
melting in the world, to predict how quickly it will melt.

"The paper makes for the possibility of much better examination of (melting
glaciers), and they've identified a potential risk," said Garry Clarke, a
professor emeritus at the University of British Columbia who reviewed the
report.

The discovery settles a debate about what the water under the Thwaites looks
like, a more pressing question as global warming melts glaciers, the researchers
said.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that global ice melt
raised the sea level by 2 inches over the past 20 years.

Graduate student Dusty Schroeder, the lead author of UT's latest research, found
that the glacier has two systems: the inner part is on top of a swamplike system
of water, which, like a bald tire in the rain, has little traction with the
glacier and allows it to move more quickly; the outer part is atop a streamlike
system of water, which is likely to cause the ice to slow down on rock between
the streams.

"This report gives you an idea of what processes are important. ... There are
things that are important to how quickly a glacier melts, like the shape of the
glacier or the temperature of the ocean. We add that how water underneath a
glacier is moving is an important process," Schroeder said.

With most of the glacier a mile or more below sea level, the Thwaites would also
be the single largest contributor to global sea level rise if it melts entirely,
Blankenship said. The glacier alone can contribute to a meter of sea level rise.
Once the roughly 60 miles of the glacier on the streamlike water melt, there is
nothing holding back the larger part of the glacier that is on the faster
swamplike area, Blankenship said.

It may seem unlikely that water exists under miles-thick blocks of ice in the
coldest parts of the planet.

But the water exists for a few reasons, said Duncan Young, a co-author of the
report. Pressure of the ice on the rock causes some melting, similar to how a
skater's blade melts ice.

Also, the Earth's natural heat and friction between ice and rock warm the bottom
of the glacier to temperatures slightly below the melting point of ice.

And the pressure of miles of ice on top of the ground lowers the melting point,
allowing water to exist in below-freezing temperatures.

The UT group built the model of the subglacial water using radar imagery
collected from 80 flights over Antarctica about nine years ago.

A specially equipped airplane performed the flights over about 3½ months, giving
researchers a trove of data that has been used for other research, Young said.

The flights and the equipment for the airplane cost the institute between $5
million and $10 million, Blankenship said.

Other parts of the research were funded by grants from NASA and the National
Science Foundation.

Next up for the group: a "cruise" around Antarctica, Blankenship said. A
half-dozen UT researchers will be among about 20 people from various
institutions studying the warming of the ocean near Antarctica for 50 days on an
icebreaker. They'll leave in February, a summer month in the Antarctic when
temperatures rarely are above freezing.

Contact Farzad Mashhood at 512-445-3972.

Twitter: @fmashhood

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

From chasing down butterflies to prestige

BYLINE: Helen Anders American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1022 words


The University of Texas' star climatologist was planning a career in medical
research until she met the white rats.

"The cutest little white rats," she says with a smile, remembering the creatures
she encountered on the first day of vertebrate physiology lab in her premed
senior year at UT. She read the instructions on how to anesthetize the rats, cut
them open live, remove some organs and eventually kill them.

"I just said 'No,' and I walked out," Camille Parmesan says. She headed straight
for the office of professor Michael Singer, who had taught an animal behavior
class she'd enjoyed that included a two-week butterfly research trip to
California. She told Singer she was switching her major to zoology, and she
wanted to write a thesis on butterflies.

That's how Parmesan wound up one recent day standing on a chair, trying to nail
the Distinguished Texas Scientist Award onto the institutional-green wall of her
cluttered office overlooking the UT Tower. After dropping the nail and
retrieving it from behind her bookcase, she managed to mount her most recent
plaque next to her U.S. Fish and Wildlife certification of appreciation and the
National Wildlife Federation's 2006 Conservation Achievement Award. Her 2007
Nobel is on another wall.

Oh, her Nobel? She shrugs. It was a team Nobel Peace Prize, she says, won with
other scientists from throughout the world.

"There were about 1,200 of us," says Parmesan, who was lead author of the Nobel
winning climate change impact research performed by the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change. The panel, established in 1988 by the United Nation's World
Meteorological Organization, each year produces a report - two phone book-size
tomes - on the far-reaching impacts of climate change.

"It was so much work, and it's all volunteer," says Parmesan, 51. She had to
slide that work into her schedule as professor of integrative biology at UT; it
wasn't part of her university job description. But finding time for these sorts
of things is just part of life when you're an eminent scientist whose papers
have been cited by other scientists more than 14,000 times.

Science was part of her life as far back as Parmesan can remember.

"My mother got me into it," she says. Parmesan grew up in Houston. Her mother
was a geology and botany student and an amateur conservationist, Parmesan says,
and "ever since I literally could walk, she was taking me on hikes. She'd bring
along field guides." They explored the Big Thicket together.

"When I was 10 years old, there was a sixth-grade science fair, and I built the
Big Thicket ecosystem," she says. "And I won."

Parmesan's interest in the outdoors and the creatures that live there was
reignited on that butterfly-study trip she took in college with Singer's class.

And, about Singer: "He's my husband," she says as she sips a cup of tea, "but
that didn't happen until later, when I was a graduate student." She had brewed
the tea for herself in her office, which also contains a fridge and toaster
oven. The woman does a lot of living inside these walls, and it's not surprising
to learn that her marriage is interwoven with science and UT.

Parmesan has studied many species of butterflies, she says, "but the one that
has given me the most bang for the buck is Edith's checkerspot. It's just a
brilliant species to ask questions of because it is very, very sensitive to
climate."

She'd been studying this butterfly for 10 years when, as a postdoctoral student
at the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis in Santa Barbara,
Calif., she won a NASA grant that resulted in her first single-author paper in
1996 on the effects of climate change on butterflies.

Her research involved combing the West Coast - all of it, from Mexico to Canada
- visiting established butterfly colony sites and discovering how the
populations had changed. She concluded that the butterflies were moving because
southern climates were getting too hot for them.

"What I was able to show was that the butterfly is moving north," she says. "It
was one of only three papers in the world on climate change. It really jolted
scientists."

In the past four years, Parmesan has been working more with numbers than with
butterflies, analyzing data on how various species are adapting to climate
change. Mexican green jays, for example, are now residents of Texas, she says,
and they're farther north in greater numbers. In the U.S. and Europe, she says,
swallows are breeding an average of two weeks earlier than in the past.

"I really do want to get back into the field now working with my butterflies,"
she says. In that realm, she's excited about a second appointment she took on in
the past year as a research scientist at Plymouth University's Marine Institute
in England.

"In fact, my husband is at Plymouth right now, growing caterpillars for a joint
project," she says. She's excited about her Plymouth appointment because "they
also really appreciate the work that I've done in outreach and conservation."
The University of Texas, she says, hasn't encouraged her involvement in applied
work.

Aside from that, "the university at all levels has been very supportive of my
work," she says. "It's not being at the university that's been difficult. It's
being in Texas, with our governor saying climate change is against state policy.
I do have a hard time with that."

In Europe, everybody accepts that climate change is real, she says, and the
discussion can begin with its effects and what to do about it. In the U.S., she
has to spend a lot of time presenting data proving that climates are changing.

"What's difficult for me is when people are convinced they know what's
happening, and they are totally wrong," she says. "What I think is so harmful
about what some politicians are doing is that people do look up to them. There's
a group of politicians who are virulently anti-science. I don't know why the
U.S. is that way, and it's only in the U.S. - and a lot of Islamic nations."
That, she says, is why England is a breath of fresh air.

"I do love Austin, and I am a native Texan," she says. "But you get tired of
fighting."

Contact Helen Anders at 912-2590.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Greenhouse gases claim misrepresents science

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 676 words


Wayne Smith does not sweat greenhouse gases.

"Science has not shown greenhouse gases to be a problem," the Republican state
representative from Baytown told the American-Statesman for a recent news
article on a bill to put permitting authority over industrial emissions in
state, not federal, hands.

"There's no need to regulate greenhouse gases," Smith said.

We explored whether science has not shown greenhouse gases - meaning various
gaseous compounds (such as carbon dioxide) that absorb infrared radiation, trap
heat in the atmosphere - to be a problem.

Smith, who represents a district that is home to petrochemical plants, did not
respond to telephone inquiries, but we ran his claim by Chip Knappenberger,
assistant director of the Center for the Study of Science at the
Libertarian-leaning Cato Institute, which might be philosophically compatible
with the Texan.

Knappenberger said the effects of greenhouse gases on climate change are
scientifically proven.

But whether that's a problem, he said, is "open-ended. If you define all change
as a problem, then you have a problem. How much of a problem it is depends on
how fast and how large the climate change is that results."

Knappenberger also pointed out articles he wrote in February and March
suggesting fresh research indicates the generally predicted pace of warming may
be overstated.

"I am not convinced that the pace of global warming is sufficient enough to make
greenhouse gas emissions a 'problem,'" Knappenberger told us.

Several experts including the Texas state climatologist, John Nielsen-Gammon,
told us the scientific consensus is that increases in greenhouse gases, mostly
due to burning fossil fuels such as coal and oil, have been contributing to
global warming, though the pace of that warming is uncertain.

Naomi Oreskes, a professor of history at the University of California, San
Diego, sent us a chapter of a pending book updating her 2004 look into
scientific consensus about climate change.

A portion of the chapter says: "Scientists predicted a long time ago that
increasing greenhouse gas emissions could change the climate, and now there is
overwhelming evidence that it is changing the climate."

However, "to say that man-made global warming is underway is not the same as
agreeing about what will happen in the future. Much of the continuing debate in
the scientific community involves the likely rate of future change."

"There are climate scientists who actively do research in the field but disagree
with the consensus position," the chapter later says, "but their number is very,
very small."

Nielsen-Gammon said a helpful indicator of the scientific consensus is the
latest assessment of global warming factors, published in 2007 by the
International Panel on Climate Change.

Its 2007 report says both that evidence of global warming is "unequivocal" and
that most "of the observed increase in global average temperatures since the
mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic
greenhouse gas concentrations."

Separately, an online search led us to a survey of scientists, published in
2009, that initially asked more than 10,000 earth scientists to participate.

Among 3,146 respondents asked if they think "human activity is a significant
contributing factor in changing mean global temperatures," 82 percent answered
affirmatively, with 97 percent of those respondents with the most climate
expertise saying yes.

Our ruling: Smith said science has not shown greenhouse gases to be a problem.

Scientists have agreed for years that such gases contribute to atmospheric
changes driving climatic warming, which is characterized as a global threat.

We considered the idea that the legislator's reference to greenhouse gases as a
"problem" reflects an uncheckable judgment, a matter of opinion.

However, our sense is that his statement purported to reflect scientific
consensus - and by that yardstick, it is both incorrect and ridiculous.

We rate the claim as Pants on Fire.

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 445-3644. Twitter: @gardnerselby @politifacttexas

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Better get ready for a hotter world

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 685 words


It's hot in Austin. We all know that.

But perhaps Austin's summers the past dozen or more years have done us a favor
by giving us a taste of our global-warming future. Austin has recorded an
average of 13 days per year of triple-digit heat since 1898. Since 2000,
however, the triple-digit average is 33 days.

The reality is Austin's summers have gotten hotter. And it's going to get worse
- not just in July and August, but year-round.

A study published last week in the journal Nature pointed to 2058, give or take
five years, as the year Austin will reach its climate change tipping point, or "
climate departure" as the study's authors put it. In less than 50 years,
according to the study, Austin will be hot like it's never been hot before.

Or, as the University of Hawaii's Camilo Mora, the study's lead scientist, put
it, "the coldest year in the future will be warmer than the hottest year in the
past."

The study's scientists combined data from more than three dozen climate models
to pinpoint climate departures for 265 cities worldwide, including Austin. In
only 10 to 20 years, 59 cities more tropically located will move irreversibly
into a new climate. The first American cities - Honolulu and Phoenix among them
- will reach climate departure in about 30 years. The world as a whole will
reach its tipping point in 2047.

Climate change skeptics will say climate models have their shortcomings. They
do. But there is no shortcoming like denial. Skepticism is healthy, but
skepticism cannot be rooted in willful ignorance. If global warming is a hoax,
it's an elaborate one dating back to the late 19th century. Decades of data
continue to point to a warming Earth and to the release of carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gases from the burning of fossil fuels as the primary cause.

A favorite claim by those who deny global warming is that global temperatures
have held steady since 1998 and have actually declined. Temperature goes up or
down each year, but the overall trend is upward. In January, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said 2012 was the hottest year on record
for the contiguous United States. It also was the 10th-warmest year on record
globally. Nine of the world's hottest years have been recorded since 1998, with
2010 the warmest on record.

The Hawaii study's timetables assume that emissions of greenhouse gases will
continue their unimpeded rise. Should the world manage to lower emissions,
climate departure would be pushed back a few decades - to 2069 for the world and
2090 for Austin, plus or minus the study's five-year margin of error.

One can't help but feel the inevitability of a sweaty and miserable future while
pondering the study's timetables. The study's authors looked at climate
departures for variables beyond temperature and expressed a particular concern
about ocean acidity, which appears already to have passed a tipping point. This
change portends a harsh new world for coral and the fish that depend on the
reefs they form - a finding echoed by a separate study released this month, in
which a group of scientists based at Oxford University reported that the oceans
are becoming more acidic at a rate not seen in 300 million years.

Last week's study in Nature also followed the September release of the latest
report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. For the fifth time
since 1990, the United Nations panel reported that the world is warming. This
time the panel, with 95 percent certainty, declared it is "extremely likely"
that humans are responsible for the warming. As the Associated Press described
it, this degree of certainty is about the same degree of certainty scientists
have that smoking kills.

"Now is the time to act," Ryan Longman, one of the Nature study's co-authors,
said upon the release of his group's report last week. Indeed.

But considering the dysfunction of the current political landscape, and the
determined refusal by too many to accept warming's existence and cause, much
less debate possible solutions, it appears action will be absent for years, if
not decades, to come.

So, welcome to a hot new world.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 892 words


Panel plays exciting role

The Jan. 10 editorial claims that the Republican members of the Science, Space,
and Technology Committee have on "blinders" when it comes to climate change. But
the Austin American-Statesman missed the opportunity to highlight the science
and technology jurisdiction of the committee, which would have been of far more
interest to their readers.

I believe climate change is due to a combination of factors, including natural
cycles, sun spots and human activity. The Science Committee can create a forum
for Congress and the American people to hear from experts and draw reasoned
conclusions. During this process, we should focus on the facts rather than on a
partisan agenda.

Beyond climate change, the Science Committee plays an exciting role in the
discoveries of science, the exploration of space, and the development of new
technologies. The committee oversees a $39 billion budget, more than 80 percent
of which touches on research and development. Its purpose is to encourage the
R&D that leads to new innovations and technological advancements, which will
strengthen our economy and raise our standard of living.

Much of this R&D is conducted at facilities right here in Central Texas.
Austin's booming high-tech industry is a major contributor to our national and
local economy. Instead of constantly criticizing, why not remove the blinders of
bias and look on the bright side? It's good for science and for our state to
have Texas representatives serve on a committee that positively impacts their
constituents. As chairman, I will advocate for America's innovators, including
those here in Austin. And I look forward to joining my Texas colleagues to
advance policies that spur innovation, job creation and economic growth.

Lamar Smith

U.S. House of Representatives

San Antonio

Stopping climate change

We need to see record high temperatures as a call to take responsibility and
protect what is sacred to us. More than individual catastrophes, the trend of
high temperatures and reduced precipitation is changing the world our parents
gave us and may ruin the world our children will inherit. According to Texas
A&M, 300 million trees died in 2011 in Texas because of the drought. Traditional
growing zones are moving northward, putting the livelihood of small farming
communities at risk. Climate change is a challenge that we can win by reducing
our dependence on fossil fuels and investing in renewables. In the previous
century, our nation has shown its capacity to mobilize human and financial
resources. The results have always been that the U.S. became the world leader.

Regis Marco

Austin

This teacher not afraid

I am a teacher of very young children, sweet first-graders, many of whom are
blissfully unaware of what happened in Connecticut. I will not be packing. I
continue to believe in the goodness of people and teach that value to my
students. My hope is my classroom door will stay open. I refuse to be afraid.

Lorene Wallace

Austin

'Gun nuts' well-named

"What I can't get with the ballot, I will take with a gun! That's why I need
guns that can kill many people in a matter of seconds. I must be prepared to
take up arms against my government." So sayeth the gun nuts. That government, of
course, is the government of the people, by and for the people. You and me. The
call of these gun nuts is sedition and their intent is treason; which is why we
call them "gun-nuts." Their cry is based on the unbelievably stupid idea that
not only do they have the right to forgo the ballot for the gun, they think they
could prevail against the biggest arsenal and the best trained military in the
world. That notion is so unhinged that a background check should absolutely
disqualify them to own any guns at all.

Billie Reaney

billie_reaney@msn.com

Georgetown

Get tough on lawmakers

The National Rifle Association is still dodging the bullet and sticking to their
guns. No one is blaming law-abiding gun owners for the acts of criminals and
madmen. However, the rash of mass shootings is a direct result of our loosened
gun restriction laws. Not only do we need to get tough with the NRA " we also
need to get tough on those legislators who give into the NRA gun lobbyists, for
the exchange of gifts and/or votes. Each and every one of them ought to get
booted out of Congress. While looking out for their own self-serving interests,
they are selling out America's safety.

JoAnn Lee Frank

Clearwater, Fla.

Hagel an exceptional pick

Re: Jan. 8 article, "Obama faces heat, picks Hagel at Pentagon, Brennan for
CIA."

What does it take to be a "good" secretary of defense? Do you have to graduate
from an Ivy League school, not serve in the military, or be "accepted" by the
tea party element of the Republican Party, especially in some Southern states
like Texas? I commend President Barack Obama for nominating Republican Sen.
Chuck Hagel for this honor. Hagel is an exceptional candidate because of his
outstanding military service to our country. He truly understands the words of
duty, honor and country. In addition, he served as a senator from the state of
Nebraska for 12 years and is well-versed in government affairs. His most
important qualities are his integrity and his independent spirit to lead our
nation at this time. In closing, it is time to set aside partisan politics and
just do the "right thing."

Gerald McCrary

Del Rio

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

To say Earth not warming is head-in-sand claim

BYLINE: W. Gardner Selby American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 778 words


Barry Smitherman sees the planet as not warming.

Smitherman, a candidate for Texas attorney general, responded to Republican
activist Donna Garner in a Nov. 17 email: "Donna, I have been battling this
global warming hoax for 6 years now. The Earth is not warming." A day later,
Garner included his comment in an email blast to recipients including reporters.

That claim by Smitherman, who chairs the Texas Railroad Commission, contradicts
the latest word from the international body that regularly sifts scientific
findings related to climate. An October 2013 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change report intended for policymakers states: "Warming of the climate system
is unequivocal, and since the 1950s, many of the observed changes are
unprecedented over decades to millennia. The atmosphere and ocean have warmed,
the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has risen, and the
concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased."

We were curious how Smitherman reached his conclusion. His campaign consultant,
Allen Blakemore, emailed us links to about a dozen articles essentially saying
that the planet has not been warming as fast as predicted of late or is, in
fact, cooling.

Among them was a Jan. 27, 2012, Wall Street Journal opinion piece, signed by 16
scientists, saying that there was no need for countries to take drastic steps
against greenhouse gases. A secondary theme was that planetary warming had been
smaller than predicted for more than a decade.

Similarly, a Sept. 8 news story in the Telegraph, a British newspaper, said:
"Despite the original forecasts, major climate research centres now accept that
there has been a â  pause' in global warming since 1997." The story quoted two
U.S. professors, Judith Curry of Georgia Tech and Anastasios Tsonis of the
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, as saying the planet appears headed into a
cooling period.

We contacted Curry by email. She didn't directly answer whether the globe is
warming, saying, "There has been no statistically significant increase in global
average surface temperatures for the past 17 years."

Per Curry's point, Michael Tobis, an Austin software engineer whose blog, Planet
3.0, often brushes climate topics, told us: "There are strong indications that
the deep ocean is heating more than anticipated, which would account for some
missing warming at the surface.... But it's crucial to understand this - the
world has not wandered so far from what we expected as to require a deep
reconsideration of the consensus" that global warming persists.

Separately, the Texas state climatologist, John Nielsen-Gammon, pointed out a
National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration chart indicating a steady
rise in ocean heat content, meaning temperatures averaged through the depth of
the ocean, since the late 1960s.

Like Tobis, though, Nielsen-Gammon said temperatures near the ocean surface have
risen more slowly in the past 15 years or so "than they had during the previous
35, and it is possible to find time intervals (such as the past five years) in
which all weather station and satellite-based global temperature compilations
show a declining trend."

The Texas climatologists we reached said Smitherman got it wrong.

"The Earth is warming," Nielsen-Gammon said.

Katharine Hayhoe, director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech
University, called Smitherman's claim incorrect, adding, "First, climate is
defined as the average over 20-30 years or more precisely because atmospheric
scientists know that short-term natural cycles in the rates at which heat is
exchanged between the ocean and atmosphere can lead to variations in global air
temperature over shorter time scales."

Hayhoe and Tobis each cautioned that cherry-picking start and stop years can
lead to factually skewed conclusions about temperature trends. "If you
cherry-pick short periods of time, you can end up with nearly any result you
want," Hayhoe said. "Only by looking at the entire data set can you see what the
truth is."

Richard Somerville, a professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at
the University of California, San Diego, told us that Smitherman's claim was
"nonsense."

Our ruling:

Smitherman said the Earth is not warming.

To the contrary, national, international and Texas climate authorities concur
that the planet is warming. They also warn against cherry-picking individual
climatic indicators or time frames to conclude otherwise. That makes sense to
us. In the end, this claim strikes us as both unfounded and ridiculous.

Pants on Fire!

Contact W. Gardner Selby at 512-445-3644.

Twitter: @gardnerselby

@politifacttexas

Barry Smitherman
  Statement: "The Earth is not warming."


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Congregations produce guide on how to go green with God

BYLINE: Juan Castillo American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 603 words


The relationship between religion and the environment is often portrayed as an
emerging alliance, but really, it's an old story, says the Rev. Tom VandeStadt
of Austin.

"This goes back to the Bible in the Jewish and Christian traditions, (the
teachings) that the Earth does not belong to us, that it belongs to the Creator,
and that we are to be good stewards," said Vande-Stadt, the pastor of
Congregational Church of Austin, who says similar messages can be gleaned from
non-Christian religions.

VandeStadt is a co-chairman of the Interfaith Environmental Network, an Austin
coalition of religious leaders, congregations and people of faith that on
Saturday released what it calls a groundbreaking document, a manual designed to
help congregations and places of worship reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

The "Becoming Carbon Positive" manual was presented Saturday at the Austin Earth
Day Festival.

The network produced the 59-page manual over 14 months in collaboration with the
organization Climate Buddies.

Five local congregations - All Saints Episcopal, Austin Zen Center, Central
Presbyterian, First Unitarian Universalist and St. David's Episcopal
-participated in its development.

By following the document and its tips covering myriad things such as energy and
water efficiency and improved waste management, the congregations have reduced
their carbon dioxide use by a combined 1 million pounds, said Rabbi Steve
Folberg of Congregation Beth Israel.

Congregations that use the manual commit to forming a team to lead participation
and to getting a free climate assessment of their facility.

Folberg said the manual is designed to achieve meaningful and measurable
results.

But another hope is that those who participate will say, 'If we can push toward
zero waste at the church, we can look at some of the same stuff at home,'"
Folberg said.

The manual addresses climate change scientifically, Folberg said, "but also
philosophically and theologically in the sense of, 'How is climate change a
religious issue and what can we as religious communities do about it?'"

VandeStadt said the manual can help future generations.

Without action, he said, "our children and our children's children are going to
inherit a lot of problems that our generation and generations before have
created for them."

While meeting in Austin in January, meteorologists and scientists from across
the country said they sometimes struggle sharing their knowledge about climate
change with people of faith who don't believe in global warming or who believe
that God created Earth and that humans can do little to influence it.

"That mindset is out there," Folberg said. But "religious communities tend to
get painted, 'If you're a person of faith, you're anti-science and
anti-research.' That's just not true."

The network's approach, Folberg said, has been not to try to convince the
unconvinced, but to link up people of faith who are concerned about the
environment, "and to say to them, 'You are not in this alone.'"

The network was founded in 2008 by a small group that sought to bring together
those who saw environmental stewardship as part of their religious obligations,
Folberg said.

About 15 member congregations pay annual dues, said the network's Chris Searles.

About 300 people are on the network's mailing list, and about 600 people follow
its Facebook group, Searles said.

Contact Juan Castillo at 445-3635.

BOX:

'carbon positive'

On the Web:

The manual 'Becoming Carbon Positive: A Manual for Places of Worship' is posted
at climatebuddies.org/ieneat.

For information on purchasing paperback copies of the manual, email
ien.energyteam@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Rep. Smith endures rigors of bipartisanship

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1044 words


For U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, the lesson of his first four months as
chairman of the House Science Committee is that maintaining bipartisanship in
this day and age is as difficult as rocket science.

When Smith, whose district includes parts of South, West and Central Austin,
assumed the helm of the committee at the beginning of the year, he did something
that he said no other chairman has done in at least half a century - he called a
bipartisan retreat.

What's more, he invited none other than Bill Nye the Science Guy to talk science
to the members.

Nye is a popular science educator whose four-minute video, "Climate Change 101,"
crisply lays out the causes and consequences of global warming and ends on this
unambiguous note: "The current climate crisis is reality. We can't wish it away.
What we can do is cease the debate and denial and move on to solutions."

"The day before the retreat, I had two members of the science committee come up
to me and say that Bill Nye had personally campaigned against them in their
district," Smith recalled in an interview last week.

That presumably included Rep. Paul Broun, R-Ga., who said last year that
evolution, embryology, and the Big Bang theory were "lies straight from the pit
of hell," and who Nye, in return, said was "by any measure, unqualified to make
decisions about science, space and technology."

Nonetheless, the retreat went on as scheduled, Nye, Broun and all, and Smith
said it went beautifully.

"Bill Nye was a hit," Smith said. "I got a half-dozen emails from Democratic
members saying, 'Great bipartisan retreat, thanks for doing it, we're off to a
great start.'"

Last week, while in Austin, Smith talked about wind power with students at Oak
Hill Elementary School and rocketry with students at Akins High School, and he
joined a thousand students at Fredericksburg High School for a live video
discussion he had arranged with NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy on board the
International Space Station.

The congressman, who as a high school student at Texas Military Institute in San
Antonio had snagged the Bausch and Lomb science award, was reveling in being
Lamar Smith, the science guy.

But back in Washington, his carefully crafted bipartisanship seemed to be coming
undone after the release of a letter from Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Dallas,
the ranking Democrat on the committee, accusing Smith of trying to politicize
the process for selecting winners of National Science Foundation grants.

Johnson's letter lit the blogosphere on fire with considerable Smith-bashing,
and it led Norman Ornstein, congressional scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute, to post an article at the National Journal site caustically
suggesting the creation of a Congressional Yahoo Caucus, with Smith as its
newest member.

Ornstein, co-author of "It's Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American
Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism," described
Smith as "a smart guy (intelligence is not the determining factor here) who this
week floated the notion of having every science grant application at the
National Science Foundation pass a key hurdle - explaining how the idea would
directly benefit the American people. This went beyond the previous efforts by
many yahoos to defund all political science grants to attack grants in every
scientific area, social and hard sciences alike, and ultimately make the
peer-review process, the linchpin of scientific enterprise, superfluous."

Smith was taken aback by Johnson's broadside about what was only a "draft for
discussion."

"This was a first step in what we hoped would be a bipartisan initiative to
improve accountability of NSF grants," Smith said in a statement. "It is
disappointing that instead of accepting the invitation to work together to
prioritize the spending of taxpayer dollars, some have chosen to play politics
and misrepresent the nature of the draft bill."

At a recent hearing, Republicans suggested that the titles of some National
Science Foundation-funded projects - such as "Picturing Animals in National
Geographic" and "Regulating Accountability and Transparency in China's Dairy
Industry" - sounded unworthy of American taxpayer dollars.

In his Austin interview, Smith effused about the National Science Foundation.

"NSF grants do a wonderful amount of good," he said. "They are one of the best
investments in the future I know of. All five Americans who won Nobel Prizes in
2012 at one point or another were recipients of NSF grants."

Smith, who entered Congress in 1987, remains committed to bringing his committee
back into harmony.

"Bipartisanship is not only a worthy goal, it's a practical goal. With the House
Republican and the Senate Democrat, nothing is going to get through without it,"
he said.

And, he added, in a formulation no longer much in vogue, "I'd much rather have
half a loaf than no loaf any day."

Before last week's brouhaha, he had had some success in lowering the temperature
of the committee's deliberations. An April 25 subcommittee hearing on climate
issues was less contentious than past hearings on the subject.

Smith has commonly been characterized as a "climate skeptic," as he was by NPR
science correspondent Ira Flatow when he assumed the chairmanship. Of the
evidence for climate change, Smith said, "I think there may be cases where the
data or metrics were massaged in order to guarantee a certain result." But his
skepticism seems less about whether the phenomenon is real, as about the
cost-benefit efficacy for the United States of trying to ameliorate it.

"We're at the very beginning of the process. We'll have a number of hearings on
the subject. I don't want to take anything for granted. I really want to find
out what the evidence shows. I haven't drawn any hard conclusions about climate.
One of the things I am determined to do on the committee is to get back to good
science, not politically correct science," Smith said.

If so, he might need to call in Wendy Swire, who, like Nye, was at the committee
retreat, explaining the techniques pioneered by William Ury in "Getting to YES:
Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In," a 1981 bestseller that Smith picked up
at an airport back before bipartisanship went out of fashion.

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 6, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Proposal: Eliminate key tax on business

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin lcopelin@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1819 words


Can Texas afford to eliminate its state business tax?

As the federal tax bite grows, there is a nascent movement at the Texas
Legislature to phase out the tax, commonly called the margins tax, without
replacing it.

Business leaders and some conservative lawmakers say the tax, which taxes gross
receipts as opposed to profits, is complicated and not applied evenly. Other
critics of the tax say dropping it would make the state's business climate even
more attractive.

At first blush, eliminating the tax without a replacement might seem improbable.
The tax raised $4.5 billion in 2012 and accounted for 10.3 percent of the
state's total taxes, according to the comptroller's office.

Budget writers are already warning that any "surplus" from the rebounding
economy must be used to restore $11 billion in cuts to public education and
other programs from the 2011 legislative session and to pay for the accounting
gimmicks lawmakers used to sidestep more cuts and tax increases. And the courts
are hearing another constitutional challenge to the school finance system -
similar to the one that prompted the 2006 creation of the margins tax - that
could make more demands on the state pocketbook.

State leaders are also talking about weaning themselves from $5 billion of
dedicated taxes and fees diverted from their intended purposes over the years to
help balance the state budget.

Finally, more business leaders are expressing concerns about the need to invest
in education, workers' training, water, transportation and other long-term needs
essential for a good business climate.

Despite those hurdles, Will Newton, executive director of the Texas chapter of
the National Federation of Independent Business, or NFIB, argued that public
services can't expand without a growing economy.

"We're starting the debate in the wrong way," Newton said. "We need to 'invest'
in the private sector to grow (state) revenue."

The Texas Public Policy Foundation and the Texas Conservative Coalition Research
Institute, which claimed 84 state representatives and 11 senators as members
last session, are joining the movement with the NFIB, which has 24,000 members,
mostly small-business owners.

State Sen. Craig Estes, R-Wichita Falls, has filed legislation that would
eliminate the margins tax in 2014, halfway through the next two-year budget
cycle, although the organizations are promoting a longer time frame.

"I think Texas has to be bold," Estes said. "How attractive would it be for
business to come to a state without a business tax?"

As for not replacing the margins tax with a different business tax, Estes said,
"In the big scheme of things, it's a small number."

Politically, the anti-tax groups are trying to change the conversation at the
Capitol and, in doing so, might have caught state leaders off guard.

The margins tax has been unpopular, particularly among NFIB's membership,
because it taxes businesses whether they make a profit or not and, in some
instances, treats taxpayers in the same business differently. It's also a
complicated tax that usually requires companies to hire experts to comply with
the law.

Coming out of the 2011 session, legislative leaders promised to study how to
replace the margins tax with a simpler, fairer levy, but that approach was soon
abandoned.

Rep. Harvey Hilderbran, R-Kerrville, who chairs the House Ways and Means
committee where tax bills are initiated, focused interim studies on how to fix
the margins tax.

Hilderbran's committee hasn't published its interim report, and he hasn't yet
filed his bill on fixing the tax. Last week, he said he was still weighing the
cost of various options.

"I have heard about it," Hilderbran said of the plan to eliminate the tax. "They
haven't brought it to me."

Newton said they are just starting: "We're going to build the groundswell."

Responding to American-Statesman questions, Gov. Rick Perry, House Speaker Joe
Straus Jr. and Hilderbran last week didn't embrace the idea, but they didn't
close the door on it either. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst didn't respond.

A Perry spokeswoman repeated the governor's call to make permanent the
small-business exemption - up to $1 million in gross receipts. Estes said $1
million is too small: "Even a good restaurant can do $1 million a year."

It is difficult for Perry, who is considering another run for governor in 2014
and for president in 2016, to criticize the margins tax. It's his creation. His
commission suggested the tax - and the Legislature agreed - to help replace
revenue lost when the state cut about a third of the property tax rate.

At the time it was billed as the largest tax cut in the state's history, but
opposition to the margins tax has only grown since then.

Newton said the NFIB leadership spent months this year trying to fix the tax,
but eventually gave up.

"All these fixes are meaningless," Newton said. "It has proven to be something
that can't be fixed. We just need to get rid of it."

Fixing the margins tax ultimately could pit business groups against one another
as each "fix" could affect businesses differently. But eliminating the tax for
all businesses - without a replacement tax - could unite the various segments of
the business community politically.

Big business, for example, has been less critical of the margins tax and more
resistant to dumping it.

"It's universally hated, I get that," Bill Hammond, president of the Texas
Association of Business, told an audience of chamber of commerce members last
month. "But if we were to repeal it, we'd have to get another $3 billion to $4
billion for schools, etc."

Last week, Hammond said he remained skeptical the money will be there to phase
out the tax.

"I think the reality is the state needs revenue," he said.

But a rosy revenue forecast from state Comptroller Susan Combs on Monday could
change that view.

"If there was revenue available, we'd surely take a look at it," Hammond said.

The argument that ending the tax would encourage investment and job creation
rang true for Scott Drenkard with the Tax Foundation, a Washington, D.C.-based
think tank.

Texas already leads the nation in job creation, and by most measures has one of
the better business climates. But Drenkard noted that only five states have a
gross receipts tax.

"Texas is a low-tax state with a good tax system," Drenkard said. "However, the
margin tax is a major impediment to growth in a state that is otherwise poised
to make major strides in the next decade."

He said a corporate income tax is a more efficient tax than the margins tax that
is costly, penalizes unsuccessful businesses and embeds hidden taxes at every
level of production of a product.

"Texas is out of step with the silly gross receipts tax," he said.

Eliminating it would raise the state's overall tax ranking from ninth to fifth,
Drenkard said, if no new tax replaces it.

"Texas is already a competitive state. It's a magnet state (for jobs)," he said.
"It would only become more so by eliminating the gross receipts tax."

But the idea has its detractors.

"The quality of public education is much more important to the kinds of
businesses Texas should want to attract than the presence or absence of a tax
that businesses pay in every other state and expect to pay," said James
Galbraith, an economist who teaches at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public
Affairs.

Dick Lavine with the Center for Public Policy Priorities said the Legislature
must invest in education, water and transportation to help the business climate.

He said lawmakers should fix the tax, not eliminate it.

"They are conservative, but they are not irresponsible," Lavine said of the
Legislature. "They shouldn't fool themselves into thinking they have the money
to eliminate the margin tax."

Newton said phasing out the tax would make it more practical for state
officials.

"It's not $4 billion gone overnight," he said.

Talmadge Heflin with the Texas Public Policy Foundation agrees. His organization
has suggested phasing out the tax by 2018 by increasing the amount exempted over
the next three legislative sessions.

Raising the exemption for small businesses from $1 million to $10 million in
gross receipts would cost about $1.2 billion over the biennium, Heflin
estimated.

John Colyandro, executive director of the Texas Conservative Coalition Research
Institute, said his group is considering a seven- to 10-year time frame.

Both NFIB and Colyandro's group expect to complete more detailed studies of the
proposal during the early weeks of the legislative session.

Colyandro said there is more interest in eliminating the margins tax because of
events in Washington, as well as other states, particularly in the Midwest, that
are trying to become more competitive with Texas in economic development.

The presidential election, the tax increase from the Affordable Care Act and the
"fiscal cliff" negotiations are affecting the political climate as one of the
most conservative Legislatures in recent memory is about to convene.

"It has changed the mix down here," Colyandro said. "The policy changes at the
federal level warrant a serious tax discussion this session."

Contact Laylan Copelin at 445-3617.

WHAT IS THE TEXAS  MARGINS  TAX?
 In 2006, the Legislature adopted the margins tax to shift the tax burden from
the state's shrinking goods-producing industries to the growing service economy
 as well as to stop large corporations from evading the old franchise tax.
 It taxes gross receipts minus a choice of the highest of three deductions:
Cost of goods sold, such as raw materials, or compensation, or 30 percent of
total revenues.
 But the IRS and the state use different definitions for these deductions,
forcing companies to keep two sets of books - one for the state tax and one for
 federal purposes.
 There are other differences.
 Wholesalers and retailers - businesses that typically operate on a low margin
of profit - are subject to a rate half that of other taxpayers.
 Service-related businesses tend to pay a higher effective tax rate because
they can't claim the cost of goods sold as a deduction or qualify for the half
rate.
 There is some discrimination among competitors.
 For example, auto repair shops that are part of a dealership are taxed at half
 the rate of independent repair shops. Or a company that hires employees can
deduct their compensation, but a firm that uses independent contractors may not
 deduct that expense. Likewise, companies that rent equipment may not deduct
the cost of the equipment while a company that sells the same equipment may
deduct it as the cost of goods sold.

Source: Texas Taxpayers and Research Association


WATCHDOG REPORTING
 Laylan Copelin has covered public policy and politics for the
American-Statesman for three decades. Focusing on business issues in recent
years, he has examined topics including the use of taxpayer incentives for
private industry, plans to develop the Capitol Complex with private sector
projects and the risk of a statewide electricity shortage.



LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 878 words


Hostility to science

Re: Jan. 10 editorial, "House science panel wears blinders."

Thank you so much for taking a strong stance against this incredibly dangerous
anti-science attitude in the Republican Party. U.S. Rep. Paul Broun of Georgia
is unfit to be leader of anything with science in the name. Republican Party
members have backed themselves into a corner over the science of climate change.
We need to give them a graceful way to step out of that corner, before their
inability to act does any further damage to our planet. One way to do that would
be through legislation such as the revenue-neutral carbon tax, which corrects a
major flaw in the market, all without even mentioning the benefits for our
climate. Voices such as yours are critical in making it no longer acceptable to
talk about climate change and science in this reckless manner and in galvanizing
the rest of us to speak up and do something about this worsening crisis. Well
done, Editorial Board!

Susan Adams

Austin

House panelists unfit

Many, many thanks for your very informative and horrifying editorial about the
people who will be leading and participating on the House science committee's
Subcommittee on Investigation and Oversight during the 113th Congress. My hope
is that this editorial will spur concerned citizens to flood U.S. Rep. Lamar
Smith's office with letters and phone calls asking for changes to be made. We
are desperately in need of leadership in Congress to address meaningfully and
quickly this global emergency. Our Earth can no longer tolerate global warming
scoffers and deniers.

Melissa Ruof

Austin

Raining on solar panels

Re: Jan. 8 article, "Panel to city: Raise rooftop solar goal."

The Local Solar Committee recommended greater emphasis on local solar power.
Currently, Austin Energy is actively discouraging small "rooftop" installations.
Until this year, excess value of solar credits over the cost of electricity
consumed from the grid could offset the cost of other city utilities. In
October, we received notice that henceforth the value of solar credits could be
applied only to the cost of electricity. Excess credits earned would be carried
over month to month through the end of a calendar year. Credits remaining at the
end of the year would then be lost and the solar credits reset to zero. Although
implementation of the zero reset has been delayed for a year, the effect is to
discourage installation of enough solar panels to generate more electricity than
consumed. Once a year, Austin Energy will get a nonvoluntary contribution toward
its bottom line.

Robert S. Kier

Austin

Home defense options

Why are so many Americans obsessed with the Second Amendment? All day with these
people it's "self-reliance" this and "Constitution" that. Here are some gun-free
tools and tactics we can all use to defend our homes and families if a violent
criminal breaks into the house:

* Thousands and thousands of cats.

* "A Prairie Home Companion"; who could be violent hearing Garrison Keillor?

* Asking the intruder for help calculating your taxes.

* "Sweatin' to the Oldies Vol. 1" with Richard Simmons (eeewww).

* Lutefisk; keep away from kids and the infirm.

* "Dianetics" by L. Ron Hubbard; watch their mind spin.

* Karaoke (recommended: Madonna's "Like a Virgin").

* Making the intruders a job offer; work is scary.

* Tapout® T-shirts; much easier than actually learning martial arts.

William Dylan Powell

Houston

Visual blight of Zilker

Re: Jan. 8 article, "Great Lawn to open Friday."

The fact that one of Austin's principal beauty-spots has been surrounded by an
ugly industrial fence for more than three months is something all Austin
residents, and visitors, should be concerned about. Apart from the question of
prolonged denial of access to residents to allow commercial activity, there is
the problem of visual blight - along with leaning utility poles and abandoned
silt dams. If the City Council is so interested in monetizing Zilker, why don't
they go the whole hog and rezone it for mixed-use development, then invite
developers to repeat the success of Mueller Airport? The effects on the city
revenue stream would be more than Austin City Limits Music Festival promoters
and Runtex owners can promise, and the visual impact would look less like a
disaster zone.

Robert Mitchell

Austin

House GOP has mandate

Re: "GOP's claim to represent voters doesn't add up" by Dana Milbank, Jan. 9

I disagree with Dana Milbank that the House majority has a weak or invalid
"mandate" to fight tax increases because the GOP did not win a majority in the
national vote. We are a republic, and House members are supposed to represent
their districts, not a national majority. From the vast populations that elected
them into the majority, House GOP members got a clear message to do what they
promised as candidates, namely, fight tax increases.

Milbank grouses about the Democrats being out-gerrymandered, because the GOP has
won more statehouses and governorships. But that's just more evidence of
widespread popular will. I'm glad we have a republic and not a pure democracy.
The desires of all the people, not just the national majority, should be
included as much as possible. Good leadership will do that, not try to stifle
others by claiming there is only one "mandate."

Willy Graves

Austin

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'Six Seasons' puppet show examines environment

BYLINE: Arianna Auber American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 1166 words


It's puppetry with a twist. Rather than concentrating on the puppets themselves,
the Glass Half Full Theatre is manipulating the sets around the puppets - five
4-by-8-foot hand-constructed renderings of landscapes from around the world.

The theater company is experimenting through the show "Once There Were Six
Seasons," running Friday through March 3, on a form of puppetry that the show's
writer and director Caroline Reck is calling environmental puppetry.

She's dubbed it that because each of the five landscapes will be altered
throughout the show to depict the consequences of climate change in different
societies around the world, from a village on stilts in the Philippines to
Texas' high plains.

The landscapes are all detailed and carefully crafted.

The puppets, on the other hand, each took less than a minute to make out of bits
of rope. But that's the point, Reck said.

"The reason the puppets all look the same is that you aren't supposed to
identify with specific characters, but to see that what's happening is universal
because the ways we affect our earth end up affecting us," Reck said.

However, she wants to stress that with "Once There Were Six Seasons," she isn't
trying to demand a solution to the environmental issue or formulate one of her
own. She isn't even trying to tell audiences about the issue.

Reck said she and the others involved - five puppeteers and two set designers -
want to visually show the lifestyle changes various world societies are having
to make as their climate uproots traditions they've upheld, some for upwards of
hundreds of years.

For example, Reck said, a farming system in India that relies on animal behavior
to determine when farmers should plant crops or harvest them no longer works as
it should.

Birds that traditionally nested on a certain tree at a certain time of year now
head to another tree earlier or later than usual, and farmers question what they
should do.

Reck said that was but one instance of the effects of climate change that she
and her puppeteer team found doing research for the show.

"We have a rainstorm at one of the locations, and you see one area go from
prosperous to experiencing drought," she said.

"But we can put the landscapes back together once we destroy them. That's not a
good metaphor for the destruction of the earth."

Contact Arianna Auber at 445-3630.

"ONCE THERE
WERE SIX SEASONS"
 When: 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 6 p.m. Sundays, through March 3.
 Where: Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803. E. Manor Road.
 Cost: $12-20.
 Information: 339-927-4624, www.glasshalffulltheatre.com


Music
 Bruce Robison & Kelly Willis at the Cactus Café. Bruce and Kelly are an Austin
 institutionm and their newish album, "Cheater's Game," the first in their
careers credited to Kelly Willis & Bruce Robison, is a stone cold keeper, a
wise mix of originals and canny covers (Dave Alvin's "Border Radio," Dickie
Lee's "9,999,999"). This show is technically sold out. 8 p.m. 2247 Guadalupe
St. cactuscafe.org.
- Joe Gross
 ASB & Friends. Live music by the Austin Symphonic Band with Wiff Rudd and
Brent Phillips. 8 p.m. Friday. $6-$10. Bethany Lutheran Church, 3701 W.
Slaughter Lane. 345-7420, www.austinsymphonicband.org.
 Austin Symphony Presents. A performance by violinist Jennifer Frautschi. 8
p.m. Friday-Saturday. $23-$54. Michael & Susan Dell Hall at the Long Center.
701 W. Riverside Drive. 476-6064, www.austinsymphony.org.
 Also playing: Old 97's, Salim Nourallah at Antone's; The Zoltars (7" release
show), The Young at Hotel Vegas; Kelly Rhodes, Nic Walker, Kenny Harris at
Trailer Space; Jucifer at the Mohawk; Clit Eastwood, Trip Crystals at Beerland;
 He's My Brother She's My Sister at the Parish; SpaceGhostPurrp, Raider Klan at
 Red 7; Dana Falconberry, Good Field, Belaire, Little Lo at Holy Mountain;
Darsombra, Crawl, Korperschwache at Club 1808; Awen, Gabhar, Furnacedoor, Death
 Church at the 29th St. Ballroom; Digital Wild, Park N Murray at Frontier Bar;
Chapparall Dixielanders, Greatest American Heroes at the Carousel Lounge; Foot
Patrol, Pocket FishRmen at Metal & Lace.
 Theater & dance
 "Beauty is the Best Priest: Short Plays of the Harlem Renaissance." The Harlem
 Renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s produced a flowering of dramatic literature
 by African-American playwrights, poets, novelists, journalists and activists
of the era. A production by Austin Community College features four short plays
by women of the Harlem Renaissance: Zora Neale Hurston, May Miller, Alice
Dunbar-Nelson and Ottie Graham. Directed by Marcus McQuirter, Zell Miller III,
Feliz McDonald and Florinda Bryant. Presented by Austin Community College. 8
p.m. Fridays and Saturdays, 2 p.m. Sundays through March 3. George Washington
Carver Museum and Cultural Center, 1165 Angelina St. $10 ($5 students).
974-4926. www.carvermuseum.org
- Jeanne Claire van Ryzin
 "South Pacific." A production of Rodgers & Hammerstein's musical set during
World War II. Opens Friday. 7:30 p.m. Fridays-Saturdays, 2 p.m. Sundays,
through March 24. $10-$24. The Georgetown Palace Theatre, 810 S. Austin Ave.,
Georgetown. 869-7469, www.georgetownpalace.com.
 "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)." Paradox Players
present the fast-paced farce. 8 p.m. Friday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Sunday. $10-$15.
Howson Hall at First Unitarian Universalist Church, 4700 Grover Ave. 744-1495,
www.paradoxplayers.org.
 "The Elephant Man." James Brownlee directs the drama by Bernard Pomerance.
7:30 p.m. Friday-Saturday, 2 p.m. Sunday. $10-$15. The EmilyAnn Theatre &
Gardens, 1101 FM 2325, Wimberley. 847-6969, www.emilyann.org.
 "Les Enfants Terrible." UT's Butler Opera Center performs Philip Glass's dance
 opera adapted from the 1929 novel by Jean Cocteau about two highly
disfuntional siblings whose isolated, twisted existence leads to tragedy. 7:30
p.m. Friday and Sunday. McCullough Theatre, 2375 Robert Dedman Drive. $10-$20.
www.music.utexas.edu.
 Art
 Grayduck Gallery. "A Certain Reality," works by David Ball, Jennifer Davis and
 Megan Kimber. Opening reception 7 to 10 p.m. Friday. Through March 30. 11 a.m.
 to 6 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Sundays. 608 W. Monroe St.,
Suite C. 826-5334, www.grayduckgallery.com.
 Comedy
 Bass Concert Hall. Brian Regan performs. 8 p.m. Friday. $39.75-$45.75. Bass
Concert Hall, 2350 Robert Dedman Drive. 471-1444, www.texasperformingarts.org.
 Literary events
 Author appearance. YA author Cory Doctorow speaks and signs copies of
"Homeland." 7 p.m. Friday. Free. BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd. 472-5050,
www.bookpeople.com.
 Pastelegram Issue No. 3 Launch Party. The magazine releases its "Utopolis"
Winter 2013 issue. 7 to 9 p.m. Friday. Free. Farewell Books, 913 E. Cesar
Chavez St. www.pastelegram.org/node/170.
 Film
 AFS Avant Cinema 6.6. A screening of "The Friendship State." 7 p.m. Friday.
$5-$8. Austin Studios, 1901 E. 51st St. 322-0145, www.austinfilm.org.
 Sake & a Movie Under the Stars. Learn about sake and watch a movie outside. 6
to 9 p.m. Friday. Free. Texas Sake Kura, 5501 N. Lamar Blvd. www.txsake.com.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 14, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1011 words


We have met the enemy ...

Re: Jan. 5 commentary, "Bad 'cliff' law behind us, we must cap spending, hold
line on debt ceiling."

Whoa, Jeanette Moll. It's not the feds out of control. "We" are out of control.
"We" are the feds. We want grants, subsidies, help with disasters, bailouts, tax
"phase-ins," unemployment and welfare checks. We would not be over the cliff if
we did not want so much help with everything around us. We are greedy guts. It's
not just federal. It's county, state, city, corporations and individuals.
Everyone should look at his/her life and see what "benefits" each is getting
from tax breaks for old houses, or fixing up a library or an old courthouse,
building a new school when a new one couldn't even open because population
shifted, subsidies for not growing crops, wool incentives, milk subsidies,
government checks for a drug-addicted child who cannot hold a job. We are the
problem.

Jetty Sutton

jetty@austin.rr.com

Kyle

Buy back toll roads

Texas should use its budget surplus to buy back the toll roads it has built in
the past many years. They are an improper abdication of responsibility for
public transportation and infrastructure.

Gayle Rosenthal

Austin

Undecorate those trees

To everyone who has decorated a roadside Christmas tree in Cedar Park (or
anywhere else, for that matter): Christmas is over, and if you are one of the
many who still hasn't undecorated your tree, time's up! When you leave the
decorations on, they just become litter, and you will end up ruining this lovely
tradition for everyone. Be responsible and undecorate in a timely manner.

Donna Reeh

Cedar Park

Cost of climate change

It comes at us from all angles. Just this week we have lots of Austin
American-Statesman news: 1.) 2012 hottest year on record - a whopping 3.2° F
above normal; 2.) highways near Galveston under threat of high water sooner than
expected; 3.) LCRA cuts off rice farmers with Lake Travis at only 41 percent. As
the blind man feels around the elephant - all these stories feel like elephant.

That elephant is climate change. We may believe it's too big to talk about. But
we'll have to spend $60 billion to help New York and New Jersey recover and
prepare for the next storm. What about that next storm in Galveston/Houston or
New Orleans?

Is the cost of moving off carbon fuels too high? The cost of not moving to
renewable energy is both persistent and much, much higher: Drought, heat, rising
oceans, crop failures, tropical diseases, hurricanes and more. Please join the
fight for clean energy.

Al Braden

al@albradenphoto.com

Austin

Why oppose Hagel?

Re: Jan. 8 article, "Obama faces heat, picks Hagel at Pentagon, Brennan for
CIA."

So our two senators are against former Republican Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska
because he is not fully allied with Israel. Do these two represent the state of
Texas or the nation of Israel?

Dave Byrne

dbyrne2@austin.rr.com

Austin

Gun-law facts

Re: Jan. 8 letter to the editor, "Ban certain types of guns."

Facts matter if you are going to make an argument in favor of new laws. Fully
automatic weapons (machine guns) were not included in the 1994 "assault weapons"
ban. They are covered by the National Firearms Act of 1934. Semi-automatic
weapons were not banned. Certain features of weapons were banned. There is no
functional difference between so-called pre-ban and ban weapons. It was cosmetic
only. After the ban was repealed, violent crime continued to decrease, even as
the sale of new "assault weapons" increased.

Gene Stephens

Austin

NRA brainwashing

It's sickening when a bunch of anti-American corporate propagandists like the
NRA can brainwash people into believing their rights are being relinquished when
in fact the opposite is true. By letting gun smokers like the NRA run our
country, we have already relinquished our rights to the corporate gun lobby, the
nutty end-of-the-worlders.

The Second Amendment does not give anybody the right to buy as many guns as they
want. We already have a well-organized militia and we call it the National
Guard. The key word there being well-organized. The creators of the Constitution
didn't want a bunch of unherded running around playing with high-powered rifles.
It's clear the liberal gun laws touted by the NRA and its political pets don't
work. And by the way, Adolf Hitler was backed by the armaments industry, just
like the NRA.

Mike Luther

Lockhart

Register every gun

Gun-rights advocates repeatedly stress, and the Supreme Court agrees, that
individual citizens have the right to keep and bear arms. Yet, they disregard
the implication that a well-regulated militia must necessarily have
well-regulated arms. So let's just simply, in keeping with the Second Amendment,
agree that we should well-regulate the arms of citizens who want to keep them.

It is unreasonable to suppose that current military weapons, like semi-automatic
guns, were anticipated by the writers of the Second Amendment, so there's
nothing to stop us from banning those entirely. We could and should register
every gun and every gun owner. None of that would reduce their constitutional
right to keep and bear arms. But it might go a long way to reducing the gun
violence that currently troubles our country.

David Nagle

davnagle25@gmail.com

Austin

Eve of destruction

What's happening in Washington, D.C., right now is insane! Our administration is
not moving even one inch closer to a true solution to our debt crisis. They are
either completely clueless or are consumed with evil. They are talking about
cutting $90 billion a year, which is a tiny fraction of what needs to be done.
If we were to cut $1.1 trillion a year, we would still just be breaking even,
without reducing the debt at all. The federal government alone is going further
into debt by $125 million per hour! How can that be sustainable? And so we are
headed for worse than a fiscal cliff ... we are headed for total and complete
economic collapse and within a short time! When it happens, it's going to be
really bad! No one wants to talk about it because it sounds too scary ... but we
absolutely must!

James Green

Heber City, Utah

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Cameras capture alarming ice melt

BYLINE: Lindsey Cherner American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 482 words


Leave political leanings and skepticism at the door; the story is in the ice, or
the lack thereof.

Directed by Jeff Orlowski, "Chasing Ice" humanizes a geological phenomenon by
using time-lapse images to show the alarming devastation of glaciers.

The footage is the work of acclaimed environmental photographer James Balog, who
was once a skeptic of climate change but founded the Extreme Ice Survey in 2007
as a means of providing visual evidence of how global warming is affecting the
planet.

The documentary chronicles Balog and his team on their quest to place 25
time-lapse cameras in Iceland, Greenland and Alaska to create a three-year
record of major changes in glacial formations.

The cameras were designed to shoot year-round, every half-hour of daylight. The
team then assembled the images into video animations that demonstrate the
dramatic retreat of glaciers.

However, things didn't run quite so smoothly. Treacherous weather destroyed some
of the cameras and led to the installation of customized computer chips to
preserve the integrity of the project. The resulting footage was astonishing.

"Chasing Ice" takes you to remote places of pristine beauty, places that are
rarely visited. Amid the beauty, enormous blocks of ice break off from the
glaciers and drift into the water, a process called calving. In some instances,
this occurs so quickly and drastically that Balog had to pivot the camera to
follow the ice as it retreated. One glacier even loses the height in ice of the
Empire State Building.

The filming of the project was made all the more difficult for several reasons:
the remoteness of the locations, the need to tweak the cameras' technology and
Balog's personal health problems. In several instances, Balog visits doctors to
deal with his worsening knee problems.

Yet, Balog's photographs are stunning, crisp compositions in white and blue that
impress against the sharp clarity of the Arctic. He contends that the ice
structures that he photographs are as individual as human faces and, at times,
we see a portraitlike resemblance.

Though "Chasing Ice" was not nominated for a best documentary Oscar, J. Ralph's
"Before My Time" was nominated for best original song. With help from the
melancholy soundtrack, the serious undertone isn't lost amid the breathtaking
ice.

The heart of the documentary is nestled at the end, when Balog gives
presentations of his artwork to the masses. He compares climate-change denial to
visiting dentist after dentist, in hopes of finding one who will admit that an
abscessed tooth is nothing to worry about. While visually and emotionally
stunning, "Chasing Ice" raises almost as many questions as it answers.

At one point, Balog tells the audience that, "we have a problem with perception
because not enough people get it yet." Maybe, now they will.

Rating: PG-13 for brief strong language. Running time: 1 hour, 15 minutes.
Theater: Arbor.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 18, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 919 words


Education system woes

I'm consistently amazed that the editorials and the letters to the editor almost
always only focus on a single aspect to a problem that is obviously
multifaceted. Our schools have poor quality because of a multitude of issues.
They are underfunded. Teacher quality is not where it should be because of a
lack of rigor in many university teaching programs. Parents (and I include my
cohort in this) cannot tolerate hearing a single bad thing about their children
and their poor manners, attention spans and disrespect for teachers.
Disciplinary policies driven by fear of repercussions and top-heavy
administrations are other problems.

In other words, the system is broken and no single repair can fix the whole. We
have to approach the ills of public education from a systemic point of view.
Hearing predictable responses and pointing fingers brings only the temporary
comfort of believing it is not our personal responsibility.

Kirsten Jacobvitz

kjacobvitz@anvilcom.com

Wimberley

The council's priorities

Re: Feb. 13 article, "Housing claims most of surplus."

I find it interesting that the City Council has decided to spend money on a
program that the voters defeated. So, I wonder how long it will be before the
council decides we no longer need to spend money on city elections. After all,
they know exactly what people need whether those people want it or not. And with
those savings, who knows what wonderful things the council will decide to give
us?

Annette Naish

annettena@yahoo.com

Voters rejected housing

Re: Feb. 13 article, "Housing claims most of surplus."

Like a slap in the face to voters, the Austin City Council ignored voters'
mandate by diverting $10 million of taxpayer funds to low-income housing. Voters
said no at the ballot box to the initiative, but the council turned deaf to our
voice.

Tom Fulmer

Austin

Return 'surplus' to us

Re: Feb. 13 article, "Housing claims most of surplus."

There's no such thing as a $14.3 million budget surplus. Anything that resembles
a surplus should be given back to us in the form of tax rebates. That's our
money, and it is not to be spent on whatever the City Council decides,
especially on projects that we already voted against. Please don't spend my
money.

Tim Williams

Austin

Skills will save children

Re: Feb. 13 article, "Obama: We must revive middle class."

So, President Barack Obama wants to help states offer preschool for all
4-year-olds? Do those in the government not understand that more of what we
already have will not necessarily help our youth? We have all heard the famous
definition of insanity: To continue to do the same thing and expect different
results.

We do not need more preschool, but a thriving country that values families, and
encourages parents to raise their own children, to teach them love of learning,
curiosity and adventurous questions. Give parents the ability to stay connected
with their children. Children - and parents - don't fail because of lack of
motivation, but rather because of lack of skills. We need to teach and
demonstrate those skills in our homes, not just in school.

Julie Buckley

Austin

City permit backlogs

Re: Feb. 12 article, "Permit backlog advice sought."

I read today with sad amusement the article about the long wait times for city
permits. Have these council members ever taken out a permit in this town? Boy,
talk about clueless.

Bill Kelso

Austin

Fine Anderson coverage

Re: Feb. 10 article, "Court played to two audiences."

I would like to commend your newspaper for providing better than sufficient
coverage of the Ken Anderson case. Your reporters were there before Michael
Morton's release from prison and have been on the story ever since. It is the
duty of our press to report matters such as these and help bring news of
corruption to the public light.

David Cheverere

Austin

In the political middle

Re: Feb. 12 letter to the editor, "The goal of the far right."

The author castigates the "far right" for their positions on many issues -
social, religious, and economic - and presumes that everyone but these folks
must then agree with the agenda of the "far left" (my words). Well, there are
many of us who are moderates - both socially and fiscally. We don't like either
side as they are currently (sometimes accurately) portrayed. For example, I
agree there is substantial evidence to global warming; we must take care of our
most vulnerable; we need to adequately fund our educational system. I even agree
we all need to pay more of our share.

However, I do not agree that everything Republicans stand for is wrong. We must
balance the budget and eliminate waste. But, we also need to adequately fund
agencies that protect us, such as food safety.

Dan Sowards

rsowardsjr@austin.rr.com

Austin

Climate change a crisis

I was greatly encouraged by President Barack Obama's focus on fighting climate
change in both his inaugural address and his State of the Union address. Anyone
who has seen the recent documentary "Chasing Ice" knows all too viscerally how
real and immediate climate change has become. The film's jaw-dropping,
time-lapse images show icebergs the size of lower Manhattan crumbling into the
sea in less time than it takes to heat up and eat a frozen pizza. We face a
fearsome enemy - excessive greenhouse gases in the atmosphere - and we must
summon all our human ingenuity and can-do spirit to fight it.

Melissa Ruof

Austin

Outmoded expression

Re: Feb. 9 comic strip, "B.C."

Regarding the John Hart comic, don't you think it is time to stop referring to
women as "broads"?

John King

Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Greenhouse gas suit proceeding slowly Suit over greenhouse gases moves slowly

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 598 words


A quixotic legal effort to push the state environmental agency to regulate
greenhouse gases is moving forward just as the Legislature has signaled it wants
the agency to turn a blind eye to them.

The lawsuit began as little more than an attention-grabber by a coalition of
environmental groups across the country, pitting children and teens against
environmental agencies that were perceived as slow to act on greenhouse gases.
But it got an unexpected small foothold last summer when a district judge in
Travis County gave credence to one of the plaintiffs' key arguments.

The plaintiffs, who ranged from toddlers to a 25-year-old, argued that the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality should regulate the emissions, which
scientists have linked to climate change, as part of its duty to guard the
public trust for current and future generations.

The agency countered that the common law public trust doctrine, as it's known,
applies exclusively to the conservation of water.

The judge found the public trust doctrine applies to all natural resources.

For now the case is rolling forward.

In no state have plaintiffs using the strategy been successful, and the ultimate
fate of greenhouse gas regulations is likely to be decided through higher court
skirmishes between the federal government and the state.

The Texas plaintiffs got no boost from the state Legislature, which passed a
measure this session that essentially confirmed its opposition to federal
greenhouse gas regulations, which they have argued would cost jobs and raise
electricity rates.

Technically, the proposal, expected to be signed by Gov. Rick Perry, gives Texas
more power to regulate greenhouse gases.

That's because top Texas lawmakers would rather the state regulate emissions
than the federal Environmental Protection Agency - if anyone has to regulate
them at all.

While that would seem to nullify the state's argument against the suit that the
environmental agency lacks such authority, the proposal also strips 2-decade-old
language from the state health and safety code that treats global warming gases
as an air contaminant.

In February, the state attorney general's office, acting on behalf of the
environmental commission, filed a brief with the 3rd Court of Appeals arguing
that the district judgment was misplaced because of the agency's rulemaking
discretion. And the judge's take on the public trust doctrine should be, at
best, taken as a nonbinding advisory opinion, it says.

A brief supporting the minors filed in May by former environmental commissioner
Larry Soward and University of Texas environmental law professor Gerald Torres,
among others, argues that Texans are already suffering the consequences of
climate change. Scientists have said greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide
trap heat from the sun in Earth's atmosphere, leading to more frequent, severe
droughts in Texas.

The public trust doctrine has a history of being applied in cases beyond water,
the brief says.

The minors filed their original challenge to Texas' environmental policies in
2011 as part of a nationwide advocacy effort by West Coast-based Kids Versus
Global Warming and Our Children's Trust, as well as other groups.

The Texas petition requested that the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
adopt a plan that would cut carbon dioxide emissions at least 6 percent a year,
beginning in January 2013, and publish annual progress reports, among other
things.

Commissioners rejected a rulemaking proposal by the minors, arguing, among other
things, that it would shut down business in Texas.

Contact Asher Price at 512-445-3643.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             June 27, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Austin seeks Fayette plant options

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 895 words


Worried that efforts to end Austin's reliance on coal are bogging down, the City
Council is expected to call Thursday for a range of options that could be
carried out as early as 2015.

Council members want City Manager Marc Ott to finish a comprehensive report by
the end of the year laying out how Austin could shut down or sell its share of a
coal-fired power plant 83 miles southeast of the city. The resolution, drafted
by Council Member Bill Spelman and cosponsored by Mayor Lee Leffingwell and
Council Member Laura Morrison, comes nine months after Austin Energy presented a
council-mandated report concluding the city could cost-effectively swap Fayette
for a natural gas facility. That report disappointed some council members
seeking more options. Since then, little or no progress appears to have been
made on the issue.

"We asked for a broad range of options, we got a limited range of options in the
fall, and I want a broad range of options, understanding some of them may not be
workable," Spelman said.

Leffingwell, who called for Austin to cut ties with coal during his 2012
re-election campaign, said he also wants more options but, perhaps hoping to
avert a split among coal skeptics, said one option should be off the table -
maintaining ownership of the plant but shutting it down, rather than selling.

"I don't think we should abandon the plant," Leffingwell told the
American-Statesman. "To me, that is not a viable option. If we are going to do
something, it needs to be fiscally responsible, and I don't think shutting down
the plant is."

Morrison said the opposite: that shutting down Austin's portion of the plant,
though complicated, should be the goal, not a sale.

"This (resolution) seemed like a good way to move the discussion forward," she
said. "It seems like it's gotten unfocused sometimes and we haven't been brought
up to speed."

The Fayette plant, with its three 600-foot stacks, is co-owned by the city and
Lower Colorado River Authority. The facility produces a third of Austin's
electricity relatively cheaply - and also more carbon emissions than all of
Austin's cars combined. Most climate scientists say carbon emissions contribute
to global climate change.

Austin has already started cutting back its coal use. Per the city's Climate
Protection Plan, Austin Energy buys electricity from several West Texas wind
farms, which mainly produce power at night, allowing the utility to reduce
Fayette's output at night. Over the course of a year, Austin's portion of
Fayette is producing at about 70 percent of capacity.

Los Angeles is probably the most aggressive city on coal reduction, with its
City Council having voted earlier this year to convert a coal plant in Utah to
natural gas, which emits about half the carbon.

But the Los Angeles utility's ratepayer advocate warned the conversion and
planned sale of a separate coal plant could cost $650 million and recommended
putting a bigger emphasis on large-scale wind and solar projects.

Anyone pushing similar plans in Austin will have to hack through a thicket of
local politics.

Critics on the right, and some on the left, such as Electric Utility Commission
member Shudde Fath, have argued that Fayette has been a relatively cheap and
reliable power source and the city should think carefully before parting with
it.

Proponents of selling the plant say now is the time to look. President Barack
Obama announced this week he will instruct the Environmental Protection Agency
to begin regulating coal-plant emissions, and, though Austin Energy recently
sunk $200 million into emissions controls that utility executives say should
meet most federal standards, those "scrubbers" do not capture carbon. The new
regulations will require an additional step that would probably raise the cost
of operating the facility.

"It makes no sense to continue to rely on coal when we are in this historic
position of being able to combine natural gas with wind ... (the city) is
dithering when it comes to coal," said Phillip Schmandt, a longtime member of
the city's Electric Utility Commission who resigned last week partly out of
frustration with the lack of discussion recently about the coal plant's fate.

But that argument has run into critics from the left who call it "greenwashing."
A new owner, they say, would run the plant even more than Austin does and do
nothing to reduce the plant's carbon emission. Al Armendariz, a representative
of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign, recently suggested to council members
they keep the plant and gradually shut it down, a step that would create the
greatest reductions in greenhouse gas but that the state's electric-grid
operators might not allow.

"I believe we can balance the financial needs of the city of Austin ... and
simultaneously reduce the environmental impacts of the Fayette coal plant by
gradually phasing out the (plant) beginning in 2017," said Armendariz, a former
Environmental Protection Agency regional director in Dallas.

Though Fayette discussions died down last year, the city is now through a
contentious two-year rate-increase debate that had been taking up much of the
political bandwidth.

At an Electric Utility Commission meeting earlier this month, Sheryl Mele, an
Austin Energy executive, said at least one company has made a proposal that
involves taking Fayette off the city's hands.

Contact Marty Toohey at 512-445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

PolitiFact: Recaps of recent fact checks

BYLINE: Statesman Politifact Team

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 382 words


BARRY SMITHERMAN

Statement: "The Earth is not warming."

Pants on Fire

Smitherman chairs the Texas Railroad Commission and is running for attorney
general. In a recent email, he said that global warming is a "hoax." Scientists
worldwide beg to differ. As the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change put it
recently, "Warming of the climate system is unequivocal and... unprecedented."
Smitherman's camp pointed to news articles quoting scientists who pointed to
evidence that recent warming had been less than climate models had projected.
Even that, however, is not the same as saying that warming is not happening at
all and is a hoax.

STEVE STOCKMAN

Statement: "In every poll," John Cornyn "always loses to any conservative the
voters have heard about."

False

Stockman, a congressman from the Houston suburbs, is challenging Cornyn, Texas'
senior U.S. senator, on grounds that Cornyn is not conservative enough. Recent
polling suggests that Cornyn would lose head-to-head matchups with Gov. Rick
Perry and U.S. Rep. Ron Paul if they were pitted in the same race. But polls
also have shown Cornyn running ahead of Stockman himself, U.S. Rep. Louie
Gohmert and David Barton, a biblical scholar and former Texas GOP vice chairman.
Those Texans are almost certainly less known than Paul and Perry, but Gohmert
and Stockman are members of Congress and Barton has long been a grass-roots
leader. We think it reasonable to consider each one a conservative that "voters
have heard about."

SENATE CONSERVATIVES FUND

Statement: "John Cornyn has voted to increase the debt, raise taxes, bail out
Wall Street banks and fund Obamacare."

Half True

Bailout vote: Cornyn voted for the 2008 financial markets bailout. Debt ceiling:
Cornyn voted to increase it in 2011 and against increasing it in 2013. Raising
taxes: Cornyn voted for the Jan. 1 deal to avert the "fiscal cliff," which
raised some tax rates but kept others lower. Obamacare: Cornyn voted against the
health care law in the 2010 vote that really mattered; he has since voted for
the budgetary acts that some construe as "funding Obamacare."

- Compiled by the American-

Statesman Politifact Texas team

Find coverage of Texas issues at

politifacttexas.com.

Contact Politifact Texas at

politifact@statesman.com

Twitter: @politifacttexas

Facebook: Politifact Texas

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Charter school demand unmet

BYLINE: Kate Alexander American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1137 words


The political demand for new charter schools in Texas appears to have outpaced
the actual supply, at least for now.

Only four charter school startups passed muster last month with Education
Commissioner Michael Williams, who had 12 openings to fill. The State Board of
Education may still veto any of Willliams' picks for the new, privately managed
public schools.

That means at least 18 new charters will be available next year as the state
gradually raises the limit from 215 to 305, a change that legislative leaders
and charter school advocates said was necessary to satisfy the clamor for
alternatives to traditional public schools. State Senate Education Committee
Chairman Dan Patrick, R-Houston, had initially pushed to eliminate the limit on
new charters as part of his ambitious "school choice" agenda.

Charter schools currently serve about 4 percent of Texas' 5 million public
school students.

The pool of viable charter options shrank considerably after five applicants
that had been invited for interviews were ousted for plagiarizing parts of their
applications. The state had warned applicants early on that their submissions
must be original.

Williams said the agency caught some of the plagiarism; The Dallas Morning News
uncovered more.

The newspaper cited a glaringly similar section in the applications of all five
applicants that referred to the instruction of English-language learners: "With
the magnetic draw of our caring culture for students and their families, we will
reach out to the families of ELL students with information on schooling, career
pathways and resources to transition to secondary school and college readiness."

It's unclear if there were other examples in the applications, which run several
hundred pages.

"The process worked. They weren't granted charters. We feel really good about
the four that were awarded," said David Dunn, executive director of the Texas
Charter Schools Association. "What it says to me is we've got a pretty rigorous
process in place."

Williams' choosiness is a good sign that the state is focusing on quality rather
than quantity,

said David Anthony, executive director of Raise Your Hand Texas, an education
advocacy group that opposed legislative efforts to allow for unlimited charter
school growth.

"The Texas Education Agency and commissioner should be commended for taking that
seriously," Anthony said.

Together, the four new charters would serve about 1,300 students next year,
including 300 spots at an elementary campus in East Austin. The other schools
would be located in San Antonio, El Paso and the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

That additional capacity will do little to whittle down charter school waiting
lists, which last year totaled 101,000 students, at the 550 campuses across the
state.

Existing high-performing charter school operators are allowed to add campuses as
their resources permit.

"We are trying to expand as fast as we can and as slow as we must," said Mike
Feinberg, co-founder of the Knowledge is Power Program (KIPP), the Houston-based
charter school network.

A long-awaited state program that will help charter schools lower their
borrowing costs will kick in early next year, and that could foster some growth.

"Financial issues have always been the second-biggest challenge that we have to
overcome to grow," Feinberg said.

Finding the right people to lead his schools is the limiting factor, and that
might have contributed to the slim selection of new homegrown charters this
year, he said. Established charter networks snap up many of the top-flight
educators who would be inclined to launch their own charter school.

"We don't cream kids, but I unabashedly cream talented teachers and leaders,"
Feinberg said, referring to a frequent charge that charter schools skim the best
students from traditional public schools.

Recent policy changes should attract new operators from outside Texas and make
it easier for the best homegrown charters to expand, Dunn said. Those changes
came too late to affect this year's application process, which began in
February.

Senate Bill 2, which overhauled the state's charter school law for the first
time since 1995, bolstered the ability of the state to shut down low-performing
charters. Nearly 18 percent of charter school campuses failed to meet state
accountability standards this year, compared with 8.5 percent of traditional
campuses.

At least four charter-holders are in the pipeline to have their licenses
revoked, said Debbie Graves Ratcliffe, a Texas Education Agency spokeswoman.

The legislation also streamlined the process for good schools to renew their
charters. Dunn said one charter waited eight years to get its renewal because of
a backlog at the state agency and that kind of uncertainty stifles schools'
ability to plan for the future and grow.

The changes have helped improve the image of Texas among charter operators
across the country and even got a shout-out from U.S. Education Secretary Arne
Duncan, Dunn said.

"We're getting a lot of attention, and I think the perception of Texas as a
rigorous but robust market for charters is going to continue to grow. I think
we're going to continue to see more interest in high-quality charter networks
from other states," Dunn said.

And Texas has a lure that no other state can offer: a $28 billion education
endowment called the Permanent School Fund.

Charter schools will soon be eligible to get the same financial backing from the
fund that traditional school districts have long enjoyed. With the fund as a
backstop, the schools can secure higher bond ratings.

Federal officials only recently granted the state's request to extend the
assistance to charter schools after lawmakers passed legislation in 2011.

The backing will be available to a select group of charter schools that have a
proven financial history and are able to secure an "investment-grade" bond
rating on their own. For those that qualify, the savings will be substantial.

"There's no other state that has a program like that," Dunn said.

The Austin area is home to about 40 charter school campuses, the largest of
which are run by Harmony Public Schools and KIPP Austin.

Contact Kate Alexander at 512-445-3618.

Twitter: @katealexander

Changing climate
  Recent policy changes could foster a better environment for charter school
expansion in Texas:
  Cap on new charters rising gradually from 215 to 305.
  Education commissioner responsible for approving new charters, though State
Board of Education retains the authority to veto any of the commissioner's
selections.
  State's authority to close low-performing charter schools bolstered.
  Renewal of good charter schools streamlined.
  Debt issued by a select group of charter schools may get the backing of the
state's $28 billion education endowment, which will improve their bond rating
and lower their borrowing costs.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

FORMULA ONE FOR SUCCESS

BYLINE: Dave Doolittle American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 2380 words


I got hooked on Formula One with fish and chips in my hand.

It was a gray, foggy morning, and I was jetlagged and slightly hung over when we
arrived at England's famed Silverstone circuit for the Friday practice sessions
of the 1999 British Grand Prix.

I grew up with Formula One. My father was a fan, and races were on our
television when I was a kid. But I never really took an interest until he and I
went to England that summer. He wanted to go to the race, and I thought it would
be something to do. Why not?

A fish-and-chips stand greeted us as we entered the gates, and there was
something about batter-dipped cod and previously frozen French fries that called
out to me. I grabbed my breakfast and we found our way to the track as the first
practice session got underway.

I'd never seen a Formula One car in person before, and I wasn't prepared for the
noise and the speed as they flew by a few feet in front of us. I tried in vain
to eat with one hand and plug my ears with the other. Were my ears bleeding?
Nope, that was just ketchup.

It was deafening and messy and altogether glorious.

I can't remember if I finished my breakfast, but my obsession with the sport
began right there.

A few years later, my father and I went to the Belgian Grand Prix, and we came
away with the conclusion that you can't get a bad meal (or beer) in Belgium.
From roadside shops in small towns to restaurants in Brussels, the food in that
country is incredible. OK, the track vendors aren't winning any Michelin stars
serving lukewarm pommes frites with mayonnaise, but one of the lasting memories
of that 2001 trip is the food.

Many of my memories of Formula One revolve around eating. It's probably the
global nature of the sport. Throughout a season, Formula One travels to some of
the most celebrated culinary destinations on the planet: Italy, Japan,
Singapore, Monaco, Brazil and India, to name a few.

I love Formula One, I love food and I love to cook. So I had the bright idea
this season to put them all together.

And so a challenge was born. A challenge that would allow me and my family to
explore different cultures. A challenge that would stretch my cooking skills and
understanding. A challenge that would find me searching out galangal and cheese
curds. A challenge that resulted in an aborted attempt to eat fish eyeballs.

Since March, I have cooked one meal based on the country where the Formula One
circus is racing that week: shrimp on the barbie for Australia, paella for
Spain, chicken paprikish and nokedli for Hungary. The list goes on.

Much like a race team, my season has had its ups and downs. There have been some
clear victories, a few losses, some misses, a "did not finish," grease, oil,
exotic components and always the risk of something catching on fire.

Race strategy

Throughout the season, I came to realize that preparing a meal is in many ways
similar to competing in a race: To get the best results, you have to have the
right parts, the proper tools, a level head as things get hot, a good strategy
and the ability to improvise when conditions change.

In the kitchen, you're the driver, the mechanic, the engineer, strategist and
the team principal rolled into one. Things can blow up in an instant, so you
better be able to react quickly.

My first "wheels off" moment came in the third race of the season, the Chinese
Grand Prix, when I discovered as I was placing an entire red snapper into a
steaming-hot wok that it wasn't going to fit - the equivalent of trying to
install an engine that's too big for the car seconds before the race begins.

After feeling a little predictable for serving shrimp on the barbie during
Australia - the first race of the season - I decided to start really stretching
myself and looking beyond the blatantly obvious.

So when it came time to prepare a meal for China, steaming an entire fish, head
and all, seemed like the ultimate culinary adventure and an impressive show.

I found a recipe that was complicated but not out of my range, that had
ingredients I recognized and, perhaps most importantly at the time, would look
great.

The recipe was simple enough: Marinate for about 10 minutes in rice wine, soy,
chopped ginger and sesame oil; steam in a wok; garnish with green onions,
ginger, pepper and cilantro; then pour scalding-hot peanut oil over the whole
thing to crisp up the skin.

That last step, getting the skin crisp with hot oil, was the common thread among
the recipes I found.

So when it was show time, I marinated it, chopped up my garnish, got the water
in my wok nice and hot and brought my fish over.

Uh oh.

There was no way this thing was going to fit neatly. The head was sticking out
like it was trying to escape while the tail was dangling out the other side,
perilously close to the flames.

I had to think quickly, and tools would be required.

I cut off the tail as far as I could and wrestled and contorted that fish until
I just managed to squeeze it in.

But then I had another problem: I couldn't get the lid to close.

With the lid half on and water and steam billowing out the sides, I ended up
cooking my fish longer than I should've. When it finally hit the table, it was
soggy and overcooked, and the eyes were bulging and gooey.

Our daughters shrieked and giggled at the eyeballs, which I tried to eat but
just couldn't stomach, and there were about a million little bones to pick
through.

Everybody was kind in their reviews, but it was by far my biggest
disappointment.

This was only the third race of the season. What had I gotten myself into?

'Everybody loves poutine!'

Surprises and revelations are not uncommon in racing.

A good strategy can put a slower car on pole position, a part tested during
practice will shave off a few tenths during the race, and sometimes an underdog
team or driver will actually win.

When it comes to global cuisine, there are obvious front-runners, but others,
such as Canada, Great Britain and Germany, always seem to struggle in the back
of the grid.

I mean no disrespect, and those countries indeed have many delicious dishes, but
they're not the first places that come to mind when you're thinking culinary
elite.

So when the season moved to Canada, I drew a blank.

My first thought was breakfast: Canadian bacon and something with maple syrup.
But I wanted to dig deeper.

I asked a friend from up north, an automotive journalist who lives in Toronto,
for some ideas. His first suggestion was tourtiere, a meat pie usually made with
beef or veal but which can also use fish.

It sounded good but way too heavy for June, so I pushed him for another
suggestion.

His next response was emphatic: "POUTINE! EVERYBODY LOVES POUTINE!!!!"

Poutine. French fries covered in thin brown gravy and cheddar cheese curds. A
Canadian staple.

I gave it no chance.

Seriously, this is a heart attack smothered in gravy. A seemingly random mix of
ingredients first thrown together by somebody who I'm sure had been drinking
heavily.

But I was intrigued enough to try it, so I found a recipe and went to work,
soaking cut potatoes in cold water to keep them firm during frying and simmering
ketchup, beef stock, Worcestershire sauce and more into gravy. Rounding out the
meal would be peameal bacon sliders with a maple syrup glaze and steamed corn.

I tried a lot of great dishes this season: pappardelle with lamb ragù, steamed
mussels, paella, lamb vindaloo among the most memorable.

But of all of them, poutine was the biggest revelation. Wholly comforting,
filling but not heavy, gooey but not gloppy and fun to eat.

I don't know exactly what it says about me that I remember poutine so fondly.
Perhaps it was because I expected so little of it, but for me it was rookie
Ayrton Senna starting from 13th place and then almost winning the rain-soaked
1984 Monaco Grand Prix. It was the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team. It was Buster
Douglas knocking out Mike Tyson.

This is a dish that should only be remembered with heavy regret, yet against all
odds it crossed the line first.

Poutine. Everybody loves poutine.

The finish line

There were other revelations throughout the season:

Galangal, part of the ginger family used heavily throughout Southeast Asia, has
a much more pungent flavor than ginger. I dare you to take a bite of it raw like
a carrot.

Nokedli is a traditional egg noodle from Hungary made by dropping marble-size
spoonfuls of batter into boiling water until they float. It's great with chicken
paprikish. The word paprika, by the way, is Hungarian and is derived from the
word for pepper.

It's easier to use dried pasta than to make your own but nowhere near as
satisfying. And you could make your own sushi, but with so many good choices in
Austin, why would you?

The season is now almost over, and I'm starting to wonder if I'd do this again
next year. I probably will, but not for every race. Sometimes it was just too
much to think about.

But I'm glad I did it. Looking for new foods and studying different flavors and
techniques has not only made me a better cook but has broadened our family's
awareness of the larger world.

I haven't sprayed myself with Champagne, and I'm still waiting on a trophy, but
pulling off perfectly steamed mussels and nailing a complex peanut sauce has
certainly felt like a win.

Legendary British racing driver Stirling Moss once said, "To achieve anything in
this game you must be prepare to dabble on the boundary of disaster."

He was talking about racing. He could've just as easily been talking about
cooking.

Contact Dave Doolittle at 512-445-3671.

Twitter: @StatesmanGP

Poutine

4 lb. Russet potatoes, skin-on, washed and dried

4 Tbsp. unsalted butter

1/4 cup flour

1 shallot, minced

1 clove garlic, minced

4 cups beef stock

2 Tbsp. ketchup

1 Tbsp. cider vinegar

1/2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Canola oil, for frying

2 cups cheddar cheese curds

Cut potatoes into lengths of about ¼- inch thick, ¼-inch wide and 4 inches long.
Place in a large bowl, cover with cold water and refrigerate for about 2 hours.

Meanwhile, heat butter in a 2-qt. saucepan over medium-high heat. Add flour and
cook, stirring, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add shallot and garlic, and cook,
until soft, about 2 minutes. Add stock, ketchup, vinegar, Worcestershire, and
salt and pepper, and bring to a boil; cook, stirring, until thickened, about 6
minutes. Remove from heat, and keep gravy warm.

Pour oil to a depth of 3 inches in a 6-qt. Dutch oven and heat over medium heat
until a deep-fry thermometer reads 325 degrees. Drain potatoes and dry
thoroughly with paper towels. Working in small batches, add potatoes and fry,
tossing occasionally, until tender and slightly crisp, about 4 minutes.

Drain on paper towels and let cool for 20 minutes. Increase temperature to
medium-high and heat oil until it reads 375 degrees. Working in small batches,
return potatoes to oil, and fry, tossing occasionally, until crisp and golden
brown, about 2 minutes. Transfer fries to paper towels to drain briefly, and
then divide among serving bowls. Pour gravy over each serving of fries, and top
with cheese curds; serve immediately. Serves 4 to 6.

- Adapted from a recipe on Saveur.com

Steamed Fish with Ginger

2 Tbsp. rice wine

2 Tbsp. light soy sauce

3 Tbsp. ginger, minced and divided

1 tsp. sesame oil

2 lb. whole white fish (such as barramundi, red snapper, trout)

3 Tbsp. peanut or vegetable oil

2 to 3 spring onions, roughly chopped

Freshly ground white pepper, to taste

1 handful cilantro

Steamed jasmine rice, for serving

Combine rice wine, soy sauce, 1 Tbsp. ginger and sesame oil in a bowl. Set
aside.

Slit fish to the bone three times at 1 inch intervals on both sides and pour
rice wine mixture over fish. Marinate in refrigerator for 10 minutes.

Place fish on a plate. Balance plate on a metal trivet in a wok and steam,
covered, over simmering water until the flesh is not pink and translucent when
cut into with a knife, five to eight minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.

Heat peanut oil in a hot wok until smoking. Sprinkle fish with spring onions,
shredded ginger and pepper then slowly pour hot oil over fish to crisp the skin
up and scald the aromatics. Garnish generously with sprigs of cilantro. Serve
with jasmine rice.

- Adapted from a recipe from Poh's Kitchen

Mussels with White Wine, Garlic and Shallots

Before cooking, soak the mussels in water for about 20 minutes to help purge
some of the sand inside the shells. Remove the mussels from the water and pull
out the weedy black fibers, known as the beard.

2 cups white wine

1/2 cup minced shallots

4 garlic cloves, minced

1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley

1 bay leaf

4 lb. mussels, scrubbed and debearded

4 Tbsp. unsalted butter, cut into pieces

Crusty bread or rice, for serving

In a heavy bottom pot over medium heat, bring wine, shallots, garlic, parsley
and bay leaf to a simmer for about 3 minutes.

Increase heat to high, add mussels, cover and cook, stirring twice, until
mussels open, about 4 to 8 minutes. Discard any that do not open.

Using tongs, remove mussels from pot and place in a serving bowl. Turn off heat
and whisk in butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, to the broth that remains in the
pot. Pour broth over mussels, season to taste with salt and pepper and serve
immediately. Serves 4.

- Adapted from a recipe by Cook's Illustrated

A season of flavors
  I'll confess I didn't cook every race. An annual family road trip got in the
way of the British and German grands prix, and I simply forgot to cook anything
 for Belgium until a week after the race. We went out for sushi for Japan, and
Abu Dhabi's qoozi - an entire lamb stuffed with rice, dates and spices - was
way too much to do.
  My menus for the other races:
  Australia: Coconut-marinated grilled shrimp with rice
  Malaysia: Chicken satays with a peanut sauce, rice, cucumber and pineapple
skewers
  China: Steamed red snapper, rice, bok choy
  Bahrain: Machbous ala Dajaj - spiced chicken and rice
  Spain: Paella, steamed asparagus with Serrano ham
  Monaco: Mussels steamed in white wine, haricots verts
  Canada: Peameal bacon sliders, poutine, steamed corn
  Hungary: Chicken paprikash, nokedli, cucumber salad
  Italy: Pappardelle with lamb ragù, spinach and arugula salad
  Singapore: Chicken rice - steamed chicken over fragrant rice - cucumber
  India: Lamb vindaloo, spinach in tomato and ginger sauce, naan


Recipe for peameal bacon sliders at austin360.com


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 826 words


Rx: parental involvement

As a physician, my favorite punch line is, "Since we were unable to establish
the diagnosis, we proceeded with the therapy." Eastside school's diagnoses have
been poor teachers, principals, facilities and programs. For 10 years, therapies
directed at these diagnoses have failed. Let me propose a second opinion: The
problem is mostly in the home.

Let me also propose a treatment. For the men, marry a woman before she has your
child, then stay with and support her. For the women, don't have sex with a man
unless you want him to be the father of your children. For both of you, value
education and hold yourselves responsible for your children's learning. Proper
therapy for the right diagnosis - in medicine and education - leads to improved
outcomes.

George Lowe, M.D.

Austin

Tilt away from carbons

Re: Feb. 10 article, "The steady reign of carbon fuels."

We appreciated the Austin American-Statesman's article by Asher Price featuring
our work on climate change. Although most people are not yet alarmed, nearly any
climate scientist will tell you how scared they are that the situation is
becoming critical and action is needed ASAP. The attention to this issue is
therefore extremely helpful.

Although we know it was Price's decision to describe our work as "wildly
quixotic," we wanted to point out that if by that he means we, like the famous
knight Don Quixote, lean towards windmills, then we're guilty as charged. We
favor solar panels, too.

Anna Graybeal and Susan Adams

Austin

Enough Californians

Re: Feb. 8 article, "Perry's trip upsets Californians."

In regard to Gov. Rick Perry's ad campaign to lure California businesses to
Texas, I can only make what should be an obvious statement. Governor, aren't
there enough Californians here already?

Christopher Ringstaff

Austin

Too many cars

Re: Feb 11 article, "Burst of growth raises hackles in Brentwood."

This article about the Brentwood neighborhood raises issues that are citywide
and commonly cited. That is why I was so pleased to see my new friends riding
their bikes in the front-page photo, because I thought I was finally going to
read some common sense! I was disappointed, though. Every article like this
lists the same problems over and over but never identifies a solution, which
would be fewer cars on the road.

Nobody thinks new business or new neighbors are bad, just the traffic, the
crowding of on-street parking, and the dangerous driving that scares us for our
kids. It is all about too many cars!

When will Austinites unite and admit that we hate cars, not growth?

Pete Wall

Austin

Brentwood tale simplistic

Re: Feb 11 article, "Burst of growth raises hackles in Brentwood."

It's disappointing that this Austin American-Statesman in-depth article skews to
the usual pro/con set of arguments around growth in Austin's urban core.
Neighborhood folks are against growth; developers and 20-something singles are
for it.

My wife and I have lived in Brentwood for many years, and thanks to the new
establishments, we walk more now for our shopping needs than ever before. We
also appreciate that increased foot traffic in our neighborhood makes us feel
more connected to our neighbors. The Planning and Zoning Commission's decisions
about Brentwood and other core neighborhoods have many positive consequences,
and the Statesman should strive to cover more of them.

Heath K. Hignight

Austin

Give credit to craftsmen

Re: Feb. 3 article, "St. Mary Cathedral fixes restore classic grandeur."

Thank you for the article on the masonry work at St. Mary's Cathedral in
downtown Austin. The restoration of such a historic building requires the
knowledge and experience of skilled craftsmen. Give credit where credit is due.
The persons doing the hands-on work are the masons of Ash Masonry Masterworks.
Ash Masonry has worked on the restoration of numerous historic buildings across
the state.

Often only the architect or general contractor receives any acknowledgement for
restoration of a building. But they rely on the hardworking craftsmen to get the
job done. Texas is fortunate to have such dedicated craftsmen preserving the
built heritage of our state.

Quana Childs

Austin

Locator chip in guns

The endless gun rhetoric all seems directed to identifying owners and/or
unstable minds and how they come together to create havoc. Yet in their proper
place, neither threatens society. A gun above the mantel or an unbalanced person
without intent are harmless. Austin is blessed with high-tech brains, so why
can't they come up with a method to identify guns in wrong places?

I picture burying a "locator chip" in one or more components of a gun and a
separate "locator device" which could detect a gun nearby. This might go a long
way in solving the problem of a stolen gun or an unidentified mental case
causing harm; if the gun's in the wrong place, it's potential trouble. Every
proposed solution involves contentious privacy and other hot-button issues, but
why not try?

Al Schwerman

Lago Vista

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

'Double Down' overflowing with D.C. gossip for junkies

BYLINE: Charles Ealy American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. F5

LENGTH: 1025 words


The media blitz surrounding "Double Down: Game Change 2012" is coming to Austin
this week, with authors Mark Halperin and John Heilemann appearing at BookPeople
on Sunday and then taping a show at KLRU for "Overheard with Evan Smith" on
Monday, followed by an appearance at the LBJ Presidential Library.

Many people have already heard some of the recent highlights from this gossipy
analysis of the presidential race of 2012. The headlines have focused on the
following:

In 2011, aides to President Barack Obama conducted polling on whether replacing
Vice President Joe Biden with Hillary Clinton would help the ticket, but
eventually found that such a move "wouldn't materially improve Obama's odds" of
winning the election against Republican nominee Mitt Romney.

In another meeting in 2011, Obama decided that he needed to start focusing on
issues about which he felt passionate, and he wrote them down on a legal pad and
shared them with advisers. Those issues included support for same-sex marriage,
immigration reform and efforts to halt climate change. Obama planned to make the
announcement about his views on same-sex marriage, but Obama's aides didn't tell
Biden, who expressed his support on a Sunday morning TV talk show and pre-empted
the president.

At the same meeting, Obama seemed to be regretful about not having achieved many
of his progressive goals and was apparently reflecting on the U.S. use of drones
and the killing of 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden when he said: "Turns out I'm
really good at killing people. Didn't know that was gonna be a strong suit of
mine."

Romney's search for a vice presidential running mate was code-named "Project
Goldfish," with the portly New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie nicknamed
"Pufferfish."

There's much more, of course, all told in a highly readable narrative that, in
many instances, skips attribution. It's the same style that characterized the
2008 political narrative, "Game Change."

Halperin and Heilemann say that "Double Down" is based on more than 500
interviews with more than 400 people between the summers of 2010 and 2013. They
also point out that their interviews were done on "deep background" - "that we
were free to use the information they provided (once we had determined its
veracity) but that we would not identify them as sources in any way."

Such an approach, of course, raises questions about whether people from various
campaigns might be using the authors to advance an agenda or to get even with
someone for a perceived slight. But the authors contend that their approach was
"essential to elicit the level of candor on which a book of this sort depends."

Whatever the case, the book is brimming with interesting details. Among them:

Despite valuing the help of former President Bill Clinton, Obama didn't want to
be around him for long periods. "I like him... in doses," Obama told an aide.

Republican governors opposed the front-runner status of Romney for the
presidential nomination. Big opponents included Haley Barbour of Mississippi and
Rick Perry of Texas, who called Romney "terrible."

Jon Huntsman was a longtime rival of Romney in Mormon circles, and Huntsman was
still angered by Romney's selection to rescue the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt
Lake City. Romney, meanwhile, considered Huntsman a "'Jack Mormon,' the
equivalent of a Catholic who forgoes Mass." Huntsman and his wife, Mary Kaye,
were also known to drink white wine - a Mormon prohibition.

And then there are several tidbits about Perry, whose bid for the GOP nomination
caused much consternation in the GOP establishment. Much of the discussion
focuses on the longstanding friction between the Bush and Perry camps - with
special attention to an interview that Perry gave to Parade magazine.

In the interview, Perry explained the differences between himself and former
President George W. Bush as follows: "We grew up differently. We have different
value sets.

"It wasn't long before (Karl) Rove heard that Barbara Bush, having taken the
quote as an affront to her parenting, was on the verge of going nuclear on
Perry," Halperin and Heilemann write. "Rove called (Perry aide) Ray Sullivan and
read him the riot act. 'There's a gray-haired little old lady who spends half
the year in Kennebunkport and half the year in Houston, and I'm giving you fair
warning that she is no longer under control,' Rove said. 'I've spent nearly
forty years trying to stay on her good side. You think you'll win a battle with
Barbara Bush? You go ahead.'"

The authors also contend that Perry was facing serious health issues during his
run for the nomination. They say that his back surgery in July 2011, before the
campaign was in full swing, left Perry in "constant discomfort."

"He was strapped in a brace to deal with lingering back pain. He was wearing
orthopedic shoes.... Most debilitating, he was no longer able to go running, and
that in turn was causing him to suffer from insomnia," the authors say.

Perry was also dealing with a possible publication of an incendiary story by a
Huffington Post reporter about his private life, and his campaign hired famed
libel attorney Lin Wood to send a letter threatening to sue if the story was
published. The trouble coincided with a meeting between Perry and prominent
evangelical leaders in Central Texas, the authors note.

These kinds of stories, of course, are catnip to political junkies. "Double
Down" is full of them.

Contact Charles Ealy at 512-445-3931.

'Double Down' events coming to Austin
  Mark Halperin and John Heilemann will speak and sign copies of "Double Down"
at 7 p.m. today at BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.
  KLRU will host a taping of "Overheard with Evan Smith" with Halperin and
Heilemann at 3:45 p.m. Monday at KLRU's Studio 6A, at the corner of Guadalupe
and Dean Keeton streets. RSVP to klru.org required.
  The Texas Tribune and the LBJ Presidential Library will host a conversation
with Halperin and Heilemann at 6 p.m. Monday at the library, 2313 Red River St.
 RSVP required to attend. Visit texastribune.org for details. The Store at LBJ
will host a signing of the book in the upper auditorium lobby from 5 to 5:45
p.m. Book sales begin at 4:45 p.m.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 17, 2013 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Letters to the editor

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 954 words


Stress drug treatment

Re: Aug. 13 article, "Holder: Cut many drug penalties."

I'm no fan of Attorney General Eric Holder, but this time he got it right. He
needs to go a step further. Drug addiction is a disease and should be treated as
such. The addict should be allowed to legally declare himself as such and thus
qualify for medical treatment, possibly involving his drug of choice. The
infrastructure for such a program already exists in methadone clinics. This
would be a win-win-win situation: The crime rate would plummet, the drug cartels
are out of business and the addict receives treatment. This is way too
reasonable; it'll never fly.

Bob Roberts

bob.roberts@gmail.com

Austin

Congressional hypocrisy

I have verified that "some" Democratic members of Congress requested that
President Barack Obama exempt Congress and their staffs from the provisions of
Obamacare. Those members stated that under Obamacare the premiums would be too
expensive and the offices would experience "brain drain." That excuse is a new
one to me. I cannot foresee any "brain drain" ever exiting Washington. Whatever
happened to the old adage: What is good for the goose is good for the gander? I
forgot - anything goes in Washington. Citizens, remember on Election Day.

Dale Siemsen

Austin

Police public relations

Exactly as counterinsurgency failed in Southeast Asia, more recently it failed
again in Southwest Asia. Must we try it once more in Austin? Soldiers that visit
your school as friends on Monday become enemies if they kill your
brother/uncle/father on Tuesday. The same argument applies to police.

Yet, Austin officials appear to believe that hiring more police for public
relations duties will win the hearts and minds of the citizenry - ignoring
evidence found elsewhere. Why do Austin taxpayers tolerate being treated like
third-worlders?

Henry Zeybel

Austin

Changing Constitution

Before people get too excited about U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz wanting to abolish the
IRS, they need to understand some things. The income tax and thus the IRS were
not created by a law, but by an amendment to the Constitution (the 16th). This
amendment was upheld by the Supreme Court, and the only way to get rid of it is
by passing another amendment that supersedes this one. Not an easy action,
either; it takes a legislator to introduce it, then the legislation has to be
passed by a super-majority (two-thirds) in both houses of Congress. Finally, it
takes a supermajority (three-fourths) of state legislatures to approve it before
it becomes an amendment.

Jeffrey Batt

batcave@oltimers.net

Kingsland

Water future

Re: Aug. 15 article, "Guadalupe River flow reduced to a trickle."

Your article about the Guadalupe River flow being at zero is a sobering reminder
of the drought we are struggling under here in Central Texas. Talking about dry
being our new normal makes me think about how our climate is continuing to
change. Even though climate change didn't cause this drought, it's not helping.
Imagine what Central Texas will look like when our kids are grown-ups if we let
our globe heat up another couple degrees.

That's why I'm in contact with Rep. Michael McCaul, asking him to come up with
some free-market solutions to ensure that my daughters have a livable future.
Conservative economists and Republicans across the country are starting to speak
up in favor of solutions like a tax on carbon, a solution that lets the market
choose winners, reduces government regulations and returns revenue back to our
pockets. Beats water rationing.

Susan Adams

Austin

Lower toll prices

The cost to drive on the U.S. 183-A toll road is, quite literally, highway
robbery. I am appalled that as a public school teacher, I am required to pay
almost $3 per one-way trip between my home in Central Austin and my school in
Leander. In my experience, the tollway is a ghost town compared with old U.S.
183. It would seem to be common sense that if the price of the tolls was
lowered, more commuters would be willing to take it, thus alleviating the
congestion on old 183. The tollway is a very nice road that is suited to handle
copious amounts of traffic and is being completely underutilized due to the
outrageous fees.

Ashly Stacy

Austin

On saltwater tanks

Re: Aug. 15 article, "Aquarium experts from 'Tanked' at Home & Garden Show."

Here's another take on the whole "Tanked" series and your recent article about
their display in Austin, from someone who used to be a saltwater aquaria
enthusiast. Many people don't realize that most saltwater fish will not breed in
captivity and must be caught wild. Many of these fish come from coral reefs in
the Asia Pacific region, where locals use chemicals like cyanide to "stun" the
fishes so that they can be easily caught. You can imagine what this does to the
corals and other living organisms that are also in their path. The fish that
actually survive this process are sent over to Europe and the U.S. to spend time
in your living rooms.

It's an incredibly destructive environmental practice and, when you support the
saltwater aquarium industry, you are basically supporting destruction of coral
reefs and habitats around the world. If you love aquariums like I do, switch
over to freshwater. Most of these species breed in captivity .

Robert Miller

Round Rock

BOX:

Contact us

The Austin American-Statesman encourages email and faxes from readers. Please
include a full name, address and daytime and evening phone numbers. We edit
letters for brevity, grammar, style and clarity. Edited letters address a single
idea and do not exceed 150 words. Anonymous letters will not be published.
Letters become property of the Austin American-Statesman.

Send emails to letters@statesman.com Mail to: Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
670, Austin, TX 78767.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Letters to the Editor

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 686 words


Acevedo deserved better treatment

Re: Aug. 16 article, "Residents tell Acevedo to resign."

I'm disappointed in the behavior of a group who would attend a town hall event
and so allow civility to lose ground that Austin's police chief, Art Acevedo, is
told to step down. The point is that he stepped up to own a tragic part of his
job. Based on the newspaper article, I believe the meeting deteriorated into a
personal attack. Tasteless and rude behavior does not resolve problems in such
an arena. If you truly want to address serious issues and seek solutions, speak
with dignity. If you need a role model for this, Art Acevedo would be a good
one.

Karen Stone

Austin Acevedo acted childish

Re: Aug. 16 article, "Residents tell Acevedo to resign."

I attended the town hall meeting addressing the recent violence directed towards
minorities that has been escalating. What I came away from the meeting with is
that not only does Police Chief Art Acevedo have an extremely low tolerance for
being called to task, he bails out of any situation that's not going to make him
look like he's doing a good job. The news reports didn't show him behaving like
a petulant child when he was asked questions he didn't want to answer involving
the department's brutality, and they also didn't show him leaving the meeting
after only being there for an hour. He wasn't answering questions for an hour.
He was just there. The so-called town hall meeting was basically the police
telling us that we all needed "not to run" when approached by them. I am now
under the impression that we are paying them to beat the crap out of us, shoot
us and our animals, and then get a paid vacation while it's being investigated.
Don't run? Yeah, right.

Corri Mava Hubbard

Austin

Tax on carbon

Re: Aug. 15 article, "Guadalupe River flow reduced to a trickle."

This excellent article is yet another example of how our resources are becoming
ever more scarce as the Earth's temperature rises. In the piece, Tommy Mathews,
president of the Cow Creek Groundwater Conservation District board, says: Dry is
the new normal. As a parent of two young girls, I am frightened about what
normal will be for them in 25 years or more (or less). We must make some
critical policy changes immediately in order to slow climate change as quickly
as possible. Let's stop letting companies discharge CO2 into the atmosphere for
free and put a price on carbon to allow the free market to take its course. I
urge other American-Statesman readers to write to their representatives to let
them know that a revenue-neutral tax on carbon will reduce emissions
significantly while raising revenue for the general public.

Rachel Zindler

Austin

Rail is part of solution

Transportation is a three-sided public policy challenge for governments, and
both Texas and Travis County have failed in this regard. It involves road, air
and rail. Studies for decades have demonstrated that building additional roads
only has a temporary brief impact on reducing traffic density.

Some of our elected officials say a light rail is not a viable option for our
region because Cap Metro's Red Line transports a small percentage of the
population. Of course the Red Line transports a small percentage of the
population. It is the only light rail line in operation.

At current population, the Austin region needs at least five lines operating
now, with more planned as the population grows. We are approaching gridlock, and
if the hard steps are not taken now to address problems (which should have been
implemented decades ago), the situation will become intolerable. Indeed, we are
close to this reality already.

Herman Prager

Austin

BOX:

Contact us

The Austin American-Statesman encourages email and faxes from readers. Please
include a full name, address and daytime and evening phone numbers. We edit
letters for brevity, grammar, style and clarity. Edited letters address a single
idea and do not exceed 150 words. Anonymous letters will not be published.
Letters become property of the Austin American-Statesman.

Send emails to letters@statesman.com Mail to: Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
670, Austin, TX 78767.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Graduation requirement bills draw warning

BYLINE: Kate Alexander American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 728 words


A surge of bills seeking to loosen high school graduation requirements could end
up leaving many Texas students ill-prepared for college and life beyond high
school, state Higher Education Commissioner Raymund Paredes warned Wednesday.

Under some of the proposed changes, students could graduate from high school
without a solid academic foundation, Paredes warned. He specifically urged
legislators not to roll back certain science and math requirements.

"We need to work out differences of opinion about appropriate levels of rigor,
and I think we will," Paredes said in an interview.

Support has swelled for several bills that would reduce required courses and
give high school students more flexibility in choosing a course of study.
Industry and trade groups, in particular, are pushing for changes to graduation
requirements allowing students not bound for college to pursue more
career-related training in high school.

State Senate Education Committee Chairman Dan Patrick, R-Houston, has introduced
a bill that would reduce the number of core course requirements from 16 to 12 -
including two fewer science courses - opening up more opportunities for
electives. He expects to pass the bill out of the committee on Tuesday and said
it could clear the Senate with a unanimous vote.

Similar bills have been filed by other education leaders, including state House
Public Education Chairman Jimmie Don Aycock, R-Killeen. Aycock couldn't be
reached for comment Wednesday.

"The business community, the education community, parents and students want
flexibility," Patrick said. "The more that you require them to take, the less
flexibility you have, and you end up right where we are."

Patrick added: "All we're doing is adding flexibility. We're not stepping back
on rigor."

But the Higher Education Coordinating Board estimates that an additional 6,000
students a year would need remedial education to attend community college or a
four-year university if the Legislature adopts the looser graduation
requirements. The cost of that remediation would be about $4 million a year,
according to a fiscal analysis of Senate Bill 3.

Patrick and other senators questioned that analysis during a committee hearing
Tuesday. Paredes, however, stands by it.

"There are some tweaks that I think we need to make in (the Patrick bill) to
assure that all children - all children - graduating from high school have a
solid academic foundation," Paredes said.

Paredes has called for retaining a third year of science, which would be physics
for college-bound students while others could take an applied science course. He
noted that some science issues, such as climate change and energy production,
are essential for everyone to understand.

"We need our kids to come out of high school with a fundamental knowledge of
science and be able to participate in thoughtful discussion about how science
will impact this country," said Paredes.

Paredes also said he believes that all graduates, regardless of their plans
after high school, should take Algebra II. That course is currently required
but, under the proposals, a student could take a different math-related class,
such as robotics or engineering.

Patrick said he was open to keeping the science requirement but couldn't swallow
requiring the higher-level math. He said there is no support for keeping the
Algebra II requirement for all students.

The proposed graduation changes are meant to help students who are at risk of
dropping out of high school because they don't see the practical application of
what they are learning, Patrick said.

"I'm not going to let anyone come in and mess with the bill and weaken it" for
those students who need the flexibility, Patrick said.

Contact Kate Alexander at 445-3618.

Twitter: @katealexander

LOOSENING HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION PLANS
 Most Texas high school students now complete:
 * Total credits: 26
 * Core requirements: 4 English; 4 math; 4 science; 4 social studies
 * Other key components: 2 foreign language; 5.5 electives
 Under pending legislation, those requirements would be loosened. Specifics
vary, but proposals generally call for:
 * Total credits: 26
 * Core requirements: 4 English; 3 math; 2 science; 3 social studies
 * Other key requirements: 0-2 foreign language; 8-11.5 electives; endorsements
 available for business and industry, fine arts and science, technology,
engineering and math (STEM)



LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Politifact recap

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 400 words


JIM MARSTON

Statement: Says Texas leads the nation in fatal industrial accidents.

Half True

The founding director of the Texas office of the Environmental Defense Fund
based this statement on the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' report on 2011
fatal occupational injuries, which is a broader category than fatal industrial
accidents. To isolate accidents, we looked at four subcategories of workplace
fatalities and found that Texas led in all four in raw numbers. Not
surprisingly, all of the most populous states ranked near the top. When we
sought to adjust for population by ranking the states by deaths per 100,000
workers, Texas fell to 18th.

WAYNE SMITH

Statement: 'Science has not shown greenhouse gases to be a problem.'

Pants on Fire

The state representative from Baytown was arguing against the need for
government regulation of greenhouse gases. Several experts including the Texas
state climatologist, John Nielsen-Gammon, told us the scientific consensus is
that increases in greenhouse gases, mostly due to burning fossil fuels such as
coal and oil, have been contributing to global warming, though the pace of that
warming is uncertain.

As Naomi Oreskes, a professor of history at the University of California, San
Diego, put it in a book: "There are climate scientists who actively do research
in the field but disagree with the consensus position, but their number is very,
very small." It may be a matter of opinion whether such warming is a "problem,"
as Smith said, but it's clear that the majority of climate scientists have seen
evidence of its existence.

GEORGE LAVENDER

Statement: Says the state's mandated tests come from an English company.

Mostly True

The state representative from Texarkana was referring to NCS Pearson Inc.,
Texas' primary contractor for statewide assessment programs, including
development of the new STAAR exams.

NCS Pearson is headquartered in Bloomington, Minn., and was founded in 1962 as
National Computer Systems to score psychology diagnostic tests. The name changed
to NCS Pearson in 2000 when it was bought by Pearson PLC, which is based in
London. We noted, though, that Texas tests are written in Texas by
subcontractors and Texas educators.

BOX:

- Compiled by the American-Statesman PolitiFact Texas team

Find coverage of Texas issues at politifacttexas.com.

Contact PolitiFact Texas at

politifact@statesman.com Twitter: @politifacttexas

Facebook: PolitiFact Texas

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Retail on the rise

BYLINE: Gary Dinges American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2019 words


There are a lot of places in Austin where a new upscale neighborhood grocery
store wouldn't draw much attention.

But at the corner of East 11th and Navasota streets in East Austin, the arrival
of the Quickie Pickie has caused a stir.

The store - which is also a bar and offers an assortment of grab-and-go meals -
has replaced a run-down service station. The brightly colored building, painted
in shades of yellow and peach, features everything from basic staples to gourmet
chocolates and high-end wines.

"This used to be a corner store with bars on the windows and a lackluster
selection. But look at us now," said general manager Emily Lowe, an East 11th
Street resident for almost a decade. "Almost everyone who comes in is from this
neighborhood. People walk in and say, 'We're so glad you're here.'"

The Quickie Pickie is just part of a mix of national chains and locally owned
mom and pop shops opening their doors in the area east of Interstate 35 in
Austin. Michele Gary, a vice president with the Weitzman Group, a commercial
real estate firm, estimates leasing activity in the area has jumped at least 30
percent.

City records show more than 1,300 applications for building permits for
commercial remodeling and finish-outs - work done before a new business can open
- have been submitted in 11 ZIP codes east of Interstate 35 in the past year.

Just in the past month, the state reports issuing 119 sales tax permits for new
businesses - including a photography studio, a taqueria, a bridal shop and a
flooring company - in those 11 ZIP codes. They cover an area roughly north to
the Mueller development, south to William Cannon Drive and east to U.S. 183,
with some extending to near Texas 130.

"This area is on the radar of several retailers and restaurants," Gary said.
"It's just a matter of when, and finding the right real estate."

The influx of businesses is giving East Austin residents shopping and dining
options they've been wanting, helping transform an area that for years was
lacking in retail options.

Johnny Limón, a lifelong East Austin resident, said he and many of his neighbors
are pleased to see the additions.

"They've really brought in more stores that we like," he said.

Limón, who lives near Springdale Road and Airport Boulevard and is president of
the Gardens Neighborhood Association, said that until recently, even getting a
pizza delivered was difficult.

"Now, we do have a couple of pizza places that deliver," he said. "We were
finally heard."

But the changes in the area do raise some questions from residents and city
officials, who have expressed concerns that the gentrification of East Austin
could make housing unaffordable for many current residents and change the area's
culture. However, the evolution of the East Austin area also could be important
to creating a healthier economic climate for Austin as a whole, experts say.

"With the growing popularity of East Austin as a place to live, play and work,
it follows that we'll see more retail establishments open up to serve the
growing population in the area," said Eldon Rude, a local real estate industry
expert. "It won't surprise me in a few years if some areas east of

I-35 don't look like South Congress, with its proliferation of apartments,
condos, restaurants, bars and specialty retail shops."

Income disparity

East Austin's lack of shopping options - particularly national retail and
restaurant chains - has long been a sore point with residents and civic leaders.
Driving - or taking a bus - across town to shop has been the norm, they say.

"It has been slow to move retail over here," Quickie Pickie's Lowe said. "I
think people have underestimated the people of East Austin. There's a community
over here that needs to be served."

In reality, basic economics has been one of the key reasons behind the lack of
retail options, experts say. Incomes in some of the area's neighborhoods have
traditionally lagged far behind the city's average.

Austin's median household income in 2010, according to the U.S. Census Bureau,
was $51,596. But the 78741 ZIP code, which encompasses much of the Montopolis
area, and 78744, home to the Dove Springs neighborhood, both have average
household incomes that are almost $15,000 lower.

That compares with areas west of I-35 - home to the bulk of the city's retail
centers - where many ZIP codes have median household incomes that are two to
three times higher. The Census Bureau reports that the area's wealthiest ZIP
code, 78730, has an average household income of $134,080. The ZIP code includes
River Place and nearby neighborhoods along RM 2222 in West Austin.

"East Austin will continue to evolve, but hopefully it will do so in a way that
embraces and showcases the city's diversity and uniqueness," said Brian Kelsey,
principal of Civic Analytics, a local economic consulting firm. "Given all the
hand-wringing lately about whether or not Austin is still 'weird,' people in all
ZIP codes have a stake in the success of districts like East Austin."

As East Austin's population has begun to grow and new residential development
has started to spring up, there are signs the income disparity is lessening,
experts say. And that has made the area more attractive to retailers and other
businesses, Gary said.

"East Austin exudes opportunity," she said. "Like all of urban Austin, this area
is seeing residential growth that is lifting the vitality - and the incomes - of
the trade area."

Out-of-towners are playing a key part in the transformation, according to Rude.

"We're seeing so many new businesses in East Austin because of the large number
of young people who have moved to Austin in recent years," he said. "I've been
studying our real estate market for over 27 years, which included several major
recessions, and I've been amazed at the number of new bars, restaurants and
retail shops that have opened east of I-35 during this most recent recession."

One of the newest examples of retail growth on the east side can be found near
East Sixth and Calles streets, where what was once an industrial warehouse has
been transformed into an assortment of more than a dozen businesses, including
Eastside Austin Elite, a newly opened mixed martial arts and fitness studio.

Though the gym could have opened anywhere in town, manager Justin Lakin calls
East Austin "an up-and-coming area" - a part of town where residents didn't
previously have access to many of the classes and services Eastside Austin Elite
offers. Already, the fitness studio has more than 200 members, he said.

"There's nothing like this around here," Lakin said.

A few doors down, Mettle, a restaurant, opened about a month ago.

"The east side is where businesses are expanding," said Daniel Brooks, Mettle's
general manager. "There are a lot of forward-thinking people over here. In the
next two years, I expect you're going to see pretty much every vacant building
taken over. And within five years, it's going to be a prime draw for people who
live all over Austin."

Changing demographics

Two key catalysts in the evolution of East Austin have been the Mueller
development and the changing face of East Riverside Drive, Gary and Rude say.
Development in those areas is helping change the demographics of East Austin,
and that's playing a big role in luring new retailers.

Along East Riverside Drive, hundreds of run-down, 1960s-era apartments have been
demolished in recent years, making way for mixed-use developments. Some, such as
Amli South Shore, are already up and running, while others aren't far behind.

Houston-based Grayco Partners is putting the finishing touches on the first
phase of its South Shore District development. The first apartments are expected
to open this fall, with retailers and restaurants soon afterward. Walgreens,
AT&T and Starbucks have signed on as tenants so far.

"The pace of new retail development, including restaurants, will be very dynamic
in the coming years as the underlying demographics of the South Shore area and
East Austin change with 3,000 to 5,000 new residents in the projects already
underway and planned in the near future," said Grayco Partners founder and
President Jeff Gray.

Mueller is already home to Best Buy, Home Depot and other large stores - and
H-E-B and Five Below, a new-to-Austin discount store chain, are on the way.

Most stores at Mueller draw shoppers from three to five miles away, said Tommy
Tucker, vice president of development for Catellus Development Corp., Mueller's
master developer. That means they're routinely attracting residents from as far
east as Ed Bluestein Boulevard and as far south as East Riverside Drive. Some
drive even farther , Tucker said.

"Mueller certainly has a great deal of action," he said, "but we are part of a
much broader trade area. We're drawing from all of the surrounding
neighborhoods."

While much of West Austin is built up, Tucker said land east of I-35 tends to be
cheaper and more plentiful. That's another reason retailers are targeting the
area.

"The trade area is shifting," he said. "There's just more land available east of
I-35. Here at Mueller - and beyond Mueller's borders - there are a lot more
opportunities."

The Mueller H-E-B, set to open this summer, will be one of the chain's most
eco-friendly stores, spokeswoman Leslie Sweet said. It's also set to carry a
number of hard-to-find products customers have requested.

San Antonio-based

H-E-B, the area's dominant grocer, was an East Austin pioneer, Sweet said. The
company opened its first East Austin store in 1956 at East Seventh Street and
Pleasant Valley Road. Other East Austin stores include ones at Ed Bluestein
Boulevard and Springdale Road and at East Riverside Drive and Pleasant Valley
Road.

The company has invested millions of dollars in East Austin in recent years. Its
East Riverside Drive store was rebuilt from the ground up in 2010, and the East
Seventh Street store was remodeled in 2011.

"East Austin has a special place in our hearts," Sweet said. "Our East Austin
stores have been well-loved. We've been looking to add another store for a while
now to alleviate some of the crowding our other stores have been feeling."

Challenging issues

While the changing face of East Austin is drawing praise from some, others say
there's still a long way to go. Despite the new options, some residents say the
area still lags far behind most of Austin in business and shopping options.

Michael Nieto, who lives near East Second and Pedernales streets, says that
while getting groceries isn't a problem, he's still forced to rely on Capital
Metro buses and taxis to take him elsewhere for other shopping and errands.

"Can you believe it?" he said. "There's no Wal-Mart. No McDonald's. A place to
buy clothes would be nice too."

Getting across town can take hours, he said, with multiple bus transfers. That's
not easy when he has 2-year-old daughter Annabelle in tow.

"For Seventh Street being as busy as it is, there should be more options," he
said.

There are also concerns among residents and civic leaders that as East Austin
gentrifies, property values and rents will rise beyond what some longtime
residents can afford - meaning they won't be around to enjoy new shopping and
dining options.

That possibility troubles Austin City Council Member Mike Martinez, an East
Austin resident.

"We face challenging growth issues throughout all of Austin," Martinez said,
"but for sure in East Austin. I believe there are good things happening in East
Austin, but there are also many things that we can do better and work diligently
to address."

Still, East Austin residents say they are pleased to see the influx of
businesses such as Paper Party, which set up shop in February near the Quickie
Pickie.

Paper Party sells stationery, party supplies and gifts - items that previously
weren't easily found without a car trip across town.

"I really feel like I'm filling a hole," said owner Glade Hensel, who also lives
in East Austin. "People are so excited to be able to go shopping in their
neighborhood. It seems like it's starting to turn around, but I still feel like
we need more retail options here."

Contact Gary Dinges at 512-912-5987.

Twitter: @gdinges

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Annual homeless count down 1,330 since '08

BYLINE: Andrea Ball American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 495 words


The number of homeless people found living on the streets, in the woods, under
bridges and in shelters in Travis County has decreased 39 percent since 2008.

In 2008, 3,451 homeless people were found in the annual point-in-time count, a
one-night effort in which volunteers find and interview people without permanent
homes.

This year, 2,121 homeless people were spotted.

The count is conducted by the Ending Community Homelessness Coalition.

Executive Director Ann Howard emphasized that it is just a snapshot of
homelessness.

Other indicators - the number of people seeking help for substance abuse or
mental health care, for instance - play into the equation, she said.

But Howard said the count suggests that housing initiatives are getting more
people off the street.

"We need more of what we're doing," she said. "We're doing some things right."

In late January, about 300 people scoured the city and county, searching for
homeless people in both rural and urban areas.

The count is required by the federal government and is used to determine funding
for low-income housing efforts.

Howard suspects the declining numbers stem from an increase in the affordable
housing and immediate shelter for homeless people.

In 2008, the federal government funded 1,675 low-income housing units.

By 2012, that number had grown to 2,130. And groups like the Salvation Army,
which is running a new program that houses 40 to 50 single women per night, are
beefing up their services.

Some advocates question the usefulness of the annual count, saying it's a faulty
measure.

Between 2,650 and 2,750 people check into emergency shelters every night,
obviously higher than the number of homeless people identified in the January
count.

Even comparing this year's count with those of the past is impossible because of
changing variables such as weather and occasional crackdowns on illegal camping,
said Alan Graham of Mobile Loaves and Fishes, which provides food to the
homeless.

"The data is going to be all over the map and I don't think it should inspire
anything one way or another," he said.

Others say they don't know what to make of the declining count.

"Maybe it's some success in rehousing folks who just hit the street or avoided
hitting the street with some assistance?" said Mitchell Gibbs, executive
director of Front Steps, which operates the city's homeless shelter.

"Maybe the Austin Police Department initiatives? Climate change didn't push as
many snowbirds our way this season? Economy and employment picking up?"

David Gomez, who runs a homeless outreach team for Austin Travis County Integral
Care, said the count doesn't jibe with what he sees every day. But he's also
hopeful that the housing effort is helping.

"We can feel good that we have increased our stock of available housing," he
said.

Contact Andrea Ball at

912-2506.

HOMELESS CENSUS
 Number of homeless people found in Travis County during annual count:
2008 - 3,451
2009 - 2,641
2010 - 2,087
2011 - 2,362
2012 - 2,244
2013 - 2,121



LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2013



CORRECTION: A story on Tuesday's B1 misstated the number of people who use
Travis County emergency homeless shelters. Between 2,650 to 2,750 people check
into such shelters each week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Energy plant mostly sits idle

BYLINE: Marty Toohey American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 681 words


For most of the seven months since it rumbled to life, a wood-burning power
plant in East Texas hasn't been producing electricity for Austin Energy
customers despite a $2.3 billion contract.

Simply put, the plant's electricity is now too expensive to use. But, even as
the plant sits mostly idle, Austin Energy pays a fee to cover its operating
costs. The utility won't say how much it pays to keep the plant staffed or the
cost of the electricity the plant would produce, citing the competitive nature
of the contract.

"It concerns me that customers are on the hook, paying for this plant to sit
idle," state Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, recently wrote to city officials.

The city-owned utility agreed to purchase power from the "biomass" plant in 2008
as part of a plan to aggressively invest in renewable energy and curb the city's
contribution to global climate change. But the deal was based partly on the
expectation that federal taxes would raise the price of carbon-based fuels,
making wood waste seem like a more attractive option.

That hasn't happened.

Even as the plant was being debated five years ago, environmental activists,
business lobbyists, open-government watchdogs and fiscal conservatives
complained it wouldn't deliver the promised environmental benefits and that the
contract was rushed to unanimous City Council approval.

When Austin Energy executives were encouraging the council to approve the
contract, they emphasized the plant was one of the few available sources of
renewable power that could produce more or less around the clock. Cheryl Mele,
Austin Energy's chief operating officer, said the utility first expected the
100-megawatt plant could run at full capacity about 90 percent of the time.

Those expectations have since been revised. Mele said it might now run 75
percent of the time, though she said that so far it has produced electricity
just 50 days during the seven months it has been operational.

Part of the reason is that in 2010, the statewide electric grid began operating
under long-awaited rules that muddied traditional notions of when a particular
plant must be producing. Before the new rules, each electric utility was
responsible for ensuring it had a steady stream of its own electricity at all
times. Now, utilities sell their power into a statewide market, and the
operators of the state grid choose the cheapest sources, then dispatch them
through the grid back to utilities that pay for the electricity.

The idea is to ensure the cheapest sources of electricity are used first. That
means that at this time of year, when demand statewide is relatively low, even
some coal plants aren't producing because natural gas is so cheap.

The wood-waste plant's electricity is so expensive that the state grid won't buy
it.

"A lot of people would not have anticipated natural-gas prices being so low when
we signed the contract," Mele said.

Nacogdoches Power LLC persuaded the city to sign the 20-year contract without
soliciting bids from competitors. The plant has since been sold to Southern
Power, though the contract remains in place. Austin Energy executives say
customers aren't paying for the plant's electricity if it's not producing,
though they declined to say how much the plant's inactivity is affecting utility
customers.

Austin Energy is a monopoly, but its executives say they still have to compete
against other utilities in situations such as the wood-waste plant, where there
could be other interested utilities.

A judge recently ordered Austin Energy to release the contract as part of an
appeal that some customers filed over a recent rate increase. But the judge
stipulated that when the contract is released, the lawyers handling the case
cannot release the details, said Roger Borgelt, an attorney for Homeowners
United for Rate Fairness.

The wood-waste plant has been used by people on both sides of an argument about
who should oversee Austin Energy. Watson wants the City Council to turn
oversight over to an independent board, and the City Council is expected to take
up the matter Thursday.

Contact Marty Toohey at 445-3673.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lawmaker touts proposal on greenhouse gas powers

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 318 words


In an Alice-in-Wonderland twist, a conservative Texas lawmaker who says he is
unconvinced greenhouse gases affect climate change has authored a proposal that
would give Texas more power to regulate such gases.

The proposal, by state Rep. Wayne Smith, R-Baytown, could get a vote on the
House floor this week.

Currently, the federal Environmental Protection Agency demands large industrial
Texas facilities get a greenhouse gas permit when planning new construction.

The EPA typically delegates permitting matters to state environmental agencies,
but it assumed that power on greenhouse gases in Texas after the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality declined to do so, arguing it does not have
the authority to regulate them.

The two sides have been tied up in litigation over the issue.

Smith proposes giving that power to Texas - at least, as long as the federal
government wants greenhouse gases to be regulated at all.

"We're trying to make the process more efficient," he said in a March hearing of
the House Environmental Regulation Committee.

But at the same time, Smith's proposal removes two-decade-old language from the
state health and safety code that treats global warming gases as an air
contaminant.

In an interview Wednesday, Smith hinted at the reason for the seemingly
contradictory language of giving power to the state on greenhouse gas issues
while also taking it away.

"Science has not shown greenhouse gases to be a problem," he said. "All things
being equal, there's no need to regulate greenhouse gases."

Industrial and oil and gas interests consider the state environmental agency
more sympathetic on permitting matters than its federal counterpart.

At the March hearing, Mark Vickery, formerly director of the TECQ and now a
lobbyist for the Texas Association of Manufacturers, testified that the state
agency would provide "the certainty that industry needs."

Contact Asher Price at 445-3643.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Boggy Creek gets help for trees

BYLINE: Esther Robards-Forbes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 505 words


Jessica Wilson pounded her foot on the top of a shovel, driving the blade into
the cold, damp soil beside Boggy Creek. She picked up a spindly pecan sapling,
half as big around as a pencil, and placed it in the small hole, carefully
pushing the earth around it and covering the roots.

It's a process that she and other volunteers repeated more than 700 times
Saturday as part of an effort to revitalize Boggy Creek Park in East Austin.
Working with the city's Watershed Protection Department, volunteers and city
staffers have been working to return natural vegetation and trees to creeks
around the city.

The effort benefits the ecosystem by providing a habitat and food for native
wildlife and insects. It also prevents erosion because plant roots hold onto
soil, and it improves water quality because those plants can act like a filter.
Finally, the restoration work provides a measure of flood control because it
slows water down as it moves through the watershed.

"As you look around the park, we lack diversity," said Wilson, who lives nearby
and helped organize the planting day through Friends of Boggy Creek and the
Rosewood-Glen Oaks neighborhood groups. "We have lots of pecans, but they're all
the same age. This will add age and species diversity, which will make the area
less susceptible to climate change."

She and her husband, Doug Boyer, adopted the park as their wedding gift to each
other. Instead of a traditional wedding registry, they asked friends and family
to donate to the effort to improve the park.

"It's better than getting a toaster and some towels," she said. "And now it's
carrying over into Christmas gifts."

The seedlings are native species like box elder, sycamore, dogwood and soap
berry.

They are all about a year old and were raised in Hays County using special
techniques to make them drought resistant, said Daniel Hosage,

who owns Madrone Nursery outside of San Marcos.

By planting these types of trees, they are pressing fast forward on the cycle of
vegetation for this bare patch of ground, skipping the normal scrub that would
naturally move in and getting right to the good stuff: big trees that will
benefit the ecosystem.

"A few years in, you get the long-term players that are going to stick around
awhile," Hosage said. "We're fast forwarding about 150 years."

Despite careful timing for planting, meticulously selected genetic lines and
being raised to be drought resistant, only about 30 percent of

the saplings will survive, said Staryn Wagner, an environmental scientist with
Watershed Protection.

The planted saplings will not be irrigated, and watershed officials view the
area as a bit of an experiment to see what will survive.

"On a watershed scale, these trees could have a very big impact," Wagner said.

A short distance away, Kendall Jackson, 22, was working with her two friends to
plant their bundle of saplings.

"I work in an office all week, and I think it's important to get out and do
something outside with my hands," Jackson said.

Contact Esther Robards-Forbes at 512-392-8750.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Plan to alter water board sparks influence concern

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1854 words


A proposal to revamp the state water board has turned a spotlight on concerns
about oversight of an agency that in the coming years likely will be entrusted
to handle billions of additional taxpayer dollars meant for projects to protect
Texas from ruinous drought.

For decades, the Texas Water Development Board has been an obscure state agency,
essentially acting as a bank that lends money, at low interest rates, to
communities wishing to build new wells, repair aging sewage treatment plants and
engineer new pipelines.

But under an ambitious plan to upgrade the state's water-bearing and storage
infrastructure, the board stands poised to control $2 billion in new state
money.

After a scandal over the management of cancer research money controlled by a
small state agency, and in the muddied game of Texas politics, governance of the
board has become a political football.

State Sen. Troy Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay, an ally of Gov. Rick Perry, says he
wants to professionalize a board that will be handling more responsibility and
money. But former board members say the agency works fine as is and worry about
undue political influence.

Under a proposal by Fraser, lawmakers would fire the current head bureaucrat at
the 295-employee agency and dismiss its six-member volunteer governing board.

In their place would appear a new director and a three-member, paid full-time
board, to be appointed, as is the current one, by the governor.

"The system has worked well, but the difference now is the sheer amount of money
they're going to be handling," Fraser said. "The Legislature, because of the
problems at (the cancer agency), wants to make sure there's going to be adequate
review for the money we put into projects."

But the proposal is drawing criticism from some former board members, who say
the agency has never approved a bad loan and that a full-time professional board
would be subject to political interference in a way that the part-time board is
not. Though current board members are appointed by the governor, they aren't
beholden to him for their living.

The governance proposal "is a really bad idea," said Jack Hunt, who retired from
the board in 2011 after 13 years and, as the retired CEO of the King Ranch, fits
the profile of most of the board members, who have run banks and large
businesses.

"I don't have an ax to grind with governor," said Weir Labatt III, who had
worked in his family's San Antonio wholesale grocery business before being
appointed to the board by Perry in 2002 (he served until 2012). "But it's just
power politics and not good for the state of Texas."

Perry's office made supportive noises about the bill.

"(It) seeks to ensure that the agency tasked with overseeing this investment is
properly structured to manage the increased activities of the board," Perry
spokesman Josh Havens said. The new board would "provide the appropriate
oversight that the people of Texas expect with their tax dollars."

Should the proposal become law, it would point, yet again, to Perry's reach as
Texas' longest-serving governor. He has made thousands of appointments to state
boards and commissions over his 12-year tenure, and his appointees oversee every
corner of state government. He and his appointees have remade bureaucracies
large and small, from the University of Texas, where Perry's regents have
rumbled about replacing the president, to the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality, where one of Perry's former legislative aides is now the executive
director.

Changes sought

The Legislature created the Water Development Board in 1957, as the state crept
out of the worst drought on the books and readied itself for a massive reservoir
and infrastructure building effort.

Nowadays, the board loans money to local governments for more modest water
supply projects and pays for conservation work and water-related research, such
as the collection of data on freshwater needs in the state's bays and estuaries.

It has a $5.5 billion loan portfolio, which could soon expand overnight.
Lawmakers are weighing whether to take $2 billion from the state's rainy day
fund as seed money on a revolving loan program, to be administered by the Water
Development Board, that could finance tens of billions of dollars worth of water
projects over the next 50 years. Otherwise, according to the 2012 state water
plan, water shortages and drought could cost a million jobs in that time and
hamper the economy.

Fraser, who chairs the Senate Natural Resources Committee, has tied the
financing to a governance shake-up of the Water Development Board, which has a
2013 budget of $56.2 million.

"The agency has changed a lot," Fraser said in a February committee hearing. The
pumping in of new money will make "a huge workload for a volunteer board
member," he said.

He won the support of J. Kevin Ward, who stepped down in 2011 as administrator
of the Water Development Board and now is general manager of the Trinity River
Authority.

"I spent a lot of my career both as a deputy and executive administrator
educating board members and helping them understand not only our programs, but
the legislative process," Ward testified at the hearing. "It may be the time
that the board would benefit from full-time board members that are appointed and
are salaried."

The board members would be there every day, he continued, making staff more
accountable and improving relations with lawmakers. "They're going to know the
business and they're going to be involved," Ward said.

But Hunt said the move would politicize a board that has traditionally been
overseen by businessmen, bank presidents and engineers from all parts of the
state.

"Three guys who are Austin preachers would get the job - people in the political
life here in Austin," Hunt said. The people running the Water Development Board
"don't have any particular biases other than making sure their regions are
represented and that nothing happens there that would damage the state's
reputation, its bond ratings or their personal reputations."

Currently the Water Development Board enjoys top marks from ratings agencies,
making it cheaper for the agency to borrow money, driving down interest rates it
makes on its own loans.

"It makes you nervous with a lot of money flowing around," Hunt said. "Bad
things can happen. Right now, there are six guys whose lives are elsewhere, and
if they smell something off it's not going to happen."

"You get career people, only inside people - that doesn't lead to objectivity,"
said Labatt, another former board member.

Fraser said the former board members "would naturally be defensive."

"The governor's office is really staying totally independent of this," he said.

Recent politics

As with other boards and commissions, Perry has tried to reach past his
appointees on the Water Development Board to install favorites and associates
into bureaucratic positions.

"If I had to characterize this, having intimately been involved working for the
board, this is a power play from the governor's office," said Labatt, who was
originally appointed - and then reappointed - by Perry.

Both Labatt and Hunt said personnel moves at the agency could be to blame.

A decade or so ago, board members passed up an opportunity to hire Barry McBee,
who had served as Perry's chief of staff in both the governor's and lieutenant
governor's office. Instead, they opted for Ward, an internal candidate who
served nearly a decade in the top job.

"If he was really mad at us," acknowledged Labatt, who was reappointed by Perry
in 2006, "he would have fired us 10 years ago."

When Ward left in 2011, the commissioners again turned internally to fill the
position, despite signals from Perry's office that he hoped they would appoint
his aide on natural resource issues to the job.

"The governor operates under the assumption if he appoints you, regardless of
your business judgment, you're supposed to do what he wants you to do," Hunt
said.

By April 2012, the chairman, Ed Vaughan, a lawyer in Boerne, was demoted by
Perry. Vaughan declined to speak for this story.

Fraser has not been happy with the board and its administrator either.

In a hearing, Fraser said they were not responsive to his requests, chiefly one
in which he asked the agency to compose a priority list of the many projects
listed in the state water plan.

Of the board members, Fraser said: "I haven't had a lot of luck communicating
with (them)."

Labatt said he was astounded by the allegation.

"I never got a single call from him or his staff person in 10-and-a-half years,"
Labatt said. "For him to take on the Water Development Board because it's not
responsive - I find it hard to believe."

'Ability to lead'

Fraser told the American-Statesman that he has lost confidence in board
executive administrator Melanie Callahan's "ability to lead." She would lose her
job if his legislation becomes law.

Callahan has a mixed record. In 2012, the Texas State Agency Business
Administrators' Association named her administrator of the year.

In her most recent performance review, obtained by the American-Statesman under
the state's public information law, Callahan received an overall score of 2.8
out of 4 from board members; her highest marks were for "business acumen," her
lowest for "managing vision and purpose."

There also have been complaints about inflexibility in the agency's loan program
and questions about whether board members are equipped to handle the demands of
the agency.

"It's a volunteer, part-time board, very much reliant on staff for their
resources, facts and information," state Rep. Dennis Bonnen, R-Angleton, said at
the February Natural Resources Committee hearing.

"I know how engaged board members are," Callahan told the committee. "I speak to
one of them daily probably. It's an ongoing dialogue. We're already handling
several billion in loans and debt, so that doesn't particularly give me pause."

Bonnen seemed unsatisfied: "If I were a member of your board, you and your staff
are the only resource I have, is that correct?"

Callahan acknowledged that her staff is responsible for briefing the board
members. Under questioning from Bonnen, she said that board meetings, held once
a month, typically don't last longer than a half-hour.

The former board members, interviewed separately, pointed to the board's track
record on loans as evidence that the agency works well: Not a single borrower
has defaulted on a single dollar of state money, Labatt said.

"If it ain't broke why fix it?" said Hunt. "The only thing that appears to be
broke here is feelings hurt because the governor's office has met with
resistance."

Fraser said the governance issue will likely be hashed out in conference
committee, since the House version of the measure doesn't include the governance
shake-up.

"At the end of the day, we don't know what structure is going to look like," he
said. "We might leave it as is, or we might radically change it."

Contact Asher Price at 445-3643.

EXPERT REPORTING
 Asher Price has covered the environment, climate and related issues for six
years, including business efforts to take advantage of market opportunities
presented by drought and limited water supplies.



LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tips to make important photos, papers last

BYLINE: Dale Roe American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 838 words


I had always thought inexpensive drugstore frames were a good way to preserve
photographs: The pictures wouldn't be subject to constant handling because the
glass would protect them.

But when I tried to remove a precious photo of my daughter from its frame, I
discovered that half of it was stuck to the glass. Silly me. I'd always thought
that mats were purely decorative, but the fact is they're useful for preventing
just such a problem.

I began to think about the boxes of newspapers and documents in my garage and
attic, the mounds of papers lying on the shelves in my home office and the boxes
of photos in my closet. (You remember photos, right? They're hard-copy, paper
versions of those images you share on Instagram. If you don't remember paper,
this column's not for you.)

What condition was that stuff in? My careless treatment must be weathering its
appearance and shortening its life. I decided to get advice from James Stroud,
associate director for conservation and building management for the Harry Ransom
Center at the University of Texas at Austin. Here's what I learned:

Storage

When it comes to storing important photos and papers, the two most important
factors are climate and location.

"All of these things are reacting to their environment all the time," says
Heather Hamilton, the Ransom Center's head of paper conservation.

Temperature is important. Basically, if the average person feels comfortable,
his or her photos and papers will, too - 68-72 degrees Fahrenheit with 50
percent relative humidity is fine as a ballpark average, Stroud says. That
should keep mold from growing.

Most of us don't have to worry about basements here, and that's good - they're
generally too cold and damp for this kind of storage. But attics and garages are
no better. They're too hot and humid in our nine or ten months of summer and can
get too cold during our ridiculously short winters.

Centrally located spaces are best as long as they're free of water and sewage
pipes, furnaces, stoves, fireplaces and nearby air conditioning and heating
vents (although well-circulated and -filtered air is important). Pipes can burst
and leak, and those other items can cause sweeping climate fluctuations.

Avoid areas prone to direct sunlight - it can cause fading and other damage. You
can eliminate that problem by storing your most valuable items in folders, then
placing those folders into boxes, like they do at the Ransom Center. Both should
be made of good quality or archival material made of 100 percent cotton or linen
rag, or alpha-cellulose (the acid in low-quality storage materials will damage
the documents).

Papers with alkaline reserves are good choices for storing acidic items
including newspapers, family letters and other documents. It sounds complicated,
but consulting the attached resources can help.

Check your items for insects before storing, especially if they've been sitting
in a dusty box (oh, the nightmarish photos I saw at the Ransom Center; nothing
good comes from insects near paper). Store boxes off the floor where they'll be
safe from flooding, and keep the storage area clean, because dirt and neglect
are welcome mats below vacancy signs for critters.

Display

About those sticky, framed pics of mine: The Preservation Division at the
National Archives in Washington, D.C., recommends mats or spacers to keep
documents and photos from contacting glass. And stay away from cheap mats.

"The materials used in the large variety of mat boards available are not good,"
says Mary Baughman, a Ransom Center book conservator.

The acid from their low-quality materials can discolor photos and documents,
leaving a dark rectangle where the interior of the mat meets the photo or
document that is nearly impossible to remove. Look for high-quality, archival
mat board (Artworks, 1214 W. Sixth St., and Jerry's Artarama, 6010 N. Interstate
35, are good sources).

Photo corners can also help. Use them to attach a photo to the frame's backboard
if the mat will cover them; that will keep your item from touching the mat and
the glass.

Since sunlight can damage displayed pictures and documents, storing the
originals and displaying duplicates is the best option for preservation.

If you must display the original, a frame that offers glass or plexiglass with
ultraviolet protection is a good but somewhat costly option.

The Ransom Center recommends stainless steel and anodized aluminum metal frames
for photos and says interior walls are better for display than exterior walls
prone to temperature and humidity changes.

With a little care and not too much expense, those childhood photos and terrible
report cards can be around to embarrass you for years to come.

Contact Dale Roe at 912-5923. Twitter: @djroe

RESOURCES
www.hrc.utexas.edu/conservation/resources/
www.archives.gov/preservation


GO-TO GUY
 Dale Roe is your Go-to Guy for useful information. He writes guides on
everything from allergies to TV shows to local events to QR codes. What topics
would you like to know more about? Send an email to droe@statesman.com



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Young adults drawn to monks

BYLINE: Juan Castillo American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 817 words


With their particular blend of devotion immersed in the Bible, prayer, chanting
and silence, the Taizé monks are something like spirituality's version of rock
stars, drawing 100,000young people each year to their ecumenical monastery in
France.

But last week at First Baptist Church of Austin, Brothers Emmanuel and Emile
hardly looked the part, dressed casually in warm earth tones and carrying
backpacks as they sat down for an interview with the American-Statesman. The
night before at the church, they had led a special service that drew about 200
people.

In Austin to begin preparations for a Taizé pilgrimage at First Baptist in
March, one that could attract hundreds if not thousands of young adults, Brother
Emile, 57, and Brother Emmanuel, 42, cheerfully answered questions about their
monastic lives, the appeal of the Taizé monks, their history and a future
increasingly focused on taking their worship abroad, travel that will take them
next spring to three Texas cities, including Austin on March 21-23.

Founded in 1940 by Brother Roger, a Swiss Protestant theologian who died in
2005, the Taizé monks hid Jews and resistance fighters from the Nazis. In time
the monks became known for their efforts to awaken spirituality among young
people in Europe.

Statesman: What is it about the Taizé monks which makes them so appealing to
young adults?

Brother Emile: If you ask young people, you generally hear two things: They like
the prayer that is made up mostly of singing. We create a space where they can
search. There's a lot of song, but also a lot of silence and, of course,
Scripture reading.

The second thing you hear a lot is, "We come to meet other people who are
searching." There's a climate of trust that allows people to open up. Sometimes
people say, "Well, I've said things I've never said before." The prayer created
that climate of trust.

Brother Emmanuel: One important dimension is listening. No matter what will be
their righteous convictions, whatever be their past, they will be always
welcomed without being judged.

Statesman: In the United States, there is an increasing number of people who say
they have no religious affiliation. Does Taizé hope to tap into that?

Emile: In Europe you have the same. Many people say they would like a spiritual
life, but they're afraid of institutions. I think our role is to make them less
afraid of religious institutions, that we cannot just live a spiritual life as
individuals; no, we need community.

Statesman: Taizé is a community of Catholic and Protestant denominations. What
are your own religious backgrounds?

Emile: We're both Catholics.... Taizé is an ecumenical place not where we
discuss ecumenism or where we discuss the differences between denominations.
It's more a place where people come to pray and think together and draw from the
Gospel and try to face the challenges of today.

Emmanuel: Brother Roger wanted to open an immediate path for reconciliation. He
knew young adults are impatient with institutions, so he thought it could be
possible to work together on a path of reconciliation where you remain faithful
to your denomination, and at same time, you prepare the way for reconciliation
among divided Christians.

Statesman: What is a typical day like for you?

Emile: There's no typical day, because we have maybe 40 weeks of the year where
there are quite a number of people coming to Taizé. One hundred thousand come
every year to spend a week. What doesn't change is the prayer. That's always
morning, midday and evening. Some of us will be called to give Bible reflections
in the morning. That's how the day starts with the young adults, a Bible
reflection given by a brother. We give workshops on specific themes in the
afternoon. Then we earn our living.

(The monks do not accept donations. They work a few hours each day making
pottery, writing or publishing books, recording music or making enamel crosses,
which they sell to visitors.)

Statesman: Some might have the perception that the monastic life is lived in
solitude, but that's not what you're describing.

Emile: It's really about community. It's not about solitude alone. The Acts of
the Apostles says of the early Christians, they had one heart, one mind. I think
that's the aim. It's never a reality, of course. We're never perfectly one
because we're human beings. (He laughs.) But that's the direction we try to
journey towards.

Statesman: Can you tell us more about plans for your event in Austin next March?
I understand there will be workshops on current topics.

Emile: Young people come to Taizé not only to pray, but to think about how to be
present in today's society. It often means some type of commitment where there
is suffering, where there is need. Some of the workshops we do during the
gathering in Austin will also be on questions of social justice, raising the
question, "How can Christians be present?"

Contact Juan Castillo at 512-445-3635.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 3, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Page Parkes Center of Modeling and Acting opens in Austin

BYLINE: Nancy Flores; nflores@statesman.com; 912-2559 American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 672 words


Before Channing Tatum was People magazine's "Sexiest Man Alive," he was
discovered in Miami by Page Parkes. You may recognize her name from the E! show
"Scouted," a reality show that chronicles the discovery process of models. The
fashion and modeling industry veteran is behind the largest model and talent
group in the Southwest, Page Parkes Corp.

In fall the Texas-based corporation, which has several companies under its
umbrella including some in Dallas and Houston, expanded to Austin with the
opening of the Page Parkes Center of Modeling and Acting. The training center
serves aspiring actors and models ages five to adult.

"The Page Parkes Center of Modeling and Acting made the decision to expand our
education division which includes both an acting academy and model camp, due to
the abundance of talent in Austin that needs developing," says Parkes.

The success of the show "Scouted," she says, also helped prompt the decision to
expand to Austin and was in line with their long-term goal to expand the brand
throughout the state.

"Scouted" has helped put Texas talents and beauties on the national map. "This
is a great state to scout," Parkes says. "We'll keep you posted on what stars we
find in Austin."

Aside from Tatum, Parkes has had a hand in developing, discovering and/or
representing many famous faces such as Alexis Bledel, Angelina Jolie and Hillary
Duff.

Page Parkes Center of Modeling and Acting is located at 7020 Easy Wind, Suite
120.

SHOPPING

Le Garage Sale is

coming this month

Cool Austin boutiques are gathering under one roof again for the upcoming
shopping event Le Garage Sale at the Palmer Events Center on Jan. 26 and 27. The
semi-annual event has more than 60 retailers that offer clearance sale prices.

Admission is $10, and tickets are cash only at the door. But an ATM machine will
be available if you need it. Snacks, sandwiches, salads, Jo's coffee and a full
bar will be available for sale. Shoppers can park at the Palmer parking garage.

A reusable bag

that hints at plastic

Soon single-use plastic bags in Austin will be a thing of the past, but at Laced
with Romance Vintage store there's a whimsical lambskin leather bag that
resembles corner store plastic bags.

The Los Angeles-made bag is hand-embossed with the familiar "THANK YOU" slogan
often seen printed in plastic shopping bags.

The Corner Store Leather Shopper is made by Cast of Vices and sells for $238.
Find Laced with Romance Vintage at 1601 S. First St. or online at
lacedwithromance.com.

jewelry

From African to Asian,

line gives Bohemian

style global focus

For stylish, Bohemian Austinites there's a line of handcrafted jewelry that
brings together the symbolism of charm bracelets with boho color schemes.

Charmed Design's fall and winter line includes several styles filled with
meaningful signs and symbols. It also highlights earth tones and saturated
colors. Find the company online at charmeddesign.com. Here are some of the
latest designs in their jewelry collection:

The Silk Wrap Bracelet featuring a peace sign, African jade and Om charms sells
for $36. The bracelet represents hope and calm for the coming year. It comes in
rich burgundy, deep green and warm orange tones.

The Boho Chic Silk Wrap Bracelet, which sells for $35, features a bronze Buddha
head. It's designed to bring the wearer luck, happiness and protection. The
hand-painted silk ribbon is a blend of sage greens and browns.

The Lucky Gold Elephant Wrap Bracelet features an animal that's a favorite for
many. It's made from Japanese chirimen cord and sells for $36.

RETAIL

Dress Shop on Congress

Avenue closing soon

Downtown boutique the Dress Shop recently announced that they will be shutting
their doors. The news is bittersweet, since owner Leslie Gandy, who opened the
shop in 2009, is expecting her first child and will now focus on motherhood.

A closing date has not been set, but shoppers will receive 50 percent off the
total price of their purchases while supplies last.

Dress Shop, iheartdressshop.com, 315 Congress Ave., Suite 100. Hours are 11 a.m.
to 6 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 27, 2013 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

You say: Letters to the editor

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 937 words


Take shorter showers

Did you know that the restroom is the place where most water is wasted? This
letter is to let you know how you can conserve water, because as Jacques
Cousteau said, if oceans should die ... it will signal the end, not only for
marine life, but all other animals ... including man.

The first way you can save water is by taking shorter showers. I know that after
a long day, longer showers seem better, but try to cut it down. I know it
doesn't take you 20 minutes to shampoo, 10 to condition and the rest to scrub
your body. Another way you can conserve water is by turning off the faucet while
brushing your teeth.

According to an article

titled "Water is Life," you can conserve more than 4½ gallons just by turning
off the faucet. All it takes is little effort.

Michelle Jaramillo

Austin

Abortion denial deadly

Re: July 24 commentary, "Texas liberals should look at economy, not abortion."

Ross Douthat's article lauding Ireland for its abortion policy conveniently
overlooks the brouhaha that took place not too long ago when Irish authorities
refused to allow an abortion for a woman who doctors said would die without one
and also said her fetus would not survive to term no matter what. There was no
abortion, and both the woman and fetus died.

Barbara Boyne

Lago Vista

Tar sands emissions bad

Like many Americans, I'm becoming increasingly concerned about global warming.
Even in my short life, I can see how much the weather has changed. Rejection of
the proposed Keystone XL tar sands pipeline is one of the most important and
immediate executive steps that President Barack Obama can take to address the
climate crisis. The State Department estimates that greenhouse gas emissions of
tar sands may be 22 percent greater than emissions from average crude oil
refined in the U.S. We simply cannot afford to keep increasing the amount of CO2
we're putting into the air.

Steve Adams

Austin

Lehmberg a disgrace

I can't even explain how Rosemary Lehmberg thinks she can get away with a crime
that she committed just because she's the Travis County district attorney. She's
an ordinary person like everyone else in this society, and special treatment
should not be acceptable. Any employer that has been aware of their employee's
DWI probably would not allow that employee to come back (in my opinion). She's a
disgrace to Austin, and she could have killed someone that night.

Jo Merino

Austin

Violence sells

Re: "July 18 article, "Rolling Stone bomber cover infuriates Boston, victims."

One can understand people's anger at seeing Dzhokar Tsarnaev's photo on the
cover of Rolling Stone magazine. I felt similar disgust when I went into a
bookstore several weeks ago and saw Amanda Knox's book displayed. Even if some
question her guilt in the killing of Meredith Kercher, I find it obscene that
she would get a book deal as the result of someone else's tragedy.

As to the Rolling Stone story, the magazine's editors have pointed out that
they've run similar cover stories on other killers, like Timothy McVeigh. Maybe
what it boils down to is that readers have a fascination with the Tsarnaevs and
McVeighs of the world. Sadly, violence sells books and magazines.

Charles Wukasch

accprof@att.net

Austin

Patent assertion a plague

Businesses need Congress to take action to address patent assertion entities.
Abuse of the patent process costs the U.S. economy $80 billion yearly in lost
revenues and productivity. Patent assertion entities buy patents on inventions
for products they don't manufacture, and sue or threaten to sue organizations
they claim infringe on the patents. This problem is exploding: those entities
are targeting end-users of electronic devices with allegations of patent
infringement.

Innocent product purchasers, such as hotels providing wireless Internet access
to guests, are being targeted by patent assertion entities seeking to earn a
quick settlement. These frivolous lawsuits are abusive and are a financial
burden with serious consequences. " As the Senate takes on this issue, we are
encouraging Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz to work together on a comprehensive
legislative solution.

Justin Bragiel

Austin

Misusing the race card

The argument of races is so overdone. I agree; no man of any color should be a
slave or not be treated equal to other nationalities. I have grown up through
times where the blacks lived on one side of town, the Hispanics on another and
the whites in the middle but was always taught to respect everyone and to give
them the same chances in life.

I have worked with all colors and had friends of all colors. We have a black
president. People in high places are of different colors. So let's stop using
racism as an excuse for what we think is unfair.

George Zimmerman was cleared by a jury made up of different nationalities. This
jury must have decided that the evidence was enough to decide the verdict.
That's the law of the country. Don't blame that on color. It could have happened
to anyone accused of a crime.

Carol Johnston

San Marcos

CORRECTION

An editorial published in Thursday's editions incorrectly spelled the name of
Bob Nicks, president of the Austin Firefighters Association.

BOX:

Contact us

The Austin American-Statesman encourages email and faxes from readers. Please
include a full name, address and daytime and evening phone numbers. We edit
letters for brevity, grammar, style and clarity. Edited letters address a single
idea and do not exceed 150 words. Anonymous letters will not be published.
Letters become property of the Austin American-Statesman.

Send emails to letters@statesman.com Mail to: Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
670, Austin, TX 78767.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

UT professor's energy a TV hit UT professor masters TV tool Energy prof's film
star is rising Webber Lede goes hery in 1 line

BYLINE: Laylan Copelin American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1533 words


University of Texas professor Michael Webber is coming to a screen near you.

PBS has ordered sequels to Webber's pilot TV show, "Energy at the Movies: 70
Years of Energy on the Big Screen," which already has been broadcast to a third
of PBS' national audience in 25 states and 52 markets.

More than 29,000 people worldwide have also signed up for Webber's fall online
course, "Energy Technology and Policy," which is sponsored by edX, a nonprofit
governed by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology but
which also is bringing courses from other major institutions, including the
University of Texas at Austin. UT's involvement begins this fall and spring with
15 professors teaching nine online courses.

Webber's operation is not typical for professors, however. He has more than 15
graduate students as members of his research arm, Webber Energy Group, and a
staff of 10 media professionals to deliver what he calls "energy literacy."

"This is kind of bizarre," admits Webber, deputy director of UT's Energy
Institute. "I'm an engineering professor and I hired a whole media staff just
for me."

Webber's efforts touch on everything from how best to teach "digital natives" -
as he calls the current collegiate generation - to how students learn, to
attempts to lower the cost of higher education. It also combines his expertise
in energy with his love of movies and his familiarity with multimedia platforms
and social media. He regularly blogs about energy topics in movies.

Webber said he is also aware of the "Carl Sagan effect" - the idea that
educators who popularize science can suffer in academic circles - even as he
advocates that scientists should engage more in public policy debates.

But as Webber and his media team prepare for a fall 2014 season of "Energy at
the Movies," he said he can't help but fantasize about including interviews from
Hollywood stars George Clooney and Matt Damon, who made popular movies with
energy-based plots.

Webber's affinity for media can be traced to his experiences as a student.

He recalls a UT teacher, Mia Carter, teaching him as an undergraduate about the
Holocaust with the aid of film. And at Stanford University, where Webber got a
doctorate in engineering, Webber took "American History of 20th Century in
Film," and almost completed enough history courses for a master's degree in that
subject.

"If I'm ever a professor," Webber told himself, "I'm going to teach a class with
film because it's such a powerful teaching tool."

"Energy at the Movies" comes from an undergraduate honors course that Webber
teaches at UT.

Its theme: Movies are historical documents in how people use and view an energy
source.

Hollywood has tapped almost every energy source - whether coal, oil, nuclear or
renewables - as major or minor players in many movies, from "Coal Miner's
Daughter" to "Giant" to "O Brother, Where Art Thou."

That remains true today as films from the documentary "Gasland" - and its
industry rebuttal "Truthland" - to the Damon co-written "Promised Land" focus on
the "fracking" technology that has made natural gas the fossil energy du jour.

Occasionally, a movie goes beyond affecting perceptions and changes public
policy.

For example, "China Syndrome" - a 1979 movie about a television crew discovering
safety cover-ups at a nuclear power plant - came out 12 days before the Three
Mile Island nuclear accident in Pennsylvania.

"Some people say this did for nuclear energy what 'Jaws' did for sharks," Webber
said.

"Energy at the Movies," which was sponsored by the Cockrell School of
Engineering at UT, American Clean Skies Foundation and AMD, was filmed in front
of a live audience at KLRU-TV, the local PBS station.

"We didn't do any marketing," Webber said. "It spread by word of mouth."

For the sequels, Webber and his producer, Juan Garcia, are planning six to 10
half-hour episodes each season for the next three years.

Webber and his media team are identifying topics, raising money and
storyboarding. They plan on being in the studio by spring and on the air in late
2014.

Likewise, Webber's online course, "Energy Technology and Policy," which is based
on his graduate course, is attracting interest.

The 29,000-plus people who've signed up bulk larger than any UT online course
this fall, but trail the most popular course offered by edX - MIT's Circuits and
Electronics, which enrolled 155,000.

Other than the United States, most of Webber's online students will be watching
from India, Pakistan, Japan and Eastern Europe, in that order. That requires
Webber to rethink his lecture in global terms.

"I have to think how someone in Sumatra would think about this," Webber said.

For example, the U.S. consumes 40 percent of its energy for the production of
electricity, but not so in many Third World countries.

"It's a more rigorous way to teach it," he said. "It makes the course better."

In May, Webber taped the 30 segments over three days.

Webber is trying to address one of the shortcomings of free online courses - a
severe drop-off in viewership.

"In a class (on campus), I might teach 100 students and maybe five drop out,"
Webber said. "Here, it's the other way around."

Webber has added introductions, interactive exercises, and a quiz for each
segment to improve the retention rate.

So far, UT and Webber are not making any money on the deal. But UT's partnership
with edX allows it to participate in a new online movement - massive online open
courses or MOOCs - targeting a global audience.

Webber said the online experiment allows UT to address questions such as:

"Long-range, what's the business model going to be? How does UT make sure it
doesn't lose its shirt? How does the faculty get compensated?"

Comparing his PBS show to the online course, Webber said, "They are both
multimedia expressions of the same kind of content, but in a way that students
seems pretty responsive to."

Webber also enlists Garcia and the media team to spread the word about the
research efforts of his graduate students.

"A typical research paper might have a dozen people read it," he said. "A
research video might get 1,000 views" on YouTube.

Webber said many of his students are adept at making videos as well: "Sometimes
it's easier for them to make a video that write a paper."

Granted, that's not cute-kitten-like numbers on YouTube, Webber said, but it's a
start.

All of Webber's media activities fit his call for scientists to be better
communicators.

He cites major policy debates on health care, energy, environment and climate
change as examples.

"The scientists have been eerily silent," Webber said. "They don't engage, and
if they engage, they don't speak the right language."

To begin with, it's hard.

"It's a foreign language; it's time-consuming; and there's no reward," Webber
said.

For example, professors applying for tenure must list how many students they
graduate and how many papers they publish.

"Nowhere is there a spot to say how often did you testify before Congress or how
many op-eds did you write," Webber said.

"In fact, op-eds might work against you."

Webber said scientists should not take sides or advocate, "but we should inject
a little fact in there whenever we can."

He understands the downside of entering the public arena: "If you have engaged
in a heated public debate that people have taken sides on, you might be the
enemy for half of America all of sudden."

In academic circles, colleagues can deride the media savvy.

Webber has to look no further than Sagan, an astronomer, astrophysicist and
author of hundreds of scientific articles and 20 books.

He also was the co-writer and host of a 1980 television show, "Cosmos: A
Personal Voyage," that was the most popular PBS series of its time.

"Being on PBS and being a popularizer of science did not help his scientific
career," Webber said.

"People would say, 'You must not be a real scientist because you are too
popular.' It's so pronounced, it's actually called the Carl Sagan effect."

It's doesn't matter.

Webber, it seems, is about to get his 15 minutes of fame.

Contact Laylan Copelin at 512-445-3617.

BOX:

Online courses

The University of Texas at Austin is offering free online courses beginning this
fall. No college credit is offered, but students can earn "certificates of
mastery." To sign up, go to www.utexas.edu/edx

Fall 2013

"Ideas of the 20th Century" - Daniel Bonevac, College of Liberal Arts; Roy
Flukinger, Harry Huntt Ransom Humanities Research Center

"Introduction to Globalization" - John Hoberman, College of Liberal Arts

"Bench to Bedside: Introduction to Drug Development and the Commercialization
Process" - Janet Walkow, College of Pharmacy; Donna Kidwell, IC2 Institute; Alan
Watts, College of Pharmacy

"Energy Technology and Policy" - Michael Webber, Cockrell School of Engineering

Spring 2014

"Jazz Appreciation" - Jeffrey Hellmer, College of Fine Arts

"Foundations of Data Analysis" - Catherine Stacy and Michael Mahometa, College
of Natural Sciences

"Mathematics and Effective Thinking" - Michael Starbird, College of Natural
Sciences

"Introduction to Embedded Systems" - Jonathan Valvano and Ramesh Yerraballi,
Cockrell School of Engineering

"Linear Algebra: Theory and Computation" - Robert van de Geijn, Margaret Myers,
College of Natural Sciences

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

It's a wrap: Editorials Dec. 1-7

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 681 words


Sunday, Dec. 1

In discussing the execution of the public will, there is a tendency to overly
complicate. But when pieces of rental properties fall down, a direct question
should be in the top 10 asked: "Do we have a code enforcement policy or don't
we?"

The American-Statesman's Dave Harmon reported in last week's editions that the
answer has for too long been, "Well, sort of." After a couple of high-profile
structural failures, the answer was amended to, "We're going to get better."

Monday, Dec. 2

Political consultants Matt Mackowiak, a Republican, and Jason Stanford, a
Democrat, compared economic climates and government services in California and
Texas.

Tuesday, Dec. 3

Evolution is change and often is thought of in terms of progress or improvement.
On the State Board of Education, it too often seems, there is no evolution, only
ideological stasis.

The 15-member board gathered last month in Austin to give final approval to new
science and math textbooks and related online instructional materials. Any hope
the board would complete its heavy workload without its religiously conservative
members sparking another battle over the teaching of evolution was dashed when
it came time to discuss alleged errors in a biology textbook published by
Pearson Education.

Wednesday, Dec. 4

During the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the revolt that made Texas a
republic, Texas history scholars were in such demand that one of them joked that
they were being treated like rock stars.

One historian in that galaxy that the general public discovered during the
sesquicentennial shone brighter than most. T.R. Fehrenbach was the go-to
authority on the topic of Texas history.

Fehrenbach died Sunday at age 88. He leaves a rich legacy of writings for new
generations to discover and to discuss. He left us a lot to talk about, and
that's about as generous a gift as one could give Texas.

Thursday, Dec. 5

Lower gasoline prices. Domestic energy security. Reduced greenhouse gas
emissions.

These were among the benefits we were told ethanol would bring when Congress
passed a law in 2007, signed by President George W. Bush, that requires oil
companies to add billions of gallons of renewable fuels to their gasoline, with
the amount of fuel added each year to reach 36 billion gallons by 2022. Federal
subsidies encouraged the planting of corn for ethanol and unintended
consequences followed. Food prices rose, energy savings have been minimal to
nonexistent, and doubts exist whether carbon emissions were lowered.

Friday, Dec. 6

The Texas Department of Public Safety stopped using traffic checkpoints along
the Texas-Mexico border several weeks ago and on Wednesday announced the
roadblocks wouldn't be used again unless approved by the Legislature.

The department made the right decision. The use of law enforcement roadblocks
merits legislative consideration and a public discussion.

Critics claimed the roadblocks were put up to catch illegal immigrants. DPS said
the roadblocks were used to improve public safety, but the department's
justification for the checkpoints, the first to be used in Texas since 1994,
withered under scrutiny. There was no particular traffic safety reason to single
out Hidalgo or Cameron counties.

Saturday, Dec. 7

Nelson Mandela earned every word of adulation and reverence that's been spoken
or written about him over the years and after his death Thursday at age 95. It
is no exaggeration to label him a colossus or towering figure, as some
obituaries have.

He was one of the giants of the 20th century, a man whose decades-long struggle
against South African apartheid ended with him leading his country toward
democracy and racial reconciliation. He stands as an inspirational model of
forgiveness.

Hagiography, however deserved, flattens a person's triumphs and failures and
obscures the personal and political complications and circumstances that make
great leaders truly interesting.

We honor Mandela the icon but also find his journey from revolutionary to
revered statesman a fascinating and instructive one.

If you missed any of these, go to statesman.com/opinion.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             January 4, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 6247 words


Jeremiah "Jerry" Patrick Sullivan

Jeremiah "Jerry" Patrick Sullivan, 80, passed away on December 31, 2012. Jerry
was born June 21, 1932 in Lexington, KY to the late John Patrick and Mary
Catherine Mooney Sullivan.

Jerry attended St Catherine's Academy, and later graduated from Latin High
School in Lexington. He attended Xavier University, University of Kentucky, and
St Edwards. He served in The Korean War with the US Marine Corps from Sept 1950
to March 1952. After his stint in the Marines, Jerry went to work for IBM in
Lexington where we met his wife Connie. He was later transferred to IBM in
Austin, Texas. He retired after 33 years with IBM and later worked part-time for
Albertsons Grocery Store.

Jerry was a member of the Austin Forum, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and American
Legion. He was an active member of St Elizabeth's Catholic Church in
Pflugerville, Texas and later attended St Albert the Great Catholic Church in
Austin.

Honorary pallbearers are Max Allen, Gene Blair, Billy Connor, Roger Drake, John
Foley, and Ed Kimmins.

Jerry was preceded in death by his wife, Connie Sullivan, sister Mary Margaret
Beatty, and uncle, Mayor Thomas G. Mooney. Survivors include son Tom, daughter,
Kathleen Sullivan Smith and her husband Dwain, son Steve, grandchildren Connor
and Landry Smith, niece Sheila Kuhlman and great niece, Renee Kuhlman. The
family would like to thank Estrella Oaks Rehabilitation and Care Center and
Scott & White Hospice Care for the care given to Jerry.

Visitation will be held from 12PM-1PM, prior to the service on Friday, January
4, 2013 at Cook-Walden Capital Parks with services following at 1 PM. In lieu of
flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Cancer Research Institute at
www.CancerResearch.org

Memorial condolences may be made at www.CookWaldenCapitalParks.com.

James E. Perkins

James E. Perkins, age 87, born June 14, 1925, passed away on Monday, December
31, 2012.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Orba and Ella (Heffington) Perkins;
sisters, Pauline Perkins and Catherine Albert; brother, Charles Perkins;
daughter, Cheryl Perkins; and granddaughter, Raina Lehnett.

He is survived by his wife, Elaine Perkins of Bee Caves; brothers, Cecil Perkins
of Bee Caves and Edgar Perkins of McKenzie, TN; and grandchildren, Millie and
Dalton Crain of Helena, MT.

Jimmy served in the South Pacific with the Marine Corps during World War II, he
was a member of Boy Scout Troop 5 for 76 years. He was 32² Mason and life member
of the Ben Hur Shriners. He served in many capacities in the DAV Chapter 173.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Friday, January 4, 2013
at Cook-Walden/Forest Oaks Funeral Home.

Funeral services will be held at 2:00 p.m., Saturday, January 5, 2013 at Mt.
Olive Lutheran Church, 10408 Hwy. 290 West with interment to follow at 3:30 p.m.
at Heffington-Perkins Cemetery on Hamilton Pool Road.

For those desiring, memorial contributions may be made to Boy Scout Troop 5,
Salvation Army or charity of choice.

Condolences may be made at www.cookwaldenforestoaks.com

Adrian Figueroa Munoz, Sr

Retired CW4 Adrian Figueroa Munoz, Sr. age 79 passed to join our heavenly father
on Monday, January 1, 2013 at his residence surrounded in the love and presence
of his family.

Adrian was born to Ofilia and Santana Munoz Sr. at the King Ranch on Oct. 15,
1933. He was preceded in death by his brother Santana Munoz Jr., and his mother
and father. He was married to Maria Gracelia Rivas on March 10, 1956 in
Falfurrias, Tx.

Adrian grew up in south Texas and graduated from Premont High School. He was
drafted into the Army after graduation and served 39 years between the Army and
National Guard. While in service, he attended Liberty University in VA. He was a
Korean war veteran and served time in Germany. He is a retiree from the
military, Federal Government, and the State of Texas.

Among numerous medals, awards and recognitions Adrian received, some of the most
notable are: Meritorious Service Medal, Lone Star Distinguished Service Medal
and Texas Faithful Service Medal awarded six times.

Adrian enjoyed spending time with family, dancing, camping, hunting, being a
Longhorn fan and making others happy through his occasional days of being a
clown. He was a musician who loved music and played the drums, accordion, and
guitar. He served and exemplified the life of a Christian man through his time
and contributions as a Grand Knight with the Knights of Columbus.

Adrian is survived by his wife of 56 years, Gracie, daughter Yvonilda (Juan)
Amador, son Adrian (Stacy) Munoz Jr., daughter Yvette Munoz, daughter Yvelda
Munoz, daughter Ysolette Nicoson, 17 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
Also, Trina Wilkins, Ramiro Valdez, Bryan Dailey and other family members.

Visitation on Sunday, January 6 from 3-6pm Harrell Funeral Home 1715 Kirby,
Kyle, Tx. 78640. Rosary to follow at 7pm. Mass and funeral service will be held
Monday, January 7 at 10am St. Anthony's Catholic Church 801 North Burleson St.,
Kyle, Tx. 78640. Procession to follow for a 1pm burial service Central Texas
State Veteran's Cemetery 11463 State Highway 195, Killeen, Tx. 76542.

Monetary donations in lieu of flowers can be made to the American Alzheimer's
Association and/or the American Heart Association in honor of Adrian F. Munoz
Sr. Special thanks to the United States Army Honor Guard, Knights of Columbus
and the Patriot Guard Riders of Central Texas for their assistance on the day of
the funeral.

John Peter McCann

John Peter McCann, born on January 3, 1928 in Newport, Rhode Island died on
December 30, 2012 at his home in Rockport, Texas, after months of cancer-related
struggles. He is survived by wife, Gay (Muelker) McCann and three children,
Mark, Matt and Jana; sister, Rheta McBrier; and brother, Bill McCann.

Jack, as he was known by most, made his way to Texas in 1947 with the Air Force,
where he found the milder climate, enchiladas and women all very agreeable.
While attending Southwest Texas State in San Marcos, he met his one and only,
Gay Nell Muelker, who he married in 1951. They settled in Houston where Jack
worked for years as a systems analyst and manager for Prudential Insurance
Company, and later for American General. Jack and Gay retired and moved to
Rockport, Texas in 1994, to be on the coast, fish and enjoy a more laidback
lifestyle.

Jack was a highly rational and rigorous person, as well as a generous, helpful
one - evidenced in both career and hobbies. He was a genius with engines and
repaired many a car and boat motor, and was probably one of the first Peugeot
owners in Houston. He coached both his daughter's softball team and his sons'
little league baseball team and even developed a computer program to schedule
games. After retiring, Jack took up wood-working, and has supplied many friends
and family members with one-of-a kind tables. As a volunteer, he helped folks
prepare their income taxes, drove others into Corpus Christi for doctor
appointments and made the "bread run" for the Rockport-Fulton Good Samaritans.
Jack was also an avid reader and writer - interested in history and politics -
and contributed dozens of letters to the editor published in the Corpus Christi
Caller Times.

He will be remembered with great love and respect by his family and friends as a
strong and stubborn Irishman who lived life on his own terms.

Your donations on behalf of Jack McCann are kindly welcomed at: R-F Good
Samaritans, 507 South Ann Street,?Rockport TX 78382.

James Leon Lowe

James Leon Lowe, 87, of Austin, passed away peacefully on January 2, 2013. Born
October 26, 1925 in Alexandria Bay, NY, James was the son of George Delos and
Ola Lucy (Wood) Lowe. His parents preceded him in death, as did 5 of his 7
brothers and 2 of his 6 sisters.

Mr. Lowe is survived by his wife of 61 years, Fran (Thrailkill) Lowe; daughter,
Kathryn Darlene Edwards; 3 sons, Kenneth Leon Lowe & wife Beth, Richard Edward
Lowe & wife Judy, and Michael Wayne Lowe & wife Deborah; 8 grandchildren; 8
great-grandchildren; 2 brothers and 4 sisters; along with many other relatives
and many dear friends.

Retired from the U.S. Air Force with over 20 years of service, Mr. Lowe enjoyed
bowling, camping and spending time with his family.

Graveside services with military honors will be held at 1 p.m., Saturday,
January 5, 2013 at the Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery in Pflugerville.
Visitation will be from 7 p.m. until 9 p.m., Friday evening at the funeral home.

For those desiring, memorial contributions are suggested to the Salvation Army.

Please visit Mr. Lowe's memorial at www.cookwaldencapitalparks.com, where you
can share memories and condolences with his family.

Karl Hugo Krienke

Karl Hugo Krienke, 83, of Georgetown, Texas passed away peacefully at home on
January 2, 2013, surrounded by his loving family. Karl was born on September 4,
1929 in Taylor, Texas to Reverend Theophil and Anita Krienke. He was baptized,
confirmed, and married at Palm Valley Lutheran Church in Round Rock, Texas. On
December 5, 1951, Karl married Mildred Grosskopf and the two shared 61 happy
years together.

Karl attended Round Rock schools, graduating at the age of 16. He served in the
Army during the Korean conflict. Karl enjoyed farming and ranching, and for over
30 years, he worked as a letter carrier at the Round Rock Post Office.

Karl is survived by his wife, Mildred Krienke. Daughters: Janice Rabenaldt,
husband John; Karen Lentz, husband Ken; Kathy Cunningham, husband Barry. Son:
Kendall Krienke, wife Shari. Grandchildren: Clint Cunningham, wife Dawn; Russell
Cunningham, wife Carly; Audrey Holt, husband JD; Meghan Ponder, husband Steven;
Preston Krienke, wife Hannah; Tyler Lentz, and Kaylin Krienke. Great
Grandchildren: Camryn Cunningham, Bronc Cunningham, Ainsley Holt, and Stormy
Cunningham. Brothers: Roland Krienke, wife Sharon; Robert Krienke, wife Betty;
Roy Krienke, wife Grace. Sister: Ruth Bernard, husband Dave; sister -in-law:
Blanche Krienke; brother-in-law: Art Grosskopf, wife Patty; and many nieces and
nephews. Karl was preceded in death by his parents and brother, Milton Krienke.

Visitation will be held in Beck Funeral Home, Round Rock, TX, on Friday, January
4, 2013 from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Funeral Services will be held at Palm Valley
Lutheran Church, Round Rock, TX, on Saturday, January 5, 2013 at 3:00 p.m.

In lieu of flowers, please make donations to Palm Valley Lutheran Church or the
charity of your choice.

Earl Ebersol

Chief Master Sergeant Earl Joseph Ebersol, 84, passed away January 2, 2013. He
was the third son of Joseph and Florence Farney Ebersol, born July 19, 1928 on
the Ebersol dairy farm in Beaver Falls, NY.

Earl worked on the family farm before moving to Lowville where he worked for the
NY State Hwy Department pointing snowplows. In 1948 he joined the US Air Force
as an aircraft mechanic and in 1949 he married his junior high sweetheat, Erna,
where over the years they were relocated to eight foreign countries and 9
different states within the US. After 30 years of service, he retired in 1978.
In 1980 Earl joined the Austin Saengerrunde Club where he and Erna were very
active members. He served as entertainment chairman for many years. Earl enjoyed
traveling, singing tenor in the Austin Saengerrunde Manner Choir, woodworking,
spending time with his family and embracing his German heritage.

He is preceded in death by his wife Erna of 63 years, his parents Joseph and
Florence Ebersol, his brothers, Paul and Milton Ebersol and his nephew, Gary
Ebersol.

He is survived by son Barry of Pagosa Springs, CO, daughter Lynne Sherman and
husband Larry of Las Vegas, NV and son Joseph and wife Jan of Austin, TX, three
granddaughters and two great granddaughters.

A memorial service will be held at Austin Peel & Son Funeral Home on Saturday,
Jan. 5 at 2pm followed by a family visitation. Graveside services at Fort Sam,
San Antonio, TX will follow at a later date. Donations may be made to the Austin
Saengerrunde Manner Choir, 1607 San Jacinto Blvd, Austin, TX 78701.

George D. Conn

George D. Conn, 74, attorney, real estate deal man and great character, died
early Sunday, Dec. 30, at his home in Austin (Lakeway) after battling
Alzheimer's disease for over 10 years.

A native of Beaumont, George had worked in Houston, Las Vegas and Austin. He is
survived by his devoted wife, Renate, and his twin brother and sister-in-law
Jerry and Becky Conn of Austin.

Survivors also include a son Kirby of Austin; a son Carroll and his wife Shannon
and their children Kayla, Emma and Clayton of Houston; a daughter Kristy
Lancaster and her husband Trey and sons Ford and Gage of Houston. He is also
survived by a daughter Dana Conn of Newport Beach, CA.

George would also want to acknowledge his faithful companion Siegfried (Ziggy),
his lively Schnauzer.

He was preceded in death by his beloved parents, Carroll and Mattie Lou Conn of
Beaumont, and by an older brother, Carroll Wayne Conn, who died of Alzheimer's
complications in 2004.

George graduated from Beaumont High School where he was on the Debate Team, a
Class Favorite, and an outstanding athlete. He was an all-district halfback and
captain in football playing offense and defense (with flimsy helmets). He played
catcher on the Royal Purple baseball team.

Early on, George developed his firm belief that he could heighten interest in
any endeavor by betting on the outcome. He especially enjoyed "getting some
action" with his buddies and twin brother on the Royal Purple's football games,
mainly against key rivals such as the South Park Greenies. The same would prove
true later as a golfer when bets would heighten his interest in what he believed
was otherwise a pretty dull game.

George grew up a secular Methodist, in a Beaumont filled with ironies, after
World War II. That was a time when the prosperity of a booming economy was
enhanced by great musical delights (rhythm & blues, rock & roll, Dixieland,
country, Cajun, pop) and a nice assortment of appealingly organized crime.

At the University of Texas in Plan II, George, aka "Hog," was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta Fraternity. He became an outstanding student in UT Law School and
was president of his senior class and a member of Professor Charles Alan
Wright's Legal Eagles football team.

On certain occasions, George unleashed his musical side, singing and playing
Johnny Cash songs on his guitar and some ribald ditties such as "The Hamburg
Zoo" and "Yo-Ho, Columbo."

After law school he served as a transportation officer in the US Army at Fort
Eustis, VA. In 1963 he was attached to the 2d Armored Division, his twin
brother's unit, for Operation Big Lift from Fort Hood to Germany. A seemingly
fabricated story about each brother being surprised by the other's presence on
the exercise appeared on the front page of Stars & Stripes, the military
newspaper in Europe. For a time, George played football for the Fort Eustis
"Wheels" -- describing himself as "the leading Caucasian halfback" (second
string).

In 1975, the love of George's life, Renate, a native of Germany, was in Houston
putting together gambling junkets to Las Vegas for MGM Grand. It proved to be a
perfectly grand way to meet George. They were married there in Vegas at the
Silver Bells Wedding Chapel in 1977 with their cab driver serving as best man.

George has been described as a Southwest version of a "Guys & Dolls" character.
But for George it was not a theatrical role. It was his reality.

The family will gather to commemorate George with a social to share stories
about his life and antics.

Janet Lynn Darby

Janet Lynn Darby left our world and joined her God, Sunday morning December 30,
2012. She was born May 24, 1967 in Watertown, New York.

Janet is survived by her mother, Joanne Jones; son, Jahlil Tutein; and many
relatives and friends. She was preceded in death by her brother, Harold Darby,
Jr.

Memorial services will be held at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, January 5th at
Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home on North Lamar.

Full obituary and memorial guestbook available online at www.wcfish.com

Ruth E. Dassie

We celebrate the passing of Ruth E. Dassie to her eternal home on November 25,
2012.

Born October 29,1914 in Chicago, Il. The beloved wife of the late John J.
Dassie, Jr.

A Memorial Service will be held at St. Thomas More Catholic Church at 11AM, on
January 5, 2013. Interment will be in the church Memorial Garden following the
mass.

Janie Elizabeth Gustafson

Jane Elizabeth Gustafson, beloved wife of Cliff Gustafson, was called home on
Wednesday, December 26, 2012, after a lengthy illness. She was 76.

Visitation was held at Harrell Funeral Home, located at 4435 Frontier Trail in
Austin, TX, on Sunday, December 30, 2012 from 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. A
Celebration of Janie Gustafson's life was held at Bethany Lutheran Church,
located at 3701 W. Slaughter Lane in Austin, TX, on Monday, December 31, 2012 at
1:00 p.m. with Pastor Bill Knippa and Pastor Kevin Lentz officiating. There was
a reception at Bethany immediately following the service.

There was a private family burial at the Texas State Cemetery.

To view the full obituary, please go to www.statesman.com/obituaries

Charles Richard Hunter

Charles Richard Hunter, born May 9, 1941, shed his earthly body to be received
into the arms of our Savior Jesus Christ on Dec. 31, 2012. Charles was preceded
in death by his father Dale Keith Hunter, mother Anna Lee Jessie, and brother
John Hunter.

He is survived by his loving wife of 22 years, Edna. Also by his sister Diana
Gallager and her husband Len and son Tucker and family of Bryan, Texas. Charles
was a proud Aggie and member of the Corp. He graduated from A&M College with a
Bachelors of Architecture on May 23, 1964.

Charles and Edna are members of St. John's Episcopal Church. Charles lived his
life by The Ten Commandments, The Golden Rule and his own axiom, "Don't sweat
the small stuff."

Charles was diagnosed with COPD in 1992 and fought a courageous fight until the
end. Thanks to my brother John Kupsa who was with Charles and I 24/7 during his
stay at Christopher House. Thanks also to Hospice Austin / Christopher House for
their loving care of Charles.

"Rest in peace my love, free from pain. "

In lieu of flowers please make memorial donations to St. John's Episcopal Church
or Hospice Austin / Christopher House.

The family will receive friends from five o'clock until eight o'clock in the
evening, on Friday, the fourth of January 2013, at Cook-Walden Funeral Home,
6100 North Lamar Boulevard, Austin, Texas.

A funeral service will be conducted at eleven o'clock in the morning on
Saturday, the fifth of January 2013, at St. John's Episcopal Church, 11201
Parkfield Drive, Austin, Texas. Interment will follow in Cook-Walden Capital
Parks Cemetery in Pflugerville, Texas, followed by a reception at the church.

Condolences may be sent to CookWaldenfuneralhome.com

Joycelyn Bernadette Paul Kelley

Joycelyn Bernadette Paul Kelley, 64, of Homosassa, Florida, died on December 31,
2012 in Brooksville, Florida. She leaves to cherish her memories, her soul mate
and best friend, Charles Kelley; daughters, Tahnee Childs and Symone Black
(Russell), and son Elliott Ashby IV; grandchildren, Yanique Keyes, Ciara Keyes,
Javan Davis and Elexa Ashby; extended family, Michael Kelley, Michael J. Kelley,
Brianna Kelley and Michayla Kelley; sisters, Adrienne Barringer (Donald) and
Lisa Rivers (Tony), brothers, Gregory Wright (Doris), Kevin Wright and Adolphus
Wright (Donna); cousins, Carlos Paul, Wayne Williams, Avis Woods, Pierre Paul
and Michael Paul. She was blessed with a host of nieces and nephews, church
family, neighbors and friends.

Dorothy Maye Shuffield Kirk

Dorothy Maye Shuffield Kirk "Dotty" passed away on December 29, 2012 in a fatal
car accident. Dotty was born on January 18, 1927 to Hettie & Walker Shuffield in
Cameron, Texas. Dotty was married for 60 years to Howell A. Kirk.

She was preceded in death by her parents, her loving husband, two sisters, Doris
Peale & Jeannie Pezel, also two brothers Archie & Elvin Shuffield.

She is survived by her children Linda Lanham (Steve) of St. Augustine, Florida,
Karen Kirk of Austin, Kenny Kirk of Austin, Glynna Thomas (Buck) of League City,
Texas and Kal Kirk of San Antonio. She also leaves behind her beloved
grandchildren: Stephen Langham; Shane Langham (Tricia); Laci Watson (Jason);
Courtney O'Leary (Brian); Kory Kirk (Angel) and Kolby Kirk and
step-grandchildren; Katy Thomasser (Erik); Karen Thomas & Cody Thomas. She was
also blessed with nine great grandchildren.

Dotty worked for 20 years with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Ten years at
Tracor, Inc & Tracor Computing Corporation and ten years at Charles Maund
Oldsmobile Cadillac.

Dotty will be missed by her numerous friends & family. She will be remembered
for her unconditional love and her wonderful sense of humor. All our "Dotty
Stories" will sustain us until we all meet again with our Heavenly Father.

Memorial services will be held at a later date.

Edna Adell Lumpkin

Edna Adell Lumpkin, age 80 of Alvin, Texas went to be with the Lord on Tuesday,
January 1, 2013 at her residence with her family at her side. Edna was born on
February 16, 1932 in Georgiana, Alabama and was a resident of Alvin for 50
years. She was an LVN and a member of Alvin Church of the Nazarene. Edna was
preceded in death by her parents, Henry and Fannie Acreman and son, Terry
Lumpkin.

Edna is survived by her husband, Marion Lumpkin of 65 years, sons, Steve Lumpkin
and wife Kathryn, Mark Lumpkin and wife Paula, daughter, Denise Gundersen and
husband Jonathan, son, Kevin Lumpkin and wife Janice, sister, Alice Mosley,
twelve grandchildren, Nicole, Rachel and husband, Justin, Elisa, Sarah and
husband, Andrew, Kyle and wife, Whitney, Aaron, Joshua, Jacob and wife, Erika,
Michelle, Kaitlyn, Emily and Matthew, seven great grandchildren, Logan, Parker,
Jade, Tyler, Paris, Landan and Ariel, numerous other relatives and friends.

Visitation will be held from 5:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. Friday, January 4, 2013 at
Scott Funeral Home. Funeral services will be at 10:30 A.M. Saturday, January 5,
2013 at Alvin Church of the Nazarene, 1611 South Street, Alvin, Texas. Interment
will follow at Forest Park East Cemetery, Webster, Texas. Arrangements under the
direction of the Scott Funeral Home, 281-585-1000. www.scottfuneralhome.net

Carol Floyd Morreale

Carol Floyd Morreale, age 66 of Round Rock, Texas went home peacefully to be
with the Lord on December 31, 2012 following a lengthy, brave struggle with
cancer. She was born on August 4, 1946 in El Paso, Texas, the daughter of Army
Lieutenant Alfred Jennings Floyd and Margaret Floyd. As a member of a military
family, she traveled to several foreign countries and numerous locations in the
US. Carol attended college at the University of Maryland in Munich, Germany and
graduated from the University of Arizona with a teaching degree in Spanish and
French. In February, 1970 Carol married then Lieutenant Dennis Lee Morreale, and
for the next thirty years they relocated to nineteen different overseas and US
Army assignments. She was an awesome Army wife who spent countless hours helping
Soldiers and their families. Carol worked as a school teacher, basic skills
instructor for the US Army, and eventually as a dental office manager when the
family settled in Round Rock in 1996. Her passion was to spend as much time as
possible at the family's second home on Lake LBJ. Carol enthusiastically pursued
boating, jet skiing and loving on her five grandchildren who visited frequently.
She loved to attend worship services at The Fellowship Church in Round Rock,
Texas and was a true blessing to all who knew her.

Survivors include her husband of almost 43 years, Colonel (retired) Dennis Lee
Morreale; son Anthony Todd Morreale of Cedar Park, Texas; daughter Amy Morreale
Graff of Cincinnati, Ohio; brother Alfred Jennings Floyd Jr. of Myrtle Beach,
South Carolina and five beautiful grandchildren: Reagan, Morgan, Mayson, Peyton
and Cooper....they were the joy of her life.

Carol was preceded in death by her oldest brother, Richard Eaton Floyd and her
parents, Colonel (retired) Alfred Jennings Floyd and Margaret Eaton Floyd.

Special thanks to the wonderful doctors and staff from Scott and White hospitals
in Round Rock and Temple, Texas.

Visitation will be held from 6:00pm-8:00 pm on Sunday, January 6, 2013 at
Cook-Walden Capital Parks Funeral Home, 14501 N. IH 35, Pflugerville, TX. A
memorial service will be conducted beginning at noon, Monday, January 7, 2013 at
The Fellowship Church Round Rock, 3379 Gattis School Road, Round Rock, TX.
Interment will follow at the Central Texas Veterans Cemetery, 11463, State Hwy
195, Killeen, TX.

Addie Virginia (Jenny) Poovey Nall

It is an impossible task to write an obituary that truly captures all that was
Addie Virginia (Jenny) Poovey Nall. She ascended peacefully into heaven on Jan.
1, 2013. Jenny was the middle of 5 children born to Nolan and Bessie Poovey in
Rowlett, TX on Feb. 8, 1921. She was the sweet and funny one! She graduated from
Garland High School and Dallas Business College. Her introduction to Travis H.
Nall led to a marriage of 53 years. Making a home of love and acceptance for
their children was her passion. She was also a valued employee of Bock and Bock
CPA, an active member of Eastern Star and a proud member of Pleasant Valley
United Methodist Church. Named "Dabu" by her first grandchild, Tiffany Dean, she
was truly a Woman of Substance and the matriarch of our family. She loved the
holiday season but made every occasion seem special---breakfast for the
grandchildren, back yard BBQ's, gathering of friends at Lake Texoma and Sunday
dinner for a few or a crowd. When her family duties lessened, she traveled all
over Europe and once spent 6 weeks in the bush of Africa! She delightfully
logged many airline miles as well traveling to see the Tolberts in Georgia and
Kentucky. In her mid-70's, she began another career as Ranch Overseer at a
summer guest ranch purchased by her son and daughter-in-law in southern
Colorado. She was the quintessential hostess and met wonderful new friends and
admirers in the Conejos Canyon. She brought equal parts of love, long hours and
charm to the ranch and had a reputation for her pie-making! Customers were known
to try and outbid each other for a piece! It was a special time of bonding with
her daughter-in-law and many of her grandchildren lucky enough to be there with
her for the summer to work or visit. We are comforted that she so loved us and
so loved her Lord. Each of us had our special place in her heart. She will have
one in each of ours forever. Her spirit will live on through her children, Tom
Nall (Janna) of Austin, Nancy Nall Tolbert (Don) of Louisville, KY, and Marc
Nall (Pam) of Austin; grandchildren, Tiffany Nall Dean (Steve), Austin Nall
(Christy), Channing Tolbert Bowling (Joe), Christy Tolbert Husband (Wes), Tanner
Nall (Bonnie), Chad Tolbert, Chase Nall (fiancÈ Carly Shattuck) and Marissa
Nall; great grandchildren, Philip & Caroline Bowling, Addie, Elsie and Gracie
Husband, Ryan Dean, Madison Nall and McCoy Nall; and many nieces and nephews.
She was preceded in death by her husband, Travis Nall; her parents; her
brothers, A.T. Poovey and Nolan Poovey; sisters, Nita Vert and Jean Smith.

Visitation will be Sat. Jan 5th from 10:00 a.m.- 12:00 p.m. at Williams Funeral
Home in Garland, TX. The memorial celebration service will follow at 1:00 p.m.
Interment will be at Restland Memorial in Dallas TX. In lieu of flowers, the
family requests donations to the A.L.S. Assoc. South TX. Chapter 8600 Wurzbach
#700 San Antonio, TX 78240. The family would like to thank Beth Pike R.N., and
all caregivers at The Pavilion for their compassionate care of our Dabu.

Diana James Ortiz

Diana James Ortiz of Cedar Park, Texas passed away January 2, 2013. She was born
July 3, 1964 in Teague, Texas to Bob and Gail James. While working for Hitachi
in Arlington, TX, Diana met her future husband, Art at a company Christmas
party. They were married in Hawaii on February 6, 1998.

Their love of travel led them all over the United States and Europe. Art and
Diana were truly kindred spirits when it came to adventure. On September 22,
2004 God blessed their union with a baby girl; Cecily Claire. Diana was a
wonderful mother and on January 7, 2012, she and Art were thrilled with the
arrival of a second daughter; Sabrina Kate. Diana was completely devoted to her
family. The four of them were happiest when they were together. Sundays were all
about family and doing the things they loved.

Diana loved people and her care and concern for them was evident in everything
she did. To be her friend was a treasure. She was outspoken, but not judgmental;
you always knew where you stood with her.

Diana is survived by her husband, Art, daughters Cecily and Sabrina, all of
Cedar Park; parents, Bob and Gail James of Teague, TX; mother-in-law, Carmen
Ortiz of El Paso, TX; and father-in-law, Arturo Ortiz of El Paso, TX.

Funeral services will be 1PM, Saturday, January 5, 2013 at the First Baptist
Church in Teague, Texas.

Please run this obit in tomorrows paper and let us know the how you would like
the charges handled. Thank you.

Blair-Stubbs, Inc., P. O. Box 309, Mexia, TX 76667, Ph. 254-562-2131

Please visit www.blair-stubbs.com to leave a memorial message or sign the guest
book.

Francis Ledesma Renteria

Our beloved mother, Francis Ledesma Renteria passed away January 1, 2013. She
was preceded in death by husband Damacio Renteria and daughter, Margaret
Alvarez.

She is survived by daughters, Mary Alice Herrera, Lorine Hall, husband Ron Hall
Sr & son, Edward Renteria, girlfriend Alma Paiz. Also survived by numerous
grandchildren & great-grandchildren.

Rosary to be held at Angel Funeral Home at 7pm Friday,

Services on Saturday at 9am Mass at Our Lady of Guadalupe Church. Assumption
Cemetery in Austin.

Panola Marie Sabo, 66 "Momo"

Panola Sabo, 66, of Austin, TX passed away on Jan. 1, 2013 surrounded by her
loving family. She leaves behind her husband of 47 years, John Sabo. She was
born on Feb. 25, 1946 in Fort Smith, AK, the daughter of the late Lonnie and
Marie (Patrick) Wilson.

The family settled in Tucson, AZ where she attended and graduated from Flowing
Wells High School. Panola met her husband John (Jack) after he had picked her
picture out of the yearbook. They were set up on a blind date and have been
together ever since. John and Panola were soon married and began the journey of
starting a family, which was what she considered her greatest accomplishment.
Panola was a wonderful wife, devoted mother, dedicated grandmother; no one was a
stranger once you met her. Anyone who met her felt drawn to her beauty and
warmth.

Panola stayed true to her humble beginnings (making her own clothes as a child);
was never pretentious. She was extremely creative, loved helping her kids and
grandkids with art projects, and was known within the family for her ability to
fix anything. She loved to make clothes and Halloween costumes for her
grandchildren.

Panola carried a very positive attitude throughout her life. Her glass was
always half full (sometimes with wine). She was caring and always available to
listen and interact with everyone around her. She was known as the "cool Mom"
across Westlake. Her positivity allowed her to touch and inspire everyone that
she encountered.

Besides her husband John, she is survived by her son Eric (Cindy), daughter
Jennifer Willcott (Matthew); five grandchildren whom she adored, Ursula, Jesse,
Bentley, Nate and Nola; brother Jack Wilson of Tucson, Arizona. She was also
survived by a large loving extended family. She was predeceased by her sister
Zelma Richardson, brothers David and Lonnie Wilson.

Services will be held at 2pm on Tuesday, January 8th at Austin Baptist Church,
7016 Ribelin Ranch Drive, Austin, Texas 78750.

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations can be made to A Glimmer of Hope
Foundation, 3600 N. Capital of Texas Hwy., Bldg. B, Suite 330, Austin, Texas
78746.

Obituary and memorial guestbook available online at www.wcfish.com

Jo Evelyn Talbott

Mrs. Jo Evelyn Talbott moved from her home in Austin, Tx to her Heavenly mansion
on Jan. 1, 2013. She was born in Llano, Tx on Feb. 1, 1930. She was preceded in
death by her parents James and Goldye Coursey, her sister Wanda Earney, brothers
James and Jack Coursey, and grandchild Brian Keithly. Jo Evelyn is survived by
husband Raymond Talbott and sister Dorothy Petersen. She leaves behind six
children: Teresa and Bill Keithly; Sharon Sanborn; Debby and Greg Whetsel; Larry
and Barbara Talbott; Lisa and Mark Collins; and Laura Hopingardner. She is
survived by 9 grandchildren: Amy and Aaron Keithly; Kris Boring; Stephen
Whetsel; Danielle Talbott; Mitchell Stephens; Marissa, Brittany, and Delaney
Collins. She has 5 great-grandchildren: Aubrey Diane and Ava Boring, Elena and
Elijah Collins, and Rowyn Stephens, and numerous nieces and nephews. She retired
with seventeen years of service from the IRS. She attended South First Baptist
Church for many years, and was a current member of Kinney Ave. Christian
Fellowship. She was Worthy Matron in Eastern Star, Travis Chapter 472. Jo loved
crossword puzzles and Scrabble and other board games. She enjoyed travelling,
including trips to Smoky Mountain, Yosemite, and Rocky Mountain Parks, and her
dream vacation to Hawaii on her 50th. wedding anniversary. She and her family
thank the caregivers at Christopher House for the loving care she received
during her last days with pancreatic cancer.

Visitation is Saturday, January 5, 2013 at Austin Peel & Son Funeral Home from
10:00am to 11:00am with service to follow at 11:00am. Burial will follow at
Capital Parks Cemetery in Pflugerville.

Marinell Brooks Traylor

Marinell Brooks Traylor passed away on December 20th after a courageous battle
with cancer. She is survived by a son and daughter, Clayton and Holly; a
brother, John; three grandchildren, Davidlee, Brittany and Sam; and a great
granddaughter, Aaliyah. Her husband, William Traylor preceded her. Marinell was
born in Beaumont, TX on August 16th 1935 to Alton Howell Brooks and Nella
Somerford Brooks. Marinell was raised in Hempstead, TX where she was a standout
athlete at Hempstead High School. She attended the University of Texas and
received a degree in Elementary Education. She was a member of the Delta Gamma
Sorority. Marinell taught elementary school in Mathis, Houston and Katy, TX.
While attending summer school at Blinn College, Marinell met her future husband
William (Bill) E. Traylor, Jr. They enjoyed fifty years of love, laughter,
adventure and challenges together. Marinell believed in volunteering. She taught
part-time at the Houston School for the Blind, was a Board member of the
Southeastern Pennsylvania chapter of the Alliance for the Mentally Ill and
worked at the Settlement Home for Children in Austin. She was also a volunteer
greeter at Austin Bergstrom Airport. Marinell cherished the many, many close
friendships she established over the years with her fellow volunteers. Marinell
was a great adventurer, who moved the family to Ulsan South Korea, Quito
Ecuador, Katy, TX, and West Chester, PA as her husband's career required. She
set an example for all on how to embrace change; always finding the positives in
her new environment and quickly making new friends. In 1991, Marinell and Bill
retired to Austin, TX where she got to keep a close eye on her beloved Longhorns
and re-connect with lifelong friends. Marinell was a deeply devoted Christian
who found great strength in her faith. She was proud to call herself a "cradle
to grave Episcopalian." For the past 18 years, Marinell was a member of St
Luke's on the Lake Episcopal Church in Lakeway, TX where she established a
program to greet new visitors and welcome them into the Church. Marinell was a
proud member of the Daughters of the Republic of Texas and the Order of the
Daughter's of the King. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's on the
Lake in Lakeway TX on Saturday, January 5th at 11:00a.m. In lieu of flowers, the
family requests that contributions be made in Marinell's name to The Children's
Settlement Home, www.settlementhome.org.

Thomas "Ed" Edward Whitaker

Thomas "Ed" Edward Whitaker was born on April 12, 1947 in Red River County,
Texas to George Thomas Whitaker and Mary Lois Griffin. He passed from this life
on Wednesday, January 2, 2013 in Austin, Texas at the age of 65.

He is survived by his wife, Juanita (Janie) M. Whitaker of Bastrop, TX; sons,
John W. Bonee, Jr. of Bastrop, TX; Michael J. Bonee of Austin, TX; and James A.
Bonee of Bastrop, TX; six grandchildren, Sarah A. Bonee (Michael), Michael J.
Bonee, Jr. (Michael), Jonathan C. Bonee (John), Nathaleen (Sissy) D. Bonee
(James), Jacob N. Bonee (John) and Natasha M. Bonee (John); his mother and
stepfather, Roy Moore of Las Vegas, NV; his beloved sister, Syble Weaver (Bob)
of Peach Bottom, PA; his brother, James R. Whitaker of Schertz, TX; his brother,
John S. Whitaker of Clarksville, TX; his sister, Priscilla Moore of Las Vegas,
NV; his beloved uncle, Willie Griffin of Paris, TX.

He was preceded in death by his father; sister, Ruby Moore; and son, Javier
(Javi) A. Rodriguez.

A memorial service to celebrate his life will be held at 10:00 am on Saturday,
January 5, 2013 at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home, 2620 South Congress Avenue.

Memorials and guestbook online at www.wcfish.com

In Loving Memory of Mary H. Castaneda Dec 23, 1923-Jan 4, 1992

"We do believe in angels!"

Love & miss you mom.

The Ramirez Family

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Region's growth remains modest

BYLINE: Dan Zehr dzehr@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 465 words


Buoyed by a solid holiday shopping season and the ongoing strength of the energy
sector, the regional economy continued to expand at a modest pace over the last
six weeks, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas said Wednesday.

While pockets of soft demand continued to weigh on overall growth, most
employers reported steady or slightly higher employment levels during the
period, according to the bank's Beige Book report, which provides a summary of
regional business conditions every six weeks.

The Dallas Fed district covers Texas and parts of New Mexico and Louisiana.

Retailers, including auto dealers, reported a generally good holiday shopping
season, with higher workforce levels and greater consumer demand than the same
time last year.

"According to two national retailers, Texas continued to outperform the nation,"
the report said.

While retail provided a welcome boost, the energy sector remained the region's
primary engine for economic growth. While low natural gas prices led to a
higher-than-expected drop in rig counts, Gulf Coast refineries were operating at
better than 90 percent of capacity.

Real estate continued to power back from the recession. Sales of both new and
existing single-family homes posted healthy growth, with lower inventories
pushing up prices. Activity in commercial real estate accelerated since the last
Beige Book in November, the bank said, with most respondents reporting a "fairly
optimistic" outlook for this year.

Overall, manufacturers reported mixed results. On the plus side, the growth in
home construction boosted sales for lumber producers, the report said. On the
down side, global economic weakness continued to curb demand for a broad array
of technology products, weighing on demand for the region's high-tech
manufactured goods.

The region's service sector also reported generally positive results, but with
fits and starts in individual industries. Staffing services said demand
softened, with clients expressing concerns about the impact of the federal
Affordable Care Act.

Lending activity at financial services firms increased modestly during the six
weeks, the report said. Demand for mortgages and auto loans continued their
modest expansion. So did consumer deposits, despite the low interest rates.

Commercial lending increased during the period, with gains due in part to
companies making purchases before potential tax changes in the upcoming year,
the report said.

The drought continued to plague farmers and ranchers. The recently completed
wheat harvest was better than in 2011, the report said, but dry conditions
threatened the winter wheat crop and spring planting. With the drought driving
grain prices higher, the cost of feed for livestock hit record high levels
during the period, the report said.

Contact Dan Zehr at 445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

Of humor and feelings

BYLINE: Brad Buchholz bbuchholz@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1864 words


Short story master George Saunders is fascinated by one of the great stories of
the modern age - and it's not climate change, not the world at war. Rather: It
is the aching banality of our times. The pervasive McCulture. And how it robs us
of our humanity, contorts our moral bearings, separates us from true feeling.

In fiction and his essays, Saunders examines the ways in which the forces of
corporate capitalism - and our own material urges - numb us, dumb us and
humiliate us. He commands us to take a hard look at the absurd logic-language of
Group Think or Management Speak. Then, in the spirit of communal recognition, he
invites us to laugh out loud at it.

"If the two of us can agree that we're looking at one damn ugly dog, suddenly
that dog becomes a little lovable," says Saunders. "At least to the two of us
looking at it, anyway."

Saunders - who visits Austin Tuesday to promote his newest collection of short
stories, "Tenth of December" - is one of the most audacious and inventive voices
in American literature. At 54, he's in his prime: a MacArthur Genius Fellow,
four-time winner of the National Magazine Award for Fiction, master of the short
story, daring essayist.

Saunders takes pride in leading readers on a "wild ride" in his fiction. But his
essays - on subjects ranging from "Huckleberry Finn" to "big media" to the
psychology of war - feel untamed, too. He loves addressing his readers directly,
loves to question his own motives in mid-essay, which only strengthens his
credibility. Saunders is often described as a satirist, a "funny writer." And
it's true: You're likely to laugh, a lot, reading a Saunders story.

But you're also likely to wince. When Saunders writes about the ugly dog of
nationalism or rationalism or propaganda or corporate hierarchy - or the lies
we're willing to tell for the sake of a weekly paycheck or in honor of an
advertising tagline - his wicked wit is so sharp that it hurts.

His masterpiece, the futuristic short story "Pastoralia," is a devastating
parable built around worker-actors in a Prehistoric Theme Park, groveling in the
dirt, caveman style, for the sake of tourists who never visit.

The workers are so obsessed with rules and pleasing and obedience and hierarchy
- and the company's commandment that they "become" cavemen throughout each day
or lose their benefits - that all manner of dignity and humanity is distorted.

"My starting assumption in writing is that the human heart hasn't changed that
much in all the time that human beings have been here," says Saunders,
reflecting on the underlying appeal to a shared, eternal sense of knowing in his
writing. "Every generation is put into a new environment, but the heart and mind
are kind of constant.

"So if you follow that through as a writer, that means everything is literary.
Everything. Everything is ultimately about God. Or about love. Or whatever your
particular understanding of the universe is."

The writer's journey

George Saunders never set out to be a writer, which may explain why he became
such a distinctive one. Born in Amarillo, raised in South Chicago, he was for a
time a conservative who favored the novels of Ayn Rand. After earning his
undergraduate degree at the Colorado School of Mines, Saunders worked for a time
as an engineer in Sumatra - and as a country-western guitarist and apartment
groundsman in Texas.

In the 1990s, after earning his MFA from Syracuse University in creative
writing, Saunders worked for a time as a technical writer at an environmental
engineering company in Rochester - which sharpened his ear for Corporate Speak.
"It was there," he says, "where it first struck me that inefficiency was a form
of poetry.

"We did a lot of writing about environmental 'problems' - although that isn't
the word we would have used. We might have said environmental 'opportunity'
instead. ... We were working for a big client that had had a spill ... and we
were trying to talk about the extent of the spill. They were scientific reports,
but they had a certain PR quality to them.

"Some of that was really rich ... you got into the habit of euphemizing things.
You know: 'The negative effects are believed to be contained within a restricted
physical area.' Which I must say: What's that NOT true of?"

Wildness and sentences

Like most great writers, Saunders sees writing as a process that involves
writing one good sentence, then another. Sentences matter to him. He has an
uncanny ability of holding you by perplexing you in the first two or three pages
of a short story, jolting readers with wild settings - and wild sentences. A few
samples:

"Next morning, I go to the big slot and find it goatless again." (From
"Pastoralia")

"Anon, I find myself in the proximity of the Wendy's on Center Boulevard, by the
closed down Outback." (From "My Chivalric Fiasco")

"Leon sprung from the hole, hatless and terrified, with a swollen bleeding Brow
Clip, having failed to collect the taxes, and dove back into Outer Horner, while
Phil heroically rescued Larry by pulling him out of the Short-Term Residency
Zone by his belt loops." ("The Brief and Frightening Reign of Phil")

"What good's an obedience drug if we need his permission to use it?" (From
"Escape from Spiderhead")

An imperfect process

George Saunders often sees a perfect story in his mind's eye. It's pristine in
theme and structure and literary intent. But when he tries to tell it, to share
it, he drops it. His perfect story, like a precious vase, shatters as it hits
the floor.

Crestfallen, Saunders sifts through the shards, picks up the best pieces,
re-assembles the fractured story into something that somehow seems more true.

This, says Saunders, is the essence of writing: an imperfect process, reliant on
accident, guided by second chances and third chances and forces beyond our
knowing.

"It's funny," he says, "what the subconscious can do."

Saunders is no tortured writer. Far from it. He describes writing as "a
celebration." For all the themes of alienation and detachment - and for all his
emphasis on rigor and revision - Saunders writes, in real time, with a kind of
joy.

"Fun is an aspect of fiction that often gets undersold," says Saunders, talking
about craft over the telephone, from his car, in a parking lot in Albany, N.Y.
On his end, the connection flutters in and out throughout the interview. "Fun is
hard to talk about. It doesn't 'teach' well. ... All those literary things we
learn about? Theme and character and all that? My experience is you can't get
there without fun."

"To me, the fun as a writer - (working) at speed - means, yes, you're trying to
be funny, trying to be witty, trying to be engaging. And: The really cool thing
is you're trusting you that if you do these things, profundity can result."

Saunders cringes at the conscious notion of writing a story about alienation
with high literary aims. He'd rather riff with language, in the direction of
fun, knowing he'll eventually get to where he needs to go.

"You can't conceptualize your way to the right answer," he says. "But you can
write your way to it, by trying thousands and thousands of pages."

Imagination

George Saunders contends he's through with public commentary, even though his
2006 essay volume "The Braindead Megaphone" features some of his most electric
writing. "I didn't like that feeling of trying to be a public intellectual," he
says. "I can be public, but I'm not all that intellectual. I felt like I was
drawing from a pretty shallow pool of wit."

The title essay of "The Braindead Megaphone" is a scathing critique of
for-profit media - and the widespread consequences of a diminished pool of
information and imagination on the culture. He means to accent the correlation
between "knowing truth" and our capacity to imagine.

"Our venture in Iraq was a literary failure," he writes in the essay, "by which
I mean a failure of imagination. A culture better at imagining richly,
three-dimensionally, would have had a greater respect for war than we did, more
awareness of the law of unintended consequences, more familiarity with the
world's tendency to throw aggressive energy back at the aggressor in ways he did
not expect. A culture capable of imagining complexly is a humble culture. It
acts, when it has to act, as late in the game as possible, and as cautiously,
because it knows its own girth and the tight confines of the china shop it's
blundering into.

"And it knows that no matter how well-prepared it is - no matter how ruthlessly
it has held its projections up to intelligent scrutiny - the place it is headed
for is going to be very different from the place it imagined. The shortfall
between the imagined and the real, multiplied by the violence of one's intent,
equals the evil one will do."

A kind of blessing

George Saunders believes his latest short story volume, "Tenth of December," is
somewhat gentler, more nuanced than his earlier work. It's still edgy in terms
of its setting and voices. Themes of alienation still dominate. And yeah: There
are some hilarious satires on the Group Think mindset, as in "Exhortation,"
which deftly compares the task of clearing a dead, reeking whale from a beach to
the challenge of becoming a good corporate team player.

Yet Saunders believes he's growing more empathetic with the years, less
judgmental. "I find, as I'm getting older, that I'm getting more loving," he
says. "Give me any (bad guy) who want, and I will love him. And I could make you
(the reader) love him too, if you give me eight or nine months."

The characters in Saunders' latest stories are still struggling to find truth
amid the noise and complications of their environment. But in some of these
stories, the source of the noise might be fear of death, fear of pain ... a myth
we've constructed about ourselves that isn't quite true ... or the ingrained
codes of family life and suburban behavior.

"I think one of the things that has happened in our time, very surreptitiously -
is that we've become materialists," says Saunders. "We don't really believe that
there is much going on beyond what we can see and hear and smell and so on. ...

"So if you buy into the idea that the material is all that there is - and that
the best you can do in trying to figure out death is to not have it happen to
you, or put off the thought, or live really well until it does, then I think
you're (in trouble). Because it's not true. So in our time, we feel the stress
of having subscribed so whole-heartedly to materialism. And every day you feel
the falseness of that refuge.

"It's funny, to me, that the best way we know to show love to your kid is to
take him to Chuck E Cheese." And here, George Saunders begins to laugh,
recognizing another ugly dog. "Wow."

Saunders will speak and sign copies of "Tenth of December" at 7 p.m. Tuesday at
BookPeople, 603 N. Lamar Blvd.

Contact Brad Buchholz at 912-2967.

GEORGE SAUNDERS
 Born: Dec. 26, 1958, in Amarillo
 Works:
  * 'CivilWarLand in Bad Decline,' 1996
  * 'Pastoralia,' 2000
  * 'The Very Persistent Gappers of Frip,' 2000
  * 'The Brief and Frightening Reign of Phil,' 2005
  * 'In Persuasion Nation,' 2006
  * 'The Braindead Megaphone,' 2007
  * 'Tenth of December,' 2013


TENTH OF DECEMBER
 George Saunders
 Random House, $26


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 819 words


Health-care hodgepodge

Re: Jan. 27 article, "Birth control requirements bring flood of lawsuits."

If some Catholic businesses want to be free to provide health insurance that
does not cover contraceptives, then perhaps Islamic employers may want to limit
doctor visits for women to only female doctors and men to only male doctors.
Perhaps Christian Science employers may want to limit health insurance to
providers who offer only prayer. And some conservative Christian employers who
feel contraception impedes God's will, perhaps should be free to offer no health
insurance at all because if God intends one to be sick, then perhaps that is
one's divine fate. I think it would be best to ask employers to offer uniform
health insurance and let individual employees make their own religious choices.

Beki Halpin

beki.halpin@gmail.com

Austin

Focus, people

The left shuts up about climate change and gun control while the right shuts up
about abortion and illegal immigration. Then, both sides use all that energy to
work on the economy, taxes and eduction. Once these three critical issues are
resolved, left and right can go back to their silly little games. America wins.

Gail B. Armstrong

Austin

Where's Perry?

Did you ever notice that the only time you see Gov. Rick Perry in public is when
he stands to gain recognition, but when it comes time to answer tough questions
about his doings or appointees he makes, he sends his spokesperson or puts
something on Twitter? A true leader indeed.

Tip Giles

Austin

Attack on women's rights

Re: Jan. 27 article, "Perry: End abortions in Texas."

On Saturday, Gov. Rick Perry vowed to make abortion "a thing of the past" in
Texas. Abortion is the law of the land: Roe v. Wade. Why is it men are always
trying to control women's rights? Perry needs to get a job. Not the governor
again. I can't believe any women would vote for him.

Allen Scott

San Leanna

18th-century mentality

Re: Jan. 27 article, "Perry: End abortions in Texas."

Problem is, governor, your thinking is a "thing of the past." We have moved on,
advanced, pursued modernity on available women's health care. Want to be an
evangelical extremist from the 18th century with a narrow band of followers?
Fine, but proselytizing has no place in lawmaking in 2013. Noah's flood will
seem like a bad rainstorm compared with the tsunami of Texas women who will show
Perry they prefer making their own medical decisions, and political ones.

Michael Dyer

Austin

Targeting 'safe' abortions

Re: Jan. 27 article, "Perry: End abortions in Texas."

My goodness! Our governor says we can end abortions in Texas. Never mind federal
law. We went through this from ancient human history until Roe v. Wade 40 years
ago! The only abortions that would be ended are SAFE abortions! Fathers,
boyfriends, husbands, the woman herself and coat hanger abortion "experts" on
kitchen tables would be needlessly killing our women all over again! This
governor is an idiot. I don't understand how he keeps getting elected! Every
time the newspaper mentions him stopping abortions, add the word safe between
stopping and abortions. Because that is all it would be!

Darrell Champeau

Cedar Park

Anti-female campaign

Re: Jan. 27 article, "Perry: End abortions in Texas."

I wish newspapers would take up the issue of abortion and its relationship to
politics. It is the male legislators who seem to be promoting the anti-abortion
position, which is obviously anti-female. It is just another way to try to
control women and their bodies.

Vaughn Alexander

Austin

Kudos on commentary

Re: Jan. 25 commentary, "A fresh examination of history is in order."

Kudos to Richard Pells in offering a thoughtful, objective, nonpartisan analysis
of the issue regarding the University of Texas' teaching of American history. I
can't remember the last time I read something on the editorial page that didn't
have an obvious partisan agenda from either the left or the right. This is what
we need more of - a willingness to set aside personal and political biases to
analyze issues with honesty, integrity and open-mindedness. This was a
courageous piece of writing from Pells, and I hope that his colleagues at UT
give it the consideration it deserves.

Katherine Meyer

Round Rock

UT engineering idea

Re: Jan. 24 article, "Regents back projects for 15 UT campuses."

I read in the Austin American-Statesman recently that the University of Texas
regents plan to request $95 million from the state Legislature for a new
engineering building on the Austin campus. I would like to offer an alternative:
Let's have the residents of Travis County pay for the building through an
increase in property taxes. With the shortage of local engineers, all the folks
in the area will benefit from the world-class developments these engineers will
design. All we need is a slick ad campaign and the support of a few self-serving
community leaders and it will pass with flying colors.

David Alsmeyer

Dalsmeyer@tigusa.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Letters to the Editor 04/07

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 869 words


Water, property rights

Re: April 3 commentary, "They're going to meddle like it's 1999."

The editorial resonates with people like me who live well outside of Austin.
While Austin appears to be the Legislature's favorite piñata, some other town
could be the next victim. Equally important, we should all be concerned about
the water supply in a drought-ravaged state that is growing rapidly. Rep. Paul
Workman's proposal pits private property rights against the public's right to
clean water. This is dangerous and unnecessary.

In my part of Southwest Travis County, new subdivisions with hundreds of homes
have sprung up along Rocky Creek, which flows into Barton Creek. The developers
take their stewardship of water quality seriously. In particular, they limit
density to 15 percent impervious cover, even though they are not subject to the
SOS ordinance. These developments are both financially successful and protective
of the Edwards Aquifer. So it is possible to accomplish both goals. Thanks to
Sen. Kirk Watson for championing this balance.

Eugene Lowenthal

Bee Cave

Driver's license fraud

Re: March 29 commentary, "License renewal ban misses target."

Illegal immigrants can buy fake proof of insurance cards from the black market
or make their own fake cards for the driver's license clerk to read and issue
the driver's licenses, similar to fake state inspection stickers in 1980s made
by Vietnamese immigrants in Houston where I lived.

Driver's license departments should include all insurance companies' policy
numbers in its server to match insurance card numbers and expiration dates
before issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

John Moehring

jmoehring@att.net

Waelder

Cleaner energy

Kudos to the EPA for the Tier 3 standards reducing sulfur and nitrogen oxide
emissions from gasoline. Until the EPA intervened in the 1970s, we boomers grew
up breathing the lead emissions the oil companies claimed were absolutely
necessary and harmless. (Since lead has permanent neurological effects, this
past exposure may explain a lot about the current leadership of our country.)
The oil companies predict that the new standards will raise the price of
gasoline. Bread companies could make bread a few cents cheaper if they were
allowed to include more insect parts and rat hairs, but is that a bargain? We
could also burn less gasoline in the first place. A realistic carbon pricing
system, as proposed in the Boxer-Sanders Climate Protection Act, would provide
an incentive to move us toward cleaner sources of energy.

Bonnie Stump

bonstump@gmail.com

Georgetown

Health care for all

Much time and expense has been spent trying to get the national health care act
(Obamacare) abolished, with Congress proposing this 54 times. Most hospital and
physicians groups endorse the plan; yet, governors from some of the poorest and
unhealthiest states won't accept the Medicaid part of the act. Critics, like
Sen. Ted Cruz, list all kinds of failures. However, the New York Times lists
many accomplishments in their "Report Card on Health Care Reform."

I am concerned with the inadequate health care of so many in our country and the
lack of concern. Some use the national debt as an excuse for no more handouts,
forgetting the large debt came from unpaid foreign wars. The health care act
does need improving, but I hope the people that are fighting so hard to abolish
it will always have insurance and adequate medical care that so many in our
country don't have.

Edward V. Harris

Hugo, Okla.

Help Native Americans

Is there anybody in Congress, of either political party, who has compassion for
the plight of our country's Native Americans? Mostly white settlers from
European countries brought their rifles to America and ran roughshod over the
Indian tribes who occupied the land. In other words, the settlers stole the land
and eventually herded the Indians onto reservations in some pretty desolate
places. How moral was that?

Now, the sequester is affecting our needy Indian population's health care
negatively via funding cuts. It is morally imperative the government maintains
its longstanding obligations and commitment to Indians even in this sequester
time. In good conscience, it should be a top priority for the richest nation in
the history of humankind. We owe it to our Indian brothers and sisters and their
children.

Paul Whiteley Sr.

Louisville, Ky.

Fight over water

Citizens, please join us from Travis, Williamson, Hays, Milam and Burleson
counties to attend the Lost Pines Groundwater Conservation District meeting at 6
p.m. on April 17 at Giddings City Hall. Lost Pines Groundwater Conservation
District is the best district in the state. But can we expect them to stand up
to water profiteers who will surely sue the district using the loopholes our
state legislators left in the water law they passed in 2011? Unless HB 4, just
passed in the House, is amended, "water bank" financing could grease the wheels
for water pipelines to drain vulnerable rural counties like Lee dry. Citizens
serious about conservation and property rights - we must converge in Giddings.
If the Lost Pines district stands tall, it will be game on - especially with the
Legislature in session.

Linda Curtis

ljcurtis@indytexans.org

Bastrop

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

'Deadliest Catch' sets sail on TV

BYLINE: Dale Roe American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 696 words


Lance Armstrong gets scrutinized, the Amish go wild and BET honors Halle Berry.
Here's what to watch and what to avoid on television this week:

Monday: "Independent Lens," 9 p.m., PBS: Lindsay Wagner and Lynda Carter are
among those who examine how fictional female crime fighters have mirrored
society's attitudes toward women.

Tuesday: "In Performance at the White House: Memphis Soul," 7 p.m., PBS: Alabama
Shakes and Mavis Staples join other artists in celebration of the iconic '60s
sound.

"Deadliest Catch," 8 p.m., Discovery: Season 9 raises anchor tonight.

"Awkward," 9 p.m., MTV: The bell rings for the start of Season 3 as Jenna is
challenged by a demanding writing instructor played by "The Breakfast Club's"
Anthony Michael Hall.

"Who Gets the Last Laugh," 9 p.m., TBS: Comedians engage in prank challenges in
this new hidden camera contest. Eight words: "From the mind of executive
producer Ashton Kutcher."

Wednesday: "Suburgatory," 7 p.m., ABC: Back-to-back episodes close out the
second season tonight.

"Restaurant: Impossible," 8 p.m., Food: Something's fishy at the top of Season
6.

Thursday: "Breaking Amish," 7 p.m., Discovery Fit: The new reality series'
subjects land in the Big Apple and, I don't know, probably start a fire with
sticks and bake a delicious pie out of it.

"Which Way Is the Front Line From Here? The Life and Time of Tim Hetherington,"
7 p.m., HBO: Author Sebastian Junger ("The Perfect Storm") directs a compelling
and moving tribute to his friend, a war journalist killed in Libya.

"Gigolos," 10 p.m., Showtime: Season 4 of the male escort (messcort?) reality
series begins tonight.

Friday: "Chasing Ice," 7 p.m., Nat Geo: Say all you want about climate change -
if the glaciers in these time-lapse photos get any smaller, we're going to be
picking them up with tongs and dropping them into our Scotch.

"Mystery Diners," 9 p.m., Food Network: This must be where all those mystery
shoppers eat.

Saturday: "Mary and Martha," 7 p.m., HBO: Hilary Swank and James Woods head up
the cast of this malaria drama from the screenwriter of "Love Actually."

"BET Honors 2013," 8 p.m., Centric: Halle Berry, Lisa Leslie and other black
personalities and role models receive accolades; Gabrielle Union hosts.

Sunday: "Cycling High: Doping to Win," 6 p.m., Nat Geo: This documentary
examines the Lance Armstrong doping controversy. FYI: I'll be watching sober,
eating Sweet and Salty Chocolate Peanut Butter Bugles.

"All the Presidents Men Revisited," 7 p.m., Discovery: This look back at the
late '70s film features interviews with Dustin Hoffman and Robert Redford as
well as the real-life journalists they portrayed.

"What Would Ryan Lochte Do?" 9 p.m., E!: Something goofy and inappropriate, I'm
guessing. The Olympic athlete's reality series premieres tonight.

Contact Dale Roe at 912-5923. Twitter: @djroe

- if the glaciers in these time-lapse photos get any smaller, we're going to be
picking them up with tongs and dropping them into our Scotch.

"Mystery Diners," 9 p.m., Food Network: This must be where all those mystery
shoppers eat.

Saturday: "Mary and Martha," 7 p.m., HBO: Hilary Swank and James Woods head up
the cast of this malaria drama from the screenwriter of "Love Actually."

"BET Honors 2013," 8 p.m., Centric: Halle Berry, Lisa Leslie and other black
personalities and role models receive accolades; Gabrielle Union hosts.

Sunday: "Cycling High: Doping to Win," 6 p.m., Nat Geo: This documentary
examines the Lance Armstrong doping controversy. FYI: I'll be watching sober,
eating Sweet and Salty Chocolate Peanut Butter Bugles.

"All the Presidents Men Revisited," 7 p.m., Discovery: This look back at the
late '70s film features interviews with Dustin Hoffman and Robert Redford as
well as the real-life journalists they portrayed.

"What Would Ryan Lochte Do?" 9 p.m., E!: Something goofy and inappropriate, I'm
guessing. The Olympic athlete's reality series premieres tonight.

Contact Dale Roe at 912-5923. Twitter: @djroe

BOX:

Go-to Guy

Dale Roe is your Go-to Guy for useful information. He writes guides on
everything from allergies to TV shows to local events to QR codes. What topics
would you like to know more about? Send an email to droe@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Love's beauty and ache

BYLINE: Matthew Odam American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1119 words


Over the span of 18 years and three exceptional movies, director Richard
Linklater and his collaborators Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy have charted the
birth, growth, crescendos and complications of love.

The mesmerizing third installment, "Before Midnight," co-written by Linklater,
Hawke and Delpy, delivers a humorous and heart-wrenching look at the depth and
banality of long-term love. It is a bold work that could come only from a strong
trust and faith forged over time between the three collaborators.

The trio began their journey with 1995's "Before Sunrise," which introduced
audiences to Jesse (Hawke) and Celine (Delpy), two starry-eyed young travelers
who meet in Vienna and spend a day tickled and tantalized by the glorious
possibilities of love and life at the dawn of adulthood. The walk-and-talk film
spoke to Linklater's great ear for dialogue, ease with philosophical gymnastics
and love of European cinema.

The 2004 follow-up, "Before Sunset," had the two connecting once again, this
time in Paris. After a failed rendezvous six months after their initial meeting,
Jesse runs into Celine while promoting his book, "This Time," which chronicled
their youthful romance. With both involved in unfulfilling relationships (Jesse
married with a child in Chicago and Celine dating in Paris), the two fell into
their old rhythms and reached out through the dense fog of time to see if their
initial connection still had breath. The moving and subtly ambiguous film left
audiences wondering what would come of the compelling love story.

"Before Midnight" catches up with the couple and their family during a leisurely
summer in the southern Peloponnese of Greece. In "Before Sunset," Celine
wondered if they were just "good at brief encounters, walking around in European
cities in warm climate." The latest film finds the couple in similar
circumstances. But, unlike before, Jesse and Celine now have a history and a
future. They were with each other yesterday and will be with each other
tomorrow. Their relationship carries that weight.

Like the first two "Before" movies - and other Linklater film's such as "Tape,"
"Slacker" and "Dazed and Confused" - "Before Midnight" takes place in one day.
Jesse and Celine's lives have a sense of permanence now, but during the course
of a long day mostly spent walking and talking, they realize that maybe they
don't share the same ideas for their future. Maybe they don't even share a
similar perspective on the current state of their union.

The opening shot fittingly features two pair of feet walking through an airport.
But, as a sign of the changing times, one pair belongs to Jesse's son, Hank
(Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick). After spending the summer with his dad's family in
Greece, the teenager is returning to his mother in Chicago. Jesse gives his son
a sorrowful goodbye, a mood captured by Austin composer Graham Reynold's spare
and plaintive piano full of longing. The film's minimalist score matches the
natural movement of the film and plays off the waltz motif that still lingers
from Delpy's song at the end of "Before Sunset."

Jesse departs the terminal and joins Celine and their two daughters in the car
for a ride back to their summer residence. The shots of children give the
immediate impression of Jesse and Celine as adults. No longer the children in
love from "Before Sunrise," they are now burdened with the care of their own
children. But their conversational style still has whispers of youthful
flirtation.

The couple engages in witty, well-worn banter freighted with subtext. Jesse
wonders if he should be closer to his son, while Celine wrestles with the
prospect of taking a new job in Paris. The subtle tensions play as comic relief
but nod to the type of lingering issues that can divide a couple. It is one of
several scenes that illuminates Jesse as a romantic and Celine as a pragmatist
and borderline pessimist while also highlighting the trilogy's fascination with
the passage of time.

The steady long shot in the car ride is reminiscent of the cab scene at the
beginning of Linklater's "Slacker" and Jesse and Celine's streetcar trip in
"Before Sunrise." The exchange between Hawke and Delpy is a master class of
acting, and their familiarity evaporates the years audiences have spent apart
from the two characters.

At the home of their Greek host, Jesse and Celine relax into a salon-style
discussion with two other couples and two elderly friends about the nature of
time and perception, the effect technology has on our sex lives and the
innocence of young love. Fans of the earlier movies will recognize nods to
Shakespeare and time travel, in the afternoon of amiable free-flowing discussion
that unwinds like an idyllic Mediterranean afternoon. The tableside chat also
catches those less familiar with the backstory up to speed and fills in the
narrative gaps between films.

With their return to Paris looming, Jesse and Celine accept their friends' offer
of a romantic night at a nearby hotel. Linklater's camera follows the couple
(or, really, the couple follows the mostly backward-moving camera) as they amble
amongst Greek ruins and ancient churches on the path to their hotel. The stroll
gives the couple their first chance to casually walk and chat for the first time
in years, and the conversation reveals how their lives have hardened and taken
on new dimensions defined by obligation and sacrifice.

When Celine asks Jesse what he would change about her, the timer is set on a
slow-ticking bomb that will inevitably detonate. In their beautiful hotel room,
Jesse attempts to seduce Celine and rekindle the heat that first fueled their
affair. But life interrupts, and simmering tensions born of jealousy, regret,
longing and fear overflow in one of the greatest 30-minute stretches of dialogue
ever captured between two lovers on screen.

Less dizzying than its predecessors, "Before Midnight" is rooted in the
sometimes painful ground of truth. While the first two movies in this series
offered hope and possibility with two lives yet to be fully explored, "Before
Midnight" finds the two lovers forced to reconcile their lives with the choices
they've made. It is a painful emotional experience, but not a hopeless one.

A near-perfect movie, "Before Midnight" is a moving examination of the perils
and pleasures of aging and the difficulties of maintaining passion and a sense
of self while being part of a couple. It devastates and inspires the way only
love can.

Rating: R. Running time: 108 minutes. Theater: Violet Crown.

Contact Matthew Odam at 912-5986. Twitter: @odam

BOX:

Richard Linklater talks about the process behind 'Before Midnight' and his
collaboration with Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Sunday in Life & Arts

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration fraud crackdown overdue

BYLINE: Austin American-Statesman

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 855 words


The desperate desire to obtain legal status combines with tangled U.S.
immigration laws to create a climate that invites deceit and fraud.

For perpetrators, the risk of defrauding immigrants is small because the victims
are reluctant to complain. The amounts immigration consultants can make off
their prey are limited only by their nefarious ambitions.

The last thing someone whose immigration status may be dubious wants to do is
attract official attention. The money unscrupulous immigration consultants can
make far outweighs the limited risk, but that could change. The Texas attorney
general is becoming increasingly aggressive in chasing perpetrators of fraud.
Federal legislation that would impose criminal penalties for immigration scams
has been introduced.

At the moment, however, there is no national standard for pursuing fraud. In
Texas, the attorney general's office targets suspected scammers and recently got
a settlement against an organization whose clients complained did them more harm
than good.

Cristo Vive (Christ Lives), a secular organization that offered immigration
consulting, collected fees ranging from $232,000 to $619,000 annually but is now
out of the immigration business. As the American-Statesman's Jeremy Schwartz
reported this week, the organization and its owner, Jorge Sanchez, must comply
with a court order that bars him from collecting money for immigration work and
from using the name Cristo Vive.

Sanchez and Cristo Vive were targeted by the Texas attorney general's office in
2012 - after a 2011 American-Statesman report that immigration cases handled by
Sanchez and his organization were bungled so badly that his clients faced arrest
and deportation.

Sanchez agreed to a court order to pay $250,000 in restitution and faces a
$300,000 fine if he violates terms of the settlement with state authorities. The
settlement reached between Sanchez and the state is the result of a civil case,
not criminal action.

This case is far from isolated. Immigration "consultants" flourish, often
implying that they are legally qualified to handle immigration cases when they
are not. Clients often are charged for immigration forms that are free, and
that's just the beginning of a long rip-off that could lead to even bigger legal
problems for them.

The Texas attorney general's office has gotten increasingly aggressive in
cracking down on immigration scams, closing down 75 unauthorized immigration
consultants across the state.

While commendable, shutting down fraudulent and unscrupulous operators is going
to take a while. The customer base is large and either unaware or downright
afraid of seeking recourse.

Bear in mind those customers are seeking the help to obtain legal status in the
United States. They are vulnerable because the "notarios" - literally "notary" -
who advertise their services are often cheaper than lawyers who specialize in
immigration law.

A notario in some Latin American countries is a state-appointed attorney. In the
U.S., of course, a notary public is someone who acts as a legal witness at
document signings.

A notario on this side of the border can make false promises about speeding up
the process and guaranteeing an outcome, and continue to collect money from the
hapless clients who invest hope in them.

"This is a foreseeable problem," noted U.S. Rep. Bill Foster, D-Ill. Foster
introduced legislation that would make it a federal crime to fraudulently offer
immigration legal services. The bill calls for a fine and up to 10 to 15 years
in federal prison for offenders.

"Not only do these 'notarios' exploit immigrants for money, but their false
services can, and many times have, resulted in well-meaning immigrants being
deported because they didn't receive accurate information on the immigration
process," Foster said.

It's federal legislation that merits support. Even if the current attempt at
immigration reform fizzles - perhaps especially if it fizzles - immigrants
seeking to legally navigate a complicated process deserve the protection. These
are people who are trying to play by the rules, after all, but could have their
opportunity for legal status compromised by fraudulent advice rendered by
unscrupulous con artists.

The California Legislature is also seeking to crack down on fraudulent
immigration consultants. Criminalizing this type of fraud deserves the attention
of the Texas Legislature as well, but the next regular session is a year and
three months away.

Back in Central Texas, Sanchez's lawyer said his client agreed to the settlement
because he was tired of fighting the state. Ed Watt, of Dripping Springs, blamed
Sanchez's legal problems on "those who opposed the competition at lower rates."

It's an explanation that invites skepticism, especially from Sanchez's aggrieved
clientele. A former Cristo Vive client told the American-Statesman in 2011 that
Sanchez advised him to seek a religious worker visa instead of applying for
political asylum because of threats he had received in his native Colombia.

It was advice that nearly got him deported.

"It's as if I came with cancer and he injected me with malaria," the client told
Schwartz.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Texas retail, service growth slows

BYLINE: American-Statesman staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 363 words


Texas' retail and service sector saw its growth slow in October and companies'
outlook on general business conditions dimmed slightly, according to a report
from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state revenue index, a key indicator of service sector activity, dipped to
5.3 in October from 8.9 in September, according to the Dallas Fed's monthly
Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey. The index had been at 13.6 in August.

The lower but still positive figure indicated that activity among the state's
private service-providing firms continued to increase, but at a slower pace. The
service sector accounts for roughly 60 percent of the Texas economy and employs
more than 7 million people, according to the Dallas Fed.

A measure of retail sales across the state suggested a similar cooling of sales
growth. The sales index fell to 7.9 last month from 16.5 in September, according
to the Texas Retail Outlook Survey, which is a subset of the broader
service-sector report. The index had been at 21.1 in August.

The Service Sector Outlook Survey's employment index edged up from 3.7 to 5.5
this month, indicating hiring picked up slightly. The wages and benefits index
moved down from 14.1 to 8.7, its lowest reading since August of 2012, according
to the report.

In general, the survey indicated that employers were less optimistic on broad
economic conditions, as the general business activity index declined from 14 to
6.4 and the company outlook index dropped from 6.3 to 4.9.

Those results reflected a lessening of confidence among consumers across the
country, according to a report released last week by the Conference Board. The
board's Consumer Confidence Index dropped sharply, down to 71.2 in October from
80.2 in September.

In anonymous comments compiled as part of the Dallas Fed surveys, several Texas
companies cited concerns about government activity and regulatory issues as
reasons for lessening optimism.

"There has not been much change in the lackluster activity due to five or six
continuing unknowns in the business world, such as taxes and regulation. Without
a resolution of these issues, businesses will continue to hesitate," said one
financial services company.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 22, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Civic center closing this month

BYLINE: Esther Robards-Forbes American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 429 words


SAN MARCOS - Students and youth participating in programs like 4-H and Future
Farmers of America will have to move their agriculture events to new digs when
the Hays County Civic Center shuts its doors by the end of this month.

The civic center, which is a large enclosed arena with meeting rooms, was built
in the 1970s and has served as the show barn and agriculture facility for the
county. Hays County officials decided earlier this year to close the facility
and save the $177,000 a year it takes to maintain it.

The land it sits east of Interstate 35 near the south side of San Marcos, in an
area poised for industrial development.

"It makes sense to sell it and help fund a more appropriate location," said
County Judge Bert Cobb.

Hays County officials have helped the budding farmers and ranchers by
negotiating an arrangement with Dripping Springs Ranch Park for the county and
certain nonprofits to hold events there rent-free for the next 12 years in
exchange for $1.8 million toward construction costs.

The park features a covered arena, an indoor event room, veterinary area and a
large concessions area with full kitchen. It began hosting events such as rodeos
and craft shows in September.

While some of the county's 400 4-H participants are nervous about the change,
it's a move to newer, bigger facility, said Laura Petty, Hays County extension
agent who helps coordinate the 4-H program.

"What we are going to get in Dripping Springs, it's like moving into a brand new
house," Petty said.

The climate controlled areas of the venue will come in handy during the Hays
County Livestock Expo in January, the biggest event of the year for 4-H
participants. The new conc-ession stand will also be put to use because that's
the biggest fundraiser of the year for the group.

"There are some people that are very nervous and some that are very excited
about it," Petty said. "I think once we get the first year under our belt, we'll
know what to expect."

The 4-H participants might not have an opportunity to get too comfortable in the
new venue because county officials are hoping to build a permanent facility they
can use for free or little cost. The Hays County Commissioners Court passed a
resolution last week in support of locating a youth agricultural facility on the
Texas State University Freeman Ranch complex, located between San Marcos and
Wimberley.

The site was recommended by an advisory board. The board has formally approached
the university to discuss the possibility, but negotiations are in the very
early stages.

Contact Esther Robards-Forbes at 512-392-8750.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Top Local Business Stories of the Week

BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 684 words


POWER DEBATE

Senators confront utility commission on power policies: Several Texas senators
last week questioned the direction and cost of the Public Utility Commission's
attempt to guard against rolling blackouts, suggesting the agency is
overstepping its authority by pursuing a solution that would cost consumers
billions.

Sen. Troy Fraser, chairman of the Senate Committee on Natural Resources, called
the hearing to criticize the utility commission for a 2-to-1 decision to begin
mandating the level of electricity reserves instead of leaving it up to the
private sector to achieve a "target" for surplus power.

Despite the inclement weather Monday, a dozen senators - several of whom are not
even committee members - traveled to Austin to attend the hearing. Several
senators - both Republicans and Democrats - echoed Fraser's concerns. None came
to the utility commission's defense.

"They have totally left the Legislature out and are operating in a vacuum," said
Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay.

"If they make a decision on their own, we're going to get the heat," said Sen.
Juan "Chuy" Hinojosa, D-McAllen.

The two commission members who support mandatory reserve margins - Chairwoman
Donna Nelson and Commissioner Brandy Marty - insisted that their decision does
not "preordain" one particular solution, including extra capacity payments to
generators.

"It's always been my goal to keep the lights on at a reasonable price," Nelson
said.

She pledged to Fraser that the utility commission would conduct a cost-benefit
analysis before the agency makes any major changes to how wholesale electricity
is bought and sold.

The debate centered on whether Texas really faces power shortages in the future,
and if so, what would be the cost of addressing the shortage would be.

In 2011, historically hot temperatures and a drought tested the limits of the
state's primary electricity grid, operated by the Electric Reliability Council
of Texas, which is commonly known as ERCOT. That prompted the utility commission
to start studying whether ERCOT had ample power supplies to meet peak demands on
summer afternoons.

ERCOT operates the only "energy-only" electricity market in the nation, which
pays generators only when they sell power. But wholesale electricity prices have
been too low for several years to encourage very much investment in new power
plants until recently. A coalition of power plant owners is lobbying for the
utility commission to charge consumers additional "capacity payments" to give
generators a more reliable cash flow and, in theory, a greater incentive to
build new plants or improve existing plants.

SECTOR SURGE

Jump in retail sales boosts state's service sector: Retail sales across Texas
surged in November, boosting the whole of the state's service sector and
reinforcing the optimism many executives noted about business conditions,
according to a monthly report last week from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

The state revenue index, a key measure of activity among private
service-providing firms, jumped to a reading of 11.4 this month from 5.3 in
October, according to the Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey.

The higher figure suggested that the sector expanded at a faster pace in
November, matching a similar uptick in manufacturing activity, which the Dallas
Fed noted in a report Monday.

The state sales index, which reflects activity at Texas retailers, soared to
20.3 in November from 7.9 the prior month, according to the Texas Retail Outlook
Survey, a subset of the broader service-sector report. That put the index at its
highest point in three months, the Dallas Fed said.

The strength of retail sales in Texas belied a slight weakening of consumer
confidence nationwide, according to the Conference Board. On Tuesday, the group
said its Consumer Confidence Index dipped to 70.4 this month, from 72.4 in
October.

With business expanding in Texas, retailers and other service-sector employers
continued to hire this month, according to the Dallas Fed surveys. However, a
gauge of hours worked showed that most firms had scaled back employees' hours
for the second consecutive month.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               90 of 90 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Texas manufacturing growth slows

BYLINE: Dan Zehr American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 310 words


The ongoing growth of Texas' manufacturing production cooled in December, but
factory managers reported some of their rosiest outlooks on business conditions
in almost two years, according to a report Monday from the Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas.

The state production index, a key measure of manufacturing output, dipped to 7.1
in December from 16.9 the prior month, according to the Dallas Fed's monthly
Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The lower positive figure suggested that
production continued to grow during the month, but at a slower pace than in
November.

The production index tends to track closely with the broader Texas economy,
providing one of the earliest indications of economic conditions across the
state.

The slower growth of production followed an essentially flat month for new
orders and shipments, the Dallas Fed's report said. Gauges of both factors fell
to near-zero readings in December, suggesting little change from November's
volumes.

Overall, factories continued to hire in December, the report said, but they
scaled back slightly on employees' hours worked. Of the companies surveyed, 17
percent reported hiring new workers, while 10 percent reported layoffs.

Despite the lukewarm growth during the month, manufacturers reported an
increasingly optimistic view of both current and future business conditions. Of
the four indexes that measure company-specific and general business outlooks,
three hit their highest point in at least 21 months, the report said.

In anonymous comments compiled by the Dallas Fed, several Texas manufacturers
noted modest improvements in demand, along with some rising input costs.

"We continue to believe we will be operating in a modest environment," said one
computer and electronic product manufacturer. "Things are not getting especially
better, but not getting worse."

Contact Dan Zehr at 512-445-3797.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
