
                               2 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 25, 1997

Global warming threatens parks, report warns

SECTION: News; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 350 words


NEW YORK -- In a largely overlooked but potentially alarming development in the
debate over global warming, a study released Tuesday by a respected
environmental group warns that increasing temperatures are threatening the
United States' national parks and wildlife areas.

From the heights of the American glaciers to the California seashore, from the
Everglades to the Arctic, the changing climate is bringing noticeable shifts in
forest and wildflower meadows and in sea and shorebird numbers, according to the
report by the World Wildlife Fund.

The study adds a new, closer-to- home element to the pressure being put on the
Clinton administration to restrict U.S.  emissions of greenhouse gases.

The effects of global warming are not merely a future impact in faraway
places,'' the report says.  The first signs of climate change have been detected
and can already be seen in our own back yards. Alarmingly, many of North
America's most cherished natural areas -- the national parks -- are clearly
feeling the effects of global warming.''

The report drew a skeptical response from Gail MacDonald, director of the Global
Climate Coali tion, an industry-affiliated group that questions the existence of
global warming.

We feel the science is still very much in doubt,'' she said.

Among the effects reported -- or predicted -- in the study:

*Forests are beginning to in --vade the famed floral-carpeted Alpine meadows of
Glacier National Park in Montana, where the retreat of the glacier itself
already has been documented.

*Melting permafrost beneath --the surface of national lands in the Alaskan
Arctic could become sinkholes, unable to support their meager surface
vegetation.

*In Great Smoky Mountains --National Park -- the nation's most-visited park with
about 9 million guests a year -- a distinct strain of brook trout could become
extinct as the cool water along the Tennessee-North Carolina border on which it
depends warms ever- so-slightly.

*Rising seas have had an im --pact on Everglades National Park and Key Deer
National Wildlife Refuge in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                               8 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 2, 1997

Warming ocean menaces Pacific island nations; Residents fear seas

BYLINE: NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 495 words


TARAWA, Kiribati -- One sunny day in January, as Teunaia Abeta stood by and
watched, horror-struck, a high tide came rolling in from the turquoise lagoon
and did not stop.

There was no typhoon, no rain, no wind, just an eerie rising tide that lapped
higher and higher, swallowing up Abeta's thatched- roof home and scores of
others in this Pacific Island nation.

This had never happened before,'' said Abeta, 73, who wore only his colorful
lava-lava, a skirtlike garment, as he sat on the raised platform of his home.
It was never like this when I was a boy.''

That tidal surge was followed by another one in February. The flooding has
helped focus minds here on warnings that global warming could cause the seas to
rise enough in the next century or so to obliterate island nations like this one
in the Pacific Ocean.

The countries most likely to go under the sea include Kiribati, the Marshall
Islands and Tuvalu, all in the Pacific, and the Maldives, in the Indian Ocean.

Many other island countries, including Tonga, Palau, Nauru, Niue and the
Federated States of Micronesia, might lose much of their territory but might not
be in danger of total submersion.

The populations are tiny: Kiribati has 75,000 people, and only 10,000 live on
Tuvalu. Those numbers pale beside the 150 million other refugees worldwide
forecast as a result of climate change by 2050, according to a 1993 academic
study published in the journal BioScience. Other studies suggest that a rise of
3 feet in ocean levels would force the evacuation of perhaps 70 million Chinese
and 32 million Bangladeshis. One-fifth of Bangladesh could disappear.

At least countries like Bangladesh would survive, though perhaps in truncated
form. The Pacific islanders fret about whether their countries will exist
outside of history books.

The only resource we have is water,'' said Phillip Muller, foreign minister of
the Marshall Islands, another country that could easily be drowned by rising
seas.  Our livelihood is the sea. Now all of a sudden, it's not a friend. It's
threatening our existence.''

Officials of some 160 countries are gathering in Bonn, Germany, to try to
negotiate cutbacks in the emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global
warming. Although most experts agree that these gases may cause the seas to
rise, there are major disagreements about the scale of the change and the
severity of the problem.

Gases like carbon dioxide are suspected of causing global warming by effectively
creating a greenhouse around Earth. Warmer temperatures, in turn, are linked to
a rising of the seas in two ways: by causing the water to expand as it warms,
and by melting glaciers and icecaps.

It's so close to the heart here,'' said Giff Johnson, editor of the Marshall
Islands' newspaper, because you're talking about people's very existence being
wiped out by the ocean rising. It scares the hell out of people to think that
their country might just be gone.''

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              17 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 11, 1997

Global warming debates heat up; Controversial issue - puts scientific

BYLINE: BY DAVID L. CHANDLER

SECTION: News; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 635 words


As a heated war of words rages over what nations should be doing about the
threat of global climate change and about how real that threat is, some say the
biggest loser may be scientific objectivity and caution.

If you try to be responsible, then nobody listens,'' said Kevin Trenberth, a
climate researcher at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Colorado
who specializes in computer simulations of future climate changes.  The rhetoric
is very strong. The environmentalists tend to exaggerate on one side, and the
skeptics exaggerate on the other side.''

Trenberth, who sees himself as being somewhere in the nonaligned middle, wishes
some of the heated talk would go away so scientists could concentrate on the
science.

He is far from alone. Some leading specialists declined to be interviewed at
all, saying it's too controversial.

And one of the leading skeptics about the reality of severe global warming said
the media may be encouraging disagreement and shunning coverage of those with
less extreme views.

If there weren't this need to spread dissension, I think there's actually a lot
more agreement about this'' than it appears, said Patrick Michaels, a
climatologist at the University of Virginia who has long questioned the high
estimates of how much warming may occur over the next century.

For example, Michaels said the so-called cynics'' project a warming of 1 to 1.5
degrees Celsius (1.8 to 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) over the next century. That is
largely in agreement with a 1995 United Nations report often cited by
environmentalists, forecasting global warming of 1.5 to 4.5 degrees Celsius.

Not that there aren't real, and serious, points of dispute. Perhaps most
contentious is whether there is yet detectable evidence of human-induced
warming.  Richard Lindzen, a climatologist at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and perhaps the most widely quoted dissenter, says that there is no
clear evidence.

There's only one temperature record that shows'' a warming trend, he said.  The
satellite record doesn't show it. And the record that does show it considers
Johannesburg and Buenos Aires to be nonurban sites.''

Temperature records collected in urban areas would show a warming just because
of the increasing heat-island'' effect -- a warming caused by the masses of
heat-absorbing black asphalt they contain. Furthermore, Lindzen said, the
satellite records are more relevant because it is the temperature of the lower
atmosphere, as measured by the satellites, that is most directly related to
greenhouse warming.

But there may be problems with the satellite data as well, Trenberth countered.
He argued that satellite records that purport to show no sign of warming in the
past 19 years -- the extent of the satellite record so far -- are fatally
flawed. Trenberth said the records come from several satellites, and the
mathematical corrections used to connect the data from one to the next are
incorrect and tend to mask any rise that may have occurred. And, he said,
weather balloons indicate that temperatures have been rising.

Meanwhile, an article in the journal Science said this year that most
researchers working on computer models of projected climate change now say they
will not be able to link greenhouse warming unambiguously to human actions for a
decade or more.

But even those who believe warming signs may not have been seen do not
necessarily disagree with the need for action. Ronald Prinn, director of MIT's
Center for Climate Change Science, said his computer models show a real
possibility of extreme warming.

My view, and that of my colleagues, is that the scientific uncertainty does not
argue for inaction at all,'' Prinn said.  The uncertainty does include the
possibility of things happening very fast.''

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              21 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 23, 1997

Predicting El Nino an inexact science; Usually reliable computer

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA WITZE

SECTION: News; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 592 words


SANTA FE, N.M. -- In the face of warnings about floods, droughts and other
climatic disasters, it's hard to miss this year's El Nino. But scientists who
spend their careers trying to predict the elusive climate phenomenon say they
missed the 1997 El Nino months ago, when they should have been able to spot
telltale signs of it happening.

Some climate researchers could tell as early as November 1996 that this winter
might bring an El Nino. Surprisingly, no one was able to foresee just how
powerfully and early this year's event would come.

One climate model that had churned out reliable El Nino predictions for more
than a decade completely missed this year's, its creator reported last week at a
workshop on earth systems predictability in Santa Fe.

I don't know why we blew this event,'' said climatologist Mark Cane, who
developed that model at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades, N.Y.

It seems that there are limits to prediction no matter how smart we think we
are,'' he said.

There are several steps to predicting an El Nino, some of which are harder than
others, scientists said.

The first step is to predict the event itself. Most climate modelers do this by
studying information on wind speeds and direction, or the temperature and height
of the surface of the tropical Pacific.  El Nino often makes itself known early
by subtle shifts in this kind of information.

About a dozen research teams worldwide put this kind of data into computer
models that try to guess whether a full-fledged El Nino will develop later that
year.  Some models, such as the one at the Climate Prediction Center in Camp
Spring, Md., use information on both the wind and ocean.  This approach usually
works pretty well; the center's model is the one that first showed signs of the
developing 1997 El Nino a year ago.

Other models, such as Cane's, are more simplistic, requiring less computer power
and using only information about wind speed and direction. Still, most of the
models are pretty much on track every year, Cane said.

You have to be particularly unlucky'' for the models to be wrong every time, he
said.

Cane said he didn't know why his model didn't work this year, although the 1997
El Nino has been unusual in many respects and thus might not be as predictable
as those of other years. El Ninos usually occur every two to seven years.

Once scientists get an idea of whether an El Nino will happen in a particular
year, they face the much more difficult challenge of predicting how it will
affect climate worldwide.

Scientists don't yet understand all the complex interactions between the ocean
and the atmosphere that create climate in an El Nino year. Each year brings
different interactions, Cane said, so different El Ninos behave differently.
Some researchers believe that exactly where the warm pool of water lies in the
Pacific might have a lot to do with how a particular El Nino affects climate.

This year, the waters off the western coast of North America actually warmed up
before the El Nino heated waters off Peru, said climate researcher Michael Ghil
of the University of California, Los Angeles. So each El Nino event begins
differently -- which makes the job of scientists trying to predict them that
much harder.

Still, Cane was optimistic that with more observations and better computing
power, researchers will get better at forecasting the destructive power of El
Ninos.

The predictions of El Nino five years from now will be much better than what we
have today,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              25 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 1, 1997

National Briefs

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 412 words


Alleged driver charged in plot to extort Cosby

NEW YORK -- A fourth person was charged Friday with plotting to extort $40
million from Bill Cosby by threatening to publicize a woman's claim that she is
the comedian's illegitimate daughter.

Boris Sabas, 42, was arrested in Los Angeles and charged with conspiracy and
extortion.

An indictment handed up in New York accused Sabas of driving Autumn Jackson to
the airport Jan. 17 so she could fly to New York and meet with Cosby's
representatives. Prosecutors say Jackson demanded $40 million for agreeing to
keep quiet about her paternity claim.

Kaczynski must give writing sample in jail

SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- Prosecutors hoping to prove that accused Unabomber
Theodore Kaczynski wrote a series of handwritten journals confessing to the 16
bombings appear to have won a key courtroom battle.

A federal magistrate indicated Thursday he would allow the prosecutors to visit
Kaczynski in the Sacramento jail and force Kaczynski to provide samples of his
handwriting.

The journals -- in English, Spanish and in a numeric code -- were seized at
Kaczynski's Montana cabin after his arrest almost a year ago.

Kaczynski's defense team has resisted the test, saying the prosecution has
plenty of samples of his handwriting from the 800 pages of letters written to
his family between 1965 and 1995.

Spare my baby Jim,' killer's mother pleads

FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. -- A former paratrooper convicted of murdering two black
people wept sobbing at times, asked jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial
to spare my baby Jim'' the death penalty.

Jurors convicted Burmeister on Thursday of murdering Jackie Burden, 27, and
Michael James, 36, on a city street Dec. 7, 1995, in what prosecutors say was an
initiation so he could get a skinhead tattoo.

Wildlife fund accuses U.S. of delaying curbs

WASHINGTON -- The World Wildlife Fund is accusing the United States and other
industrial countries of stalling efforts to curb the release of greenhouse gases
that could warm climates and raise ocean levels.

The United States ranked worst in the group's review of the attitudes and
progress of industrial countries in fighting global warming.

The United States is the leading emitter of carbon dioxide, accounting for 22
percent of the world total.

The World Wildlife Fund wants industrial countries to commit to a 20 percent
reduction in carbon dioxide releases by 2005.

Compiled from wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              29 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 1, 1997

A look at climate change science

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 196 words


What's known

* Carbon dioxide and other so-called greenhouse gases, mostly produced by
--burning coal, oil and gas, let sunlight through the atmosphere but retain
infrared radiation Earth emits back to space.

* Since the Industrial Revolution began, carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has
--risen from 280 parts per million to 358 ppm.

* Since the late 1800s, mean global temperature has increased betw--een 0.5
degree and 1 degree Fahrenheit. Oceans, which expand when warmed, rose as much
as 10 inches.

* Computer models project further temperature increases of 2 degrees to 6
degrees Fahrenheit by 2100, possibly the most abrupt climate change in thousands
of years.

What's uncertain

* The precise ratio of global warming attributable to artifical emissions and to
natural causes.

* The precise magnitude of warming that will result from given levels of
--atmospheric gases.

* The role clouds and oceans might play in mitigating -- or aggravating --
--warming.

* Future population and economic growth, which affect emission levels.--

* Future technological and lifestyle changes that might curb or worsen
--emissions.

-- The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              30 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 8, 1997

Gore softens approach toward global warming

BYLINE: BY CHARLES J. HANLEY

SECTION: News; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 624 words


KYOTO, Japan -- Vice President Al Gore, faced with European demands for
concessions in negotiations on global warming, offered new U.S. flexibility
Monday on cutting gas emissions.

But Gore, addressing the 150-nation climate conference, said the United States
would not promise what we cannot do.''

The vice president's remarks nonetheless set a conciliatory tone for the
remaining two days of meetings.

After consulting by telephone with President Clinton early Monday, Gore said, I
have instructed our delegation to show increased negotiating flexibility'' -- as
long as basic principles of the U.S. position are preserved.

In his public address, Gore offered no detailed changes in the U.S. proposal.

He reminded delegates that the Kyoto session is only a first step in protecting
the atmosphere.  If we get off to the right start here, we can quickly build
momentum as we learn together how to meet this challenge,'' he said.

European governments, environmentalists and others had been looking for a more
ambitious U.S. offer on reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that
trap heat in the atmosphere.

The United States can do much more,'' Ritt Bjerregaard, the European Union
environmental commissioner, said earlier in the day.

Without taking sides, Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, preceding Gore
to the podium, said only high-level political decisiveness'' will produce an
agreement which can be handed down to future generations with pride.''

The German environment minister, Angela Merkel, had no strong reaction to Gore's
announcement.  I don't see any progress or any step backward,'' Merkel said.

U.S. environmentalists, on the other hand, welcomed Gore's suggestion of a
possible U.S. compromise.

Alden Meyer, chairman of a U.S. environmental coalition on climate change,
called it a real breakthrough.''

But William O'Keefe, head of the U.S. business lobby Global Climate Coalition,
said he was very disappointed and troubled by the reference to increased
negotiating flexibility.''

His group and many U.S. companies contend that energy restraints will lead to an
economic slowdown and job losses in the United States.

Differences between Europe and America over cutback targets stood as a major
obstacle to completion of the Kyoto Protocol, an unprecedented global agreement
to control energy use in the 21st century.

Environment ministers from scores of other countries were to address the
historic conference today and Tuesday as the meeting's pace picks up before it
concludes Wednesday.

The U.S. vice president, long a champion of environmental causes, landed before
dawn today on a one-day visit to Kyoto, and headed to a breakfast meeting with
the U.S. delegation to review the status of the negotiations.

During his flight from Washington, he gave no assurance the conference would
produce an agreement acceptable to the United States.

It's a very tricky situation, and success is far from assured. ... A lot of
issues are undecided,'' he told reporters.

In October, President Clinton laid out the U.S. proposal for the Kyoto Protocol:
that the industrialized world roll back greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels
by 2010. But the Europeans have a more ambitious plan, reducing gases 15 percent
below 1990 levels by 2010.

That gap was the central point of contention within the industrial bloc in the
first week's negotiations.

Gore, speaking on the plane to Japan, repeated his vigorous defense of the U.S.
proposal, which many environmentalists have criticized as falling short of what
is needed to deal with global warming.

I believe very strongly that our proposal is environmentally better than all of
the other proposals,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              32 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 7, 1997

Treaties won't solve global warming

BYLINE: Bernard L. Weinstein

SECTION: News; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 844 words


Is the world getting warmer or not? Scientists and politicians continue to
disagree over whether the mean surface temperature of the planet is rising and
if the increase in carbon dioxide emissions is the culprit.

Though the final verdict is out, let's side with the Greens and accept their
argument that, yes, the Earth is half a degree (Celsius) warmer than it was 100
years ago and is likely to heat up another degree or two in the next century if
remedial actions aren't taken.

To help deal with this problem,'' international talks are underway aimed at
reaching a global climate treaty by the end of the year. The Clinton
administration has already agreed to proposals that would place binding
commitments on industrial nations to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse
gases, but only voluntary commitments on developing countries. This despite the
fact that, according to the International Energy Agency, as much as 85 percent
of the projected increase in man-made global emissions of carbon dioxide will
come from developing countries and the transitional economies in Eastern Europe,
a result of growing electric power use and automobile ownership that invariably
accompany economic growth. Estimates of the costs to U.S. industry to achieve a
15 percent to 20 percent reduction of carbon dioxide within a decade range as
high as $7 trillion.

A variety of initiatives has been proposed to help the United States and other
industrialized nations reduce future carbon dioxide levels, including the
trading of emission credits among companies and nations as well as carbon taxes
levied on the consumption of fossil fuels. But let's be realistic: In the
existing political climate, Congress isn't going to impose new taxes on fossil
fuels or anything else, not to mention the huge outcry from American industry
that would attend any such proposal. Indeed, the administration is already
bending to industry's concerns by proposing that companies and governments be
allowed to borrow'' emission credits from future years while claiming progress
in the current year.

Because of the huge economic and political imbalances between the industrial and
developing world, the treaty'' approach to emissions reduction is a pipe dream.
The advanced countries aren't going to lower their living standards and the
developing ones aren't going to worry about externalities while their incomes
are a mere fraction of those in advanced nations. Therefore, rather than waste
our time on what is politically unattainable, why not focus on some initiatives
that might actually make a difference?

First, we should recognize that climate change isn't all bad. A slight warming
of the planet can help feed its burgeoning population as the growing season is
extended and more land comes into cultivation, particularly in the far northern
and far southern latitudes. To the extent that farmers make more efficient use
of fertilizer and adopt minimum tillage practices, emissions of nitrous oxide
and carbon dioxide will be mitigated even in the face of greater food
production.

Second, we must separate the issue of air pollution from that of emissions
reduction. Air pollution in the developing nations is a local problem demanding
local solutions, and these can't be addressed in a global climate treaty. But
steps can be taken in both developed and emerging nations that will help reduce
pollution and the emission of greenhouse gases.

Let's start with the obvious: Plant more trees everywhere they will grow and
limit commercial cutting in tropical rain forests, especially the use of
slash-and-burn harvesting. Then, let's make every effort to transfer the energy
efficiency ethic that has taken hold in the United States and other advanced
nations to the developing world. If demand-side management makes sense for U.S.
electric utilities, shouldn't it also make sense for utilities and consumers in
the developing countries? Energy-efficient lighting, variable-speed motors and
high efficiency refrigerators are but a few on-the-shelf technologies that could
be easily transferred to emerging nations.

As for the developed world, hundreds of new, end-use electrotechnologies are
coming to market that produce fewer emissions than their fuel-burning
counterparts, even when power plant emissions are counted. Electric vehicles are
but one example. Others include microwave clothes dryers, electric-arc furnaces,
high-intensity quartz lamps for cooking, ozone laundering and the microwave
disposal of medical waste.

In the end, a judgment has to be made whether the potential benefits of proposed
greenhouse measures will outweigh the costs. Before hobbling our economy with
costly new regulations and taxes, we should explore all possible alternatives
that might achieve the same results. And the Greens should keep in mind that for
any global emissions reduction program to succeed, every nation must
participate.

Weinstein is director of the Center for Economic Development and a professor of
applied economics at the University of North Texas.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              33 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 13, 1997

Bowing to environmentalists

BYLINE: Cal Thomas

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 741 words


August in Washington usually means temperatures in the 90s and high humidity.
With most of the politicians out of town (and taking their hot air with them),
temperatures are in the mid-80s, dropping into the 50s some nights. The Clinton
administration thinks it's an ideal time to step up the attack against global
warming.''

Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt is such a true believer in global warming that
he recently characterized those who doubt there's enough scientific evidence for
such a diagnosis as un-American.'' He further claimed that energy-producing
companies are engaged in a conspiracy'' to discredit the theory.

Liberals denounce this kind of redneck'' rhetoric when it comes from the mouths
of Bible-thumbing preachers. Now, they engage in a kind of environmental
fundamentalism on behalf of their god, the Earth. Their bible'' is compiled from
texts from pronouncements of tree- and whale-worshipers. More than a cleaner
environment, their goal is expanding government power.

President Clinton has promised the United States will present strong proposals
to reduce levels of greenhouse gases at an environmental conference in Kyoto,
Japan, in December. He will do so without a scientific consensus that there is
such a phenomenon as global warming.'' Even if the threat real, the uneven
proposals to combat it would produce more negative than positive effects.

Political pressure is cracking the once-solid wall debunking global warming by
producers of fossil fuels. The largest is British Petroleum, whose chairman,
John Browne, says there is now enough scientific evidence to warrant concern
about a link between human activity and the Earth's changing climate.''

Statistics frequently cited by those who believe in global warming allude to the
1 degree Celsius rise in temperature in this century. What they don't mention is
that this increase occurred mostly before 1940, while the intensity of manmade
greenhouse gases and efforts to reduce them has been greatersince 1940. A 1995
report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said that the balance of
evidence suggests a discernible human influence on global climate.'' But in
almost the same place, the document admits that our ability to quantify the
human influence on global climate is currently limited ... because there are
uncertainties in key factors.''

This uncertainty hasn't dimmed the zeal of the high priests of the environment
who believe anyone who does not blindly accept their inspired doctrines is an
Earth-hating polluter and enemy of Bambi and little children.

The fundamentalist Environmental Protection Agency is ready to impose its will
on all but the main polluters -- the so-called developing countries,'' including
China, North Korea, Mexico and Brazil. The EPA has drawn up a list of proposals,
most involving higher taxes and more regulations. By some calculations these
proposals could raise gas prices 50 cents per gallon and increase the price of a
car $2,000 to $4,000.

Conservative estimates place the loss to the gross domestic product if these
higher taxes are implemented at $350 billion. Jobs could be lost and, under
proposed Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards, the safety of vehicles would
be compromised. In 1991 the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which regulates highway safety, found that since the 1970s, downsizing vehicles
was responsible for 2,000 deaths and 20,000 serious injuries.

Other proposals to reduce carbon emissions include charging an annual inspection
fee based on miles driven, highway user fees, a pay-at-the-pump auto insurance
program to provide coverage only at the moment it's needed (stay at home and
save money, get it?), natural-gas price controls, a national bottle and tire
deposit-return program and creation of a Solar Hot Water Heaters for Southern
Low-Income Homes'' program.

British Petroleum is already waving the white flag of surrender and is working
with the ayatollahs at the Environmental Defense Fund to help them achieve the
group's objectives.

If this environmental whackoism is seen in religious terms it is easier to
reject as fanaticism. While no one is for dirty air and water, fewer people
should favor an imposed theocracy based on a philosophy that the Earth is holy
and that the environmental gods'' must be appeased.

Thomas is a columnist based in Washington, D.C. Distributed by the Los Angeles
Times Syndicate.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              37 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 27, 1997

Clinton convinced of greenhouse danger; President announces major

BYLINE: JULIA MALONE

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 445 words


UNITED NATIONS Saying the problem of global climate change is real and
imminent,'' President Clinton pledged Thursday to set binding goals for reducing
U.S. emissions of so-called greenhouse gases.

Responding to demands from European allies for stronger U.S.  action at a United
Nations Earth Summit, the president declined to set immediate targets.

But Clinton embraced dire predictions about rising sea levels flooding the
coastline of Florida and inundating island nations, as well as creating major
weather disturbances in the next century.  And he said the United States bears a
major responsibility.

Americans represent 4 percent of the world's population, but they produce more
than 20 percent of the carbon dioxide and other gases said to cause a
discernible global warming, Clinton told the meeting.

The science is clear and compelling'' that humans are changing the climate, he
said.

But, in an acknowledgement that many Americans and members of Congress have not
come to that conclusion, he said he would launch a major effort to convince the
public.

The administration's public education effort would include a major effort
through the summer months, culminating in a White House conference in early
fall.

At that time, the Clinton administration would draw up specific targets for
reducing greenhouse gases. Environmentalists and European leaders have been
prodding the United States to agree to a plan to reduce gas emissions by 15
percent below 1990 levels by 2010.  However, that target would be unrealistic
for the United States, said Katie McGinty, who chairs the White House Council on
Environmental quality.

Efforts to reduce emissions have spurred opposition from American business
interests.  They say that if the environmental regulations are tightened, heavy
industries such as aluminum, steel and oil refining will move to Third World
nations where they would face fewer restraints.

Despite the large number of scientists who find evidence of some global warming,
their views are by no means unanimous about how big the threat of damage is.
Some reject the theory altogether.

Even so, Clinton came down solidly on the side of the pessimistic majority of
the climate experts and ticked off some small, more immediate remedies:

*Installation of solar energy panels on 1 million solar roofs to reduce the use
of fossil fuels that emit gases.

*Aid to developing countries totaling $1 billion over the next five years to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The aid would go to support energy efficiency.

*Setting new guidelines to steer American investments overseas to projects that
meet new environmental guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              43 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 1, 1997

Gimme swelter, not AC; Summertime is so hot it's cool

BYLINE: Robert A. Burns

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 856 words


One typical Central Texas August afternoon some years back, we were filming a
little romp entitled, Confessions of a Serial Killer.'' As the self-explanatory
title character, I was to chase one nubile victim through a dense cedar wood
near Kyle. In the air-conditioned trailer, the last touch to costume and makeup
was a serious spritzing down to match the heavy perspiration of an earlier
scene.

Owing to the 104-degree temperature and the rigors of the chase, the young woman
in question was excused from the technical rehearsals. I alone ran and dodged
and leaped through the brush and briars so the long-suffering camera crew could
get their moves down.

After four or five such rambles, we were ready for actual filming.  Just as we
were set to roll, one of the overheated crew members gasped, Wait!'' Pointing a
dripping finger at me he asked, For continuity, shouldn't he be ...  sweating?''

It's not that I had any life-endangering medical problem with my sweat glands,
mind you. I just didn't find it quite warm enough to perspire. On some branches
of my family tree there lurk (apparently more recently than most humans) iguanas
and other such coldblooded critters.

I love hot weather. I live for July and August. I find the oft-bandied- about
term, nice and cool'' to be an annoying oxymoron. Summer in Austin has always
been a magic time for me, ever since early childhood. It's a time suffused with
energy, alive with thrills for all the senses.

I delight in the homey slap of a screen door (wooden, please!), the piercing
keen of cicadas, and the exuberant, raucous ratchet of grackles as they strut
and fret their hours upon our lawns.

In the dale of winter I keep warm by conjuring the hard glare of the summer sky
making the green shade under the trees all the more velvet. Lightning bugs of
early summer nights build up to the Fourth of July fireworks doubled by
reflection in Town Lake.

Nothing can quite describe the clean, engulfing aroma of a dry field of Johnson
grass baking under the August sun. Or the exhilarating whiff of the first drops
of rain atomizing on heat-softened asphalt.

Every Texan knows the sublime ecstacy of stepping barefoot from the hot sidewalk
onto a cool, soothing lawn. Less universal, but no less ecstatic for me, is the
welcome sauna of a sun-baked car to thaw the forced chill of a hyper- cooled
restaurant or theater.

No air-conditioner can match the sensual caress of a good oscillating fan. And
I'm not talking about one of those namby-pamby Chinese jobs with the designer
blue blades. I'm talking a 1927 Emerson-Electric ( Built to last'' it proudly
proclaims) with its hypnotic hum and flashing brass blades. On high speed that
sucker'll blow the cat right out of your lap.

I am often accused of being anti- technology, especially when using my push
mower (of recent vintage, I might add). I reply, Which would you rather hear
through your bedroom window at 6:30 on a Sunday morning: the rhythmic metallic
susurrus of a reel mower, --or the blast of internal combustion? Which would you
rather have wafting your way on the breeze: the sweet, moist fragrance of
fresh-cut grass, or the exhaust equivalent of a dozen or so badly tuned cars?''

Midsummer visitors are consistently surprised by the comfort level of my
non-air-conditioned house. I point out that it was built 70 years ago when they
understood such radical concepts as air circulation. The double-hung windows
open from the top to let the hot air out like they're supposed to, instead of
being painted shut.  The ceilings are high and the fans well lubricated.

I am amazed at the number of people who advocate cranking the air-conditioner up
high at night so they can sleep under a heavy blanket. Hey, what is more often
described as a blanket than thick July night air? You want a blanket, open the
window!

These same folks decry their electric bills while I smugly smirk. With all my
fans blowing 24 hours a day my monthly electric bill rises ... oh, about 10
bucks.

It's also my belief that our steamy climate is instrumental in Austin's
worldwide influence on rock music. Those guys thrashing around on stage aren't
two-thirds naked to show off their scrawny, pierced, tattooed physiques.
They're just wisely emulating the sensible dress code of our ancient, indigenous
citizenry.

There seems to be some idea that the weather is getting hotter than it once was.
Every summer there are more subscribers to the Doom of Global Warming. More
transplants who come to Austin because it is so cool'' complain because it's too
hot.

The worst are the news and weathercasters. On the career ladder between
Kalamazoo and Seattle they find themelves in Austin for a year or two. For
months they foster the absurd concept of scorching 87 degrees,'' and
editorialize ad infinitum for more comfortable'' weather.

Well, I have one message for them. If you can't take the heat, get out of the
oven. Austin is cool'' because it is hot. As for me, bring on the Global
Warming.  And damn'd be him that first cries, Hold, enough!''

Robert A. Burns is a native Austin filmmaker and actor.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              45 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 26, 1997

On 'Olivergate'--there we (the media) go again

BYLINE: Matthew Miller

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 725 words


The descent-unto-idiocy of American pundits (like me) continued last week with
the obsessive parsing of Al Gore's comment that he was the model for prepster
Oliver Barrett IV in Erich Segal's 1970 best-seller Love Story.''

Gore's remark, offered in a late- night Air Force Two chat with reporters, has
sparked a riot of analysis by the nation's leading columnists -- including
bigfoots Maureen Dowd and Frank Rich of the New York Times and Mary McGrory and
Michael Kelly of the Washington Post.

Now, it's one thing simply to have fun with the whole Gore-as- movie-inspiration
motif -- it's interesting, gossipy, irresistible. But that's not enough for us
commentators. To make such a curio meaningful'' (and thus worthy of the pundit's
high art), we dress it up.

The issue is not the original story, we therefore argue, but how Gore refused to
fess up to its falseness. This fits Olivergate into that timeless Washington
parable in which it's not what you did but the way you covered it up that's the
crime. Gore and his staff, we say, so loved the link between the veep and Ryan
O'Neal that they were willing to let this tall tale go forth, even after Erich
Segal came forward to explain that Gore inspired just one part of O'Neal's
character, related to the burden of a stifling, aristocratic father.

Verdicts were swift.  Disingenuousness, not stiffness, is his (Gore's) real
character problem,'' sniffed Frank Rich. Maureen Dowd said Gore had planted the
notion'' to warm up his image.'' Michael Kelly dissected the toll of Gore's
moral transgression'' on his preachy public posture. The real significance'' of
the episode, Mary McGrory opined weirdly, is that Gore is once again sneaking up
on his favorite subject, death.''

I knew we columnists would go to great lengths to avoid talking about the Kyoto
deal on global warming, but this is ridiculous.

Especially given what Gore actually did. Karen Tumulty, the Time reporter whose
account of Gore's comment set off the tempest, told me the incident has been
misleadingly overblown.

According to Tumulty, Gore came back to schmooze with her and another reporter
on his plane between 10 and midnight, after a long day hopping between cities.
The night before, in San Antonio for a fund-raiser, Gore had hooked up with his
ex-Harvard roommate Tommy Lee Jones, and the two had stayed up late,
reminiscing.

Gore had Tommy Lee on his mind. And so, while sharing funny stories about his
friend's rise to stardom, Tumulty said, Gore remarked that it was ironic that
Jones got his break'' playing the bit part of the roommate in a movie, Love
Story,'' that had been based on him and Tipper. At least, Gore added, that's
what author Segal had told reporters in Tennessee.

It was, says Tumulty, a point deeply embedded in a two-hour conversation.'' And
it became only a tiny detail buried in the long Time profile she wrote.

What I think has gotten completely out of hand,'' Tumulty told me, is the
significance people are reading into it.'' Yes, it turns out, Tipper wasn't the
model for ill-fated Jenny. But as Tumulty says, Gore was telling us something
that was basically true.''

In other words, what's the big deal? No normal citizen would tease out deeper
meanings'' from such fluff -- only we professionals do that.

The fact that otherwise solid columnists are drawn to such piddling matters (and
I've been guilty of squeezing significance'' from rubbish myself) reflects a
larger problem.

The premise (and rationalization) it reveals is that everything about a
presidential candidate is somehow relevant, that dissecting trivia is a useful
way to examine someone's character and qualifications.

Political commentary thus becomes more and more like the color commentary'' seen
in sports, where amusing tidbits are served up to spectators, rather than policy
choices explained to citizens. It becomes an unserious, almost decadent,
enterprise. Not to mention another reason for the public to believe the media
don't get it.''

Think about Olivergate the next time you wonder why we're stuck with so many
risk-averse politicians. You'd be a timid, wary weirdo, too, if every offhand
comment you made became news'' chewed over for weeks.

Miller is a senior writer at U.S.  News & World Report. His column is
distributed by the Los Angeles Times Syndicate.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              60 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 9, 1997

Gore visit befuddles conference; Reaction to U.S.  flexibility' mixed

BYLINE: BY KEVIN SULLIVAN AND JOBY WARRICK

SECTION: News; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 511 words


KYOTO, Japan -- Vice President Al Gore's planned one-day whirl through the
global climate conference cheered some people and enraged others, but it left
most confused about his message and whether it will have an impact on the
remaining 48 hours of negotiation on a treaty to combat global warming.

By the time Gore headed for the airport Monday night, a top European Union
official had rebuked him harshly, congressional Republicans had lambasted him,
China ignored him, and a deeply divided array of environmental activists was
left wondering whether their longtime ally had helped or hindered the complex
negotiations.

Al Gore flew all this way, and we see no change at all in the U.S. position,''
said Greenpeace spokesman Gary Cook, one of a small group of environmental
activists who met privately with Gore on Monday night.  He raised a lot of
hopes, but so far there's been no action.''

In a speech Monday morning, Gore promised more flexibility'' from U.S.
negotiators, but he did not offer specifics. After nonstop meetings with
officials from the European Union, Japan and developing nations and with
environmentalists, industry representa tives and journalists, Gore offered
little information about what flexibility he had in mind.

We have no numbers, no text,'' said Pierre Gramegna of Luxembourg, a key
official in the EU delegation that has proposed the deepest cuts in emissions of
the greenhouse gases that scientists say cause global warming.

The harshest criticism of the vice president came from EU Environment Minister
Ritt Bjerregaard, who said Gore's statement amounted to virtual reality,''
promising rhetoric filled with dangerous loopholes.''

We in the EU are disappointed the rhetoric was not met by the reality,'' she
said.  We must agree now -- before it is too late -- on early and significant
reductions of emissions or face the disastrous consequences of global warming.''

Still, even EU members said they were willing to give U.S. negotiators a chance
to flesh out Gore's rhetoric.

With just two days of negotiating left at the Kyoto conference, major issues are
still far from resolved -- especially the question of how much individual
nations will be required to cut their gas emissions and how much, or whether,
China and other developing nations will be required to participate.

The United States has argued that developing nations, which soon will surpass
the industrialized world as the leading emitters of greenhouse gases, must agree
to some participation in any treaty reached in Kyoto. The Senate, which must
ratify any treaty signed by the United States, supported that position 95-0 in a
vote this summer.

In his speech, Gore promised developing countries that the United States does
not want to deny their right to develop their economies.  In a news conference
Monday night, he reiterated that any treaty must include meaningful
participation by key developing countries.'' He offered no specifics, saying
that the package'' of proposals should be ironed out by negotiators in private.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              63 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 15, 1997

Pena says climate treaty shouldn't bind U.S. yet; Schools see smoking

SECTION: News; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 411 words


Pena says climate treaty shouldn't bind U.S. yet

WASHINGTON -- The global warming treaty should not be legally binding'' on the
United States until developing nations help cut emissions of greenhouse gases,
Energy Secretary Frederico Pena said Sunday.

The Clinton administration agrees with a resolution adopted 95-0 by the Senate
this year that it won't accept a treaty that doesn't bind China, India and other
developing nations to reduce greenhouse gases, Pena told ABC's This Week.''

We have some work to do before we submit it to the Senate,'' he said.

Schools see smoking promo gear

CHICAGO -- One third of the students studied in rural schools in New Hampshire
and Vermont wore clothing or carried items promoting cigarettes, and they were
more likely to smoke than other children, according to new research.

Children who owned these tobacco-related goods were four times more likely to be
smokers, though the data couldn't establish that just owning such items made a
student more likely to smoke, according to the survey of 1,265 sixth- through
12th-graders.

These items are highly visible in the public school setting, and their ownership
is strongly associated with initiation and maintenance of smoking,'' said the
study in the December issue of the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent
Medicine.

Tobacco companies say they sell such promotional gear only to people older than
21. The industry is challenging federal regulations that would prohibit selling
such items to anyone.

Mayors: Requests for food aid up

WASHINGTON -- Despite a surging economy and low unemployment, demand for
emergency food and shelter continued to grow this year, the U.S. Conference of
Mayors said.

A conference survey of 29 cities, to be released publicly today, found that
requests for emergency food rose an average of 16 percent, the largest increase
since 1992.

On the up side, requests for emergency housing are up just 3 percent -- the
smallest increase in the survey's 13-year history.

Schuller may quit hospital Tuesday

LOS ANGELES -- The Rev. Robert Schuller remained hospitalized Sunday after
suffering a minor heart attack, but he was in excellent spirits'' and was
expected to be discharged Tuesday, said Dr. Thomas Cesario, his primary
physician.

Schuller, 71, is the host of the Hour of Power'' television show, which has 20
million viewers worldwide. He suffered a heart attack Saturday.

Compiled from wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              67 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                November 4, 1997

Insurance rate cut on autos; Lower benchmark rate won't - necessarily

BYLINE: Stuart Eskenazi

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 922 words


Texas Insurance Commissioner Elton Bomer reduced an automobile insurance rate
Monday that individual companies use as a guide when setting their own prices.

What the reduction means to drivers can vary widely because companies subject to
state regulation can lower -- or raise -- insurance rates as long as they fall
within 30 percent above or below the rate.

If insurers follow Bomer's lead, the biggest savings likely would be felt by
drivers who carry only liability coverage, along with those who purchase
coverage to protect against being hit by uninsured motorists.

This is good news for all motorists,'' Bomer said, especially drivers who buy
only the insurance they need to obey the law and those who are concerned about
being hit by the large number of drivers who carry no insurance at all.''

Bomer's order on the so-called benchmark rate results in an average statewide
drop of 5 percent on all coverages.

The new benchmark rates go into effect Jan. 20 and apply only to insurers the
state regulates -- about 75 percent of the market.  Each individual insurance
company has until mid-February to file its new rate.

In effect, a driver's actual premiums will depend on many factors: his or her
age, county of residence, gender, automobile usage, type of car, driving record,
type of coverage and insurer chosen.

Jerry Johns, president of the Southwestern Insurance Information Service
industry group, said the benchmark rate is an unimportant number for most
drivers.

The real issue for drivers in Texas is the premium they are ... paying, and you
can only get the best price by shopping around,'' Johns said.

Advocates for insurance consumers, who praised Bomer's decision, acknowledged
that in surers still hold the key to con sumers actually realizing savings.

Texas consumers will welcome this news of rate reductions with caution, to be
sure,'' said Dan Lambe, state program director of Texas Citizen Action.  They
have heard these promises before and failed to see insurers follow through with
lower rates.''

The order marks the first reduction in the auto benchmark rate since the rating
system was created in 1991. The first change in the rate, in 1995, increased it
3 percent. Last year, it increased again by 3.2 percent.

Under Bomer's order, individual benchmark rates decrease 19 percent for bodily
injury liability and almost 28 percent for uninsured motorist coverage, when
figured on a statewide average. The bodily injury liability reduction is in
addition to a decrease of more than 9 percent that Bomer announced last month to
reflect savings from restrictions the 1995 Legislature adopted on civil law
suits.

Bomer's benchmark order Monday, however, increased physical damage coverage
rates -- known on policies as collision and comprehensive. Collision coverage
would rise by just over 8 percent and comprehensive by a little more than 9
percent.

Lambe said the only way insurance consumers can be assured of rate cuts is for
the Legislature to enact mandatory rate rollbacks when it meets next, in 1999.

Rob Schneider, senior staff attorney for Consumers Union's southwest regional
office, said the Texas Department of Insurance must vigorously monitor insurance
companies since they are still able to raise rates 30 percent above the
benchmark.''

Rick Gentry, Texas Insurance Organization general manager, said the reductions
could have a detrimental effect on insurance consumers with poor driving
records. Gentry said some insurance companies might no longer be able to afford
to cover riskier drivers, who are already being charged rates at or near 30
percent above the benchmark.

Those drivers, Gentry said, might have to obtain more expensive insurance
designed specifically for high-risk drivers.

Bomer on Monday also reduced the benchmark rates for commercial auto insurance
by an average of just over 9 percent statewide.

A reduction in commercial auto rates saves money for business owners,'' Bomer
said, which translates into an improved economic climate for all Texans.''

NEW AUTO INSURANCE BENCHMARK RATES

Chart compares the benchmark rates currently in force by county with those that
will go into effect Jan. 20.

The sample annual rates are for a male driver, age 25 to 64, or female driver,
age 21 to 64, with a clean driving record. The driver commutes to and from work
in a 1997 Ford Taurus sedan.

Sample rates are provided for three types of coverage:

* Scenario A: Minimum coverage required by law ($20,000 bodily injury liability
per person, $40,000 bodily injury liability per accident and $15,000 property
damage liability).

* Scenario B: Minimum liability coverage and optional underinsured and uninsured
motorist coverage with basic limits.

* Scenario C: Minimum liability, underinsured and uninsured motorist and
optional collision ($250 deductible) and comprehensive ($100 deductible)
coverage.

Austin area

Travis CountyCurrent rateNew ratePercentage change

Scenario A:$325$311 -4.3%

Scenario B:$396$363 -8.3%

Scenario C:$673$665 -1.2%

Williamson CountyCurrent rateNew ratePercentage change

Scenario A:$277$265 -4.3%

Scenario B:$348$317 -8.9%

Scenario C:$614$608 -1%

Hays CountyCurrent rateNew ratePercentage change

Scenario A:$273$257 -5.9%

Scenario B:$344$309 -10.2%

Scenario C:$613$603 -1.6%

Bastrop, Caldwell counties

Current rateNew rate%age change

Scenario A:$235$219 -6.8%

Scenario B:$306$271 -11.4%

Scenario C:$561$552 -1.6%

Source: Texas Department of Insurance

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elton Bomer: Texas insurance chief lowers benchmark auto rate.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              69 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 16, 1997

Tort bills are back, but fewer

BYLINE: Bruce Hight

SECTION: Business; Pg. L1

LENGTH: 1292 words


Sheryl Bittick was hired four years ago to make Weingarten Realty Investors, a
Houston-based shopping center chain, safe. Safe from lawsuits.

Weingarten, whose properties include Southridge Plaza at 502 William Cannon
Drive, had a problem, as many shopping centers occasionally do, with criminals
attacking patrons. The typical victim was a woman alone in a large parking lot.

As is often the case in such crimes, the crook gets away, leaving the victim
robbed, occasionally hurt and always infuriated. The victim, understandably,
wants someone to pay. But the crook is gone or has no money, and there sits the
shopping center.

Bittick is the risk manager'' for Weingarten, someone hired to assess a
company's shortcomings in safety, reduce its vulnerability to lawsuits and help
lower its cost of insurance.

I spend hours and days and hundreds of thousands of dollars defending these
cases,'' Bittick said.  The person who's committing the act is not the one being
held responsible for it -- we are, and it's not right.''

Weingarten and other businesses could get some relief from the Legislature this
session if it approves a bill by Rep. Tom Uher, D-Bay City, and Sen. Troy
Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay. The bill would protect landowners from legal liability
for the criminal acts of others unless they were grossly negligent or the crime
was committed by an employee.

The bill is part of a package of proposed changes in the civil justice laws
backed by business groups seeking to reduce the chances that their members will
lose big judgments in lawsuits.

We had a lady who was mugged at a shopping center,'' Bittick said.  She had $297
worth of medical bills and $200 worth of stuff in her purse. And we're being
sued for $500,000.''

Until a few years ago, she said, Weingarten usually settled such cases out of
court, figuring it was cheaper than risking a big judgment from a jury. It also
settled the classic slip and fall'' cases filed by customers.

Weingarten has 183 shopping centers in 12 states, including 120 in Texas. Ninety
percent of the injury claims were filed in Texas, Bittick said. So the company
decided four years ago to do things differently.

Historically, they were soft and they hired me not to be soft,'' Bittick said.
The new policy was to fight the lawsuits, but the results won't be known until
later this month and early next month, when the first two trials are scheduled,
she said.

Bittick can afford to get tough.

Gov. George W. Bush and the Legislature in 1995 approved a major package of tort
reform legislation aimed at discouraging lawsuits by making it tougher to win
big judgments against businesses. Torts are civil wrongs committed by one party
against another, as opposed to crimes.

Among other things, the 1995 changes barred injured parties from winning
punitive damages, which are assessed against a defendant -- usually a business
or its insurer -- in addition to the money for actual losses.

Other major changes in the law in 1995 limited the liability of a defendant to
pay the judgment owed by a co-defendant who was broke, restricted the scope of
the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, imposed tougher penalties on lawyers for
filing frivolous lawsuits and put tougher requirements on plaintiffs in medical
malpractice cases.

But the principal driver behind tort reform, Texans For Lawsuit Reform, was not
satisfied. Backed by top Texas business leaders -- such as Ross Perot Jr. of
Hillwood Development Corp. in Dallas, Dan Jordan, chairman of Houston Lighting &
Power Co., and Lowell Lebermann, president of Centex Beverage Inc. in Austin --
Texans For Lawsuit Reform is back this legislative session for more. It is still
led by its founder, Richard Weekley, a Houston businessman whose family is
involved in commercial real estate.

Less favorable climate

Neither the governor nor the Legislature has shown the same enthusiasm for tort
reform that they did in 1995.

Sen. David Sibley, R-Waco, is chairman of the Senate Economic Development
Committee and carried several major tort bills in 1995. But Sibley has said that
this time he was concerned with only two tort bills, one limiting the liability
of certified public accountants, the other limiting lawsuits filed by
out-of-state residents in Texas.

He said the House could take the initiative on other tort bills. The House Civil
Practices Committee doesn't seem in much rush either; it held its first hearing
on a tort bill just last week.

But Texans For Lawsuit Reform will not be ignored; it has contributed at least
$811,000 to legislative candidates since the 1995 session, Texas Ethics
Commission reports show. The biggest beneficiary was Fraser, who reported
getting $122,000 from the organization. Texans For Lawsuit Reform also has run
advertising campaigns to drum up support from the public.

The biggest opponent continues to be the Texas Trial Lawyers Association, whose
members represent injured plaintiffs, and, on some issues, the Texas AFL-CIO,
which believes some of the changes would hurt workers.

In many cases, what businesses portray as simple justice -- not making them pay
for the acts of criminals, for example -- is not so simple, say trial lawyers
and other critics.

Jeff Rusk is an Austin attorney who won a $12.4 million judgment against Brice
Foods Inc. of Dallas, whose holdings included the I Can't Believe It's Yogurt
store that was the scene of the murder of four Austin teen-agers in 1991. That
civil suit never went to trial, but Rusk said he was prepared to show how other
crimes had been committed at or near the shop and that the store owner had
failed to take steps to prevent them from happening again.

Yeah, you can blame them on the crook,'' Rusk said of injuries to customers.
But if you could have kept the crook out, you bear responsibility --and that's
the way it should be.''

Difficult to prove

If the proposed premises liability bill had been in effect, Rusk said, he
doubted he could have won a judgment because he would have been required, in
effect, to prove that Brice Foods wanted the murders to occur.

Without the incentive of a potential lawsuit, Rusk predicted, many businesses
will relax: They will operate with impunity. They will have no incentive to make
sure their light bill is paid, to make sure their security system is
operating.''

Reggie James, director of Consumers Union's southwest regional office in Austin,
says business owners should not escape all liability for the acts of criminals
on their property.

An example, he said, is a business that has a dark area where people have gotten
mugged. If the business can do something about it -- install lighting, for
example -- but doesn't, then it should bear some liability when more people get
hurt, James said.

The same principle, he said, applies to apartment owners whose tenants are
attacked.

If the injury to a person happened as a result of negligence, if it was
something that the business owner could have foreseen and done something about
it, and a reasonable person would have taken some action, then they should be
held liable,'' James said.

George Allen, executive vice president of the Texas Apartment Association,
conceded that lawsuits and court rulings in the latter half of the 1980s caused
apartment and other property owners to do more about crime prevention.

But today, he said, the legal demands on property are too high; they should not
be held accountable for random acts of violence.'' Allen said the association
and other property owners are working on changes in the proposed legislation
that would relieve them of some liability but not completely absolve them of
taking measures to prevent injury to customers and tenants.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  M3 Sheryl Bittick: Risk manager's task could be easier, pending
legislation.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              73 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 17, 1997

Take a new look at La Vista; Hotel restaurant with famous fajitas

BYLINE: susan kirr

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 704 words


LA VISTA AT THE HYATT REGENCY AUSTIN

ADDRESS: 208 Barton Springs Road

PHONE: 477-1234

HOURS: 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sunday through Thursday; 6:30 a.m. to midnight
Friday and Saturday

CREDIT CARDS: All major cards accepted

WHEELCHAIRS: Accessible

RATINGS:

FOOD **1/2---- SERVICE **1/2---- ATMOSPHERE ***------

If they had their druthers, most people in Austin wouldn't voluntarily go to a
local hotel to eat out. ( Hey honey, why don't we just tool on over to the
Holiday Inn for a bite?'' Not in this lifetime.) Hotels in general are notorious
for mediocre food and cookie-cutter ambience. But the Hyatt Regency Austin's La
Vista, while not a stellar dining experience, certainly makes an exception to
the rule.

This Hyatt fortunately has a little bit of Texas character to distinguish it
from every other Hyatt in every other town in America. While the atrium design
is still in place, little touches like cowhide chairs, wrought-iron benches and
a Lone Star motif help set it apart.

The design elements are carried over to La Vista, the second-floor restaurant
overlooking the atrium on one side and Town Lake and downtown on the other.
Although the restaurant's penthouse Foothills Grill closed more than a year ago,
there's also a lakeside patio serving a limited selection from La Vista's menu
and featuring their newest offering, fajita pizza. In addition, the rest of the
menu is new as well, so if you've been before, it may be time to give it another
try.

La Vista has a quirky, casual setting, with scores of cowboy boots dangling from
the ceiling and a gallery of cowboy hats arrayed on the walls. Legend has it
that if you bring in your castoff boots or hats, you can get a free order of
fajitas.  (Legend duly confirmed by our waitress.)

Headlining the menu and trumpeted as Austin's Best,'' the fajitas are definitely
the star attraction here. While we can neither confirm nor deny that they are in
fact Austin's best, they are pretty good. Diners can choose from grilled beef
and onions or chicken with tomatoes, onions and bell peppers.

We selected a half order of beef ($9.50); a full order is enough for two, unless
you have a ferocious appetite. Beans and rice are extra. All over the
restaurant, sizzling cast-iron platters heaped with meat and vegetables are
whizzed by as one table after another is privy to the dramatic entrance of the
famous fajitas. A supporting role goes to a bowl overflowing with pico de gallo,
creamy guacamole, sour cream and grated Cheddar cheese.  A tortilla warmer also
arrives, filled with soft, doughy flour tortillas. The thick slices of beef were
nicely seasoned, but could have been a little more tender.  Everything else was
fresh and abundant. Good food + good presentation = a winner.

Another entree, Hill Country trout ($12.95) was not as spectacular. The fish was
fresh and flaky and stuffed with braised baby greens (a nice touch), but roasted
chili cream sauce was on the bland side, as was the side of pasta, which was
apparently tossed only with olive oil and pepper. Crisp, colorful vegetables
were lovely to look at, but also lacked seasoning.

A crab cake appetizer ($7.95) featured two meaty crab cakes dressed with onions
and red bell pepper, sauteed and served with a creamy, spicy chipotle remoulade.
More braised greens added a complex, pungent taste, giving the whole dish a
pleasing melange of flavors.

Warm tortilla chips started the meal, accompanied by the house salsa, a thick,
chunky tomato blend with a decidedly smoky flavor.

Desserts were average. A chocolate layer cake ($3.95) tasted a little dry and
its icing had a greasy texture. Pecan pie ($3.95) was adequate, and was spruced
up somewhat by a sweet caramel sauce drizzled over the plate.

Our waitress was admittedly new, but cheerful and eager to please. If she didn't
know the answers to all of our questions, she ran back to the kitchen and found
out. Service was a bit slow, but not excessively so.

The views of the lake and downtown are inviting, especially during the summer,
when daylight lingers well into the evening. Although a hotel may not be your
first choice for an evening out on the town, don't write off La Vista too
easily.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tradition has it that if your hat or boots are hung up at La Vista,
left, you get a free order of fajaitas. Below, left to right are said fajitas,
Hill Country trout and a 16 ounce T-bone steak dinner. Bottom photo, lunch
customers enjou the food and view.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              77 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 21, 1997

U.S. greenhouse gases shoot up

SECTION: News; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 307 words


WASHINGTON -- Releases of heat-trapping greenhouse gases by U.S. industry soared
last year, confounding efforts by the Clinton administration to craft a proposal
for upcoming international climate talks that would protect American business.

An Energy Department report Monday said that carbon emissions rose more than
31/2 percent in 1996, compared with a growth of 8 percent over the preceding
six- year period. Carbon dioxide is the predominant greenhouse pollutant.

The report came amid continuing debate within the Clinton administration over
how far the United States should go to curb heat-trapping emissions. Talks are
under way in Bonn, Germany, to work out an agreement on mandatory emissions caps
to be signed in Kyoto, Japan, in December.

President Clinton is expected to disclose additional details, including how deep
a reduction in emissions the United States would accept, later this week for
presentation at the Bonn discussions.

The president's top economic advisers are concerned that deep cuts in carbon
emissions by 2010 could harm U.S. industry and that a proposal to commit to
binding emission controls without requiring developing countries such as China
to follow the same rules would be rejected by Congress.

The White House has characterized as unrealistic a European proposal to cut
carbon pollution -- predominantly from burning fossil fuels such as oil and coal
-- by 15 percent from 1990 levels.

Officials note that under current trends, U.S. carbon emissions by 2010 likely
would be 20 percent higher than they were in 1990.

The report Monday by the Energy Information Administration blamed the increases
in carbon emissions on a robust economy, higher natural gas prices that prompted
a switch to dirtier coal and an unusually severe winter that caused people to
burn more heating oil.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              78 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 10, 1997

Stop the hide and seek; A brand of bigotry; A courageous step;

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1436 words


Stop the hide and seek

No wonder there is low voter turnout: people can't figure out where they are
supposed to vote. In the two years plus we have lived in the Austin area, we
have not voted in the same place twice in a row. We have voted at two different
elementary schools, a retirement home and Cedar Park City Hall.

In the last election, our precinct voting booth was located in Cedar Park City
Hall on U.S. 183 near Highway 1431. We drove there the evening of Nov. 4 to
vote. Nope. The polling place for Williamson 277 was not there. But where was
it? There was no sign indicating the new location of the voting booth for
Williamson Precinct 277.

An election or two earlier, Williamson 277 had voted at Faubion Elementary
School. On a hunch, we drove south a mile or so, then right on Cypress Creek
Road. When we arrived at the school, none of the outside lights in the parking
lot were on to light the early darkness. The exterior lights in the main
entrance way to the building were dark. Only an interior hall light indicated
that any activity was at the school. We went inside and went down a long lighted
hall, turned a corner and found the polling place for Williamson 277, hidden
away in the interior of the school in a room with no windows.

We lived in Louisiana for 17 years.  In all that time, our polling place was
moved a total of three times. Each time, we got a postcard telling us about the
change. When we left, the location of our polling place had been stable since
the election of George Bush as President of the United States.

If we are serious about improving voter turnout in Texas, we have to stop
playing hide and seek with our polling places.

PAUL MCKELVEY

Cedar Park

A brand of bigoty

Carolina Trevino ( Columbus was no hero,'' letters, Oct. 29) has obviously been
exposed to too much self- serving propaganda and too little history. Her brand
of bigotry only damages her cause by confusing telling lies and distortions
about comparative civilizations with expressing pride in one's heritage. I might
add that I have a degree in Latin American studies, with a major in history, and
that I own dozens of histories of many different cultures.

RALPH T. KLEYMEYER JR.

Austin

A courageous step

I am writing in reply to J. Thomas Baylor (letters, Oct. 23). He writes that
particulate matter is only dust and therefore should not be regulated. The
particles that new clean air regulations would monitor are emitted from already
known sources of pollution, and scientific studies show they cause 40,000
premature deaths every year. They are formed mainly by coal-fired power plants
and diesel trucks and buses.

According to a recent study by U.S.  PIRG, air-polluting industries have spent
$65 million in contributions to Congress in the last six years to convince our
elected officials that 40,000 deaths don't matter. They have also spent another
$10 million on a public relations campaign to spread lies that particles equal
dust and that barbecues and fireworks are responsible for the majority of air
pollution. Unfortunately, Mr. Baylor seems to have fallen for it; luckily, U.S.
Rep.  Lloyd Doggett didn't. His support of the Clean Air Act was a courageous
step forward. More of the Texas delegation should follow his example and stand
up for the air that we breathe and our health.

BETH NIEDERMAN

Texas Campaign Director

U.S. PIRG

Austin

'Secure' about security

Both the White House and the Pentagon are claiming that the delay in delivery of
the Clinton coffee tapes was caused by human error.''

Hey, these are the same folks who are in charge of defending us against our
enemies. What a secure feeling.

MARK A. WALLACE

Austin

How has this happened?

Re: Lakeline tract up for huge project,'' (Nov. 4). Can anyone say The
Woodlands? Or how about Las Colinas? Cedar Park is already our very own
white-flight, suburban, bedroom community ever so similar to our brethren's. I
ask, But how has this happened to Austin, my beloved city?'' Look no further
than statements like:

The state and the future owners have the same interest -- making sure the land
is zoned so that it's worth the $18.3 million that Madron Investments bid for
it, said Bob Hewgley, of the Texas General Land Office, which is selling the
land. If it wasn't worth $18.3 million, then why did they buy it?

KELLEY SMOOT

Austin

Population crisis

In all the talk about global warming recently, politicians have ignored the role
of population growth. At a time when the world's population could double to
nearly 12 billion in the next 40 years, this contributor to global warming
cannot be ignored.

Over half of the increase in global temperatures is attributed to energy use.
Our demand for energy will only be exacerbated by a world population growing at
an alarming rate. Progress made by increasing efficiency and reducing per capita
emissions will be overwhelmed by rapid population growth. Experts agree that a
climate change program with any chance of success must be aimed at both resource
consumption and population stabilization. A population policy which provides
voluntary family planning information and services to both industrialized and
developing nations needs to be developed in conjunction with any treaty on
climate change.

Such a policy is particularly needed in nations such as India, that are
struggling to provide electricity and industry for their country where
population is expanding at an alarming rate. Without slowing the rate of their
population growth, these nations will not have the resources to invest in more
efficient, less polluting technologies, or in social and educational services
for their citizens.

The United States must take the first step toward reducing our emissions of
greenhouse gases by investing in the development of new, efficient and clean
energy sources for the future. At the same time, the United States must ensure
that increasing access to voluntary family planning services is a priority of
both domestic and foreign policy. Addressing the population crisis is critical
to assuring that the entire world will be able to protect our future.

SHELLEY PALMER-FETTIG

Austin

Let's do the math

Concerning your Oct. 28 editorial Reduce population, too'' and the letter We
must see big picture'' (Nov.  4): Why do some people mouth off before thinking
and doing a little 9th- grade math? If we consider that 80 percent of the Earth
is uninhabitable (rugged mountains, forests/jungles, farmland and lakes -- I do
not include deserts because they can be made habitable), this leaves 20 percent
of the land surface, or 11,494,000 square miles, on which all of the people can
dwell. Let's consider a population of 20 billion people (four times the present
population) and normalize this to 5 billion four-memberfamilies for ease of
computation. Running the numbers, this leaves every family one acre on which to
live (farmers do not need to live on the land they farm).

Industry can greatly reduce natural destruction insurance by tunneling into
mountains and building where they would be free from hurricanes, tornadoes and
hail, and due to confinement, a fire would quickly be snuffed out. This leaves
plenty of land for farming.

With tongue in cheek: With a higher population you have much more carbon tied up
in carbohydrate (protein/tissue) material and less available to form carbon
dioxide.

CHARLES LONGWELL

ChuckRL@compuserve.com

Bertram

Providing for Travis County

I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paula Wong and members of the
1997 Travis County Bond Advisory Committee. Their time and hard work is greatly
appreciated by the entire Travis County area. But especially all the citizens
who took the time to vote on the 1997 Travis County Bond Election to help
provide a better Travis County for all of us.

JIMMY A. CASTRO

Austin

Column unworthy of print

Over the last month or so, I have been very pleased to see the
American-Statesman's efforts to entice subscribers to donate their papers to
schools. However, John Kelso's Oct.  27 column, regarding the preference of MD
20/20 over cork wines by individuals hanging out under bridges, is just
appalling.

How the American- Statesman could view this item as worthy of print or as an
educational benefit to the children of our schools is beyond me.

I'm all for freedom of speech, and can consider other opinions on all sorts of
topics, but one would think you could offer something more than this type of
column for your subscribers and the children of our community.

NANCY HALL

Austin

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lloyd Doggett

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              79 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               November 27, 1997

They built their house of straw; It's sound, - structurally and

BYLINE: JENNIFER CHAMBERLAIN

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 464 words


WAXAHACHIE -- An enterprising inventor and several dedicated volunteers have
been building what is believed to be the first straw-bale house in the
Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex area.

Dubbed the straw-bale experience,'' the house-raising event last weekend was
overseen by Matts Myrhman, a national expert in the field of straw-bale
building. Myhrman led members of the group step-by-step through the construction
with the goal of raising the walls in a single weekend.

The group gathered in the early morning chill on property at the former site of
the superconducting super collider just outside Waxahachie. They arrived to find
the house's framework in place and two trailers of straw bales on either side of
the structure. They hoped to leave with the building's exterior completed.

The project was the brainchild of Paul Olivier, who recently moved to Waxahachie
from Belgium to begin his own recycling company. Olivier's company is working on
a major recycling project with Chaparral Steel of Midlothian, as well as several
other innovative environmental pro jects.

In keeping with his conservation philosophy, Olivier sought to build his guest
house and office complex in the most environmentally sound manner possible. He
settled on a straw-bale structure with a framework of recycled steel.

Twenty million tons of straw are produced as a byproduct of our grain and cereal
production,'' said Olivier.  When it decomposes, it produces methane gas and
greenhouse gases, but if we take significant amounts of it to use to make
houses, not only do we prevent that straw from decomposing, we are also not
tearing down the forests or destroying trees, which are nature's way of dealing
with CO2.''

By using an abundant and renewable material, straw-bale construction presents a
number of advantages over conventional building techniques. In addition to
providing a profitable means of disposing of waste straw, the technique
significantly reduces the need for lumber and other nonrenewable resources.

A normal house would require up to 5,300 cubic feet of wood,'' said Robert
Olivier, who coordinated the straw-bale project.  Straw-bale construction knocks
off over 2,000 cubic feet -- that means you save about 20 100-foot trees.''

Another advantage of straw- bale construction is that it produces an
energy-efficient struc ture. With thick walls and excell ent insulation,
straw-bale houses can significantly reduce energy costs in both hot and cold
climates.

Contrary to popular conceptions, straw-bale houses are both durable and
fire-resistant. Straw- bale structures built at the turn of the century in
Nebraska are still standing. Once the straw has been sealed with stucco or some
other type of coating, the walls are as fire-resistant as wood.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Lifting those bales, volunteers help raise a straw- based building
near Waxahachie, 30 miles south of Dallas. The straw-bale building project is
conducted by Paul Olivier, who recently moved from Belgium.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              81 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 17, 1997

Forests burning at record rate

BYLINE: SUE LEEMAN Associated Press

SECTION: News; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 649 words


LONDON -- Homeowners in Sydney, Australia, and children in Jakarta, Indonesia,
Indonesian orangutans and Kenyan elephants -- all are feeling the adverse
effects of the world's worst year for fires.

More tropical forests burned in 1997 than at any time in recorded history,
sowing death, respiratory illnesses and pollution and destroying wildlife
habitats, the World Wide Fund for Nature said in a report Tuesday.

This was the year the world caught fire,'' said Jean-Paul Jeanrenaud, head of
WWF's forest program and co-author of the report.  As we destroy forests, we are
destroying our insurance for the future.''

As much as 12.4 million acres of forest and other land burned in Indonesia and
Brazil. The Amazon region alone had more than 45,000 fires, the report said.

Vast areas of Papua New Guinea, Colombia, Peru, Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda and
other parts of Africa also burned, and large fires were reported in Australia,
China, Russia and several Mediterranean countries, the report said.

In his preface to the report, WWF director general Claude Martin called it a
planetary disaster.''

El Nino, the cyclical phenomenon of warming Pacific temperatures that disrupts
climate patterns, had delayed monsoon rains, which usually extinguish many
naturally occurring forest fires, Jeanrenaud said. The 1997 El Nino effect was
the worst this century, he said.

At least 80 percent of the fires were set deliberately, often by multinational
companies trying to clear land for planting or development, he said.

There also were the growing problems of timber speculation, insurance fraud,
arson and setting fires as an act of political defiance, a phenomenon seen in
Indonesia and some Mediterranean countries, he said.

The London-based group warned in October that the fires in Indonesia and Brazil
were speeding global warming by spewing greenhouse gases into the air. It also
believes the loss of forest can threaten animal habitats, weakening genetic and
ecosystem diversity, and deplete the supply of renewable resources.

The WWF urged governments to set up an international tribunal to punish
offenders and to deploy a task force to intervene in areas where environmental
catastrophes are looming.

Still, Jeanrenaud acknowledged there was no international consensus to do so.

Instead, he said, the WWF is trying to persuade individual governments to take
action. Brazil and 20 other countries now have pledged to protect a minimum of
10 percent of all forest types within their borders, he noted.

The report said the fires in Indonesia that spewed vast smoke clouds over
southeast Asia this year destroyed more than 4.9 million acres of forest and
damaged at least 19 protected areas.

More than 40,000 people were hospitalized with respiratory problems when the
haze was at its worst, Jeanrenaud said.

In Brazil, fires destroyed about 5 million acres in several states and damaged
critically endangered Atlantic forest, the report said. In the Brazilian Amazon,
fires were up by 50 percent from 1996 to 1997, with 44,734 recorded between July
1 and Nov. 22 of this year alone.

Other countries that suffered:

*Kenya, where parts of the --5,930-acre Imenti Forest around Mount Kenya burned.

*Colombia, where 7,000 forest --fires destroyed 42,000 acres of national parks.

*Papua New Guinea, where --thousands of acres of grassland and rain forest
burned, including several protected areas.

The report also warned that in the United States, where naturally occurring
forest fires are routinely suppressed, ecological processes are disrupted and
the ac cumulation of flammable materials in forests poses a serious risk of
greater and more destructive fires in the future.''

It said also criticized U.S. government for trying to use the risk of fire as an
excuse for felling old- growth forests rich in wildlife to subsidize the logging
industry.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              88 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 August 7, 1997

Federal Reserve survey finds economy expanding; Economy expands, Fed

BYLINE: John D. McClain

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 491 words


WASHINGTON -- The economy is expanding moderately in much of the nation, with
prices remaining stable despite tighter labor markets, a Federal Reserve survey
shows.

Economic activity generally expanded at a moderate rate in many districts in
June and July, although several reported that growth was more brisk,'' a summary
of the survey of regional business conditions said.

Labor markets tightened further, but only scattered wage pressures were noted,''
according to the survey released Wednesday.  Prices for most goods were stable,
although reports indicated that lumber and some agricultural prices rose.''

Economic activity in Texas was led by a booming energy industry, the Fed said.

Solid energy wage gains, especially for workers with oil field and manufacturing
skills, have stirred competitors into hiring people away from each other.
Workers in the energy manufacturing and oil field industries were shopping
around for wage increases, the survey found.

Retailers reported sales growth, but the strength of sales varied more than
usual. Several retailers said growth in Texas was slower than for the nation.

Loan demand was strong with bankers reporting stiff competition, particularly
for commercial and auto lending. Competition was less lively for home
improvement and personal lending, and interest rates on those loans were
somewhat higher.

Construction grew at a moderate pace during the last six weeks. Real estate
sources saw a noticeable pickup in home sales after slower sales from February
through May.

Semiconductor manufacturers said the labor market remained tight, but they were
able to fill most of the vacancies. Wages are not skyrocketing, they said, but
more firms are offering stock options or other nonwage benedfits.

The survey, conducted by the Fed's 12 district banks and known as the beige book
because of the color of its cover, will be used by central bank policy-makers
when they meet Aug. 19 to consider monetary policy.

Although the Federal Open Market Committee met in May and July, it has not
raised short-term interest rates since nudging them up a quarter of a percentage
point in March, to 5.5 percent. It was the first increase in two years.

That boost came as the economy raced ahead at a 4.9 percent annual growth rate.
Growth slowed to a 2.2 percent rate in the April-June quarter, but analysts
expect it to regain in the second half of the year some of its first-quarter
strength.

Few signs of substantial price hikes have emerged so far, and many analysts
believe the market committee will leave rates unchanged for now as it awaits
more economic data.

There was little market reaction to the report, which reinforced the widespread
belief that the economy is expanding moderately with prices remaining stable
despite tighter labor markets.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 71.77 to 8,259.31, barely beating last
Wednesday's record close of 8,254.89.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              92 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 24, 1997

U.S. global-warming plan received coolly by allies

BYLINE: WILLIAM DROZDIAK

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 613 words


BERLIN -- Major U.S. allies in Europe and Asia criticized President Clinton's
long-awaited plan to curb global warming Thursday as weak and ineffectual,
claiming it does not measure up to U.S. responsibilities to protect the
environment as the world's leading polluter and lone superpower.

The skeptical response to Clinton's package of incentives and modest goals --
which seeks to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels between the
years 2008 and 2012 -- reflects the new light in which the world has begun to
assess American leadership in the post-Cold War era.

In terms of the environment, the United States is being scrutinized to see if it
is willing to accept sacrifices to cope with global warming that are
commensurate with its overwhelming influence.  By that yardstick, Clinton's
prescription on how to curtail greenhouse gases has come up short in the court
of world opinion.

Germany's environment minister, Angela Merkel, called the U.S.  proposals
disappointing and insufficient.'' Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto
lamented that there might have been room for further efforts.'' Britain's deputy
prime minister, John Prescott, said the plan does not go far enough, and he
urged the United States to become much more ambitious'' in preparation for final
negotiations on a global warming treaty in Kyoto, Japan, in early December.

It is simply not good enough,'' said Peter Jorgensen, spokesman for the
15-nation European Union's executive commission in Brussels.  There must be
something better coming from the White House if the United States wants to face
up to its global responsibilities.''

While administration officials sought to portray the Clinton plan as a balanced
formula to accommodate the anxieties of industry and environmentalists,
governments in Europe, Japan and the developing world say it is inadequate for a
nation that represents 4 percent of the world's population but produces 25
percent of the carbon dioxide and other gases that may provoke a disastrous rise
in the Earth's temperature.

Clinton's plan was unveiled as delegates from 150 nations gathered in Bonn,
Germany, to try to narrow differences on a global- warming treaty before the
final round of negotiations in Kyoto.  The Bonn talks will focus on two key
goals: where to set targets for industrialized nations in curbing greenhouse
gases and how to contrive a formula that would encourage developing countries to
reduce emissions of their own during the next two decades.

Developing nations, led by China, Brazil and India, object to any restrictions
on their emissions because, they contend, such measures would hinder their
economic growth. They insist that developed nations should bear the brunt of any
sacrifice because their industrial economies have largely spawned the
global-warming threat through the rampant burning of fossil fuels.

Europe and Japan have accepted that premise and proposed binding reductions
below 1990 emission levels that are more ambitious than the goals of the Clinton
administration. The EU nations have embraced a goal of reducing emissions by 15
percent below 1990 levels by the year 2010, while Japan has proposed a 5 percent
cut by 2012.

Four years ago, Clinton vowed to return to 1990 levels by the end of the decade.
But administration officials say he was forced to break that pledge because an
unexpected boom in the U.S. economy has accelerated pollution levels. At current
growth rates, U.S.  greenhouse gas levels will rise 13 percent above those of
1990 by the end of the decade. They rose 3.4 percent in the past year alone,
according to an Energy Department report released this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              97 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 13, 1997

Brazil sits on data about rain forest; As evidence of accelerated

BYLINE: MICHAEL ASTOR

SECTION: News; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 371 words


RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -- No one disputes that the Amazon rain forest is
shrinking, but just how fast is a mystery -- and a political hot potato in
Brazil.

A new report by a congressional committee investigating foreign logging
companies says the Amazon is vanishing at a rate of 20,000 square miles a year.
That's more than three times the rate of 1994, the last year for which official
figures are available.

About 12 percent of the 2 million-square-mile wilderness is already gone.
Scientists say the loss, mainly from wildfires and logging, adds to the
greenhouse effect that is believed to cause global warming.

If nothing is done, the entire Amazon will be gone within 50 years,'' said the
110-page report's author, Rep. Gilney Vianna of the leftist Worker's Party in
the Amazon state of Mato Grosso.

Although the numbers are only estimates, it's hard for the government to refute
them without figures of its own. That's another problem, because the official
numbers have been under wraps for nearly three years.

The government had promised to release its figures Dec. 1 but withheld the
information, saying it needed more data on areas and types of vegetation
affected.

Determining the extent of deforestation is the job of the government's National
Space Research Institute, which analyzes satellite information.

In 1994, 80 percent of Amazon deforestation was revealed in 38 of the 229
satellite images that cover the Brazilian Amazon. This year, the number of
images that captured the same percentage of deforestation climbed to 47, said
Ulf Walter Palme, the project's technical director. That's an expansion of
122,544 square miles -- an area roughly the size of Italy.

The government relies solely on satellite images. Vianna's report, released
Wednesday, arrived at substantially higher figures by including estimates on the
cutting of lots smaller than the 16-acre minimum measurable by the satellite
photos.

Vianna wants a 10-year moratorium on cutting and burning.

We need the moratorium because the government has no coherent policy in the
Amazon,'' he said.  Seventy percent of the burnings are authorized by the
government, and so is the vast majority of the deforestation.''

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              100 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 24, 1997

UT reopens amid troubling racial shift

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser, A. Phillips Brooks

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1462 words


The next chapter on race in America will open Wednesday at the University of
Texas when students return to a world that a court ordered to be colorblind.

What happens next has implications that could touch the lives of all Texans.

At a time when the face of Texas is changing rapidly, with minority groups
expected to outnumber whites as early as 2008, the student body at many Texas
colleges is becoming whiter. By 2030, demographers at Texas A&M University
predict, just 37 percent of Texans will be Anglo, 46 percent will be Hispanic, 9
percent will be black and 8 percent will belong to other groups.

Already, 51 percent of students in the public schools are African American or
Hispanic.

Experts warn that if more minorities do not get college educations -- their
enrollment consistently lags far behind that of whites -- the economy will
suffer, the welfare rolls will grow and Texans will have a poorer quality of
life.

As far as I'm concerned, the writing is on the wall,'' said state Sen. Teel
Bivins, an Amarillo Republican who heads the Senate Education Committee.  Until
we change substantially what we're doing with minority recruitment, especially
with Hispanics, we're going to be a real mess in 2030.''

This is the first school year students at UT and at many other public and
private colleges in Texas will enroll fewer minority students, an effect of the
federal court ruling known as Hopwood. The decision forbids any consideration of
race in college admissions.

Texas Attorney General Dan Morales and university lawyers have broadly
interpreted the decision as also banning minority scholarships, recruitment and
retention and tutoring programs.

Although Louisiana and Mississippi also fall under the jurisdiction of the
appeals court that issued the Hopwood ruling, those states are following
previous desegregation orders. The only other state using race-neutral
admissions is California, which has imposed the rule on graduate schools this
year and on undergraduate programs for 1998.

Some predict dire consequences for both states; others are more hopeful.

This year's data are sobering:

*No black students have been admitted to the medical schools at Texas A&M
--University in College Station, Texas Tech University or the University of
California at San Diego.

*Only one black student has enrolled in the law school at UC-Berkeley. --Just
four blacks and 27 Mexican Americans are expected to enroll in the first-year
law class at UT. Last year, 31 African Americans and 42 Mexican Americans
enrolled.

*Undergraduate admissions at UT and Texas A&M, the state's two flagship
universities, are down for Mexican Americans and especiallyfor blacks.

The majority of Texans probably have never heard of Hopwood, and most of those
who have probably would agree with the court's ruling, Bivins and others said.

Steven Smith, the attorney who filed the case, said he isn't happy with declines
in minority students but doesn't think affirmative action is the answer.

You will lose a few political leaders,'' Smith said, referring to minorities who
attend Ivy League schools and never come back to Texas.  That's the only
implication I see. I'd rather them be here, but I don't think it will shake the
foundations of our state.''

Others disagree.

There has been tremendous injustice over the years, and affirmative action was
one method used to set that injustice straight,'' said Bernard Harris, a black
Houston physician, Texas Tech regent and retired astronaut.

Affirmative action is the reason why I am where I am today,'' he said.

Hopwood is almost like abortion,'' said Glenn West, president of the Greater
Austin Chamber of Commerce.  It's a real emotional issue. The issue for me is
not if Hopwood is right or wrong, but it's how to have diversity in higher
education. We've got to find a way to work around that.''

It is of keen interest to area businesses, he said, because they want a diverse
a work force. UT-Austin is a key supplier of those workers.

Hopwood's history

The Hopwood decision is the result of a 1994 suit brought by four white students
against the UT School of Law. The students, led by Cheryl Hopwood, claimed they
were discriminated against when they were denied admission in 1992.

The court agreed that UT had an unfair system that year of two separate
committees to review applications: one for African Americans and Mexican
Americans; the other for whites and all others. All of the students admitted by
the two committees were qualfied, but Hopwood and the other plaintiffs argued
they had slightly better scores and grades and would have gotten in if the
committees had not given extra consideration to race.

The UT Law School has had the distinction of producing more Mexican American and
African American lawyers than any other U.S. law school, but that could change.

That was important to me and the primary reason why I chose UT,'' said Hector
Beltran, 25, a third-year UT law student who is Hispanic.

This year, many minorities with credentials identical to our whites are being
snapped up by Harvard, Yale, Stanford and Columbia,'' which are not prohibited
from offering generous scholarships, UT Law School Dean Mike Sharlot said.

Until the U.S. Supreme Court rules on the issue, which would resultin a ruling
that all states must follow, Texas will remain extremely disadvantaged, Sharlot
said.

Kyron Hayes, one of 41 African Americans admitted to the law school three years
ago, said he fears a resurgence in segregation.''

Pipeline to leadership

The issue of diversity in higher education is especially critical for flagship
institutions because they are a pipeline to state and local leadership posts.

Many minority UT law graduates are among the state's leaders: state Sen. Rodney
Ellis of Houston, Dallas Mayor Ron Kirk and State Bar of Texas Executive
Director Tony Alvarado, to name a few.

Minority medical students indicate they are far more likely to practice in a
medically underserved area,'' said Timothy Ready, a spokesman for the
Association of American Medical Colleges.

That is another reason for affirmative action, Ready said. And the more elite
the school, the more important it is as a tool to achieve diversity, studies
show.

That has significant implications for our democracy. Beyond that, there are
issues of justice,'' said William Dickens, a senior fellow in economic studies
at the Brookings Institute, a Washington think tank.

Affirmative action programs began at Texas schools in the 1970s to remedy
discrimination and to desegregate higher education. Minorities still had to meet
stringent admissions standards, but when stacked up against a similarly
qualified white, their race could be considered, thus giving them an edge.

Misconceptions persist that unqualified minorities were taking the seats of
qualified whites.

Laura Scanlan, 26, who lives in Austin and recently graduated from New York
University Law School, said most of her friends in Austin oppose affirmative
action.

They say, Shouldn't it be merit-based or fair?' Once we have a discussion that
UT was really deciding among many highly qualified people, their point of view
changes,'' she said.

Scanlan, who is white and starting a clerkship in Houston, added that public
universities in particular have an obligation to go beyond grades and test
scores in choosing students.

With a public law school you are talking about state funds and tax dollars. That
is a real benefit paid by taxpayers that should go to the people who give back
to the state,'' she said.

Income over race

But with an anti-affirmative action climate sweeping the nation, many people
suggest that income, not race, should be used in college admissions.

The way affirmative action worked ... Bill Cosby's child had a better chance of
winning a scholarship than a disadvantaged student because of his race,'' said
Kristal Cordova, executive director of the UT College Republicans and a
Hispanic.

But studies have shown that economic status is far less effective at integrating
schools.

There are too many poor whites,'' Dickens said.  You'd have to enormously
increase the amount of preference you grant to poor people to create the same
sort of effect you would have for minorities.''

Texas Tech University Chancellor John Montford, a former Democratic state
senator from Lubbock, said to blunt the effects of Hopwood, educators must
aggressively recruit students and establish strong programs to help minorities
succeed once they come to campus. The tricky part is doing that without running
afoul of the court decision.

The cost to society in the long haul will be incomprehensible if we are not more
inclusive,'' Montford said.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The face of Texas higher education.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              103 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                November 3, 1997

All eyes on Houston's affirmative action law; In Tuesday's

BYLINE: A. Phillips Brooks

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1297 words


Houston Mayor Bob Lanier is ineligible for a fourth term, but he was on the
campaign trail last week just the same -- this time stumping to preserve the
city's affirmative action law.

Eliminating the law, as Proposition A on Tuesday's ballot proposes, would
blemish Houston's reputation as a bustling and ethnically diverse business and
trade center, he said.

Houston is an international city, and it is just a mistake in that environment
to portray ourselves as Redneckville,'' said Lanier, who can't run again because
of term limits.

Edward Blum, an investment broker who got the issue on the ballot, said keeping
the law amounts to discrimination against white companies and helps wealthy and
politically connected businesses that don't need it.

Social justice is not achieved by awarding contracts to firms owned by highly
educated, wealthy African Americans and women,'' Blum said.

Houston citizens will decide whether their city becomes the first outside
California to ban affirmative action. The contest is being watched nationally by
backers and critics of affirmative action who view it as a test of the public
pulse on programs aimed at helping female- and minority-owned businesses compete
for government contracts.

If it succeeds in Houston, it will send a very strong message to Congress and
the American public to say no' to racial preferences,'' said John Miller, vice
president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative Washington think
tank.

If this passes, people who are working to keep racial preferences have an uphill
battle,'' said Jennifer Nelson, director of the American Civil Rights
Initiative, the Sacramento group that pushed California's affirmative action
ban, Proposition 209, last year.

Failure in Houston could be a significant setback for opponents of affirmative
action trying to get the issue on ballots in Washington, Florida and Ohio.

Cities and politicians across Texas will be tuned in to Houston, said Joe Morin,
executive director of the Texas Association of Mexican American Chambers of
Commerce in Austin.

We're very concerned because if it passes in Houston, it's likely to be brought
forward in other Texas cities,'' Morin said.

At issue is a Houston law adopted in 1984 and revamped in 1995 that authorizes
the City Council to set and enforce goals on the percentage of city contracts
awarded to female- and minority-owned businesses. Goals range from 11 percent to
24 percent, depending on the type of contract.

There seemed to be little controversy about the law until this summer, when Blum
started his campaign after a visit to California. Blum has a track record on
affirmative action issues, successfully suing the state last year over the
boundaries of several congressional districts. His lawsuit alleged that the
districts were racially gerrymandered to favor election of minorities to the
detriment of whites.

It took Blum four months to get the 20,000 signatures from registered voters he
needed to put Proposition A on the ballot.

A new campaign

Blum bristles at suggestions that the American Civil Rights Initiative imported
Proposition 209 to Texas, saying that he sought the group's advice in pushing an
initiative that already had grass- roots support in Houston.

The American Civil Rights Initiative has contributed $20,000 to Blum's effort
and inspired the name of Blum's organization, the Houston Civil Rights
Initiative.  The ballot language for Houston's Proposition A was identical to
California's before Lanier won a change.

Initially, Blum framed the ballot question as a civil rights initiative that
would eliminate racial preferences and discrimination. The language did not
mention affirmative action. Lanier persuaded the City Council to rewrite the
ballot language as an up or down vote on affirmative action -- a move heavily
criticized by Blum, who is challenging the change in court.

Since the wording change, momentum and money have swung to Lanier and
Proposition A opponents.

Blum said the contest now is too close to call. He said eliminating the
affirmative action program would allow the city to enact a program that would
steer some city contracts to struggling businesses, regardless of their owners'
race or gender.

Affirmative action should be colorblind,'' Blum said.  Government has a role in
expanding oppportunity for everyone who needs opportunity. Your skin color or
gender shouldn't preclude you from being a part of that.''

Citing city figures, Blum said only a handful of minority- and female-owned
businesses are benefiting from affirmative action.

In 1997 and 1996, 70 percent of the contracts awarded to African American firms
in the professional services category went to five individuals,'' Blum said.
How many more would have benefited if that went to people who needed a helping
hand?''

In financing the ballot initiative, Blum has reached deep into his own pockets,
contributing $64,000 of the $170,000 raised so far.

Blum, 45, concedes he has virtually no support from Houston's big business
community, but the effort received a boost in recent weeks with an endorsement
from the Houston Contractors Association.

We're supporting Proposition A,'' said David Bearden, a construction contractor
and past president of the 400-member association. Bearden said the group broke
its silence because the mayor continued to say it's a voluntary program when
it's a quota.''

Support for proposition

Two weeks ago, polls showed Proposition A winning by wide margins. Since then,
some polls showed small margins in favor of keeping affirmative action.

But survey results released during the weekend showed voters supporting the
proposition by a margin of about 8 percentage points, despite the efforts of
opponents including Lanier.

The majority of contractors who still get the business are guys who look like
me,'' Lanier said.  I fear if we junk the program we will go back to the days
when Anglo males got all the business.''

Lanier, 72, a longtime civil rights advocate, is passionate about his support of
the ordinance he helped reshape in 1995. In a city that is 40 percent African
American and Hispanic, the ordinance has done much to spread economic gains to
minorities and women and maintain racial harmony, Lanier said.

He cited city figures this year that show more than 1,500 minority- or
female-owned businesses were awarded contracts -- about 20 percent of the $1
billion total. said. Before 1984, minorities and women got less than 5 percent
of city contracts, Lanier said.

Major corporations such as Exxon Corp. and Enron have helped finance a
television and radio advertising blitz aimed at defeating Proposition A. One
Houston, the political action committee to defeat the referendum, has raised
about $260,000.

Corporate leaders who have contributed say the affirmative action law has helped
the economy grow and created a favorable business climate.

It has been successful in broadening economic participation for a segment of the
Houston community that has been excluded,'' said Philip Carroll, president and
chief executive officer of Shell Oil Company.

Whatever the outcome, state Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston, said Tuesday's vote
probably won't settle the debate about affirmative action in Texas.

Whether we preserve affirmative action or not, this group will probably go to
other Texas cities and initiate referendums,'' he said.

(from box)--Proposition A

The Houston ballot proposition reads:

"Shall the charter of the City of Houston be amended to end the use of
affirmative action for women and minorities in the operation of City of Houston
employment and contracting, including ending the current program and any smiliar
programs in the future?"

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edward Blum: Broker who got issue on ballot said the law amounts to
discrimination against white companies. // Bob Lanier: Houston's reputation is
on the line, mayor says.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              105 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                January 4, 1997

'97 power shifts in religion will reflect attitude changes

BYLINE: Clark Morphew

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 271 words


I thought it would be appropriate totell you what's ahead in the world of
religion in 1997.American community.

Buddhism will become even more Americanized as young American-born priests
organize their own temples and meditative rituals.

This year, many of the new religions in the land -- Scientology, the Moonies,
the Church Universal and Triumphant and similar groups -- will take another step
toward becoming respectable. Gone are the practices of preying on young, lonely
people. Novices are no longer isolated. Members are no longer forced into long
hours of service to the religion.

While the gurus of these faith systems remain alive, the new religions will
continue to grow and prosper. But when illness and death overtake the leaders,
internal power struggles could bring some of them down. The Hare Krishnas in
West Virginia, for example, kicked out their No. 1 man after allegations
surfaced this year of child abuse and brutal punishment of dissident members.

The Catholic Church's internal challenges will grow more strident this year as
dissident groups such as We Are Church and the Common Ground project of the late
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin grow stronger. And they will win some concessions even
if they are only dialogues with top church officials.

In this day, the world of religion changes slowly. But we are amid a revolution
that will someday be seen as the greatest climate for transformation since the
Reformation. While that era happened swiftly, this time of change will move
slowly. But today we are participating in one of the greatest power shifts in
the history of religion.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              108 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 25, 1997
                              Correction Appended

UT engineer to lead NASA satellite project; International effort to

BYLINE: Dick Stanley

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 755 words


A University of Texas engineer has been chosen to lead a new $86 million
international satellite mission of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.

Byron Tapley, a UT professor of aerospace engineering, will direct the American,
German and Russian effort to measure variations in Earth's gravitational field
that affect the precision of planet-studying spacecraft.

It's the first time we've had a space launch like this organized and run out of
the University of Texas,'' said Ben Streetman, dean of the UT college of
engineering.  It has a lot of implications for study of the weather and possible
explanations of a whole variety of environmental issues.''

Tapley, who has spent more than a decade developing the details of the five-year
gravity measuring mission, has extensive experience with robot spacecraft as
director of UT's Center for Space Research.

It's exciting to get the chance to do it,'' Tapley said.  It's a little bit
sobering to have the responsibility. The buck essentially will stop here.''

Here'' is at the space center's home in the MCC Building in Northwest Austin,
where callers on hold are entertained with the theme music of the 1968 movie
"2001: A Space Odyssey."

For more years, center researchers and graduate students have collaborated with
NASA verifying the orbits if a fleet of Earth-orbiting research satellites.

The center also is working with the space agency on navigation for the Mars
Pathfinder spacecraf, which is scheduled to land on the red planet July 4, and
may run another NASA mission to Mars in 1999.

four cnter researchers will join Tapley as so-investigators in the gravitational
field project-- gravity recovery and climate experiment -- involving two
satellites to be developed by NASA in cooperation with American and German
aerospace companies.

The spacecraft are scheduled to be launched from Russia aboard a Cosmos rocket
in the spring of 2001.

Tapley plans to be in Russia for the launch and then travel to a German mission
control center near Munich for the first few days of the flight. The satellites
will be controlled from the German center, which will be tied electronically to
the UT center in Austin.

We'll process the data here and be running a backup flight operations center in
case something goes wrong,'' Tapley said.  But the five-year commitment of
manpower was something we couldn't handle and the Germans wanted to do it.''

Tapley's co-principal investigator on the project will be Christoph, a Potsdam
research center of the German Space Agency.

Plans call for the satellites to fly about 280 miles high, in polar orbits
around the Earth. They'll be carrying microwave tracking systems to measure
their distance apart as their distance and their altitude areinfluenced by the
planet's gravitational field.

Earth's daily rotation makes the gravity field, which is generated by the
planet's iron core, bulge out at the equator and flatten at the poles. Subtle
changes in the planet's rotation, caused by such things as the effect of high
atmospheric pressure on mountain ranges, alters the shape of the gravity field
and its influence on orbits of near-Earth satellites.

GRACE will measure the gravity field every 12 to 15 days, helping researchers in
Austin build two new computer models of the field each month for five years.

That will allow us to look at the (field's) average value and its variations,''
Tapley said.  It will stress our manpower here, so we have to improve our
software and data processing.''

A precision knowledge of the gravity field and its variations is expected to
improve the accuracy of many Earth-studying satellites, particularly radar
altimeter spacecraft whose measurements help scientists make long-range climate
forecasts.

Such satellites as the joint American-French TOPEX/Poseidon -- whose data the UT
center already compiles for study -- map the tiny hills and valleys of the
oceans to determine how climate-affecting heat from the sun is circulated around
the planet by the oceans.

An anticipated side-benefit of the gravity mission will be estimates of the
amount of fluid in underground aquifers in Africa and other places where the
quantities are uncertain.

The satellites also will aid estimates of variations in the polar ice sheets,
which recent research has indicated are being reduced by global warming.

(From Box)

On the Web

For more on th ework of the UT center for Space Research, see
http://www.csr.utexas.edu on the World Wide Web.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 1997

CORRECTION: A story on Page B1 of Tuesday's editions, about development of
satellites to study Earth's gravitational field, should have said gravity is
possessed by all objects in the universe in proportion to their mass, while
Earth's iron core influences its magnetic field.

GRAPHIC: Byron Tapley: Leading effort to measure variations in Earth's gravity.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              114 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 26, 1997

1997 market similar to, yet differs from, 1987; Interest rates and

BYLINE: Robert O'Brien

SECTION: Weekly Business Review; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words


NEW YORK -- Here's a prediction that's sure to come true: Once summer gives way
to autumn, investors will be treated to a blizzard of stories commemorating the
10th anniversary of the 1987 crash.

The topic is easy pickings for the lazy market commentator (journalists
included), and just as easy for investors to dismiss.

Should they dismiss it? Probably.

But certainly there is some hesitation, or fear, in anybody with the memory to
see that, as good as things look in the stock market right now, they looked just
as good back in the warm-weather months 10 years ago.

Then, like now, it was the summer of love on Wall Street. Investors adored
stocks, especially in the oil, beverage and drug industries.

The Dow Jones industrial average reached new highs nine times in July of that
year. At its current pace, this market will hit new highs about 12 times this
month.

In 1987, corporate America was acquitting itself well. Many companies had
launched programs aimed at improving productivity, and the results were already
beginning to show up in the bottom line.

Meanwhile, a host of companies looked to further shore up their share prices
with ambitious stock-repurchase plans. Also, businesses were consolidating at a
pace never seen before as mergers swept across a host of industries.

If that sounds familiar, it should. Earnings growth in this year's second
quarter is running at a 12 percent clip. In the first six months of 1997, $336
billion worth of corporate assets got together through mergers, an all-time
record. And share repurchases reached $87 billion in the first half, also a
record.

But if those characteristics were so wonderful in 1987, why did the October
crash happen? And if those conditions are repeating themselves now, will we
crash again?

There is a difference

For all the similarities on the corporate landscape between 1987 and today,
there are some distinguishing characteristics, particularly the difference in
the economic backdrop.

In 1987, inflation had begun to perk up early in the year. In early July, the
equities market hit a pothole when rumors swept through Wall Street that the
June report on consumer prices would show the Consumer Price Index rose 1
percent for the month.

The actual number, an increase of 0.4 percent, then came as a measure of relief.
But that number was unpleasantly strong, its inflationary force masked only by
the favorable comparisons to expectations.

There were other indicators of inflation. Gold prices reached $450 an ounce,
buoying the price of gold stocks. In the summer of 1987, shares of Homestake
Mining rose as high as $48 from a low of $25 at the start of the year, and
Newmont Mining climbed to over $102 from a low of $61.

By comparison, gold prices this summer are more than 25 percent off the levels
of 10 years ago, reflecting the dimmed inflation threat. Gold now trades at $320
an ounce, while shares of precious metals stocks have sunk to a fraction of
their 1987 levels.

But the bigger difference between these two eras is in the interest-rate
backdrop. In July 1987, the long bond was returning 9 percent -- or nearly 50
percent higher than the current yield of 6.5 percent.

With real interest rates that high, the economy was sure to stumble or inflation
pressure would have to grow to help maintain corporate profit growth. In fact,
both happened.

Current conditions encouraging

By contrast, the current fundamental picture is remarkably encouraging. The
labor market is nearly fully employed, but there has been no indication of wage
inflation. The consumer, who makes up two-thirds of U.S. economic activity,
remains acutely sensitive to any move up in prices for goods and services.
Profit growth is coming out of increased efficiency, not pricing strategies.

The it's the economy, stupid'' style of thinking that won the Clinton team the
presidency in 1992 has persisted five years later. The economy is so strong that
some experts now argue that the business cycle has been eradicated. There will
be no boom, no bust, just steady, reliable progress.

One of the keys to that economic change -- technological innovation -- also
explains why this stock market is more resilient than could be said of the 1987
environment.

Back then, the household names in technology were IBM, Apple, Cray Research,
Unisys, and National Cash Register -- some of which seem today like the answers
to trivia questions. They, along with other U.S. manufacturers, were seen as
highly vulnerable to incursions from foreign competitors.

Today the true technology bellwethers are companies like Microsoft and Intel,
companies that dominate their respective businesses in a way that suggests
they're unlikely to surrender their global leadership anytime soon.

In a lot of ways, the fundamental case for the current bull market is
dramtically different from what it was 10 years ago, particularly the extent to
which Americans participate in the equities market.

Today more than half of all U.S. households invest in the market either directly
through a stock purchase or indirectly through mutual funds. That's a 50 percent
increase over levels 10 years ago. In June 1987, less than $5 billion flowed to
equity mutual funds; this past June, that total was $18 billion.

Such bliss doesn't make this bull bulletproof. If history proves one thing, it's
that every single bull market has ended, one way or another. But it does suggest
that the culprit won't be the same.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              118 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                December 7, 1997

LOOK WHAT'S UNDER THE TREE; It's oh, so easy to hunt down that

BYLINE: MIKE LEGGETT

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C8

LENGTH: 1191 words


As far back as memory takes me, I can remember asking for things like boxes of
shotgun shells and camouflage clothing as Christmas gifts.

But even though I had no interest in going places where either would be out of
place, mothers and wives have a hard time with the concept. It's taken awhile,
but as I close in swiftly on my 50th birthday, I can honestly say that most of
what I receive these days brings a smile to my face.

That's as it should be, of course, for every person with an outdoors bent. Many
times, however, relatives and friends, especially the ones who don't hunt or
fish, can be blown away by the sheer number and variety of gadgets, clothes and
equipment on the market today.

Being always the helpful sort, I figured I might help out with a list of
possible Christmas gifts for the hunter or angler on your shopping list. A word
of warning, though. What follows is meant to be neither comprehensive nor
scientific. It is, though, a goodly portion of the things I wouldn't mind
finding under my Christmas tree in a few weeks. If what you want isn't on here,
make your own list. And away we go:

Gadgets

If there's somebody on your list who likes bells and whistles, consider a
Bushnell Laser Ranging System. This new version sells for $298 in the 400-yard
range and doesn't have the inaccuracy problems of the older models. There are
1,000-yard versions, too, but they cost more money, up to $3,300 for Leica and
Swarovski.

Buck, Gerber, Leatherman and other manufacturers make some version of the
multi-purpose tool made popular by Leatherman. They range in price from $15 for
cheap Taiwan models, to $75 for the super-tool models. All have something going
for them, with knives, screwdrivers, needle-nose and regular pliers, awls,
drills and files, among the tools included in one piece.

Lansky Sharpeners remain the standard by which I judge everything also. There
are others on the market, but Lansky definitely has staked out the most
territory. The basic three-stone system sells for about $30, with tricked-out
diamond models ranging to around $80.

To have something to sharpen, you might look to Buck and Gerber knives. The
super-sharp Gerber Gator sells for as little as $30 and the new Buck Cross-Lock,
with blade and gut hook, sells for around $50. Browning also makes quality
knives for the hunting market.

There is a laser sighting system available for almost every gun on the market.
Crimson Trace makes one that fits into the handle of your pistol. It sells for
$249.

You can put that gun, or any long gun, in a soft-sided case from Take Cover that
is lined with a permeable fabric that keeps the metal soaked with oil. The oil
is already inside the case. That sells for $24 for pistols and $60 for long
runs.

Any good outdoor store will have gun-cleaning kits, starting at around $15 for
very basic stuff and ranging to more than $100 with rods and heads for rifles,
pistols and shotguns.

For the shooter in the crowd, there are shooting glasses, with fixed or
interchangeable lenses. Figure $50-$100 for quality products from Ray Ban and
others.

Leupold makes its Lens Pen for use cleaning lenses on scopes, binoculars and
even cameras. Less than $15.

Clothes

Browning, Lewis Creek, Filson, Woolrich. You pick the quality name, they've
begun manufacturing high-end clothing and accessories for the outdoor market.
Among the best are Lewis Creek shirts, $40 and up, to Filson waxed cotton
jackets, $200. Browning also makes a waxed cotton jacket for slightly less
money, and all the companies are making shirts and pants of cotton and khaki
fabrics suitable for use in the field or around the fireplace at night.

Wool gloves and socks never go out of style and never seem to go up in price
very much. Figure $10-$30 for any wool product. Pants and coats obviously cost
more.

Polar fleece is popular these days, in underwear and in some outer garments. A
fleece shirt costs around $50 and the pants about the same.

Guns

My favorite category. Browning has broken into the 31/2-inch, 12-gauge shotgun
market with the Browning Gold model $799. This gas-operated shotgun should come
in a fiberglass, matte finish next year and still sell for about the same money.
Compare to the Benelli, the best out there right now, at nearly $1,200.

Weatherby has a new lightweight, synthetic stock rifle on the market that sells
for $595. It is available in .270 right now, but should be available in standard
American calibers soon. The gun feels and looks good and should deliver the
reliable Weatherby accuracy the manufacturer is known for.

Marlin and Browning both are making a variety of guns with an eye to the Old
West. They are producing cowboy kind of saddle guns in Old West calibers like
.30-30, .38-55 and .45-70.

Accessories

This may be the fastest growing part of the outdoor equipment business,
especially in quality multi-use bags and carrying cases. Filson and Boyt are the
major suppliers, both producing overnight kind of travel bags for $150-$300.
They are made of leather, Cordura and even waxed cotton. There are shooting
bags, kit bags and full-sized luggage as well.

Shooting gloves are designed to do more than just keep your hands warm. They
also allow better contact with the shotgun and can keep you from burning your
hands during a hot summer dove shoot. They cost from $20-$50 and can be all
leather or synthetic fabric.

Shotgun shells. Figure a cost of $6 to $7 per box for quality heavy load shells
for dove and quail hunting. Cases are 10 boxes, usually with a 10 percent
discount for volume buying.

Fishing

You can spend a bundle today on any of the new breed of super fast low-profile
testing reels. The best of the lot are Shimano's, with the best drag and
retrieve mechanisms I've ever used. Curado models $110-$120. Calcutta,
$170-$200.

How about a float tube for the fly angler closest to your heart? They have
everything from drink holders to built-in tackle boxes. $100 and up including
the tube.

Lures. Take $50, go to any store and fill up a sack with plastic worms. Power
Worms are the most coveted brand right now, but many outlets have worm bars
where you can fill a wheel barrow for $50.

Electronics

Start with the latest I want it'': the GPS unit. GPS stands for Global
Positioning Satellite, and there are multiple models available that do
everything from helping you locate your hunting camp to navigating you through
city traffic.

Garmin has a model with internal maps, meaning you don't have to buy a separate
unit. It can be mounted on your dashboard for automobile travel through any area
in the Americas. It also has a world map unit available. It is detailed to .2
miles and can be removed for use in the field. $449.

Other GPS units sell for $150 and up.

Sport radios are becoming more and more popular. You can buy a set of two for as
little as $150, but you can also spend considerably more for longer ranges and
bells and whistles.

Mike Leggett writes about the outdoors on Thursdays and Sundays. He hosts a
radio talk show, The Great Outdoors, on KVET-AM (1300), Saturdays from 6-8 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christmas ideas: Boyt canvas travel bag, $215; Filson canvas shooting
bag, $78.25; Bushnell Laser Ranging System, $298; Leatherman Super Tool, $75;
Leupold Lenspen, $14.20; Gerber Gator knife, $30.95. And this is just a
sampling.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              123 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 27, 1997

A healthy group of non-surfers decline to test the Net waters

BYLINE: gregory kallenberg

SECTION: XL Ent; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words


I am told that there is a mythical place, a dark place, where the Internet isn't
such a big deal. A place where the term information superhighway'' means
nothing. A land where the ISDN line doesn't excite and the thought of a T1 line
doesn't even slightly warm the cockles of its inhabitants' hearts. It is a place
full of people who don't know the difference between .com and .org and really
couldn't care less.

You, the Webphile, might think that this is a place out of a macabre fairy tale
book meant to give the techno savvy person, like yourself, nightmares. You might
also think that the people mentioned above are Luddites who hail from faraway
lands. Think again, cybersnobs!  Those people are right here in Austin.
Further, they are cool, they are hip, they are smart, they are in touch. They
are people like Beth Frydman and her fiance, Jason Richard.

Beth is the lead singer and Jason plays guitar in a local band called Quatropaw.
She has only seen the Internet twice, and he claims to have only seen a couple
of Web sites.'' A fan, however, did set up a Web site for their band. They have
yet to see it, but they have heard that it exists.  Despite not seeing their
site, they don't feel that they have missed anything.  I don't think that we
have been adversely affected by not being on the Net. We're trying to build a
grassroots following, and I don't really see a need for it right now,'' said
Frydman.

Richard adds, I know a couple of friends who have sold a couple of albums on the
Internet. Without sounding arrogant, selling a couple more albums won't make us
superstars.''

Unfortunately, this couple is the rule, not the exception.

Once you tally up your e-mail list and chat room pals, it is easy to think that
there are only a few people who are not online. That is most certainly not the
case. There is a large population of people out there who are not on the Web and
really don't care to be. David Cook, host of the Internet show on KGSR, thinks
that this is due, in part, to where the Internet is in its development.  I think
the Internet provides valuable resources, but it is still viewed by many as
entertainment or a playground,'' wrote Cook in an e-mail interview.

The fact that it is viewed by some as a playground'' hinders the recruitment of
more Internet users. As many of us know, the Web isn't just for play, it is a
valuable information-gathering and communication tool. Beth understands this and
still isn't interested. She said that she would love to use it to communicate
with her sister in Israel but that, in itself, is not enough to get her to
connect to the Internet.

Brad Schlosser of Schlosser Development is another person who is not online. To
him, the Web is just not a priority.  I just haven't taken the time to learn
about the medium. It's really a time thing, I'm just too busy.'' Schlosser knows
that the Internet is steadily being used by more people, but it is still not to
the point that he feels that it is absolutely necessary for him to be on the
information superhighway. For people like Brad, the Internet will have to get to
the point where the medium justifies the amount of time needed to learn and
utilize it.

The justification of time might be a problem for people like Brad,'' wrote Cook.
Especially if the Internet remains a secondary form of communication.''

So how do we lure people like Brad, Jason and Beth to the Internet? How do we
show them that the Web is a worthwile place to be? According to David Cook, we
must show them three things:

1) Show them the Internet's relevance.  We have to show them the way it can be
used in everyday life from information- gathering to communication.

2) Show them that it's easy. This will come with the further development of
easier-to-use interfaces and easier-to-use computers.

3) Improve speeds. The modem speeds have to be increased so as to make
information-gathering instantaneous. Most people expect the Net to be like
television and won't embrace it until it becomes more like it.

As a conclusion, Cook writes that Brad, Jason and Beth won't truly embrace the
Internet until they find it a necessary part of their lives.  I won't buy an
electric drill until I know it can help me.  Even when I know my life will be
easier with an electric drill, I won't purchase one until I have to have it.''

warez:

There were two very different reactions to last week's column on graphic user
interfaces (GUIs): 1) Cool, where can I get more information on interfaces? and
2) Huh?

Taking both reactions into account, there is a book by local author Theo Mandel
called THE ELEMENTS OF USER INTERFACE DESIGN'' that addresses the idea of GUIs
from its most basic definition to the more complicated concept of designing
them. Mandel, who has a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology, deals a lot with the
human thought process and how it can be used to design the ultimate
user-friendly interface. Available at Bookpeople, $34.95.

site-seer:

WWW.PAPERMAG.COM -- The other day I wasn't feeling cool. That is, until I tuned
in to Papermag. Papermag is New York's weekly tribute to what's cool, and now
you can be part of their Global Downtown Connection.''

USACITYLINK.COM/EASTER/HUNT.HTML -- USA Citylink is doing another online holiday
(as if St. Patrick's Day word games weren't enough). This time it's Easter and
they're having a virtual Easter egg hunt. Participants will surf their site
looking for graphical eggs. Whoever finds the most eggs wins. Before you start
laughing at the idea of looking for graphic eggs on a Web site, you should know
that the winner gets $1,000 in cold, hard cash.

EDIE.CPROST.SFU.CA/IT -- If virtual egg hunts are your thing, then you are going
to love this: a virtual cooking contest.  This site contains all the rules to
compete in the Internet's first virtual'' bake- off. Send your recipes for pies,
cakes, cookies, soups, etc. to the address shown. Winners will be prominently
displayed on the site after judging.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              132 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 16, 1997

Clinton foibles are overplayed, CNN chief says

BYLINE: Diane Holloway

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 611 words


PASADENA, Calif. -- Today's White House reporters are as likely to ask a
president about his extra-marital affairs as they are to question him about
foreign policy.

Gone are the days when those reporters respectfully covered the president's
official duties and ignored the private scandals.

We all know a great deal about President Clinton,'' CNN president Tom Johnson
told TV critics this week.  But do we know too much? The private sex lives of
public figures should remain private, unless it has an impact on their
government service. I do think this has gone too far.''

Covering the White House is an important function of CNN, an all- news cable
channel. This week, a trio of the people involved reflected on the changes that
have occurred in the past decade and the impact those changes have had on
politics and journalism.

There's much greater scrutiny of the president's foibles,'' said CNN's Wolf
Blitzer, who has covered Clinton since 1992.  We're all reporting scandals and
embarrassing allegations, from the Paula Jones case to campaign funding. There
seems to be an endless amount of scandals, and we go into excruciating,
sometimes sordid detail. These questions were never asked of government
officials in the past.''

As the '96 election showed, voters don't seem to be deterred by negative
personal stories. Clinton was re-elected, and his popularity remains relatively
high. Voters dismissed Clinton's scandals at the polls, just as voters dismissed
hints of personal improprieties involving Presidents Reagan and Bush.

Meanwhile, the public's perception of the press increasingly is less favorable,
and the focus on scandals continues.

People say they don't care about the scandals, but then they say they think
Clinton will be primarily remembered for them,'' said CNN Washington bureau
chief Frank Sesno.  I think Clinton has been extremely lucky. He's riding the
tide of peace and economic prosperity. He'd be in the gutter if that weren't the
case.''

From a journalistic standpoint, covering the White House seems to be a
schizophrenic existence.  The beat is among the most prestigious assignments, a
fiercely competitive job that affords reporters considerable power and
visibility. And yet some Washington journalists feel reluctant to follow the
path they are taking.

It's been virtually a nonstop, breathless experience trying to keep up with
President Clinton,'' Blitzer said.  This is a president who makes day trips to
Budapest and Bosnia. ... At the same time, we are forced to try and keep in
perspective all these scandals and the substantive news of the day.''

As reporting has become more personal, the White House's relationship with
reporters has become more contentious and access more restricted. Blitzer noted
that Clinton used to banter with reporters at photo opportunities but now limits
his remarks to formal press conferences.

Sesno, who covered the White House for The Associated Press before joining CNN
in 1984, believes the climate of cynicism in the country and the decline in
power of the political parties has contributed to the problem. Instead of taking
on the president themselves, the opposing political party now goes through the
media.

The result of personal reporting and the declining relationship between
politicians and the media has had a profound effect on the political process.

I think it has deterred lot of good people from going into government service,''
Blitzer said.  They just don't want to be hassled. It restricts the pool of
available talent. It's the price we pay for this type of coverage, but I don't
think we can put the genie back in the bottle.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              139 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 16, 1997

Colombia's coffee perks up; Higher prices have given small farms a

BYLINE: Paul Haven

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 931 words


SAN PEREGRINO, Colombia -- A cup of coffee in hand, Rosa Maria Lopez sits in her
modest house surrounded by row after row of shoulder-high coffee trees and
counts herself lucky.

Her 20-acre farm regularly lost money after an international accord between
coffee-producing and coffee-consuming nations fell apart eight years ago,
sending prices into free fall.

Drought and disease made matters worse, yielding several bad crops in Colombia,
which is second only to Brazil in coffee production.

But now, with coffee prices at the far-off New York Mercantile Exchange sharply
higher and holding steady, the 76-year-old Lopez sees a brighter future. She's
happy she's still in what has been her family's business for most of this
century.

I know people who sold their farms when coffee prices dropped, and they're a lot
worse off today.  They bought a car or an apartment in the city, and now the
money is gone and they have no land and no work,'' Lopez said, sitting under a
faded prewar photo of her coffee farmer parents.

For those who stuck to their farms here in the lush coffee belt, the 1997 fall
harvest promises at least a breather from hard times and perhaps the beginning
of a recovery for Colombia's most famous legal industry.

On May 30, coffee prices hit an unprecedented $3.26 a pound, up from less than
$1 a pound at the height of the coffee bust. Though prices have since settled to
just above $2 a pound, coffee is still very profitable.

This year's average price should be the best since 1989, a boon to Colombia,
which produces 14 percent of the world's coffee supply.

In the first seven months of the year, Colombia's coffee revenue was $1.1
billion, nearly 60 percent higher than the same period a year ago in spite of a
slight drop in yield. Despite the coming this year of the weather phenomenon El
Nino, industry leaders expect above-average volume once the full harvest is in.

They say El Nino's most severe effects won't hit Colombia's coffee region until
November, after the harvest has ended.

This has been a very good year for the coffee industry after a long and deep
crisis,'' said Jorge Cardenas, president of the National Coffee Growers
Federation, which represents most of Colombia's 300,000 farms.

Nearly all the farms are owned by people like Lopez, small farmers who have
harvested coffee for decades -- not to get rich, but to put food on the table.

The crisis hasn't ended, unfortunately, because we need more time at these price
levels ... but nobody can complain,'' Cardenas said.

During the coffee crisis, thousands sold their farms or changed crops, some
spurred by the coffee federation, which periodically offers buyouts to fight
overproduction.

Many who stuck it out have let coffee trees grow old and cut costs by skimping
on fertilizer, making their farms less productive.

Modernization -- increasing productivity while cutting costs -- is the
industry's No. 1 challenge'' and will take at least a decade, said Gabriel
Rosas, a former agriculture minister who leads the Co lombian Coffee Exporters
Associa tion.

Some extra costs will always be inherent.

Colombian arabica trees produce some of the world's finest coffee. But because
of the coffee belt's moderate climate, they are also the most costly to harvest.
The trees must be picked by hand because the tiny fruits holding the coffee
beans ripen at different rates, even on the same tree.

Day laborers are paid about 5 cents a pound to pick the fruits, which are then
husked and separated from the beans.

At least I'm not hungry,'' said worker Orlando Castano, 31. He smokes a
cigarette and hums to himself at the Sebastopol farm near San Peregrino as he
swiftly tosses the red fruits into a plastic basket hanging from his neck.

After paying the farm owner for food, Castano will make about $5.50 for the day,
less than Colombia's minimum wage.

The pay doesn't sound like much, but coffee leaders say their industry's
distribution of wealth makes coffee far more beneficial to the country than oil,
Colombia's leading export industry, which employs far fewer people.

The livelihoods of more than 4 million Colombians, roughly one in eight, depend
either directly or indirectly on coffee, says the coffee federation.

The federation guarantees a market for local farmers, setting a minimum price
and promising to buy all coffee brought to its branches. When international
prices are low, the federation takes a loss.

Cardenas says the federation fund that props up domestic prices, $120 million in
debt when the year began, will be in the black by the end of September.

A percentage of all coffee export revenue is placed in the fund, used for
everything from promoting Colombian coffee with the fictional, poncho-clad Juan
Valdez to bailing out indebted farmers and improving coffee belt infrastructure.

The relative wealth of this region of green rolling hills about 95 miles west of
Bogota is evidenced by its clean streets, running water and electricity, and by
the near absence of the rebels and paramilitaries that help make Colombia among
the world's most violent countries.

Segundo Cardona, a cheerful 64- year-old coffee farmer who lives up the road
from Lopez, said getting through the past seven years cost him his life savings.
But he said, he's starting to put money away again.

I've received a lot of offers to sell my farm ... but they haven't even tickled
my interest,'' he said, looking over a row of knee-high young trees.  Everything
goes through its bad times, but the least bad is always coffee.''

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  An agronomist inspects a coffee tree at the Sebastopol farm near San
Peregrino in Colombia's coffee-growing region at the end of July. High
international prices and a promising 1997 harvest are cheering up Colombia's
coffee growers.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              143 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               December 22, 1997

The Great Switch; The fathers of the transistor followed a dramatic

BYLINE: KEVIN COUGHLIN

SECTION: Business; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 2172 words


AT&T historian Sheldon Hochheiser has pulled the dogeared notebooks of
physicists Walter Brattain and John Bardeen from the climate-controlled vault
they share with Alexander Graham Bell's 1876 telephone patent. Hochheiser
handles the notebooks gingerly; these are the sacred scrolls of the digital age.
They record an event that occurred in Murray Hill, N.J., not far from
Hochheiser's office.

Hochheiser points out a page of neat script with a diagram. The date of the
writing is Dec. 23, 1947. The place: Bell Laboratories' Building 1, Section E,
fourth floor. The writer: cowboy physicist Walter Brattain.

Value gain 100, power gain 40 . . . This circuit was actually spoken over and by
switching the device in and out a distinct gain in speech level could be heard .
. . with no noticeable change in quality.''

With that observation, Hochheiser explains, the transistor was born. And with
the transistor, the Information Age, a wave of technological change now shaking
the world economy to its foundations.

The cowboy and his quiet partner, John Bardeen, would not immediately comprehend
the potential of their invention. Nor would the corporate chieftains of AT&T,
who finally gave the technology away. The man who supervised Brattain and
Bardeen, William Shockley, was more perceptive. Confrontational and
controversial, Shockley saw that transistors could be made from silicon and took
the invention to California's Santa Clara Valley.

The story of the transistor is part Hollywood epic, part Greek tragedy. It's a
story of loyalty and loathing, of myopic men who missed a chance and men of
vision who took it and changed the world. But most of all it's the story of an
idea _ one of overpowering, world-conquering simplicity.

What is a transistor, anyway?

It's a switch, that's all it is, an on and off switch,'' says Dan Hutcheson, who
tracks the semiconductor industry at VLSI Research in San Jose, Calif.
Electrical power enters at one end and, when the switch lets it through, goes
out the other.

Such a switch is crucial to digital communications, which requires that all
information _ from simple numbers to richly detailed video and cinema _
ultimately be represented with various combinations of only two symbols, the
numbers one and zero.

Our entire economy is driven by the ability to manipulate ones and zeros,''
Hutcheson muses.  Switch on, a one. Switch off, a zero.''

Shockley in charge

The history of the transistor starts with Bell Labs researcher Mervin Kelly.
Destined to become president of Bell Labs, Kelly in the 1930s focused on
improving the efficiency of AT&T's telephone switching systems. At the time,
telephone calls were amplified and routed through a complicated combination of
vacuum tubes and relay switches. Kelly thought semiconductors might do a better
job.

The term semi'' means half. It denotes materials that conduct electrical current
only under certain conditions, or in a special way _ not just passing the
current through, like copper.

Under Kelly's leadership, a Bell Labs team was searching for materials that
could produce solid state'' amplification _ that is, amplification of electrical
current in a solid material, instead of a vacuum tube. In 1936 Kelly hired a
promising Ph.D. from MIT named Bill Shockley and put him in charge.

Shockley was a fierce competitor with a showman's flair. Hopping with mercurial
energy, he enlivened scientific presentations with magic tricks. Awed colleagues
joked that Shockley could actually see electrons, says Gordon Moore, an
associate who later became a founder of Intel.

At first the Schockley team experimented with copper oxide. Just after World War
II, Kelly directed the team to focus on germanium and silicon and something
called the field effect.''

The cowboy and the quiet man

Shockley put two subordinates on the case _ two physicists as different as they
were close.

One was the outspoken Walter Brattain.

Walter Brattain was a cowboy, an extrovert. He had strong opinions, smoked like
a chimney, and said what he believed in a loud voice,'' says Ian Ross, who rose
through the ranks at Bell Labs to lead the organization from 1979 to 1991.

The other man was Brattain's friend Whispering John'' Bardeen.

Conyers Herring, now an emeritus professor of physics at Stanford, says
Bardeen's gift for physics was magisterial, in the realm of Beethoven's gift for
music. Bardeen had an intuition for the way nature worked in a given
situation,'' says Herring. But Bardeen had trouble expressing himself. He would
ponder so long before replying to questions, people would wonder whether he had
a hearing problem, says his son William.

Together, the cowboy and the quiet man made their historic discovery almost by
accident.

They were using germanium crystals to try to demonstrate the field effect''
Shockley was interested in, and getting nowhere. Bardeen thought ambient
electrical charges on the surface of the crystals might be preventing
penetration of the controlling electrical charge into the material.

Ever the tinkerer, Brattain tried to alter the surface using chemicals. The men
devised a V-shaped wedge of germanium with a strip of gold foil on each side of
the V. A spring-like contraption pressed the gold contacts onto the germanium
base. The germanium was attached to a third electrode that would introduce the
field'' or controlling charge. Power went down one side of the V, into the
semiconductor, and came out the other side of the V. Lab instruments showed the
current had been amplified in the semiconductor.

Value gain 100, power gain 40,'' Brattain wrote.

One Bell Labs researcher wanted to call the new device a semiconductor triode.''
Another suggested iotatron.'' Brattain asked a science-fiction-writing friend
for other suggestions. The friend, John Pierce, now 87 and living in California,
recalls that the right name came swiftly. It was a play on transconductance''
and transresistance,'' he explains. The -or'' ending was then in vogue, he
remembered, with thermistors, resistors, varistors.

Why shouldn't there be a transistor?'' Pierce told Brattain.

AT&T unveiled the transistor at a New York press conference on June 30, 1948.
The New York Times was underwhelmed, reporting the news at the bottom of its
News of Radio'' column on page 46.

Shockley's initial reaction to the invention was mixed.

My elation with the group's success was tempered by not being one of the
inventors. I experienced frustration that my personal efforts, started more than
eight years before, had not resulted in a significant inventive contribution of
my own,'' he wrote in 1976.

Commercially practical

But within a month Shockley had crafted the concept of the junction transistor,
a refinement that would make transistors commercially practical in 1951.
Shockley's version was more reliable and easier to mass-produce than the
point-contact transistor.

Though the original transistor was used to route long-distance calls and in
radar systems for Nike-Ajax guided missiles, it never found much of a market.
That's why Shockley's contributions today are widely put on a par with those of
Brattain and Bardeen.

Shockley made a very major contribution to the transistor's development, and I
think one that is equally important to that of Brattain and Bardeen,'' says
William Brinkman, vice president for physical research at Bell Labs.

They would not have invented the transistor without him,'' says Shockley
biographer Joel Shurkin.

But Brattain and Bardeen saw things differently. Brattain bristled at publicity
photos showing Shockley posed between himself and Bardeen at Brattain's work
bench _ as though Shockley were one of the inventors. Bardeen left Bell Labs in
1951, complaining that Shockley had frozen him out of further transistor
research.

AT&T had bigger problems _ brought about, in part, by the broad-based
technological dominance of Bell Labs _ and these would play a key role in the
future of the invention. In 1949, the Justice Department began an antitrust
action. To mollify the antitrust forces, Kelly began sharing AT&T technology.

Bardeen's son says the inventors signed their rights over to Bell Labs for $1 _
standard procedure for researchers there. Texas Instruments, RCA, General
Electric, Raytheon and Sony were among the companies that paid to license the
rights.

AT&T passes

The biggest customer for these companies was the military. Transistors cost more
and were less dependable than vacuum tubes, at first. But they were smaller and
sturdier. They were used in mortar fuses during the Korean War. In 1954, a Bell
Labs facility built the first transistorized computer for the Nike missile
system.

Transistors worked as amplifiers, yes. But the same technology made a great
switch for computer technology. You turned the incoming signal all the way up,
the switch was on. You turned it all the way down, it was off.

Hearing aids were the first commercial product. AT&T waived royalties to honor
Alexander Graham Bell's interest in the deaf. Bardeen's wife became one of the
first users.

Ian Ross insists that AT&T shared the transistor patents in order to hasten
advances that might improve telephone service. Even so, the company took its
time integrating transistors into the phone network. The first central office
converted from mechanical to electrical switches in 1965.

Trouble was, AT&T just didn't trust the new technology. After all, lives
depended on telephones.

We designed phone equipment to have one hour of down time in 20 years. Have you
ever seen a main-frame computer that could do that? They're down every week,''
says the retired Ross.

The same concerns kept Bell Labs from developing the microchip, Ross says. AT&T
wanted functional devices that would last 40 years. Integrated circuits were too
risky for Ma Bell.

But not for the dauntless Bill Shockley.

Changing history, Shockley quit AT&T and took the transistor west. In a
converted Quonset hut in Mountain View, Calif., he set up Shockley Semiconductor
in 1955. His new company immediately licensed the transistor patents from AT&T.

On radio in 1949, Shockley had predicted that the transistor would be the ideal
nerve cell'' for computers. He had come to understand that silicon would be the
medium for the transistor's development. Found in sand, silicon was cheap. It
was nature's second most-abundant element, yet it had electrical qualities
superior to those of the much-rarer germanium.

A cast of future tech luminaries soon came together at Shockley Semiconductor.

Among them were Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce. Noyce later became co-inventor of
the integrated circuit _ a silicon chip containing multiple transistors _ and a
co-founder of Intel with Moore.

'The Traitorous Eight'

But the talent didn't stick around very long.

He hired a lot of us and gave us the incentive to run off and do something
ourselves,'' says Moore.

As Moore charitably puts it, Shockley had some peculiar'' motivational ideas. He
considered posting everyone's salary on a bulletin board. When a secretary
pricked her finger on a door, he suspected sabotage and tried to root out the
culprits with lie-detector tests.

Shockley's management style prompted eight employees _ Noyce and Moore among
them _ to form Fairchild Semiconductor, just a mile from Shockley Semiconductor.
In the annals of electronics, the group became known as The Traitorous Eight.''
The site is known today as the birthplace of Silicon Valley _ a designation
Shockley would no doubt dispute.

The Traitorous Eight set the pattern for the valley. Suddenly, it was OK to
ditch your employer and compete against him. In the same manner, Noyce and Moore
would leave Fairchild to found Intel. It was there that the microprocessor _
brain of the modern desktop computer _ was developed in 1971.

Today, advances in photochemical techniques enable manufacturers to double the
number of microscopic transistors on a semiconductor chip every 18 months,
spawning a similarly great increase in the power of computers and other digital
devices. Moore has calculated that the number of transistors now exceeds the
number of ants in the world.

Though they won the Nobel Prize for their work on transistors in 1956, the
inventors never viewed their legacy in grandiose terms.

The only regret I have about the transistor is its use for rock and roll
music,'' Brattain said in 1980, seven years before his death at age 85.

Shockley told Playboy Magazine in 1980 that he regarded his transistor work as
less important than his controversial genetics research. He died in 1989 at age
79.

As for Bardeen, he ranked his transistor achievement behind his 1972 Nobel Prize
for the theory of superconductivity, which describes how electricity can pass
through a material without losing energy.

The implications of superconductivity were more scientific than commercial,
Bardeen said, and made him prouder. He died at age 82 in 1991.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The original point-contact transistor used nonmetallic germanium.//Key
researchers involved in developing transistors, from left: John Bardeen, William
Shockley and Walter H. Brattain.John // When his friend Walter Brattain asked
for a catchy name for his new invention 50 years ago, science fiction writer
John Pierce, above, came up with transistor.// At left, pages in one of Walter
Brattain's lab notebooks describe the first transistor, which he and John
Bardeen invented 50 years ago.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              148 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 9, 1997

Bikes, cars must coexist

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 385 words


As Austin Bike Week (May 3-10) winds down, it is a good time to reflect on the
growing need for motorists and bicyclists to coexist peacefully on Austin
streets.

Conflicts between impatient drivers and inconsiderate cyclists are an everyday
occurence in Austin. But both modes of transportation are here to stay, and
riders and drivers fulminating about each other isn't going to change that.

Austin is still compact enough between the major north-south and east- west
highways to make cycling a preferred means of travel for thousands who live and
work in town. The central location of the University of Texas and the absence of
adequate parking around it also encourage cycling.

The advantages of bicycling are numerous: Bikes don't pollute, they provide
great exercise and don't require a parking space. Add to that Austin's mild
climate and increasing traffic hassles, and it's a perfect recipe for enjoyable
biking.

Cyclists, like drivers, fall into two broad categories: those who are cautious,
aware and considerate and those who aren't. Both types of cyclists are found on
our streets, highways and the hike-and-bike trail, and both types of drivers are
behind the wheel.

Coexistence is important because the situation is not going to change much.
Cyclists will always be pedaling Austin streets, and they will always be a tiny
minority among the autos. It is futile to argue which has the greater right to
the traffic lane because both will be there.

City and regional planners give a certain amount of attention to cyclists, more
than bicycling attracts in many urban areas. But most of the city is not
bike-friendly territory. As traffic has doubled in the Austin area, bike-car
confrontations -- sometimes fatal to the overmatched cyclist -- have become more
common.

While there is considerable community and governmental interest in accommodating
biking and making it a safer activity in Austin, there is a limit to what can be
done. There will never be enough bike lanes for truly safe cycling, and cars and
trucks will dominate the city streets for the forseeable future.

Acknowledging that reality is the first step to peaceful coexistence. After that
comes our appeal to consideration and cooperation for all who travel the mean
streets, whether on two wheels or four.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              150 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  June 3, 1997

Philly fanatics fight Cold War

BYLINE: BY KEITH GAVE

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 828 words


A

PHILADELPHIA -- The Cold War isn't over after all.

Nyet, nyet, nyet. At least not here in America's cradle of liberty, the
so-called city of brotherly love where hatred is being celebrated in these
Stanley Cup finals.

We should not be surprised.  This is Philadelphia, after all, where such
thinking is commemorated on the front page of the local newspaper.

This is a city that reveres a Flyers team that felt compelled to defend this
continent's honor by so physically abusing a visiting Soviet team, it nearly
refused to finish a game.

This is a city that honors perhaps its greatest sports hero for using his stick
to break the ankle of a Soviet star in the 1972 series between hockey's two
superpowers.

This is a city that began this Stanley Cup finals series with a public rally in
which Detroit's stars were referred to as dirty stinking rotten Russians,'' a
city that could set detente back more than 40 years, a city nearly as
preoccupied with red-baiting as Sen.  Joe McCarthy in the early 1950s.

This is a city that should be ashamed of itself. Somebody should tell these
people that the Iron Curtain has crumbled, that the Berlin Wall has fallen, that
communism, for all practical purposes, is dead, that there really was no need to
build a bomb shelter beneath the sparkling new CoreStates Center, that the
opponent is not Red Army but the Red Wings.

Oh, and by the way, this is a city whose hockey team is trailing 1-0 in the
best-of-seven championship series because of a winning goal by Detroit's Sergei
Fedorov, who probably should watch his ankles.

Game two is tonight, and anybody whose name ends in ov'' is a target. But that's
nothing new in this town.

I don't know why people hate us,'' said Igor Larionov, whose hammer and sickle
on his jersey has been replaced by a winged wheel.  When we go on the road,
people hate us, maybe because they don't want to see some Russians kick some
butt of the Americans.

But what can we do? We can't really change that. It's a lack of intelligence,
that's all.''

In the 1972 Superseries, when the Soviets were embarrassing Canada, Team
Canada's Bob Clarke, the Flyers captain, told his teammates he would take care
of the late Valery Kharlamov, arguably the greatest player Russia has produced.
And he did, using his stick to break the Russian's ankle.

Against the Flyers in '76, Kharlamov again was a target for abuse when Ed Van
Impe left the penalty box and skated across the ice, leveling the Russian star
with a thunderous hit. Soviet Coach Viktor Tikhonov pulled his team off the ice
in protest. After a 16-minute delay in which NHL officials told the Soviets they
wouldn't be paid if they didn't play, the game resumed. The Flyers scored 30
seconds later and won, 4-1.

At a luncheon before that game, Flyers owner Ed Snider addressed both teams and
had planned to end his speech with a Russian phrase, vsyevo khoroshevo, which
means best of luck. After much rehearsing, Snider never used it.

I didn't forget it,'' he said afterward.  It's just that I looked at those cold
son-of-a-guns, and I couldn't.''

Sadly, this anachronistic attitude prevails today throughout a franchise that
has gone out of its way to avoid employing Russian- born players.

The Flyers signed their first Russian player, Andrei Lomakin, in 1991, though
team alumni like Van Impe would say publicly they were not totally comfortable
with it.'' Nor was Lomakin, who lasted barely two seasons. Philadelphia's only
Eastern Bloc player today, rookie Dainius Zubrus, was born in Lithuania and
played in Ukraine, two former satellite countries where hatred of the Russians
is nearly as strong as among Flyers fans.

Detroit's Russian players, meantime, try to dismiss all the fuss, since they
don't entirely understand it. They laughed it off when fans in St. Louis and
Anaheim chanted USA! USA!''

Here, they feel the kind of hatred their comrades before them experienced a
quarter-century ago, when the political climate was so much different.

It's not our fault,'' Larionov said.  We're just trying to be professional and
play the best we can.''

And Fedorov, the Nike poster boy who has embraced capitalism every bit as much
as Eric Lindros, said anti-Russian sentiment is misguided when it is directed at
NHL imports.

I just try not to concentrate on those comments because to me it doesn't make
any sense,'' he said.  I've got a Red Wings jersey on, and I play for this club
for seven years. It is ... like too much''

It is, in fact, shameful.

Canadians invented a wonderful game and, arguably, the Russians perfected it.
While Philadelphia, in a tribute to its past, builds with big and belligerent
players, Detroit retooled with swift and skilled players and a defensive system
imported from Europe.

The league can only hope the Wings win this series, because the Flyers could set
it back 20 years -- right where their brotherly hating fans seem most
comfortable.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              151 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  June 8, 1997

Settling tobacco litigation rests on one lawyer; Matthew Myers,

BYLINE: SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: News; Pg. A36

LENGTH: 1680 words


Matthew Myers slumped in his chair, looking like a man on the way to the
guillotine.

All morning long, fellow tobacco opponents, people with whom he had battled the
industry for more than 15 years, had been offering terse smiles and sympathetic
pats on the back.

I don't like that,'' he said as a colleague gently touched his shoulder.  This
is not a funeral.''

Perhaps not, but for Myers, executive vice president of the year-old National
Center for Tobacco-Free Kids, the recent gathering of tobacco foes was hardly
cause for celebration.  He had come to this meeting, at a hotel outside Chicago,
to brief public health advocates about a possible legal settlement with the
cigarette manufacturers.

Despite the kind gestures, he knew some of his closest allies were quietly
furious with him.

Myers had vowed never to negotiate with the enemy. But for two months he had
been doing just that, participating in secret talks with people he says are
responsible for the premature deaths of more Americans than any other group of
individuals who have ever lived.'' For Myers, dealing with the industry is
dancing with the devil.

In many respects, though, he is the most important person at the negotiating
table. He has an encyclopedic knowledge of the tobacco industry, having learned
its tactics in battles won and lost. He is also the only negotiator without a
financial stake in a settlement, aside from Dr. Lonnie Bristow, a former
president of the American Medical Association, who was recently brought in to
lend Myers support.

White House guide

The White House will look to Myers before bestowing its backing on any agreement
-- backing that will be crucial if the accord is to be codified in federal
legislation that will set the nation's tobacco policy for decades.

Matt Myers is more important to this process than any single person at the
table,'' said Richard Scruggs, a lawyer from Pascagoula, Miss., who represents
20 states in the talks.  There is no person in America that has more knowledge
of tobacco issues and health than Matt.''

As one Clinton administration official said: If Matt were to walk from the deal,
there's no deal. He's an essential player for the discussions.''

The talks were suspended early last week while the attorneys general of 30
states suing the cigarette makers tried to iron out a position on the industry's
demand for a measure of protection from future lawsuits.

Myers has publicly opposed any limits on the rights of smokers to sue, and so
the fate of any deal could rest in his hands.

I don't know whether there will be an agreement, or, if there is an agreement,
whether it is one I will support,'' he said last week.

Public-health advocates are bitterly divided over whether Myers should even be a
part of the talks.

To some, his decision to negotiate demonstrates that he is a man of courage and
honor, a peacemaker willing to lay his professional reputation on the line for
detente in the decades-old tobacco wars.

Can you imagine India having sought its independence without Gandhi?'' said
Cliff Douglas, a Chicago lawyer and longtime tobacco foe who considers Myers his
mentor. Scruggs describes Myers as the Anwar Sadat of the public health
community.''

Others accuse him of selling out, and say that as bright as he is, he runs the
risk of being outsmarted.

I view him as a tragic figure,'' said Stanton Glantz, a professor of cardiology
at the University of California at San Francisco.  He's spent the last 15 years
working on this issue, and he's going to go down in history as the guy who
allows the industry to slime off the hook again.''

The story of how Myers, an obscure public-interest lawyer with a widely
acknowledged commitment to social justice, wound up a central player in the
tobacco talks is, at its core, a Washington insiders' tale.

Burden of responsibility

It is also the story of a man in conflict. Myers is convinced that what he is
doing is right, given the vast public-health benefits that an agreement could
produce. But, he said in an interview, not a day goes by that he does not
re-evaluate his participation in the talks, and swallow another dose of Maalox.

It is the ultimate challenge,'' he said.  I can't afford to be wrong.''

Participants say the 50-year-old Myers has had a major influence on the course
of the negotiations.

When the industry agreed to put more explicit warning labels on cigarette packs,
he demanded that the typeface be big and bold and that the warnings be displayed
prominently on the top of the packs.

He is also the architect of the look-back provisions,'' which would require the
industry to pay states more money if teen-age smoking was not reduced by 30
percent in five years, 50 percent in seven years and 60 percent in 10 years.

He has obtained an important concession on secondhand smoke: The industry,
Scruggs says, has agreed not to oppose a ban on smoking in all workplaces and
all public places where children are present.

But some of Myers' public health colleagues say the talks are taking place too
soon. They believe their side will gain leverage when thousands of pages of
confidential industry documents become public in trial of the state lawsuits.

They note that the cigarette manufacturers have a long history of appearing to
cave in to public pressure -- agreeing, for example, to warning labels on
cigarettes and a ban on television advertising -- only to emerge stronger in the
end.

Myers is well aware of this history, and says he is being cautious. But some
tobacco foes complain that at a critical juncture in their movement, he has
vanished behind closed doors.

The National Center for Tobacco-Free Kids is performing exactly the wrong
role,'' said one longtime tobacco foe, Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif.  They seem to
have forgotten that their original mission was to be advocates, not back- room
negotiators.''

Those who know Myers well say he is hardly comfortable with back-room deals.

Sense of mission

Matt is almost the emblem of the deeply committed public-interest advocate,''
said Michael Pertschuk, a former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.  He
has a mission, and you can feel it.''

It is a mission he never expected. But in 1980, after six years of litigating
the civil rights of prisoners for the American Civil Liberties Union, he was
hired by the Federal Trade Commission, where he issued an analysis of tobacco
marketing's effects on public health and recommended tougher warning labels on
cigarette packs.

By the time the report was issued in 1981, Ronald Reagan had been elected
president on a wave of anti-regulatory sentiment. The commission was in retreat.

By 1982, Myers had started a small law firm and was leading a new group called
the Coalition on Smoking or Health, a venture of the American Cancer Society,
the American Heart Association and the American Lung Association.

He successfully lobbied Congress to double the cigarette tax, to 16 cents a
pack, the first increase in 31 years. He enlisted Al Gore, then a House member
from Tennessee, to persuade lawmakers to adopt the stronger warning labels.

New resources

For more than a decade, Myers fought the tobacco industry on a shoestring
budget. That changed last year, when the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the
cancer society pitched in $20 million and $10 million, respectively, to create
the National Center for Tobacco-Free Kids.

With Myers as its executive vice president, the center began waging the most
aggressive anti-tobacco advertising campaign in history.

By that time, the political climate surrounding tobacco had changed radically.
The Food and Drug Administration had declared its intention to regulate nicotine
as a drug. Individual and class-action lawsuits against the industry were piling
up.

An increasing number of states were following the lead of Mississippi Attorney
General Michael Moore, who was suing cigarette manufacturers, seeking
reimbursement of Medicaid costs for treating smokers.

Moore, generally regarded as the architect of the current settlement talks,
turned to Myers for private advice early on. Still, when Moore and Scruggs last
summer floated the idea of a far- reaching settlement of all the lawsuits, Myers
publicly denounced the concept.

Then, this March, former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell called with a
request: Would Myers be willing to meet two of Mitchell's law partners who were
representing the industry? Myers was skeptical, but he agreed.

The session took place April 1 and left Myers largely unimpressed. That day,
Myers says, Moore told him he had agreed to meet with industry representatives
on two conditions: that the chief executives of the nation's two largest
cigarette manufacturers attend, and that the meeting take place within 48 hours.
Under those terms, Myers said, he, too, would attend.

So it was that on April 3 -- the same day Myers went to the Capitol to urge
members of Congress to resist any industry overtures of compromise -- he found
himself face to face with Philip Morris Companies chairman Geoffrey Bible and
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. chairman Steven Goldstone.

While industry officials have refused to discuss the negotiations, Myers says
the two executives listed points they would be willing to discuss: wholesale
changes in advertising, FDA jurisdiction on cigarettes, financing for anti-
smoking education programs and tight controls on youths' access to tobacco.

Anybody who had studied the public health agenda,'' Myers recalled, would feel
compelled to listen.''

Some people who know Myers think pressure from the White House, which had longed
for a legislative solution to the tobacco wars and wanted Myers to participate
in the talks, also played a part.

Others say it was simply a matter of pragmatism.  Matt clearly believed that
this train was leaving the station,'' said Douglas, who previously worked under
Myers at the Coalition on Smoking or Health, and that it was much better not to
be left standing on the platform.''

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Matthew Myers: Should he abandon negotiations, all bargains are off.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              156 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 June 14, 1997

Home schooling gains acceptance across Texas; Texas home schools make

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1429 words


The Voskuhl family living room is less for living than for learning with two
desks, a computer, bookshelves and a science area that figure prominently in
this household.

It's where 15-year-old Brooke Voskuhl stays home for school.

The Leander sophomore is among an estimated 150,000 students in Texas who are
taught at home, making this state the nation's home-school leader. It's a
movement that's inched its way toward acceptance at the same time tools for home
schoolers have become a million-dollar industry.

Parents seeking educational alternatives to public schools have found a way to
have more say in what their kids learn by doing the teaching themselves. When
parents are teachers, they don't worry about safety issues, sex education or bad
peer influences. They also can focus on special needs, such as giving a child
music prodigy time to practice and learn. But they do devote a lot of time and
money to making it work.

From the student's point of view, there are pros and cons.

The good part is that I can get done and not have to wait for anybody else,''
Brooke Voskuhl said.  The bad part is I still have to do school on ice days. And
if I'm not too sick, she brings my schoolwork to me in my bed.''

Brooke and her mother, Reba, spent Friday working at a booth at Palmer
Auditorium, where almost 2,000 home-school families in the Austin area were
expected to attend a two-day book fair and convention that wraps up today.
During the 10 years that the Christian Home Education Association of Central
Texas has sponsored this event, there's been a dramatic change in attitudes,
clientele and materials related to home schooling.

We started back when you hid in the closet because you weren't sure if it was
legal. It's come a long way,'' said Phillip May of Dallas, an exhibitor who is
president of HOPE for Texas, a statewide organization that offers how-tos for
the amateur home schooler.

Years ago, those who tried to buck public schools often were prosecuted for
failing to comply with compulsory attendance laws. But since home schooling is
now legal in all 50 states, more parents appear willing to give it a try.

Between 1990 and 1995, the number of U.S. students taught at home tripled to
about 750,000, according to figures from the U.S. Department of Education.
Home-school organizations estimate those numbers at more than 1 million today.

It's become more mainstream in people's minds now,'' said Patricia Lines, a
researcher with the department's Office of Educational Research and Improvement.

What was once primarily the domain of Christian fundamentalists has taken on new
appeal, said Kathy Christie, director of the Education Commission of the States
Information Clearinghouse, which collects data on education issues.

A lot of people are disillusioned with not just the academics, but the social
climate in a lot of public schools,'' she said.  Sometimes it's just as much a
matter of not wanting their kids to pick up other kids' bad habits and be
subjected to things outside their religious or moral beliefs.''

That's what prompted Sharon Toups to pull her oldest child from public school as
a second-grader because she didn't like what her daughter was learning.

Being in the public school system, she was exposed to things I had never heard
of 'til I was 12 or 13. I didn't think she should be growing up that fast,''
said Toups.

The mother of five now sets up her school at the family farm near Manor, where
she teaches her three school-age kids.

In Texas, where May 4-10 was proclaimed by the governor as Texas Home Education
Week, home schooling gained greater acceptance following a class action brought
by parents against the state. A 1987 decision upheld in 1994 by the Texas
Supreme Court stripped the Texas Education Agency of any authority over home
schools. As a result, parents need only conduct the school in a bona fide manner
with a written curriculum that covers reading, spelling, grammar, math and a
course in good citizenship.

One reason Texas has grown so fast is because we probably have the most liberal
legal status for students in country,'' said Tim Lambert, president of the Texas
Home School Coalition, based in Lubbock.

Students taught at home are gaining national recognition, including the
13-year-old New Yorker who won the National Spelling Bee and a New Jersey
finalist in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search.

Emily Cheatham of Hutto, a freshman this fall at the University of Texas at
Austin, did so well on her college entrance exams that she earned a National
Merit Scholarship for free tuition and fees for four years.

It's like we have invested in this for seven years, and we're seeing the fruits
of our labor,'' said her mother, Barbara Cheatham.

Those with special talents who must spend hours practicing applaud home
schooling.

For 16-year-old Tennison Washington, who lives near Bastrop, the decision to
study at home was dictated by the need for the classical pianist to spend four
to eight hours a day preparing for national and international competitions.

He's an excellent student and has the discipline to be a musician. I just give
him assignments, and he'll do the work,'' said his father and teacher Henry
Washington, a retired businessman.

What students learn varies from house to house and state to state. That's why
little outside research on the impact of home schooling is available, Christie
said.

Home-school parents usually are very anti' of anyone putting their nose in their
business,'' she said.

Critics say home schooling promotes a loss of socialization since students spend
all day away from their peers, but home-school parents dispute that charge. They
fill the gap with church youth groups, weekly field trips with other
home-schooled students, music or art lessons, and teams at private schools.

Those involved in home schooling know it takes a lot of parental commitment,
both in time spent on one-on-one tutoring and the financial burden that can cost
several hundred dollars to more than $1,000 a year per student in supplies and
support materials.

If I had to add every cent, it would be astronomical,'' said Estie Warne, a
former public schoolteacher who has taught her oldest son Chris since first
grade. Today, he joins 14 other home-educated seniors for graduation ceremonies.

Sandy Hunt, whose son also graduates today, views the diploma as more a right of
passage than a tool for college admission.

The reality right now is that most colleges don't even look at the diploma. They
look at test scores,'' she said.

Students taught at home don't have a class rank or a comparable transcript.
That's why college admissions officials rely on entrance exam scores.

There's no way of knowing for sure what went on in that living room or around
the kitchen table or whatever they do their studying,'' said Bruce Walker, UT's
director of admissions.

At Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos, director of admissions
Fernando Yarrito says parent-provided transcripts don't hold a lot of weight.

I have not seen many low grades coming from home-school kids,'' he said.

For those seeking an accredited high school diploma, there's a correspondence
program called Texas Tech University High School where some 500 students are
enrolled. This year, 48 students have received high school diplomas from Tech,
Principal Waylon Carroll said.

The 15 graduates in today's private ceremony at an Austin church will wear caps
and gowns, hear a commencement address and receive diplomas issued by their
parents.

We found a lady that has a print shop, and she designed one for each individual
family,'' Estie Warne said.  We saw the need for a closure just like with public
school, to say you have culminated your education.''

(from box)

There's plenty of help for parents interested in teaching their children at
home, including books, computer software, and audio and video tapes. There's
also information on the Internet. Here are some of the possibilities:

American Home-School Publishing, which offers educational resources and
products: http://www.ahsp.com/

Calvert School, which provides a complete home school program:
http://www.calvertschool.org/

Christian Home & School magazine: http://www.gospelcom.net/csi/chs/

Home School Resource Center, which provides Internet shopping for home
schoolers: http://www.rsts.net/home/shop.html

Robinson Self-Teaching Home School Curriculum, which offers a complete program
for parents: http://www.home-school.org

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sharon Toups takes her five children, the three oldest of whom she
schools at home, to learn about civic duties Thursday at the East Rural
Community Center in Manor, where they volunteer to sort clothing.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              161 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  July 8, 1997

Relax, you're just under stress; Drawbacks to running in the heat can

BYLINE: BROM HOBAN

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 337 words


OK, it's hot again. Up north, the tough part of year-round training is the
winter. It lasts close to six months. In Austin, the summers are what test a
runner's will. They also last about six months.

People who don't exercise often shake their heads at passing runners in the
summer heat.  How can they run in heat like that? The truth is, it does become
more difficult.

Heat stresses the body's ability to supply blood to the working muscles. The
heart has to work harder just to maintain an easy workout pace. Those who wear
heart-rate monitors will notice elevated rates during heat- stressed runs.

However, heat acclimation does kick in after about two weeks. At this point, the
trained runner becomes more efficient at cooling the chemistry of sweat actually
changes, becoming more dilute. Of course hydration is always a factor. Many
runners think they can tough it out and avoid water. Big mistake. Muscle
injuries, cramping, kidney problems and overall fatigue await the chronically
dehydrated.

OK, you've heard it a million times. But it's still true: Summer running is best
in the early morning or late evening. If you can manage to get up at 5:30 a.m.,
it's a whole different climate. Sure it's still humid, but what a difference.
The sun isn't up yet, there's the bonus of no traffic and about a 20-25 degree
difference from daytime heat.

Run-Tex seeks runners

Still want to race? Try the Run-Tex Summer Twilight track meets. These events,
held at Nelson Field by Reagan High School, are scheduled in the early evening
(from 6:30-9:00 p.m.).  There are four upcoming meets, each on a Friday evening:
July 11; July 18; July 25; and August 1.

The events have all distances from the short sprints (100-400 meters) through
the middle-distances like the 1,500. All ages are encouraged to enter. Contact
Run-Tex at 472-3254 for further information.

Brom Hoban writes a weekly column about the Central Texas running scene. If you
have information about area races, call him at (512) 280-3907.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              166 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 July 27, 1997

Foreigners pump out $1 billion yearly to sway U.S. policy the legal

BYLINE: Andrew Mollison

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1095 words


WASHINGTON -- If China's leaders really did plan to change U.S. policy with up
to $2 million in illegal contributions to last year's congressional campaigns,
they greatly underestimated what it costs to sway the U.S. government.

Senators who allege a Chinese plot have yet to clarify whether the money was
ever spent, who was supposed to spend it and whether the money was supposed to
be spent in legal or illegal ways.  In any case, $2 million would hardly make a
splash in Washington nowadays.

Foreigners and their governments, businesses and other organizations already
spend more than $1 billion a year in open and legal attempts to affect the
policy, political climate and public opinion of the United States.

That extends far beyond a handful of legal campaign gifts to include hefty
diplomatic expenses for embassies and consulates, expensive advertising,
lobbying and consulting work by former U.S. officials, trade and tourism
promotion, and foreign trips for key U.S.  officials.

By comparison, Americans spent more than $800 million of their own money
directly or through political parties on last year's congressional campaigns.
Those candidates also benefited indirectly from voter-turnout drives,
advertisements and other activities financed by the $262 million in soft money''
that the parties collected from wealthy individuals and corporations.

A study by the Center for Responsive Politics shows that 93 foreign corporations
from 16 countries made legal political contributions of $12.5 million through
the American employees and treasuries of 128 American subsidiaries.

The nonpartisan research center also identified $1.4 million in contributions to
candidates by Americans, including former U.S. officials, who were registered as
foreign agents for governments, political parties or interest groups based
outside the United States.

All of that was open and legal.  This month's hearings by the Senate Government
Affairs Committee, on the other hand, are concentrating on attempts at influence
that appear to have crossed the legal line.

In addition to probing the Chinese government's actions, the committee headed by
Sen. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn., is trying to find out how and why $5 million in
foreign gifts were slipped surreptitiously into the Democratic and Republican
party treasuries during the 1994 and 1996 campaigns.

I think most people know that basically foreign money contributions to a
political campaign or party (are) illegal,'' Thompson said at a hearing
Wednesday.  There are exceptions for green- card holders (who are legal U.S.
residents) and for domestic subsidiaries, if those funds come from profits of
that subsidiary.''

Moreover, he pointed out, It is not illegal for a foreign entity to contribute
to (a tax-exempt advocacy) organization if that organization does not do too
much political activity -- and that's a very gray area in the law -- and it is
not too closely associated with a political group.''

'Everybody does it'

The laws regulating foreign influence within the United States are complex and
loose because incumbents in both parties like it that way, according to Russell
Verney, chairman of Ross Perot's Reform Party.

They wink at each other and say everybody does it. Well, everybody doesn't do
it, and a pox on both their houses. It's unconscionable,'' he said.

However, on a practical level, it would be difficult for the U.S. government to
outlaw attempts by foreigners to influence it at a time when it is spending to
influence them. The U.S. State Department spends roughly $4 billion a year on
diplomacy and another $1.1 billion on its own foreign information and exchange
activities.

A tempting target

The United States presents a tempting target, said Charles Lewis, executive
director of the nonpartisan Center for Public Integrity.

Pick your favorite country in Asia, Europe or the Middle East,'' he suggested.
Are they trying to influence American policy? Absolutely. We have a lucrative
market for their goods, and those people want our money.''

His center analyzed spending on the fight here that preceded congressional
approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada in
1993.

We showed Mexico spent $30 million over two years -- hiring 44 law and public
relations and lobbying firms, including 33 former U.S. officials. It worked, and
it was legal,'' Lewis said.

Similarly expensive, open and legal persuasive activity takes place every year.

Documents in public files show:

*On top of their regular diplo --matic activities, foreign governments spent $86
million in the United States during the first half of 1996 on activities ranging
from promotion of trade and tourism to hiring foreign agents and subsidizing
cultural and academic organizations.

*Political parties and other --nongovernment groups from foreign countries spent
another $344 million on similar activities in the same six-month period.

*Lobbyists currently regis --tered for foreign businesses represent about 1,370
U.S. and foreign clients on trade issues and 400 on foreign relations.
Congressional clerks haven't sorted the foreign clients from the domestic
clients to see how much each group spends.

*Outside groups, most with at --least some foreign financing, have paid for more
than 90 trips to China and 30 trips to Germany by senators, representatives,
their spouses and their employees since January 1996.

*A spot check of the travel logs --of half of the members of the House showed
that in the first half of this year, outside groups paid for more than two dozen
members and five dozen employees to take trips to other countries. The
governments of Mexico, Turkey and Pakistan were among those picking up part of
the tab for some trips.

Foreign influence at home

However, the most formidable influence on U.S. foreign policy still comes from
Americans. That includes U.S. ethnic groups taking sides in the Middle East and
in standoffs between Armenia and Azerbaijan, Turkey and Greece, or different
groups within Northern Ireland.

U.S. business leaders may be even more influential, said Gary Bauer, president
of the Family Research Council. He helped lead a coalition of religious, labor,
human rights and conservative groups that failed to persuade Congress to
restrict trade with China this summer.

The most effective lobbyists China had were American corporate executives
dreaming of great riches to be made by selling to 1 billion Chinese,'' Bauer
lamented.  Their lobbyists blanketed Capitol Hill.''

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              169 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 14, 1997

KTBC axes weatherman Kimmel

BYLINE: Diane Holloway

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 578 words


Local meteorologist Troy Kimmel, a veteran of two television stations and 14
years on Austin's airwaves, has been fired from KTBC Channel 7 in a dispute over
scheduling.

Tuesday night, after the 6 p.m. news, Kimmel was let go by KTBC when he refused
to cancel a planned vacation next week. He was gone before the 10 p.m. news,
forcing anchor Dick Ellis to handle the weather report.

The station, which released weekend weatherman Fred Hunter from his contract a
couple of weeks ago to return to his native Alabama, had hired a replacement,
but the deal fell through. As a result, News Director Rob Martin and Station
Manager Craig Millar asked Kimmel to postpone his vacation late next week.

It was a difference of opinion regarding management decisions and issues within
the weather office,'' said Kimmel, who has been at KTBC since 1994.  We had a
cordial meeting. They asked me to work during a planned vacation. I have
airplane tickets and everything. I said no and told them I felt very strongly
about it. They said they'd have to let me go.''

Sources at the station say Kimmel had not been consulted before Hunter was
allowed to leave, and tensions had been brewing as a result. Kimmel wasasked to
work last weekend but agreed only to work Sunday. Kimmel said he felt Hunter
should have been held to his contract until a replacement was brought on board.

Troy and Rob and I had some meetings, and there were some issues we were pretty
steadfast on regarding when he needed to work,'' said Craig Millar, general
manager of KTBC.  But he had other ideas of when he needed to work. We felt we
had no options, so we parted ways. Troy is extremely talented, and I like him
personally very much, but we just had no choice.''

With Kimmel and Hunter gone, morning weatherman Gordon Smith, who is not a
meteorologist, was the only remaining member of KTBC's former three-person
weather staff. Smith, who was scheduled to be on vacation this week, was asked
to cancel his plans and did. Kimmel said he was upset that Smith had been asked
to work during his scheduled vacation.

By Wednesday morning, a replacement for Kimmel already had been hired. Mark
Mathis, an Austin native and former quarterback for Baylor University, is the
new weeknight weatherman. A meteorologist, he has worked in Charleston and
Myrtle Beach, S.C., and WFAA in Dallas. Mathis appeared on Wednesday night's
newscasts.

KTBC is still looking for a weekend meteorologist to replace Hunter.

Kimmel, 40, is a San Marcos native who graduated from Texas A&M in 1983. After
working at a TV station in College Station, he came to Austin as the weekend
weatherman for KVUE Channel 24 in 1984. He moved up to weeknights in 1989 when
zany weatherman Tim Ross departed. Looking for a change of pace, Kimmel left
KVUE in the fall of '93 to take a job as the in-house meteorologist for the
Lower Colorado River Authority. A year later, KTBC lured him back to television.

I'll find something else here in town eventually. I'm definitely not leaving
Austin,'' Kimmel said.  I feel like I'm diversified enough that I don't have to
depend on television.''

Kimmel has taught weather and climate at the University of Texas since 1988 and
supplies weather reports to several radio stations and businesses in Texas. He
may turn up at another TV station in the future, but the terms of his contract
with KTBC prohibit him from working at another Austin station for at least six
months.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Troy Kimmel: Meteorologist ousted from second local television at which
he's worked after refusing to cancel a planned vacation.  I'll find something
else here eventually. I'm definitely not leaving Austin.' KTBC fires, replaces
weatherman Kimmel

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              170 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                August 24, 1997

City to State: 'Rules is rules'

BYLINE: Mary Alice Davis

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. H2

LENGTH: 829 words


Austin can be proud of doing its bit to keep state lawmakers walking the
straight and narrow path. And, hurray for us, we're also helping uphold the
state Constitution.

Planned Parenthood and sexually active minors may soon join us as champions of
purity in the lawmaking process. The judiciary will have to decide.

In both cases, the issue turns on constitutional limits on how state laws get
made. The process may look chaotic, but there are rules. Lots of them. In
particular, the Constitution limits how much the Legislature can meddle in local
affairs and how far it can go in making policy decisions through the general
budget bill.

Knocked to its knees by a series of Austin bashing'' laws enacted in recent
years, Austin successfully fought back in court. The Texas Supreme Court in late
1996 said the Constitution protects Austin and other cities from such specific
shows of legislative force as a 1995 law by Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos of Austin
forcing his city to annex the Maple Run utility district.

A similar opinion was handed down this month by the state's 3rd Court of
Appeals. The court overturned a 1995 law by Rep. Mike Krusee of Williamson
County forcing Austin to release territory to the City of Cedar Park.

The city awaits a decision in a third case, heard in court last April,
challenging the state's creation of a water district serving the Circle C
development near Austin.

In the past the courts have often said the same: State lawmakers can't violate
the Texas Constitution's Article 3, Section 56 -- limits on local and special
laws. It's just that over time lawmakers drift away from the straight and
narrow, to see how much they can get away with.

Before the Maple Run case was decided, legislators had just rocked along for
many years,'' not much heeding the limits on local bills, according to Steve
Collins, general counsel of the Legislature's law-drafting and advisory arm, the
Legislative Council.

Every decade or so, high profile'' cases such as Maple Run come along to remind
the Legislature of this provision, attract a lot of publicity and raise
sensitivity to the issue,'' Collins said.

Another issue that's suddenly high profile is the making of controversial law
through provisions known as riders'' that are folded into the columns of numbers
in the 800 pages of the two-year budget law. One of the many 1997 riders
requires parental consent for minors to receive state-funded prescription drugs,
including birth control drugs.

That rider is being challenged by the Planned Parenthood organization on several
grounds, including that it violates constitutional prohibitions on using riders
to make general law. Collins says the rider restriction has been the subject of
many an attorney general opinion and some court cases. However, the rule
continues to be fairly easily stated but not so easily applied.'' Because there
is a wide gray band,'' Collins said, the Planned Parenthood challenge on riders
could go either way.''

As in the case of the local-bill rule, Collins said, about every 10 years or
so'' a high profile case, or some mass challenge to riders, raises legislative
consciousness about the rules and changes the legislative climate for a while.

Even with heightened awareness, lots of laws get enacted in violation of law or
rules, most observers agree. Bills skate through as long as no one objects,
either before enactment -- as in the now-famous point of order'' used by Rep.
Arlene Wohlgemuth to kill a slew of bills in thewaning days of the 1997 session
-- or afterward, as with Austin in the courts.

The local-bill prohibition gives rise to one of the Legislature's most
maddening, although fascinating, conventions: the rule of the city whose name
must not be spoken,'' also known as bracketing.

The Legislature isn't supposed to mess in the affairs of individuals (say, by
enacting a law to grant a particular couple a divorce, as used to happen) or,
usually, of a particular city. So it sometimes pretends it isn't doing what it's
doing. The Austin-specific bills, for instance, never mention Austin.'' They
speak of cities of 450,000 or more population'' -- a population bracket'' --
that have particular features. A bill might apply only to cities of this size in
which a river runs through, a city-owned electric utility makes power and voters
elect the city council in a specific way. It becomes a sort of party game to
figure out who is being talked about.

Sometimes, however, regardless of inscrutable bill language, nobody really
bothers to pretend. In the Maple Run case, the state conceded up front in court
that the law really applied just to Maple Run and Austin. And at that point, the
case was decided.

There wasn't much point in denying the truth. Collins said that just as the old
ad told us that parts is parts,'' sometimes facts is facts.'' And, the City of
Austin might add, rules is rules.''

Davis is an American-Statesman editorial writer.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              171 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               September 2, 1997

Curb excessive drinking

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 451 words


The American Medical Association, quoting a Harvard University study, says half
the students on a third of the campuses in the United States today are binge
drinkers.

The AMA and others are acknowledging that binge drinking has reached a critical
point at many American colleges. The Louisiana State University student who died
last week from gross inebriation, and similar deaths of a dozen other students
in the past year, have tragically illuminated the problem.

In a culture where the Budweiser frogs are as identifiable to pre-teens as Bugs
Bunny, can anything be done to curb the appetite for grossly excessive drinking
on campus? The answer is that something must.

At the University of Texas, a campus alcohol education program provides outreach
and counseling. UT's designated driver program, which provided rides home to
some 5,000 people last year, is one of the nation's largest.

Program coordinator Debora Orrick said an effective tool has been demystifying
college drinking, letting students know that most other students aren't drinking
to excess. UT counselors also teach safety measures so students can help those
who unintentionally drink too much.

Several national fraternities (and sororities) have banned alcohol at all
chapters. Some colleges, including UT, now have alcohol-free fraternity rush.
And more campuses, including LSU, have banned alcohol altogether.

The AMA has begun a pilot program at six university campuses to change
attitudes, policies and practices concerning excessive drinking.  The University
of Illinois is distributing a CD-ROM program to 40 colleges to spread the word
about the dangers of alcohol abuse.

Call it attitude, climate or tolerance, but acceptance of excessive drinking is
placing thousands of young people at risk. The pressure to abuse alcohol is
tremendous, and changing the culture of college students is an enormously
difficult task.

Universities everywhere should strictly enforce the rules about drinking on
campus, and local police and state licensing officials should vigorously enforce
the laws off campus.  Adding stringent enforcement to education could help curb
the appetite for binging on booze.

Bars that deliberately serve underage or inebriated patrons should be prosecuted
fully and often. Stiff punishment will help deter the tendency to help someone
drink himself to death.

Insurance companies should get involved. Frat house deaths have driven the cost
of liability insurance so high that some houses have been forced to go dry to
stay active.

All of that won't stop binge drinking or alter the culture that glorifies it.
But it might save a few lives, and that's better than we're doing now.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              177 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                October 22, 1997

Players work hard to deal with cold

BYLINE: DAVID LENNON

SECTION: Sports; Pg. C8

LENGTH: 552 words


CLEVELAND -- The baseball, Indians shortstop Omar Vizquel said, feels like a
piece of rock.'' The bat, depending on a pitch's location, can become an
instrument of torture in the hitter's hands. Jacobs Field felt more like the
frozen tundra of Lambeau Field for Tuesday night's game three of the World
Series, minus the snow, whish is expected today or Thursday.

Instead, it rained during Tuesday's pregame warmups, but the skies cleared and
the temperatures plunged into the mid-40s before Charles Nagy's first pitch.

Aside from long sleeves and extra layers, it seemed as if the best weapon
against the frigid conditions was ignorance. Both teams denied being overly
concerned with the weather as they prepared for game three through the change in
climate from sunny Miami to chilly Cleveland was drastic.

I grew up in Milwaukee, I went to school in South Bend, so this is outstanding
weather,'' Marlins second baseman Craig Counsell said.  I can't wait to go out
and play in it, to be honest with you.  To me, growing up, this is always what
the World Series was played in, weather like this. It's not going to be a factor
from my standpoint.  If you let it affect you, you're crazy.''

Although the Indians generally are considered the team more comfortable with the
cold, the Marlins have been successful under even worse conditions. Florida
swept a frosty three-game series at Wrigley Field to open the season in April,
and Jim Leyland wasn't obsessed with his team's perceived disadvantage.

We played, and I believe they checked it, in the coldest game in the history of
Wrigley Field in the beginning of this season,'' the Marlins manager said.  And
I can remember telling my team then, Hey, it's going to be cold in October.' ''

Cold, sure, but icy is another story. A 25-mph wind was blowing in from Lake
Erie, and the press- box announcer, who normally gives the gametime temperature,
also provided a wind-chill estimation -- a numbing 29 degrees.  Only one World
Series game has been postponed because of the cold, and that was in 1903 between
Boston and Pittsburgh.

Probably the major effect is the grip the pitcher will have on the ball,''
Indians Manager Mike Hargrove said.  Cold weather tends to dry out your hands
and fingers a lot more than warm weather will, obviously. The pitcher's grip on
the ball can be affected and also hitting a baseball in cold weather is not a
lot of fun. If you don't hit it just right, it hurts.''

Indians closer Jose Mesa said he'll need an extra 10 or 15 pitches to get warmed
up in the bullpen, though his 95-mph fastballs carry an extra bit of
intimidation when they're speeding toward a hitter's vulnerable hands. Of
course, players could resort to the reverse psychology their football brethren
use and wear short sleeves to spite the cold.

I think they do that to show that they're tough,'' said Marlins designated
hitter Jim Eisenreich, a native of Minnesota and an avid ice fisherman.
Eisenreich looked as if he was in his element when he hit a two-run home run in
the sixth inning.

Eisenreich opted for long sleeves, as did everyone else on the field. And in
their heads, they were thinking warm thoughts.

You just have to picture in your mind that it is 75 degrees and humid,'' Indians
third baseman Matt Williams said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              202 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                               February 28, 1997

ICAHN DROPS BID TO CONTROL RJR

BYLINE: Skip Wollenberg

SECTION: Business; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 621 words


NEW YORK -- Financier Carl Icahn has sold his entire stake in RJR Nabisco,
saying a runup in tobacco stock prices had dimmed chances he could win control
of the RJR board and force a speedy spinoff of its food business.

By selling the stock after it gained 35 percent since last fall, the one-time
corporate raider appears to have made $130 million before expenses. He had
invested $600 million in the company less than 11/2 years ago.

On the news of the sale, RJR shares fell 3 percent Thursday on the New York
Stock Exchange, dropping $1.121/2 to close at $36.621/2 a share.

Even as he announced the deal, Icahn left the door open to resuming a proxy
fight for control of RJR sometime in the future, especially if its stock price
should turn lower.

But analysts doubted he would be back at RJR's door.  He made himself a ton of
money over a relatively short time frame,'' said Emanuel Goldman, who follows
tobacco stocks for PaineWebber.

The analysts said Icahn realized he had no chance of winning the proxy fight for
control of the RJR board at the April shareholders' meeting. The stock price is
up sharply, its operating divisions are showing improvement and top management
appears willing to discuss a settlement of tobacco lawsuits.

David Adelman, tobacco industry analyst for Dean Witter, said large shareholders
saw no reason to change leadership under such conditions.

RJR makes Winston and Camel cigarettes while its majority- owned Nabisco unit
makes Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers. While efforts lately have been aimed at
splitting the business, RJR made takeover history in 1989 when it was taken
private in a record $25 billion deal.

RJR stock was trading at about $28 a share in the fall of 1996 when Icahn
indicated he would nominate candidates to replace the RJR board and move quickly
to spin off the company's 80.5 percent stake in the Nabisco food business to RJR
shareholders. He said the businesses would be worth more if they were entirely
separate.

The stock had risen to $37.75 a share by the end of trading Wednesday.

Icahn said Thursday he had sold 19.9 million shares of RJR stock after the
market had closed Wednesday for $36.75 per share less commissions -- or about
$731 million. He said he bought the stock for an average of $30 a share -- or
about $597 million -- starting about 17 months ago.

The sale represented Icahn's entire stake in RJR. He has been RJR's biggest
shareholder with about 7.3 percent to total shares outstanding.

Icahn said the recent euphoria about a tobacco litigation settlement and the
rise in tobacco stock prices led him to conclude it would be exceedingly
difficult at this time'' to win the proxy contest.

He said, in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that
large institutional stockholders are currently satisfied with the status quo.''
But he said he was not satisfied and doubted that the current RJR board would
ever spin off the food business.

Asked for comment on Icahn's moves, RJR spokeswoman Carol Makovich said Mr.
Icahn has not been the focus of this company's management.''

We have been focused on running and strengthening our tobacco and food business
to deliver shareholder value. We intend to keep doing just that,'' she said.

Last year, Icahn had backed an unsuccessful bid for control of RJR in
conjunction with investor Bennett LeBow, who controls rival tobacco maker
Liggett Group.

RJR has said it favors separating the tobacco and food businesses completely but
said the timing isn't right because of an unfavorable legal climate for tobacco
companies and assurances it gave bondholders when it sold 19.5 percent of
Nabisco in an initial public offering in January 1995.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              203 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 1, 1997

Dangerfield gets birthday respect

BYLINE: SUZANNE M. PERREAULT

SECTION: Metro/State; Pg. B12

LENGTH: 671 words


In his 75th year comedian RODNEY DANGERFIELD finally got some respect. It wasn't
easy.

The flight bringing him to the Aspen Comedy Festival couldn't land because of
snow and was diverted 70 miles northwest to Rifle. He and his wife, Joan, waited
two hours for a driver to pick them up. Once he arrived, the nearly 8,000-foot
altitude left him with barely enough air to deliver a one-liner.

But a toast-roast led by comedian STEVE ALLEN left Dangerfield beaming.

This has been a dream come true,'' Dangerfield said after delivering as good as
he got from Allen, LOUIE ANDERSON, SANDRA BERNHARD, PAUL RODRIGUEZ and BOB
SAGET. The tribute was taped and parts of it will be shown tonight on HBO.

I love you in the way that only a younger Jewish man can love an older Jewish
man,'' Saget said.  I don't care if you're dead. I'm bringing you to my 75th
birthday party.''

Adolescent tycoon

The kid who got that $20 million settlement from MICHAEL JACKSON a few years ago
is named in Penthouse magazine's March issue, and there's a picture of him in
this week's Globe. The tabloid says he's 17 now and has a head for money. He
invested $3.8 million in stocks and bonds, bought into the private school he
attends when he saw how high tuition was, and, when he saw how much it cost to
gas up his Nissan Pathfinder, bought shares in three oil companies. He shops
Banana Republic and wears Armani pants when playing street hockey.

A powerful message

Nine-year old Jeremy Madison said nothing and neither did MUHAMMAD ALI. BUT BOTH
DELIVERED POWERFUL MESSAGES TO 7,600 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS WHO ON THURSDAY
ATTENDED THE LARGEST ASSEMBLY YET IN ALI'S NATIONWIDE BIGOTRY-FIGHTING HEALING''
CAMPAIGN.

JEREMY, ONCE AN ENERGETIC YOUTH LEAGUE FOOTBALL PLAYER, USES A WHEELCHAIR AND IS
UNABLE TO SEE OR SPEAK BECAUSE HIS BRAIN WAS DAMAGED IN A FIRE. ALI, WHO HAS
BEEN SLOWED BY PARKINSON'S DISEASE, PUSHED JEREMY'S WHEELCHAIR ACROSS A PAD
PLACED ON A HOCKEY RINK. HIS WIFE, LONNIE, KISSED THE BOY.

JEREMY, THEN 8, RAN INSIDE HIS FAMILY'S BURNING HOME IN OCTOBER TO RESCUE HIS
15-YEAR-OLD SISTER AND 3-YEAR-OLD BROTHER, NOT REALIZING THEY HAD ALREADY
ESCAPED.

CHELSEA'S BIG APPLE BASH

WHAT DO YOU DO FOR YOUR 17TH BIRTHDAY WHEN YOUR FATHER IS PRESIDENT AND YOU LIVE
IN THE WHITE HOUSE? COME TO NEW YORK FOR THE SHOWS, WHAT ELSE?

WHEN YOU'RE 17 YEARS OLD, NEW YORK CITY IS AMAZING,'' SAID NEEL .

CHELSEA CLINTON, who turned 17 on Thursday, will be in New York on today for a
birthday weekend with her parents and a few school friends. The group is
scheduled to arrive at La Guardia Airport around 12:30 p.m. on Air Force One,
settle in at the Waldorf-Astoria, then between them see three Broadway shows:
Bring In 'Da Noise, Bring In 'Da Funk,'' Rent'' and Chicago.''

Liz Smith says

PAT SCHROEDER will have offices both in New York and Washington in her new job
as president and CEO of the Association of American Book Publishers. She has
been teaching at Princeton and exhorting young women to throw their hats into
the political ring in order to change the climate of the American dialogue.

The former congresswoman is writing a book she'll call 24 Years of
Housekeeping.'' She was vociferous at lunch over the low state of politics in
the nation's capital, saying, Why, everyone in America must now think that
Washington is filled with hucksters and get rich quick' guys. And just saying
Everyone else does it so we're doing it, too!' doesn't excuse anybody when it
comes to campaign finance reform.''

Today's birthdays

Singer HARRY BELAFONTE is 70. Actor ROBERT CONRAD is 62. Author JUDITH ROSSNER
is 62. Rock singer ROGER DALTREY is 53. Actor ALAN THICKE is 50. Actor-director
RON HOWARD is 43. Actress CATHERINE BACH is 43. Countrysinger JANIS GILL
(Sweethearts of the Rodeo) is 43. Actor TIM DALY ( Wings'') is41. Football
player Mike Rozier is 36. Rock musician BILL LEEN (The Gin Blossoms) is 35.
Actor MARK-PAUL GOSSELAAR ( Saved By the Bell'') is 23.

--COMPILED BY SUZANNE M. PERREAULT

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comedian Sandra Bernhard sings Happy Birthday' to Rodney Dangerfield
during a 75th birthday celebration for him at the Aspen Comedy Festival in
Aspen, Colo. on Wednesday. The tribute was taped and parts of it will be shown
tonight on HBO.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              205 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 9, 1997

Talk Back; A gunman holds a talk show hostage in the NBC movie

BYLINE: Ron Miller

SECTION: Show World; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 865 words


MURDER LIVE!''

8-10 P.M. SUNDAY

NBC, KXAN CHANNEL 36

In Murder Live!'' a gunman walks onto the set of Pia Postman's TV talk show and
takes the popular host and her entire studio audience hostage.

Using it as a public courtroom, he's going to try Postman for her role in the
suicide of his daughter, a rape victim who had been exploited on her show. Then,
the gunman tells viewers of the national show he's going to execute Postman on
live television. If anyone attempts to stop him or take the telecast off the
air, he warns, he's going to blow the studio to kingdom come.

Of course, Pia Postman is fictional and so is her show, but the film offers the
most dramatic evidence yet that the TV industry is feeling some pangs of guilt
about the rank excesses of daytime talk shows. Like the ABC movie Talk to Me,''
this season, Murder Live!'' seeks to dramatize the debate that raged in the TV
industry more than a year ago.

Lindy DeKoven, who runs NBC's movies and miniseries operations, says the film
represents a commitment to provocative and challenging entertainment'' and is a
rare example of a thriller that forces TV to turn its critical eye upon
itself.''

Certainly the film gets to the central issue as Frank McGrath (David Morse)
forces glamorous talk show host Pia Postman (Marg Helgenberger) to realize how
callous she has become in exploiting the miseries of her guests for the
entertainment of her audience.

At the same time, the debate is wrapped up in a rather conventional -- and not
particularly convincing -- thriller format that finds the police SWAT team
angling for a kill shot on McGrath while desperately trying to find and defuse
the bomb he has planted somewhere in the studio.

Excesses of daytime talk

Peter Horton, who helped produce Murder Live!'' and plays the head of the SWAT
team, says the project was generated by some memorable examples of excessive
behavior on TV talk shows, dating back to the on-air riot between skinheads and
blacks on Geraldo'' and including the infamous case in which one Jenny Jones''
guest later killed another for humiliating him on the air.

Horton says such incidents evoked a certain anger and frustration in my system''
and prompted him to help write the story that was developed into a screenplay.

I found myself thinking about this group of people who were exploiting the worst
in all of us -- and doing it for profit, without any apology or sense of
responsibility,'' he says.

The fact that the TV talk show business has kind of cleaned itself up over the
past 16 months may be beside the point. Though the climate has changed during
the time it took to make the film, Murder Live!'' still addresses issues of TV
industry responsibility that seem everlasting.

Horton, asked whether the audiences are equally to blame, made it clear he
thinks TV programmers are the primary culprits, much like drug dealers who get
people addicted to cocaine.

I put direct responsibility on the people who produce the shows and do them,''
says Horton, who says he believes viewers may take perverse pleasure in watching
people suffer.  For someone to take that and exploit it for personal profit and
gain'' is reprehensible, he said.

Helgenberger, who has specialized in TV movies since her long run on China
Beach,'' gives an especially vivid performance as Pia Postman, who seems to have
been modeled on Jenny Jones.  Helgenberger says she isn't a talk show fan and
watched a compilation of clips before shaping the character.

I didn't try to imitate anyone in particular,'' she says.

A change for the better

Horton is gratified that the talk scene seems to be changing for the better,
saying that shows like Rosie O'Donnell'' are redefining it.  He says he hopes
the negative publicity has damaged the more exploitive shows and that their
influence is waning.

In order to give Murder Live!'' a realistic look, director Roger Spottiswoode
gives the opening scenes such an authentic talk show feel that some viewers may
think they've accidentally stumbled into one. He duplicated a talk show stage
and had working video cameras and monitors on the set, so the actors and the
extras playing audience members could see what was supposedly going out to the
audience of the fictional show.

The actors tried to stay in character constantly, even though the film was made
over several weeks, in order to keep the feeling that their characters were
trapped in a situation that was counting down in real time.

Helgenberger may have had the hardest part, because she's playing a woman who
must continue to project her TV image to an audience of millions -- while facing
excruciating truths about herself, not to mention the threat of imminent death.

I found it a real challenge playing that role -- balancing her actual fears and
issues and keeping the show going,'' she says.  It was a lot to do -- and I
really thoroughly had a good time doing it.''

Viewers may find much of Murder Live!'' less than credible, particularly the
second half, but it makes solid points about television's need to exploit. It
should keep the issue in the public eye, and that, at least, is certainly
positive.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter Horton, who plays the head of the SWAT team, helped produce the
project that addresses industry profit and responsibility.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              207 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 March 30, 1997

From child to mother, with love

BYLINE: ANNE MORRIS

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 710 words


The day I met with Tara Elgin Holley, she brought along an early copy of My
Mother's Keeper.'' Written with her husband Joe, a former editor of the Texas
Observer, it tells her story of growing up with a schizophrenic mother.

The memoir grew out of an article Joe wrote for Texas Monthly (June, 1991)
called Voices from the Dark'' that won the PEN West Literary Award for Magazine
Journalism.

The article carried this blurb: As a young woman in Houston, Dawn could sing
like Sarah Vaughan and audiences adored her. Then schizophrenia struck and she
became a street person, left to mutter gibberish to herself. Now her son-in-law
tells her story.''

By contrast, in the book Tara tells Dawn's story. Her editor recommended that
change. It is, after all, a mother-daughter story.

Joe would interview me and write; then I'd edit it, and we'd rewrite it,'' Tara
said.

Joe wrote this story, but we composed it together. In the telling, we went over
certain parts three and four times. I would frequently tell him he was asking
the wrong questions. It was hard for me to accept that other people wouldn't see
the situation the same way I did. This story comes from layers of telling.''

Parts of it also come from family letters and Tara's journal. She was the family
archivist.  I've kept a journal since I was 15. Writing in the journal, reading
books and music saved my life.''

When she was a music student at the University of Texas, working two and three
jobs to support herself, her mother was, by choice, roaming the Drag, sleeping
on flattened cardboard boxes behind a convenience store. They would run into
each other.

I owe my mental health to the fact that I grew up with completely wild,
wonderful grandparents, and with a strict, 19th century Victorian (great-great)
aunt,'' the daughter said. All of that is in the book, which is, in part, a
story of what made her strong.

Tara is 45 now, with children of her own. The first impression you have of her
is that she's a deadly serious person. Schizophrenia is, after all, a serious
subject. But sometimes, talking, she breaks into a warm smile and looks like
Dawn before anything went wrong.

Tara works at Texas Folklife Resources and is finishing a master's degree at UT
in ethno-musicology. Dawn is 67 and living in a board-and-care house 40 miles
outside of Austin.

They see each other often, but still communicate best through the music they
share.  When a visit isn't going well, I'll say to her, Let's go play some
music,''' Tara said.  She's phenomenal. She remembers her whole repertoire.''

Does Tara feel funny about the publication of a memoir that reveals so much
about her mother, her family and herself?

I wanted to write a book that was helpful,'' she said.  If I had one goal it
would be to create a climate for more comfortable discussion of mental illness.
I'm grateful to be able to tell the story.'' She adds: It's the real thing.''

There are, however, lines Tara will not cross.

She turned down the opportunity to be interviewed about the book by Jane Pauley
on Dateline NBC.'' They wanted Dawn, too, and Tara said no. She didn't want to
expose her mother to that kind of publicity.

Some publicity has been good. As a result of the magazine article, Tara met Peg
McCuistion, now retired as head of Hospice Austin. Peg and Dawn had been girls
together.  She gave me back whole parts of my mother's life.'' McCuistion
confirmed Tara's belief that her mother had been a wonderful, talented friend
before the disease. She remembered listening to the 15-year-old Dawn sing on the
radio.

I guess you can tell from the book,'' Tara said.  I worshipped her (Dawn).''

She sees My Mother's Keeper'' as a beautiful story, a unique story.  My mother
is a gift to me.''

It's a story that touches many.  I'm comfortable now talking about it,'' Tara
said.  But I've been shocked by stories we receive in return. It seems like 75
percent of the people I meet have a closely related story -- some friend or
someone in their family who is mentally ill.''

Even in a season of memoirs, My Mother's Keeper'' is one to read.

COMING: On Wednesday, look for Angeles Mastretta, a best-selling author in
Mexico, at Book People and David Sedaris at Borders.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tara Elgin Holley

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              212 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                 April 26, 1997

For insects and diseases, choose natural methods

BYLINE: TED FISHER

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 671 words


A lot of Austin vegetable gardens are up and growing. Those veggies may look
lush and healthy, but look out: The bugs and blights may not be far behind.

Pest control in the vegetable garden is complicated because of environmental
concerns.

Austin's mild winter climate allows us to grow some types of vegetables nearly
year-round, and it allows many pests to live. We cannot expect Mother Nature to
control all of these pests. When we plant a garden, we change nature's ecology.
For instance, a single species of plant does not grow naturally in a row.
Planting an abundance of one plant tends to build up those pests that attack the
plant.

Won't crop rotation help with this problem? Yes, but rotation is difficult in a
small garden. And many of our favorite vegetable crops are closely related, such
as tomatoes, eggplants and peppers, so some diseases and insects attack all
three.

Some pests can remain active for many years. Southern blight, a soil-borne
disease, may remain capable of infecting plants for three or four years. This
organism can exist almost indefinitely on dead organic matter as a saprophyte.
And it attacks a wide range of plants.

Other plant disease organisms inhabit the soil and can wait years for the proper
time and environment to attack garden plants.

Most vegetables have been changed from their original wild form. Today's
favorite garden varieties have been hybridized and developed for size, flavor
and texture. Disease and insect resistance is important, but no one wants to eat
lettuce that tastes bitter or is tough.

Because we've become accustomed to blemish-free vegetables, it's difficult to
accept lettuce with holes in the leaves or tomatoes with black spots.  Although
pesticides have done an admirable job of controlling most pests most of the
time, we can use many cultural control methods and nontoxic organic controls.

These suggestions are nontoxic and should help you deal with insects and
disease.

*Planting in well-prepared, fertile soil, containing a generous quantity of
organic matter. Fertile soil will translate into healthier, more vigorous plants
and fewer overall problems.

*Space plants properly for air circulation. This can be especially helpful in
controlling fruit rot.

*Mulch your garden with a thick layer of organic material. Mulching helps to
prevent splashing of soil and harmful organisms onto plants during heavy rain or
overhead watering.

*Hand picking certain insect pests can be helpful, particularly if you start
early in the season. Tomato hornworms, squash bugs, stink bugs and other beetles
can be effectively controlled in small areas by pulling them from plants and
dunking them in a can of diesel or by smashing them with the sole of your shoe.
Boards laid around the garden will attract small garden pests such as pill bugs,
and daily lifting and removal will keep many of these under control.

*High pressure streams of water are effective in reducing a number of small
insects like aphids and mites on plant foliage. Give the plants a good shower
bath periodically, being certain to direct the spray to the underside and top of
the leaves.

*Many insects and some diseases can be controlled through the selective use of
organic products. You may have to search these out, but many are safe and
nontoxic when used according to label directions.

*Practice good garden sanitation. This can go a long way toward reducing or
preventing the introduction of pests. Keep debris and plant refuse cleaned out.
When a plant dies or no longer is bearing, remove it.

*Select and plant vegetable varieties that are resistant to diseases. For
example, some tomato varieties are resistant to root knot nematodes, fusarium
and verticillium wilts, tobacco mosaic virus and other diseases.

*

Flora Rama, Austin's largest flower and garden party, is next weekend at Zilker
Botanical Garden. This once-a-year delight for gardeners is sponsored by the 40
garden clubs and plant societies of the Austin Area Garden Council

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman


                              213 of 217 DOCUMENTS

                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                                  May 1, 1997

Gays see hype and help in Ellen'

BYLINE: Maggie Jackson

SECTION: Business; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 805 words


At Ford Motor Co., a founder of the gay employees group hasn't yet come out to
straight co-workers. At a Detroit post office, a gay worker is routinely told by
colleagues that his kind'' isn't wanted.

As gays and lesbians celebrate the coming out of Ellen DeGeneres and her TV
character Wednesday night, they'll return to a realm where homosexuality is
mostly far from celebrated and sometimes punished: the workplace.

For gays, it's often taboo to reveal their true selves at work. In 41 states,
they can be fired just for their sexuality. Even within the growing number of
companies that ban such discrimination, gays remain closeted, fearing
retaliation.

Ellen'' won't necessarily change that as the first sitcom lead to come out on
television. For many, she'll remain just a flaky woman -- now a flaky lesbian --
on a show that needs a ratings boost.

Yet some gays see the Ellen'' phenomenon -- arguably the most public and
long-unfolding coming out ever -- reaching beyond American living rooms and into
workplaces, stirring controversy and discussion. Sharing even a little of her
spotlight, they believe, will help the slow coming out of millions of gays at
work.

As silly as it may seem, we need this kind of impetus,'' said Liz Winfeld, a
consultant who helps companies implement domestic partner benefits and
educational programs regarding gays at work.  It contributes to the visibility
of the issue.''

As U S West's gay employees association met this week in Denver, Ellen'' was a
focus of attention, said John Trautman, president of the organization.

To tap the national attention, the organization decided to accelerate plans to
alert more of the company's work force to the group's existence and make more
efforts to help others come out.

This will give us momentum,'' he said.

There's been progress. Today, 251 of Fortune 500 companies have policies
forbidding discrimination against gays and lesbians, and 26 accord benefits to
partners who are not married to employees.

Such companies are realizing that by ignoring gays, they are losing talent at a
time of increased global competition, customers who make up 10 percent of the
population and a measure of honesty within work life.

If you don't create a place where people can be honest, then invisible
boundaries build up between people, and teamwork and productivity get all shot
to hell,'' Winfeld said.

Yet for many gays, silence -- or at least a very low profile -- is the only way
to keep a job or stoke their career.

This week, President Clinton pledged to lobby for passage of a law banning
employment discrimination against homosexuals, but conservative groups said they
will fight the legislation.

Most white-collar workers, while not afraid of harassment, are afraid of losing
their careers,'' said Alice McKeague, leader of the 3-year-old Ford gay
employees group, GLOBE (Gay-Lesbian or Bisexual Employees).

The climate of fear is still so pervasive that only a small number of GLOBE's
150 worldwide members have come out to co-workers, McKeaguesaid.

That's also true at Texas Instruments, where 100 workers receive e-mail
regarding the gay employees group.  Those are the people who are brave enough to
receive the message,'' noted founder Louise Young.

Blue-collar workplaces can be even more homophobic, gay leaders say.

In the 1980s, postal worker Ernest Dillon suffered five years of harassment from
co-workers before transferring to another post office. His supervisors didn't
interfere, except after he was assaulted in a bathroom.

Today, Dillon said co-workers in Detroit urge him to quit or say, We don't want
your kind here.'' But the remarks come less frequently, he said.

Due to the lack of legislation, there is no national tracking of harassment
against gays at work. But the American Civil Liberties Union's Lesbian and Gay
Rights Project handles about 35 to 40 such cases at a time, and turns away
hundreds of requests for help for every one it accepts, said, the gay-rights
group Human Rights Campaign was scheduled to air an anti-discrimination ad in 36
local markets -- including Austin -- with a toll-free number where callers can
report workplace discrimination or get further information.

ABC turned down the commercial for a national airing, saying it violated its
policy against controversial issue advertising.''

Some regular advertisers such as Chrysler decided not to air commercials during
the episode -- an action that infuriated gay employees at the automaker, which
just this year included gays in nondiscrimination policies.

Through all the other things we've gone through, fighting for the policies, the
Ellen' stuff has hit people the hardest,'' said group leader Michelle Marquis.

I think because it's such a public thing, it's hitting home,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Actress Ellen DeGeneres, left, meets a gay woman, played by Laura Dern,
in Wednesday's much-anticipated episode of Ellen.' Gay employ ees groups are
applauding the visibility Ellen' is giving homosexuality.

                  Copyright 1997 The Austin American-Statesman
