
                               1 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

A drier Austin, a hotter Texas, a sinking coast

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1531 words


Scientists from around the world laid out the causes and future of global
climate change in a report Friday. The results suggest that Texas, with its
booming population and flourishing industries, may become the victim of some of
its success.

The report, released by a panel of scientists that were assembled by the United
Nations, does not address climate change state by state. But the phenomenon will
have concrete consequences for the state, according to Texas scientists: Austin
will get drier, and water in Central Texas will grow scarcer. Rising sea levels
will eat away at the Gulf Coast. Crops may shrivel.

"Climate change will dramatically alter the character of our state," said
Katharine Hayhoe, an atmospheric scientist at Texas Tech University whose work
was cited in the U.N. study. "The place our parents and grandparents grew up
won't be same place where our children will grow up."

She said the Southwest, including Texas, could expect more droughts and hotter
weather. Over the next century, average temperatures could rise at least 7
degrees in summer and 5 degrees in winter, she said.

The U.N. study found that "warming of the climate system is unequivocal" and
said with "very high confidence" that the net impact of "human activities since
1750 has been one of warming."

Climate change is sure to continue because of greenhouse gas emissions already
in the atmosphere, the report said. But reducing fossil fuel use - which leads
to emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, a contributor to climate
change - could soften the rate of global warming, it said.

Texas is the No. 1 emitter of carbon dioxide nationally, with about a third of
the emissions coming from vehicle tailpipes, a third from industries and a third
from utilities. If the Lone Star state were its own nation, it would be the
seventh-largest emitter of carbon dioxide in the world.

The state has no official climate change policy. The governor has said there is
scientific doubt about whether people are responsible for climate change. And
the office of the Texas attorney general has battled against regulating carbon
dioxide emissions in the U.S. Supreme Court.

"Any approach to environmental regulations needs to be balanced with concerns
for impact on our economy, on Texas families' budgets," said Ted Royer, a
spokesman for Gov. Rick Perry. "Whether or not global climate change is caused
by human influence is beside the point. We know for a fact that dirty air is bad
for Texans."

At least 29 states have policies to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In his
State of the Union speech last month, President Bush acknowledged the "serious
challenge of global climate change."

But neither the federal government nor Texas regulates carbon dioxide.

"We need to balance our needs with the long-term needs of our planet," said
state Sen. Kip Averitt, R-Waco, who leads the Senate Natural Resources
Committee. Averitt said he supports a U.S. Senate bill that would cap carbon
dioxide emissions.

"The appropriate venue for deciding this is Congress," Averitt said. "It's
important to have a national policy so we're all in the same boat together. If a
utility is looking to build a plant and Texas has stringent requirements on
carbon dioxide and Oklahoma doesn't, there's a strong possibility they're going
to build in Oklahoma. That's fruitless and counterproductive. At this time, it
would not be appropriate for the state to take action."

Predicting the effect of climate change on Texas, let alone Austin, is tricky.

"It's like trying to catch a fish in a lake," said Zong-Liang Yang, a University
of Texas professor who is building models that translate climate phenomena from
the global to local scale. "If you use big nets with big spacing, you catch big
fish, not small fish. We need to use a smaller net. The global warming models
have big spacing and are very coarse."

Some other Texas scientists suggested specific ways that hotter temperatures
could alter the landscape of Austin.

Right now, the rain rate, about 2.6 inches a month, roughly matches the water
evaporation rate in Central Texas, said Gerald North, a climate scientist at
Texas A&M University. If temperatures rise 5 degrees, the evaporation rate will
rise an inch; if the rain rate doesn't keep up, in other words, Austin may start
looking like San Angelo.

The Gulf Coast - whose sea levels will rise 8 to 22 inches or more, depending on
ice melting in Antarctica and Greenland - is vulnerable to climate change, said
Don Blankenship, a scientist at UT's Institute for Geophysics who studies rising
sea levels.

"If Texas were a river delta like Bangladesh, then the big impact is a
displacement of population," he said. "As an area barely dry becomes wet, if
you're Texas, that's not a big deal because people can move inland, but all that
infrastructure has to be moved."

But the Port of Houston Authority Division of Planning and Environment said its
Bayport Container Terminal, which has a dock elevation of 18 feet above average
sea level, is safe from rising seas.

"It is unlikely that global water increases will cause a significant problem for
this maritime facility over its 50-year design life," the authority said in a
statement.

The climate change discussion has hit a fever pitch just as utilities have
proposed a host of new coal-fired plants in Texas. The plants would add at least
120 million tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere annually. About 666 million
tons of carbon dioxide were emitted in Texas in 2001, according to the Carbon
Dioxide Information Analysis Center at the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge
National Laboratory.

"For every report that says we have global warming, there's a report that says
we don't," said state Rep. Phil King, R-Weatherford, chairman of the House
Regulated Industries Committee, which oversees the electric industry. He said he
has a three-inch binder of climate change reports in his office.

"I'm not a scientist, but I can read, and when there's that much debate in the
scientific community, it's hard to base public policy on that empirical data,"
he said.

Last year, the state signed onto a U.S. Supreme Court brief that argues that the
Clean Air Act should not address carbon dioxide emissions because much of the
gas is emitted by foreign nations.

"It's only reasonable that Texas be part of discussions about how to reduce
emissions of greenhouse gases," said Larry Soward, who is on the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality. "I hear people say that global climate
change is a global issue, and not something we can do anything about in Texas.
But any reduction we make will help reduce that effect."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

(Illustration)

Projected impact of greenhouse gases in Texas by the end of the 21st century

As Texas faces rising temperatures, policymakers disagree on how best to
mitigate their effects.

Statewide

Emissions temp. rise Rise in sea level, in inches

Low: Less fossil- 3-5.5 6-14

fuel dependent

growth with heavy

investment in

cleaner technologies

Medium: Primary 5.5-8 14-22

fossil-fuel dependent

growth with improve-

ments in energy

efficiency

High emissions: Rapid, 8-10.5 22-30

fossil-fuel intensive

growth

Longer dry spells could increase the risk of large wildfires.

Increase in electricity/energy demand

As early as 2025, demand may increase 20 percent.

Agriculture

Irrigated agriculture could decline because of scarcity of water. Wheat yields
could fall 43 percent.

Urban areas

In urban areas, heat deaths could triple.

Sources: Environmental Protection Agency, Electric Reliability Council of Texas,
Environmental Defense, Katharine Hayhoe at Texas Tech University,
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

(Graphic box)

Top carbon dioxide emitters

If Texas were its own nation, it would be the seventh-largest emitter of carbon
dioxide in the world.

Carbon dioxide emissions for 2001 (most recent data available):

U.S. 5,743 million metric tons

China 3,005

Russia 1,438

Japan 1,190

India 1,164

Germany 824

Texas 666

U.K. 564

Canada 494

South Korea 436

Source: Oak Ridge National Laboratory's Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis
Center

Highlights from the climate report
 * The cause: The evidence for global warming is 'unequivocal,' and
temperatures 'have increased markedly as a result of human activities.'
 * The outlook: Now that the world has begun to warm, hotter temperatures and
rises in sea level 'would continue for centuries,' no matter how much humans
control their pollution.
 * Temperature change: The average temperature is predicted to rise 2 to 11.5
degrees Fahrenheit by 2100.
 * Sea levels: Sea levels are estimated to rise 7 to 23 inches by the end of
the century. An additional 3.9 to 7.8 inches are possible if recent melting of
polar ice sheets continues.
 * Impact: It is 'very likely' that heat waves and heavy rainfalls will become
more frequent. Toward the end of the century, sea ice in the Arctic might
disappear almost entirely during the summer.
 * Hurricanes: An increase in hurricane and tropical storm strength in the
Americas since 1970 'more likely than not' can be attributed to human-caused
global warming. It is likely that hurricanes will become even more intense,
with stronger winds and heavier rains.

The Associated Press




LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Autumn gives Austin the cold shoulder

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN editorial AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 386 words


As this is being written on a warm June day in November, the National Weather
Service and other students of meteorological absurdity are predicting
temperatures could rise to 89 degrees today - today, Wednesday, Nov. 14, 2007.

Even in Central Texas, it's just not right that a week from Thanksgiving we wear
shorts to be comfortable outdoors and face a blast of oven heat when opening the
door of a car parked in the sun.

More than a few people have wondered whether this is a sign of global warming, a
general, worldwide increase in average temperatures because of two centuries of
burning fossils fuels, which dump carbon dioxide into our air. That , climate
scientists tell us, traps heat in the atmosphere.

Now, scientists also repeatedly caution us against looking at one day or even
one week of unseasonal weather - particularly unusually warm weather - and then
leaping to the conclusion that it must be caused by global warming.

But if we can't blame global warming, who can we blame for this sweat? Why not
that do-nothing Democratic Congress and that do-even-less Republican Texas
Legislature? When they're not in session, the politicians are adding to global
warming every time they open their mouths! Come to think of it, do they ever
shut up?

Not that the heat has made us cranky.

But it's made us nostalgic: Just last week we got that wonderful shot of cool,
dry air - an undocumented but entirely welcome immigrant from Canada - that
turned off air conditioners, opened doors and windows and, we gullible innocents
thought, finally signaled the start of fall. After all, the leaves are falling.
Heck, even basketball season has started.

Over the weekend, however, warm, humid air from the Gulf of Mexico fought back.
It muscled its way inward, pushed back the cool air and forced many of us to
turn the AC back on. And today, the weather service says, Austin could tie the
record high of 89 degrees.

The forecasters say Canada is sending reinforcements - a surge, you might say -
that should arrive tonight. But apparently Canada is running out of troops, or
icy Arctic air, because the forecasters also say that the cooler air won't last
long and we'll be back in the 70s by the end of the week.

What Central Texas really needs is an honest-to-goodness blue norther. But we're
not sure they make those anymore.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Global warming measures on hold

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 676 words


A United Nations report released Friday says policymakers around the globe
should take stronger steps to address climate change. In Texas, however,
lawmakers have largely shrugged off the issue.

The report, authored by a panel of scientists, says policymakers can do more to
"counteract the global growth in emissions" by shifting away from coal-fired
power plants and encouraging people to buy cleaner cars and build greener
buildings.

The issue is particularly pressing in industry-rich Texas, where emissions of
carbon dioxide, which contributes to climate change, are high enough that if
Texas were a nation, it would be the world's seventh largest emitter.

Friday's report follows two studies released this year by the climate change
panel, which includes more than 2,000 scientists. They projected that escalating
greenhouse gas emissions would drive up temperatures by as much as 11 degrees in
the next 100 years, leading to a rise in sea levels and the destruction of some
species.

But most proposals at the Capitol explicitly addressing climate change have
languished in committees. Committee heads say they don't believe human activity
affects climate change and say they don't want to put the state at a competitive
disadvantage before the federal government acts.

A proposal to direct the state climatologist to establish a global warming task
force to figure out challenges and business opportunities prompted by climate
change has sat in the energy resources committee since March.

"The people in charge do not take the problem seriously and our responsibility
to act on the problem seriously," said Rep. Lon Burnam, D- Fort Worth, who has
proposed several pieces of legislation on the issue.

At least a half-dozen proposals to address climate change have been stuck in the
House environmental regulation committee, most buried without a hearing.

"People smarter than me argue about whether (humans affect climate change),"
said committee Chairman Dennis Bonnen, R-Angleton. "If you put regulations on an
industrial facility, it doesn't mean it won't be built. It'll be built in
another state or country with less regulations. You'd be forcing business from
the state."

Scientists involved in the report said policymakers have a responsibility to
address the issue.

"Everyone in an area contributes to climate change one way or another," Dennis
Tirpak, an author of the report and a former climate change analyst at the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, said. "It's easy to say, 'I'm a small guy, and
I don't count.' We all count."

U.N. scientists estimate that the biggest increases in carbon dioxide emissions
could come in electrical generation and urged policymakers to shift away from
coal-fired power plants to natural gas, nuclear and renewable sources.

Between 1970 and 2004, greenhouse gases have increased about 145 percent in the
energy supply sector, according to the report.

In Texas, however, the governor has thrown his support behind new coal-fired
power plants. Air quality bills - such as moratoriums on new coal-fired power
plants - have also foundered in committees.

Key lawmakers, including Bonnen and Rep. Phil King, R-Weatherford, the head of
the committee that oversees power plants, the governor and the lieutenant
governor, have questioned whether humans contribute to climate change.

"Whether global warming is human caused or a natural cyclical occurrence, his
position is the science isn't in on that," said Mike Wintemute, a spokesman for
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst.

Not all climate change proposals have died. One, authored by Sen. Kirk Watson,
D-Austin, would require the state environmental commission to figure out ways
businesses can reduce greenhouse gases that won't cost them money.

Another bill, by Bonnen, calls for an interim committee to study the future of
the state's energy resources, but as drawn, the committee would be staffed
largely by climate change skeptics. A third bill, passed by the Senate, proposes
to study how global warming will affect the future of the Rio Grande.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Gore brings 'Truth' talk, energy-saving tips to Erwin Center

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 470 words


Armed with a doozy of a PowerPoint presentation and a folksy sense of humor, Al
Gore appeared at the Erwin Center on Monday night to drive home the "planetary
emergency of climate change."

Reprising the message of his movie, "An Inconvenient Truth," he flipped through
slides of melting glaciers alongside tables showing escalating levels of carbon
dioxide and temperatures; he spoke in simple but urgent tones about how he
thinks that human civilization faces its greatest crisis and has an opportunity
to address the problem.

The audience, many of whom seemed to be devotees of Gore, gave him a warm
reception, especially when the former vice president joked about how close he
came to becoming the commander in chief. (He likened losing his motorcade to
phantom-limb pain.)

"We are the sole liberals in our neighborhood," said Kathy Scott, who lives in
northwest Travis County and came to the discussion with her husband and teenage
son.

"We came because we want to see what we can do to make a difference."

As the world's most prominent environmentalist, Gore has become a moving target
for climate-change naysayers. On Monday, the Texas Public Policy Foundation , a
nonprofit free-market think tank that has received donations from oil and gas
companies, released a paper that it says debunks Gore's claims about climate
change.

Meanwhile, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals brought a campaign to
Austin attacking Gore because he is not a vegetarian. Meat-eating, the group
says, is a major cause of global warming.

His movie, released in May 2006 , earned at least $45 million worldwide and made
screwing in a compact fluorescent light bulb a cool thing to do.

But to what extent has his movie changed actual public policy?

Carbon dioxide, the chief greenhouse gas, remains unregulated by the federal
government. Developing countries are polluting more than ever. Some policymakers
have met his message with resistance, and, in some cases, derision.

"I don't know about you, but I've heard Al Gore talk about manmade global
warming so much that I'm starting to think that his mouth is the leading source
of all that supposedly deadly carbon dioxide," Gov. Rick Perry told a convention
of California Republicans in August.

On the flip side, carbon dioxide regulation appears to be forthcoming from
Washington (Democrats invited him to testify on the topic earlier this year),
and the climate change debate has largely shifted from whether the phenomenon is
happening to how government, industry and individuals should address it.

"He's moved the debate along to where we should have been 10 years ago," said
Ilan Levin, an Austin attorney with the Environmental Integrity Project, which
has fought power plant proposals.

"He's shifted debate and put it in a way a lot of people understand."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 870 words


Congress and CHIP

As the major players in the State Children's Health Insurance Program issue
debate whether additional funding for children's health insurance is worth a
growth in government dependence, another issue goes overlooked: whether the
federal government is even allowed to fund health care.

The government is supposed to be itself governed by the Constitution. If the
Constitution says Congress cannot do something, it cannot do it. In fact, if the
Constitution does not expressly say that Congress can do something, Congress is
not allowed to do it.

The Constitution gives Congress plenty of powers, but health care is
conspicuously left to the individual states.

The American people must decide: Leave Congress to its own whims or force it to
follow its own highest laws.

TAYLOR PHEBUS

taylorphebus@gmail.com

Round Rock

Hot topic for the governor

The governor never ceases to astonish me.

After more international recognition of the man-made global warming theory -
awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Al Gore and a UN panel of scientists - what
does Gov. Rick Perry do?

One would think that as a leader of the most polluting state in the country, he
would have the decency to try to educate himself about the facts of climate
change and the urgency of actions this state can take to contribute to a
solution.

Instead, the governor shows off his ignorance and contempt for science,
insulting the intelligence of many of us by making the unfounded claim that
there is no consensus among climate change experts on man-made global warming.

Given what is at stake, we expect more courage and integrity from our state
leader than seeing him side with the selfish and myopic special interests of oil
and gas companies.

J.P. DUPUIS

jp_agillion@yahoo.com

Austin

Perry only seems to have taken a controversial position on global warming.

While Kansas is rejecting new power plants based on CO2 emmissions, Perry is
standing firm against the insanity. The notion that CO2 is driving the warming
trend is largely based on the evidence gathered from the Vostok, Antarctica, ice
core samples, which showed a correlation of historic warming trends and CO2 gas
dating back over half a million years.

Recent discoveries regarding those samples, however, have shown that the CO2
build-up actually occurs hundreds of years after the warm-ups, suggesting that
global warming causes CO2 build up, not the other way around.

The governor is standing on solid scientific grounds. I'd rather have him
governing in this sensible manner than from a position of apocalyptic hysteria
any day.

STACY PEARSON

Cedar Park

Budgeting for health insurance

I learned early in life the importance of health insurance from my father, who
was a pharmacist.

When gaining my first full-time employment, he asked me to verify whether my
employer covered my health insurance and what it would cost me. When I retired
in 2006, I was still aware of shopping and budgeting for health insurance.

What has changed in America that parents can no longer take care of this dire
need? How can we guide young Americans to not be victims?

ZITA WRIGHT

Cedar Park

Rebutting St. Edward's

Re: Oct. 15 article "Bishop opposes St. Edward's pick for guest lecture."

Thank you, Bishop Gregory Aymond, for publicly objecting to St. Edward's
decision to invite the Rev. Charles Curran to speak at what has become a
university that is Catholic in name only.

A Catholic priest removed from his position on the faculty of Catholic
University in Washington and forbidden from teaching at Catholic schools or from
using the title of Catholic theologian by Pope John Paul II has no business
being invited to speak at St. Edward's or any other Catholic institution. There
are plenty of other venues where Curran can voice his blasphemous opinions.

I urge Aymond to use his authority to revoke St. Edward's designation as a
Catholic school. It is time for American Catholic bishops to follow more closely
the directions from Rome and courageously enforce true Catholic teachings and
dogma.

PAUL KROSCHEWSKY

Pflugerville

And traffic jams stink

Re: Oct. 15 letter "Tolls stink here, too."

Yes, tolls stink. However, horrible traffic jams stink much worse.

The letter writer thinks it is an unfair burden if he has to pay extra to use
toll roads. His solution is to tax everyone, including those who don't use the
toll roads. That idea creates an unfair burden on those who don't use the toll
roads.

He had a choice in California to take the toll or non-toll roads. He chose to
pay instead of taking alternate routes and now wants to complain about them.

Sounds like he wants to have his cake and eat it too. Roads need to be built
quickly and paid for by those who will use them.

KEN MAYES

Austin

Think before you ink

- and then enjoy

Re: Oct. 17 letter "Beauty that's only skin deep."

As a 40-something woman with many tattoos, I would like to respond to this
letter writer. I still enjoy my tattoos and plan on more. They are meant to grow
with one as the aging process continues.

I still think I'm attractive, and the tattoos help me to take better care of my
skin.

I do agree that people need to think before they ink, but I have many tattooed
friends who are happy, well-adjusted people.

KAREN SLAFTER

slafter.k@sbcglobal.net

Austin

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Climate change raising fears of enormous floods in India

BYLINE: Craig Simons INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 858 words


BASAHI, India - When the monsoon comes each summer to this poor Indian village,
it brings misery.

Raindrops as wide as nickels fall straight and hard, churning dirt lanes into
mud.

But this year's monsoon rains were the heaviest anyone in India's northeastern
Bihar state can remember. Something has changed, they say, and their fears are
confirmed by many in the scientific community who say India's floods are getting
worse as warming alters the earth's climate.

In the past, the rains were always interrupted by glimpses of the sun. But this
year, 20 straight days of rain dumped 3 feet of water, a record for most of
Bihar.

Together with increased runoff from glaciers in Tibet and Nepal, the water
swelled the local Budhigandak River. In early August, it breached a levee and
sent giant waves crashing through the village of Basahi, killing 22 people and
adding to a monsoon death toll of more than 1,000 in Bihar, India's
least-developed state.

For India and the world, the suffering is a warning of worse to come, many
scientists say. As the Earth heated over the past century, evaporation increased
and the atmosphere became wetter, leading to heavier storms and more floods.

Globally, the number of floods - which generally are caused by heavy rainfall
but can be made worse by other factors - has increased sixfold since 1980. This
year, flooding affected more than 250 million people, according to Oxfam
International, a nonprofit group based in Oxford, England.

Many scientists link climate change with recent record-breaking floods in the
U.S. Midwest, England and Mexico, where five days of torrential rains in
November left most of the state of Tabasco under water and damaged the homes of
nearly 1 million people.

But with a four-month monsoon season and hundreds of millions of poor farmers,
India and neighboring Bangladesh are arguably the world's nations most at risk
for increased flooding.

To some observers, the effects of climate change on flooding are obvious.

"Regions that were not prone to droughts and floods are now prone to them," said
Murari Lal, a New Delhi-based climate change scientist who has worked for the
U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

In India's northwestern Rajasthan state, five districts that were flooded for
more than two months last year had never had flooding. Meanwhile, India's
northeastern Assam state remained mostly dry from 2004 to 2006, but it "used to
be underwater for four or five months every year," said Neel Kamal Singh,
director of information for the Indian Red Cross.

Extreme downpours also have become more common. A study by Indian scientists
published last year in the journal Science found that although the total amount
of monsoon rain over central India had remained roughly constant over the past
century, the number of very heavy events, defined as at least 5.9 inches of rain
in a day, had more than doubled since 1951.

At the same time, increased runoff from the Himalayas has intensified floods in
northern India. Himalayan glaciers are "receding faster than in any other part
of the world," according to the U.N. climate change panel. The glaciers are
likely to disappear by 2035 if the world continues to warm at its current rate,
the panel warned in an April report.

"There has been a shift in the climate cycle," Lal said. "The society needs to
be made aware and change in a big way."

Basahi, a village of 2,500 people, offers testament to the power of floods. On
Aug. 2, the swollen Budhigandak River breached an embankment and sent water
roaring into town.

Ram Kumar Mahto remembers the flood as a series of waves - first, waist-deep,
seconds later, to his chest.

When the first wave hit, he helped his wife and one daughter to safety on a
nearby hill. Within minutes, the torrent of muddy water was too deep to cross,
and when his mother tried to help Mahto's second daughter reach the hill, the
water pulled the girl away and she drowned, one of the 22 killed.

As in thousands of other flooded communities in Bihar, the tragedy was only the
beginning of a long struggle.

After the levee broke, the district government delivered wheat and rice and
about $5 in cash to each family. But there was no clean water, and villagers
drank from the slow-moving flood. Dysentery killed hundreds in the district and
an untold number in the state.

The long-term economic impact of the flood might be still more damaging. The
river dumped sand onto the fields, making planting impossible for at least a
year, and many men are moving to nearby cities to look for work.

But with few jobs available, most families rely on sporadic aid from the
government and relief agencies. In August, the U.N. warned that child
malnutrition could worsen in Bihar.

Yet in Basahi, few people blame climate change for their plight. Instead, they
focus on things easier to understand: The government must fix the embankment
before the monsoon rains begin next year, they say.

By the ruins of a former government office, villagers built a shrine to Vishnu,
a Hindu god they believe offers protection.

On a recent evening, Mahto muttered a prayer. "Maybe you can pray for us, too,"
he said.

csimons@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

To Europe, Bush brings new climate position

BYLINE: Ken Herman WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 691 words


WASHINGTON - Like the planet itself, President Bush's position on global warming
- an issue sure to be on the agenda at this week's Group of Eight meeting in
Germany - has been evolving.

To hear Bush now, he's become a card-carrying global-warming warrior.

''The United States takes this issue seriously,'' Bush said last week in calling
for international meetings on climate change.

The United States, he said after a recent meeting with British Prime Minister
Tony Blair, wants to be ''a part of the solution.''

But critics, including Democrats and environmental groups, are not impressed.
Many note that it took years for Bush to acknowledge the problem as one worthy
of mention in a State of the Union address, the traditional presidential to-do
list.

''The Bush administration's head-in-the-sand position on global warming has
defied reason and common sense,'' said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of
Nevada. ''For six long years, it has suppressed scientists and scientific
evidence, undermined international efforts to find solutions and delayed
implementation of a strategy to protect the long-term interests of the nation.''

Reaction to Bush's evolved position will be sampled this week during his
eight-day European trip, which will begin in the Czech Republic on Tuesday and
include stops in Germany (for the Thursday and Friday G-8 sessions), Poland,
Italy, Albania, Bulgaria and Poland.

Administration officials bristle at the notion of Bush as a
president-come-lately to global warming. The White House line is that Bush long
has cared about the issue but has resisted proposed fixes, such as mandatory
caps on carbon emissions, that he perceives as harmful to the U.S. economy.

''Most of the State of the Union messages have been targeted toward significant
themes, many of them, quite understandably, about the war on terror,'' White
House spokesman Tony Snow said of the topic's absence until this year.

But Bush's annual speeches to Congress have been loaded with a variety of topics
in addition to the war.

In 2006, in his ''America is addicted to oil'' State of the Union message, Bush
called for an initiative aimed at cleaner energy but made no mention of global
warming.

Climate change came up in this year's State of the Union address as Bush called
for a 20 percent cut in U.S. gasoline usage in the next 10 years.

''America is on the verge of technological breakthroughs that will enable us to
live our lives less dependent on oil,'' Bush said. ''And these technologies will
help us to be better stewards of the environment, and they will help us to
confront the serious challenge of global climate change.''

Though he said the words, critics still question the actions.

''The president has been forced to change his rhetoric, but he has not changed
his policy,'' said Philip Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust.

And Clapp is unimpressed by Bush's call for international meetings on climate
change.

''This is a transparent effort to divert attention from the president's refusal
to accept any emissions reductions proposals at the G-8 summit,'' he said.

Observers note that the administration remains at odds with some European
countries on how to attack the problem.

''You see the U.S. emphasizing over and over again: technology, technology,
technology innovation,'' said Julianne Smith of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies. ''You see the Europeans talking about regulation,
regulation, regulation.''

''The commitment at the international level will be to a long-term, aspirational
goal,'' said James Connaughton, the administration's top environmental adviser.

The ''aspirational goal'' is movement for a president who, as a candidate in
2000, had not bought into any solution.

''Look, global warming needs to be taken very seriously, and I take it
seriously,'' Bush said in a 2000 debate. ''But science - there's differing
opinions.''

Seven years later, a former Bush administration official said, science seems to
have gotten to Bush.

''I think the president actually has been convinced by the science,'' said Grant
Aldonas, a former undersecretary of commerce for international trade.

kherman@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Gore gets prize; real winner is Earth

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 386 words


The Nobel Peace Prize awarded to an international panel of climate scientists,
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and to former Vice President Al
Gore for their work regarding global warming is well deserved. Both have helped
alert the world to the fact that it has a problem with global warming, even if
we are all a long way from agreeing on what to do about it.

The climate control panel has been working for several decades to put together
the vast scientific research needed to determine that Earth is, in fact,
generally warming and that human activity, primarily the burning of fossil fuels
such as coal and oil, is contributing to that warming, if not causing it.

Last year, Gore's documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth," gave his argument that
global warming is real, caused by human activities and endangering humanity.
Some critics, particularly conservatives, derided it as little more than a movie
with Gore lecturing about unproven theories.

But his documentary won an Academy Award, and it has played a significant role
in getting the public to understand that global warming - whatever you think of
its causes - is something happening here and now, not a potential threat in a
remote future.

Global warming means climate change, and climate change can mean war if it's not
managed right. There is bitter fighting now in Africa, prompted in part by
extended drought.

All those pictures of melting glaciers drives home the point that global warming
has real consequences, as do reports of the United States, Russia and Canada
already throwing elbows over access to navigation and mineral rights in the
Arctic Ocean as more ice melts away during the summer months.

The peace prize has warmed up talk that Gore might run for president again.
There is some irony in the fact that, seven years after George W. Bush won the
presidency over Gore, Bush is mired in a bottomless war in Iraq and is deeply
unpopular with the American people, while Gore celebrates winning a Nobel prize
for his efforts to teach the world about a global problem.

There is no consensus about what to do about global warming, either among
Americans or among nations. But doing anything first requires knowledge, and the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and Al Gore deserve the world's thanks
for their work and warnings.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

2000 election rivals Bush, Gore huddle ahead of Nobel event

BYLINE: Ken Herman Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 339 words


WASHINGTON - On a somewhat unseasonably warm November afternoon Monday, global
warming warrior Al Gore made it back to the Oval Office seven years after a
majority of American voters thought they had sent him there.

It took a Nobel Peace Prize to get him in the door.

President Bush held a 40-minute private session with Gore, who said they talked
about global warming, the topic of the documentary film that gave Gore a share
of the coveted prize.

"Of course we talked about global warming," Gore said as he left the White
House. "The whole time."

But the former vice president declined to disclose much more about his Oval
Office meeting with Bush, which came just before a Bush-hosted event honoring
this year's American Nobel winners.

"It was a private meeting, and I'm not going to say anything about it other than
it was very nice, very cordial," said Gore, accompanied by his wife, Tipper.
Bush "was very gracious in setting up the meeting, and it was a very good and
very substantive conversation."

Gore said it was his first trip to the Oval Office since he left office in
January 2001, after the bitter presidential race in which Bush garnered more
electoral votes but fewer popular votes.

Asked whether he missed the White House, Gore turned the question around, asking
a veteran reporter, "When you leave this beat, I'm going to ask you."

White House Press Secretary Dana Perino said Monday's session was the first
Bush-Gore private meeting since the election. Bush called Gore with an
invitation last week and agreed to rearrange the date around an international
trip on Gore's part.

"I think by the fact that the president invited him to meet prior to the event
shows that this president (was) looking forward to having a conversation with
him," Perino said.

In May 2006, when asked if he planned to see "An Inconvenient Truth," the
Oscar-winning documentary in which Gore offers an ominous account of global
warming, Bush said, "Doubt it."

Bush later acknowledged that human activity has helped cause global warning.

kherman@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In visit to City Hall, Pelosi applauds local green initiatives

BYLINE: Asher Price American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 617 words


U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., praised the steps that Austin has
taken to curb energy consumption during a stop Monday at City Hall.

Pelosi - in town for a fundraiser at which she met some of the state's top
Democratic givers and thanked U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, for his support
- said that clean energy programs at the University of Texas and the City of
Austin's role in encouraging the use of hybrid vehicles made the city a model
for the rest of the country.

"The boast of a clean energy capital of the nation is a very legitimate one,"
Pelosi said.

She stood alongside Doggett and city officials to tout the passage of House
energy bills that give incentives for hybrids and invest in renewable energy
technology.

The House legislation would establish a $4,000 plug-in hybrid vehicle tax
credit, as well as tax incentives for biking to work. It would repeal tax breaks
for oil companies and establish new energy-efficiency standards on household
appliances.

Doggett helped craft the plug-in hybrid language, shore up a tax credit for
small biofuel producers and raise thresholds for the amount of renewable energy
that private utilities must generate , his office said.

Similar legislation passed the Senate . The two houses may have to broker a
compromise.

Issues of climate change are "as local as a neighborhood and as global as the
planet," Pelosi said.

Earlier this year, Pelosi sounded optimistic that Congress could come up with a
bill to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, one of the greenhouse gases that
have been blamed for global warming. But at Austin City Hall, she said she did
not think that such regulation would be taken up until the next session.

"There's some impatience" among environmentalists, said Luke Metzger, director
of Environment Texas, "but at the same time, the concern is that Congress get it
right because of the fear that if they rush through and pass a weak bill, it
would forestall any future action" on climate change.

Doggett said Congress remains far ahead of last year's Republican-controlled
House on climate change despite the lack of a carbon dioxide measure.

"Last session, there was no discussion about climate change," he said. "This has
been a reorientation of the House."

At a Sunday evening fundraiser for the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee at the house of former Lt. Gov. Ben Barnes, Pelosi briefed a crowd of
about 150 people on congressional goings-on, including discussions about
investments in alternative fuels and exit strategies for Iraq, said former Land
Commissioner Garry Mauro, who attended the reception.

At the reception, Pelosi singled out Doggett for being the first member of
Texas' congressional delegation to endorse her in the race for the speaker's
seat, earning him a special place in the House leadership, Mauro said.

A reception invitation said guests could attend with donations starting at
$1,000. To join the "Speaker's Cabinet" took a donation of $28,500. (The DCCC
did not release how much money the event raised.)

Pelosi makes occasional trips to Texas; a daughter and grandchildren live in
Houston.

Originally conceived as a fundraiser, the Austin visit became part of issues
trips she makes across the country, sometimes accompanied by fundraisers, said
spokesmen in Doggett's and Pelosi's offices.

This month, she talked about technological innovation in Youngstown, Ohio; in
late September, she visited the Philadelphia area to talk about cleaner energy
and job creation; and in mid-August, she went to Phoenix to talk about health
care for veterans, said Drew Hammill, a spokesman for Pelosi.

By Monday afternoon, she was in Miami to talk about children's health care.

asherprice@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. should lead quest to solve climate change

BYLINE: American-Statesman Editorial AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 478 words


It's even worse than we think.

That's the message coming from some respected scientists about global warming,
the gradual rise in temperature of the Earth's atmosphere.

By Friday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations
organization, is expected to issue its newest report on the state of Earth's
climate. A preliminary draft predicted that by 2100, sea levels will rise
somewhere between 5 and 23 inches. Five to 23 inches may not sound like much,
but it would cause significant flooding in what are now coastal areas, including
the Texas Gulf Coast.

Because it's coming from a United Nations-sponsored group, the panel's report
will be dismissed by some as the product of environmental extremists or
anti-American interests. Others believe nature is simply too big to be affected
in any major way by what humans do.

What several internationally respected scientists are saying, however, is that
the United Nations panel's upcoming study is too conservative, too careful. The
new study, they suggest, is already outdated because it doesn't take into
account recent studies that show significant parts of Antarctica and Greenland
are melting into the oceans around them much faster than previously measured.

The result, some scientists say, is that coastal waters will rise at least 20
inches, not just five, by the end of the century. A rise of 20 inches can push
water into many a coastal city, and the United States won't be an exception.

President Bush has acknowledged that global warming is real, though he has
provided little leadership to combat it. And anyone who has bothered to pay
attention to stories and pictures of mountain snowcaps melting and glaciers
retreating around the world knows something odd is going on.

Climate scientists say the principal culprit for this warming is the steady
pumping of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from burning coal, natural gas,
gasoline and other petroleum products.

With China, India and other countries racing to achieve the same affluent
lifestyle of the West, we can expect even more carbon dioxide to be pumped into
the atmosphere.

For some, the growth of the Chinese, Indian and other economies is reason enough
to declare that it's pointless for the United States to try to cut carbon
dioxide production. Why bother if China and India won't do the same?

The answer is that the United States can either lead the way toward solving the
problem or play a climate version of Russian roulette. A number of prominent
corporate leaders, not just environmentalists, have recognized the need to limit
carbon emissions without waiting first for salt water to creep into the streets
of Galveston, Miami and New York City.

The United States will be in no position to demand that China, India or any
other country do something about carbon emissions if we aren't acting first.
That's what it means to lead.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             October 1, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

BEST BETS

BYLINE: Angela Grayson AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 537 words


Mummy's the word

Egyptian mummies have continued to fascinate each generation, their ancient
secrets and riddles captivating scientists and children alike. In the IMAX film
"Mummies: Secrets of the Pharaohs," award-winning directing team Keith Melton
and Reed Smoot explore the 19th-century discovery of a tomb of 40 mummies,
including 12 kings of Egypt.

Narrated by actor Christopher Lee, the film chronicles the historical treatment
of the mummies including the impact of grave robbers as well as mummies' use as
medicinal cures and, currently, as providers of DNA for scientific research. 2
and 6 p.m. Bullock Texas State History Museum, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
and Congress Avenue. $5-$7. 936-8746, www.thestoryof texas.com.

Woman's place is gallery

The work of 14 international and local female artists makes up Volitant
Gallery's latest exhibition, "Femme Fantastique."

Each artist in the exhibit portrays the traditional roles of women in myths,
fairy tales and contemporary societies by stripping the images associated with
them and re-imagining those conventions in a variety of media. Artists include
Nancy Baker, whose paintings combine futuristic spaceships with medieval
landscapes and characters, and Debra Hampton, whose eerie images of mutated
women attempt to convey the aggression of modern cultures. The gallery will also
present Joan Jonas' film "Upside Down Backwards." 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Volitant
Gallery, 320 Congress Ave., Suite 100. Free. 236-1240, www.volitant.com.

Gore introduces film, conveniently, in Austin

Former Vice President Al Gore will appear live this evening to present the
Academy Award-winning film "An Inconvenient Truth."

First serving in the United States House of Representatives in 1977, the
outspoken environmentalist was one of the first politicians to comment on the
effects of climate change, co-sponsoring hearings on global warming as early as
the 1980s.

Directed by Davis Guggenheim, the 2006 documentary chronicles the vice
president's past and present efforts to educate the public about the growing
threat of global warning. The film includes opinions from climate experts such
as the late Roger Revelle of Harvard University and a slide show that
demonstrates rising levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the retreat of
numerous glaciers and the temperature record since 1880. Viewers get a window
into the personal history of Gore and his purpose for fighting to prevent
climate change.

- Angela Grayson

Al Gore presents 'An Inconvenient Truth'
 When: 7:30 p.m.
 Where: Erwin Center, 1701 Red River St.
 Cost: $29.50-$99.50
 Information: 471-7744, www.uterwin
center.com
BEST OF THE REST
 University of Texas Symphony Orchestra Concert - The UT Symphony Orchestra
opens its new season with works by John Corigliano, Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky
 and Dmitri Shostakovich. 8 p.m. Bates Recital Hall, UT, 23rd Street and Robert
 Dedman Drive. $10. 471-5401.
'The Wine Roads of Texas' - Author, wine writer for the Austin Chronicle and
PBS host Wes Marshall will lead participants through a 'blind tasting' of eight
 wines in celebration of Texas Wine Month for this Central Market class. 6:30
to 9 p.m. Central Market, 4001 N. Lamar Blvd. $65. 458-3068,
www.centralmarket.com.



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Gore protests coal plants

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 405 words


WASHINGTON - Former Vice President Al Gore took his global warming campaign to
Congress on Wednesday, declaring that the problem is ''by far the most serious''
the country has ever faced and calling for an immediate freeze on emissions of
carbon dioxide.

He also recommended a tax on carbon emissions and an increase in federal
automobile mileage standards.

And he said that no new coal-powered electrical plants should be licensed unless
they are designed to be compatible with the capture and storage of carbon
dioxide.

Gore denounced a recent proposal by the Texas utility TXU Corp. to build 11
coal-fired power plants and said he wanted "to compliment the people of Texas
for rising up en masse to block that cynical plan."

Making separate appearances before House and Senate committees, Gore seemed
buoyed by an increasingly enthusiastic public response to his one-man campaign
for climate change action. He promised to do his part to build public support
for global warming legislation.

''This thing is building,'' he said, ''and it's building in both parties.''

He presented copies of what he said were about 516,000 e-mail petitions he
received in ''a few days'' after he asked for expressions of public support for
his testimony.

''We're getting 100 new contacts per second in the last couple of days,'' he
said.

Testifying before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Gore locked
horns with Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., Congress' most outspoken skeptic about
global warming.

Inhofe declared that many scientists had accused Gore of overstating the dangers
of climate change in his writings and in the Oscar-winning documentary, ''An
Inconvenient Truth.''

He asked whether Gore would sign a personal pledge to live a ''carbon-neutral''
life, meaning he would cause no more carbon dioxide to be released into air
through the electricity he uses, his travel and other activities than he
removes.

When Gore attempted to respond to the challenge, Inhofe insisted that the answer
to that question and others be only yes-or-no.

He said that he was allotted only 10 minutes for questions and that the former
vice president is sometimes verbose and his answers would use up the time.

Gore did not take the pledge but said his family uses ''green'' electricity at
home, paying extra under a law that requires the power company to purchase a
corresponding amount of electricity from renewable sources, such as wind.

jeffn@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Implement a bright idea

BYLINE: Sheryl Cole, AUSTIN CITY COUNCIL MEMBER AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 340 words


After the Austin City Council approved the Mayor's Global Climate Change, I
received a call in my office from a resident who said as one person, he could
not do anything that would make an impact on this global issue.

I disagree. Everybody makes an impact on our fragile environment and even one
person can do a simple thing to reduce energy consumption. If we all take small
steps to reduce our carbon footprint, the effects would exponentially increase
and we could make a significant impact to decrease global warming. The small
step is as simple as changing a light bulb.

If every American household replaced one incandescent light bulb with a compact
fluorescent light (CFL) bulb, it would be equal to removing more than a million
cars from the road. Compact fluorescent light bulbs are similar to the long tube
fluorescent light bulbs we frequently use in overhead lighting, but with the
fluorescent element twisted to fit in standard lamps. They cost a little more
than incandescent bulbs, but they last about 6,000 hours - six to 10 times as
long.

More importantly, switching to compact fluorescent light bulbs will save money
over the long run. CFLs are 66 percent more efficient than regular bulbs. Each
bulb will save $20 to $30 on energys bill over the life of the bulb. Replace
several bulbs and see a significant costs savings on utility bills since the
bulb is more efficient.

To help every person in Austin make the switch, H-E-B and Austin Energy will be
giving away one free CFL at five of its Austin stores today. This way, everyone,
regardless of income, has an opportunity to do his part to slow down global
climate change and receive the cost savings that CFLs provide.

Today I'm inviting you to join me at a participating H-E-B store, pick up a free
CFL bulb and use it to replace an incandescent bulb. Take this small step to
reduce global warming and go green - it's a real bright idea.

Participating stores
 * 2400 S. Congress Ave.
 * 5800-A W. Slaughter Lane
 * 1000 E. 41st St.
 * 7205 Village Center Drive
 * 2701 E. 7th St.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

BEST BETS

BYLINE: Lauren Dimitry AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFE & ARTS; Pg. J02

LENGTH: 522 words


It's a painting movement, literally

Join the Spank Dance Company and the Austin Figurative Gallery, home of the
Austin Figurative Project, for an unusual event. While the Spank Dance group
performs, Austin Figurative Project artists will paint them.

According to the gallery's Web site, the Austin Figurative Project is a loose
collection of artists who paint models together. The final paintings are shown
grouped together, so that differences in each of the artist's perception and
execution is evident.

If you like what you see, you can check out the finished projects on Aug. 11,
when the group will perform again and the final paintings will be on display.
Spank Dance Company, described as a "choreographed sculpture of multiple
dimensions moving through time and space," is the brainchild of choreographer
and dancer Ellen Bartel.

-- Lauren Dimitry

Austin Figurative Gallery and the Spank Dance Company

When: 6 to 8 p.m.

Where: Austin Figurative Gallery, 301 Chicon St., Unit F

Cost: Free

Information: www.spankdance.com, www.austin figurative gallery.com

Green mayor channels his inner Al Gore for slideshow

"It's a global problem, but it's a local problem, too. And our responses have to
be both global and local," Mayor Will Wynn said of climate change back in
February, when he announced the Austin Climate Protection Plan. In January, Wynn
trained with Al Gore to give the slide show the former vice president made
famous in his Academy Award-winning documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth." Wynn
has adapted the presentation and will host a discussion today on what Austin is
doing to confront the climate crisis. The presentation will be free, but you can
reserve a seat by purchasing a $5 food-and-beverage voucher. 4 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Alamo Downtown, 409 Colorado St. Free. www.drafthouse.com.

Meet the much-anticipated Mandi Perkins at Stubb's

Meet Mandi Perkins, a singer/songwriter whose "take no prisoners" merger of
alternative rock and pop has gained her national attention before she's even
released her first full-length album. Born and raised in Toronto, Perkins moved
to California to attend UC Berkeley, where she graduated with honors in English
literature and honed her songwriting skills. After graduating, Perkins moved to
Los Angeles to pursue a career in music. Perkins' debut album, "bleeding the
line ...," will be released later year. Doors at 9 p.m. Stubb's, 801 Red River
St. $10. www.stubbsaustin.com.

BEST OF THE REST

'Edible Austin Farmers Fair' - Participants may taste farm-fresh local food
while meeting chefs and farmers. Jim Hightower will make an appearance, and La
Strada will provide live music. Benefits Texas Organic Farmers and Gardeners
Association New Farmers Workshops. 5 to 8 p.m. Whole Foods Market Plaza, 525 N.
Lamar Blvd. $10. www.whole

foods.com.

Concerts in the Park - The Austin Symphony Big Band features the music of Cole
Porter, Irving Berlin, Hoagy Carmichael and more. Attendees are encouraged to
bring a picnic dinner and blanket. Sponsored by the Hartman Foundation. 7:30
p.m. Wooldridge Square Park, Ninth and Guadalupe streets. Free.
www.austinsymphony.org.

-- Compiled by Lauren Dimitry

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Saving energy with new home vision

BYLINE: Kate Alexander American-Statesman staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 827 words


The Austin City Council on Thursday is set to adopt energy efficiency
requirements for new home construction that would be some of the nation's most
aggressive.

By 2015 , Austin plans to tighten its building codes so new homes will use 65
percent less electricity and gas than those under construction today.

"I haven't seen any other city " with such a long-term vision as this. It's
aggressive, but it looks very doable," said Aleisha Khan , executive director of
the Building Codes Assistance Project, part of the Washington-based Alliance to
Save Energy.

Austin owns its electric utility and has used it to promote environmentally
friendly energy policies.

"Austin has a generation-long track record and ethos " of environmental
protection," Mayor Will Wynn said. "We have this fabulous reputation to maintain
and not just rest upon."

Peter L. Pfeiffer , an Austin-based architect who is nationally recognized for
green building, agreed with Wynn.

"The rest of the country is snapping to the fact that we have to do something
about how we build our homes and buildings," Pfeiffer said.

Pfeiffer led the council-appointed task force that developed the plan and
included home builders, energy efficiency experts, construction trade
representatives and others.

The objective of Austin's plan is to make homes "zero-energy capable": energy
efficient enough that it is cost-effective to install solar panels or other
on-site electricity generation such as wind turbines. Without the energy
efficiency improvements, the benefit of on-site generation is lost through leaky
ducts and windows.

To reach that goal, four rounds of building code changes will be needed over the
next eight years, the first set of which is expected to come Thursday.

The standards, which would be enforced as part of the building inspection
process, would apply only to new residential structures under three stories - an
estimated average of 6,400 homes per year. They would go into effect Jan. 1.

But stringent mandates for other types of buildings are being developed as part
of the city's Climate Protection Plan, which was adopted about six months after
the zero-energy task force started its work.

The first round of building code changes would reduce total energy use in new
homes 11 percent. To reach the 65 percent goal, code changes planned for the
future include increased efficiencies in lighting, windows and appliances.

"The energy savings achieved through later code cycles can be expected to be
both more costly and intrusive into people's lives," the task force report said.

The initial changes focus on heating and air conditioning, which represent 40
percent of total electricity consumption for Austin-area homes, said Richard
Morgan , Austin Energy's green building manager.

The proposed standards call for builders to tighten the homes so less energy
seeps out and less heat comes in; install air-conditioning systems more
effectively; and use more high-efficiency lighting.

The first round of improvements would increase the cost of building a home
almost $1,200, but that amount would be made up over five years through reduced
energy costs, the report said.

By comparison, it would take 20 years for an Austin Energy customer to pay off a
typical solar panel system even with the utility's incentives, Morgan said.

Over 10 years, the task force estimates, the total cost savings would be double
the cost of implementing the improvements.

"It's not about how much it costs to build the house," Pfeiffer said. "It's
about how much it costs for the homeowner to own the house."

Harry Savio, executive vice president of the Home Builders Association of
Greater Austin, said the home builders would not have embarked on these changes
without the city's prodding. But he appreciated that the city encouraged the
industry's participation.

"The final product is something that balances both sides," Savio said. "It is a
good sign of what can be done when you sit down and work together toward a
common solution."

New homes are a small portion of the overall housing stock, so Wynn has proposed
new mandates for energy efficiency upgrades at the time of sale of an existing
home.

A separate task force on the point-of-sale upgrades will be formed by the end of
the year; recommendations for the new standards are expected within six months.

kalexander@statesman.com; 445-3618

Energy-saving plan
 Under the proposed building code changes, home builders will be required to do
 the following:
* Install radiant  barrier systems to keep heat out.
* Test for duct system leakage.
* Conduct new tests for heating and air conditioning systems.
* Size air conditioning systems appropriately for the structure.
* Install high-efficiency lighting.
Goals of Austin's 'zero-energy' home plan
 Start  Electric bill Carbon dioxide Equivalent in cars
year savings reductions (tons) removed from road
2008 $2.9 million 20,532 4,489
2010 $9.7 million 69,373 15,169
2013 $19.2 million 137,306 30,023
2015 $31 million 221,597 48,453



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 987 words


Warm front moving in

It's scary that Al Gore has people deluded by the inconvenient lies he puts out.

The scientific method is not consensus but is based on experiments that test a
hypothesis validity. Contrary to the false statement that there is "perfect
unanimity" by scientists about global warming, several climatologists do not
support that we are the cause of the temperature rise.

George Taylor, John Christie and David Legates are a few of these prominent
climatologists. It does have real costs. The move to ethanol is contributing to
higher costs for the underprivileged that rely on corn as a staple of their
diets.

We are lucky to predict next week's weather, yet we are told that Gore can
predict the weather in 20 years?

VERN WILLIAMS

Round Rock

Pity the poor elephant

The creature must be wondering what it did to deserve being the mascot for such
a militant group as the Republican Party.

Its latest crusade of hate is against Graeme Frost, the boy who called out
George Bush on his veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program.

Point and counterpoint is a desired trait of democracy, but when normal people
start tuning you out because of the imbecilic rants of party spokespeople
(Michelle Malkin, Ann Coulter, Rush Limbaugh), then you might want to rethink
that debating style.

The GOP mascot should be a pit bull. Like the dog, the party is not recommended
around children, exhibits irrational behavior without warning and is mostly
ineffective on home security.

STEVE VOYTOWICH

smvoytowich@cs.com

Austin

Why the 'Y'?

Re: Oct. 9 article "Toll road plan cruises onward."

I want the Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization board know my disgust
with its vote on the toll roads, especially the portion that affects me, the "Y"
in Oak Hill.

How could CAMPO think building that monstrosity at the "Y" and tolling 2.9 miles
is a good idea? Have the board members ever been to Oak Hill? They certainly
weren't listening to the will of the people.

I will remember their position come election time.

PAULINE WORD

Oak Hill

Every reading of the law I do tells me putting tolls on existing roads is not
permitted. Yet the powers that be continuously violate the law, doing whatever
they want regardless of public sentiment (you know, what the people who elected
you want).

But I blame the residents, because they'll protest then pay their money. Why
shouldn't the authorities shove more things down our throats to "tax" us? People
pay then wonder why these things happen.

If they illegally change the roads to toll roads and no one uses, them think of
the possibilities. Then what?

Maybe one day the government we elect will actually listen to us (you know, like
they are supposed to).

RAE DOWNING

Austin

What's good for America

The Republicans give big tax breaks to wealthy people and call it "good tax
policy." They write tax laws to benefit wealthy corporations and say that's good
for America.

But heaven forbid that a family that could use some government help actually
gets it! That's the conclusion I draw from the Republican right-wing attack on
the family of 12-year-old Graeme Frost, who, along with his sister, were injured
in a car crash. The two were treated under the SCHIP program even though the
family's income was $45,000 a year.

Well, as a taxpayper, I'd much rather see my tax dollars pay for insurance to
help the Frost family than go to fat cats and corporations. The Republicans seem
to believe the only people "worthy" of government help are those wealthy enough
not to need it. I disagree, and I'm sick and tired of Republicans misusing my
tax dollars.

S.S. JUSTICE

Austin

Adam and Eve's co-pay

Re: Oct. 10 letter "Parental control."

I can only guess that the letter writer was/is a government or education
employee.

Anyone who receives insurance through an employer has a harder time
understanding what it's like to come up with $500 or more a month to insure
their families with a reliable insurance carrier.

Health care is expensive, whether you're insured or not. Deductibles, co-pays
and medications that aren't covered are hard to pay for.

For anyone to suggest couples not to conceive until they can afford it is
absurd. I don't recall what it said in the Bible about Adam and Eve having
maternity coverage.

TERESA MYERS

Spicewood

Personality check

Re: Oct. 9 letter "Conservative personality."

It is ironic that the letter writer believes the conservative's personality, by
not believing the perceived issue of global warming, is an example of a major
problem in our society.

Labeling this a major problem in our society is laughable when the liberal
personality has undeniably (and proudly) embraced two of the biggest and most
self destructive ills of any society: abortion and homosexuality.

Maybe it's time to check what the children are being taught about that.

CALEB HARRIS

Austin

A wheel liberal

I own two hybrid cars and two bicycles so, according to some recent letter
writers, I must be a paragon of sanctimoniousness.

I love the cars and I certainly feel good about saving money on gasoline, but I
am surprised by the attitude of conservative people who always seem to be
smirking at my choice of vehicles.

However if one accepts the dictionary definition of "sanctimonious" meaning
"falsely pious," then I simply do not fit the description.

Let me give some better examples: Gay senators and preachers trying to pass laws
banning same-sex unions; a president who supports torture yammering about
"freedom and liberty."

Perhaps I am too literal.

RUSSELL SCANLON

Austin

Undercover reporting

Re: Oct. 11 article "The new vintage."

Loved the article about vintage clothing.

Thought you might want to know that Alex Gehring's "vintage bloomers" were
actually called "pettipants" in the 1960s. They became popular when skirts
starting going mini.

In fact, when I saw her on the front page of Life & Style, I said, "Oh, my God,
there's my old pettipants! By the way, the boys called them "spoilers."

DEE SPORTSMAN

Austin

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Coal plant foes see clear choice in gasification

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1822 words


Paul Rolke, a 300-pound Robertson County man, was so outraged by plans to build
a pulverized coal power plant within sight of his ranch that he went on a hunger
strike last year, drinking little more than water for more than a week.

"This technology isn't so last century," said Rolke, who worries about pollution
from the plants. "It's so century before the last century."

He says he is not opposed to having another type of plant that uses coal on the
nearby property. He would be satisfied if the utility, TXU Corp., decided to
build a gasified power plant. Gasified power plants, which also use coal, can
drastically reduce pollution and carbon dioxide emissions.

But carbon dioxide, which contributes to global climate change, remains
unregulated by the government, and utilities are reluctant to invest in the
technology because gasification plants cost as much as 20 percent more to build
than traditional pulverized coal plants. The utilities also say the gasification
plants are commercially untested and incompatible with some kinds of coal, but
those claims don't completely hold up.

The technology could offer Texas a middle ground in the energy debate. Utilities
say they should be allowed to meet the growing energy appetite of a booming
population. Environmentalists say more coal-fired plants would send tons of
pollutants into the air, which exacerbate respiratory problems, and would emit
carbon dioxide gases that contribute to global warming. The gasification
technology could provide power and cut down on pollution.

"It's the first real radical departure from the boil-water-make-steam-make-power
technology," said Ian Duncan, a professor at the Bureau of Economic Geology at
the University of Texas. "You can gasify chicken manure, literally. Anything
with carbon they can gasify."

But the middle ground could be hard to come by. Some environmentalists have
spurned coal gasification technology because it still leads to some emissions.
And many large utilities have resisted the technology. TXU, which has proposed
11 coal-fired power plants around the state, has said it is unwilling to build
gasification plants because they cost more than standard coal-fired plants and
aren't compatible with the coal it hauls in from Wyoming for many of its plants.

"We're working with state-of-the-art technology that is proven and reliable, and
will work even during the hottest days in Texas," said Kimberly Morgan, a
spokeswoman for TXU.

The issue carries urgency because Gov. Rick Perry has ordered the state's
environmental commission to fast-track the permitting process for the proposed
standard coal-fired power plants. Environmental groups worry that after the
plants obtain permits, they will be shielded from future tighter environmental
rules.

Meanwhile, some of the state's major urban areas, including Austin, teeter on
the brink of breaking federal clean air rules. The state already ranks No. 1
nationally in carbon dioxide emissions from utilities.

Even though a coalition of Texas municipalities (including Travis County), a
group of Dallas business owners and some lawmakers have supported gasification,
the technology faces some stiff opposition.

â  This is a process still in the making that is not yet commercially viable to
address Texas' immediate needs, "according to "Don't Leave Texas in the Dark," a
report championing the construction of coal-fired power plants that was released
by the Texas Association of Business. The lobbying group counts TXU as one of
its members.

Interviews and an examination of proposed plants around

the country suggest gasification plants cost more to build but, if carbon
dioxide emissions become regulated, gasification plants will be cheaper to
operate. It's easier to add carbon capture technology to the gasification plants
than to pulverized coal plants.

"The wild card is the CO2," said James Childress, who

heads the Virginia-based Gasification Technologies Council, a lobbying group.
"If these plants are required to add CO2 (capture technology) later,
gasification wins."

The public policy question about whether to regulate carbon dioxide emissions
has consequences for consumers, as well. Mike Mudd, manager of new generation
development at American Electric Power, told the Ohio Public Utilities
Commission in 2005 that energy from a coal gasification plant costs $56 per
megawatt hour compared with $52 per megawatt hour from a pulverized coal plant.
But, when carbon capture costs are factored in, the energy costs $79 per
megawatt hour for coal gasification and $95 per megawatt hour from a pulverized
coal plant.

Gasification technology "is both fiscally responsible and the right thing to do
as a matter of public policy, both for AEP and Ohio," Mudd said, in an account
related in the book "Big Coal" by Jeff Goodell.

In what is essentially a chemical process, a gasification plant acts first like
a pressure cooker,

converting coal to a synthetic gas; then the gas is cleaned of pollutants and
burned in a turbine similar to a jet engine, which is tied to a generator. (In
coal-fired power plants, coal is burned to boil water, and steam powers
turbines.) Removing the pollutants before they escape into the atmosphere can
lead to a fivefold reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions, halving the

nitrogen oxide that leads to lung-damaging ozone, and a 90 percent reduction in
carbon dioxide -- if utilities invest in carbon sequestration, which means
injecting the gas underground.

Two government-funded gasification plants are operating in the U.S. (TXU says
each is significantly smaller than the coal-fired plants it is proposing.) At
least a dozen gasification projects are in the works.

Coal gasification plants are online only 80 percent of the time, compared with
more than 90 percent for pulverized coal plants, according to Jim Katzer, a
professor of chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
who has written about coal gasification. He said the Wyoming coal and Texas
lignite, the two main coals that would be used in the proposed Texas plants,
have high moisture contents that make them hard to use with the gasification
technology.

But gasification has been shown to work with similar coal in other parts of the
world, according to Harry Morehead, director of the gasification plant group at
Siemens Westinghouse Power Corp. And the plants are becoming more reliable, he
said.

"There's a learning curve effect going on," he said.

General Electric Co., which produces gasification units,

announced last summer that it was close to building a plant in Colorado that
would use Wyoming coal. And, in Colorado, Xcel Energy has proposed building a
coal gasification plant using Wyoming coal.

Gasification was refined during World War II, when

Germans, cut off from oil supplies, used it to produce diesel fuel. But the
costs hampered adoption of gasification technology until the environmental
movement drew attention to the pollution and, lately, the carbon

dioxide emissions associated with traditional pulverized coal plants. Carbon
dioxide contributes to global climate change, and the TXU plan would add about
78 million tons of CO2 to the atmosphere annually. (In 2001, 656 million tons of
carbon dioxide were released in Texas by the energy industry, according to the
most recent data available.)

Recently Washington has pledged to spend at least $620 million on a "near-zero
emissions" coal plant that will use gasification technology. The plant, known as
FutureGen, could be built in Odessa or Jewett; the two Texas cities are
competing with cities in Illinois for the project.

But Texas appears to be moving in a different direction, with the governor
directing the state's environmental commission to speed the permitting process
for the proposed coal-fired plants.

More to the point, the state does not consider gasification plants comparable to
standard coal-burning plants. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
views gasification and conventional coal-powered plants as different
technologies and does not compare their emissions, said Richard Hyde, director
of air permitting at the agency.

The result is little regulatory pressure on utilities to compare emissions from
their coal plants to those from gasification plants.

Last fall, Environmental Defense, a nonpartisan advocacy

organization, filed a suit against the commission on environmental quality,
arguing that utilities should be required to consider gasification as well as
the standard technology.

Nationwide, only two states -- New Mexico and Illinois -- require utilities to
consider gasification as an alternative to standard coal, said John Thompson,
who directs the coal transition program at the Clean Air Task Force, a
Massachusetts-based environmental group.

Some environmental groups remain opposed to all coal plants.

"There is no clean coal technology," said Donna Hoffman, a spokeswoman for the
Austin chapter of the Sierra Club. She said coal will still have to be mined and
sent by train to Texas. She favors renewable energy and conservation measures.

But Thompson said, "Global warming is inevitable. We can

wish our way into wanting more renewables, but if you donâ  t advance coal
technology to capture CO2 emissions, the game's over."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

Is gasification the best alternative?

Arguments against
 * Coal gasification plants cost about 20 percent more to build than do
pulverized coal plants, and they are only lightly tested.
 * Pulverized coal plants perform more reliably.
 * The coal used in Texas is not the best type to use with gasification.

Arguments for
 * Gasification plants cut down on pollution.
 * They are more compatible with carbon capture technology, should the
government require utilities to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.

(Illustration box: see microfilm)
An efficient way to get energy from coal
A key advantage of gasification over a traditional coal power plant is the
capture of carbon dioxide during the process and not afterward from the plant
exhaust. It is more efficient and less costly to add the carbon capture
technology to a gasification plant.

Materials   Gasification    Gas refining      End products
              Slag
Steam,                                                          (construction
oxygen,                material)
air        Syngas*

Coal             Mercury                 Mercury
contains:      removal
Carbon               Sulfer
Ash (rock)      Sulfur/         Carbon
Sulfur       carbon          dioxide**
Nitrogen      dioxide          Hydrogen
Hydrogen      removal    Syngas    Ammonia
Mercury               Methanol
Water        Syngas                                        Steam
                   Combustion
        turbine           Electricity

* Gas made synthetically, it can be used just like natural gas
** Carbon dioxide is extracted and stored. When released to the atmosphere it
contributes to global warming.

Source: Electric Power Research Institute, Clean Air Task Force


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Senate bill could hurt TXU plans for 11 coal-fired plants

BYLINE: Gerry Smith WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 487 words


WASHINGTON - A bipartisan Senate bill introduced Friday would place mandatory
caps on global-warming gases and could threaten utility companies across the
country that own coal-fired power plants.

The Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act of 2007 would cap greenhouse-gas
emissions of the electric power, industrial, transportation and commercial
sectors at 2004 levels by 2012 and reduce them to one-third that level by 2050.

Similar bills, introduced by Sens. Joe Lieberman, an independent from
Connecticut, and John McCain, R-Ariz., in 2003 and 2005 failed to pass.

But the new measure, co-sponsored by Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., has provisions
that improve its chances of passing in the new Democratic-controlled Congress.

The White House has opposed caps on carbon emissions, saying they are too costly
and deter economic growth.

The bill aims to soften the financial blow to companies by allowing them to
borrow, save and trade emissions credits with other companies to stay under the
cap.

But it would also create a serious problem for utility companies that own
coal-fired power plants, which produce more than half of the country's
electricity but also one-third of its carbon dioxide emissions - the main cause
of global warming.

Plans by Dallas-based TXU Corp. to build 11 coal-fired power plants in Texas by
2010 have sparked one of the biggest environmental battles in the state's
history.

If the bill introduced Friday passes in its current form, it ''will
significantly affect the outlook for old-coal technology,'' said Jason Grumet,
executive director of the bipartisan National Commission on Energy Policy.

''Sinking billions of dollars into technology now, when it's clearly at odds
with where the nation is going, seems suspect,'' Grumet said.

Kim Morgan, a TXU spokeswoman, said the company is reviewing the legislation but
that plans to build the plants - at a price of $10 billion - had not changed.

''We're operating on what we understand today, and that is that there is a need
for more power in Texas,'' Morgan said.

With the completion of the new plants, TXU's carbon emissions would nearly
double from about 55 million tons to 94 million tons a year.

But as its population swells, Texas faces a burgeoning energy crisis with the
potential of rolling blackouts if more electricity is not generated, according
to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which controls the state
electricity grid.

In December, a group of TXU shareholders filed environmental resolutions
questioning the decision to build coal-fired plants.

But Frank Maisano, a spokesman for the Electric Reliability Coordinating
Council, a coalition of power companies, said TXU must begin building up its
electricity capacity.

''We don't have time to wait on Congress to have a debate on climate change or
for technologies like gasification to work out the kinks while Texas is trying
to meet massive growth needs,'' he said.

gfsmith@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

PARTY PEOPLE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E08

LENGTH: 114 words


Mayor's Climate Change Reception

City Hall, Aug. 8

At a cocktail reception hosted by the City of Austin Environmental Board, Mayor
Will Wynn told Leadership Austin members and other community leaders about his
plan to help Austin deal with climate change.

St. David's Scholarship Awards Dinner

University of Texas Club, Aug. 2

Eight Austin students were awarded W. Neal Kocurek St. David's Scholarships to
pursue education for medical careers. Emmanuel Anozie (Lanier High School),
Cherie Brune (Crockett), Liliana Gonzalez (Crockett), Kim Hernandez (Akins), Ka
Hoi Hui (Bowie), Ashli Lawson (Bowie), Tam-Hong Nguyen (Akins) and Linda
Velasquez (Lanier) were saluted by family and friends.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

METRO & STATE BRIEFING

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 988 words


CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

AUSTIN

SXSW buying green power

Austin's favorite conference is getting green.

The South by Southwest music, film and interactive conferences announced this
week that it will offset its carbon emissions by purchasing wind energy credits
from Austin's Green Mountain Energy Co.

SXSW, as the company and conference is known, calculates that it emits 250 tons
of carbon dioxide each year. It is purchasing 376 megawatts of wind credit at $8
a megawatt, said Eve McArthur, director of operations. That's $3,008, plus the
company is donating $5,000 to the Austin Parks Department for the purchase and
maintenance of native trees.

Carbon offsets are a way to compensate for carbon dioxide emissions by an
individual or a company by reducing the carbon dioxide emissions of another
individual or company.

About 18 percent of carbon emissions by SXSW are from gas and electricity use in
its offices; 55 percent from electricity usage in its venues; and 27 percent
from business travel. The emissions from air, car and rail travel by out-of-town
acts is not calculated or offset.

Police traffic enforcement

Police will be watching for traffic-law violations in these areas today:

Morning: 400 block of West Cesar Chavez Street; Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard; Parkfield Drive between Braker Lane and Mearns Meadow.

Afternoon: 1800 to 2200 blocks of East Oltorf Street; 7600 block of Yaupon
Drive; Convict Hill Road.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

TEXAS DIGEST

TEXAS

Report: Electricity use can be cut

A report by a major environmental group found that Texas can dodge new
electrical plants by reducing electricity demand by a half-percent each year.

"Power to Save: An Alternate Path to Meet Electric Needs in Texas," published by
the Natural Resources Defense Council and Ceres, a coalition of investors
working with companies to address climate change, outlines how the state can
coax manufacturers and consumers to conserve energy, such as establishing higher
efficiency standards for appliances such as DVD players and updating commercial
and residential building codes.

The report comes as at least 17 coal-fired power plants have been proposed for
Texas. Utilities have said that they applaud conservation measures, but new
plants are needed to reliably and affordably meet energy needs.

Environmentalists say consumers might need to pay as much as $2.50 a month to
pay for the energy efficiency programs, but the investment will pay off in lower
long-term rates.

SOUTHEAST TEXAS

O'Day wins runoff for state House

Republican businessman Mike O'Day won election to the state House of
Representatives on Tuesday in a runoff in a special election to fill a spot
that's open because the winner in the November election was dead.

Republican Rep. Glenda Dawson died in September, but her name was already on the
November ballot for District 29. She was re-elected with more than 60 percent of
the vote.

O'Day defeated Randy Weber in the runoff. Unofficial, complete returns late
Tuesday night showed O'Day with 57 percent of the vote and Weber with 43
percent.

Both men are from Pearland.

Dawson, a longtime public school teacher who died after a brief illness, was 65.
She had served two terms in the House.

The district includes Matagorda County and part of Brazoria County in southeast
Texas.

HOUSTON

No jury decision in truck deaths

Jurors deliberated for a fourth day Wednesday without reaching a decision on
whether a truck driver convicted for his role in the nation's deadliest human
smuggling attempt should be sentenced to death.

The jury of six men and six women worked for about 5 1/2 hours before going
home. The panel, set to resume working today, has deliberated about 23 1/2 hours
since last week in the retrial of Tyrone Williams.

Nineteen illegal immigrants who were locked in Williams' sweltering trailer for
hours died from dehydration, overheating and suffocation.

The jury is deciding whether to sentence Williams to death or life in prison
without parole, or to let a judge issue a sentence that could range from no
prison time to life without parole.

VICTORIA

Man convicted in three killings

A jury convicted Kersean Ramey of capital murder Tuesday in the shooting deaths
of three people during a botched robbery in Edna in 2005.

The punishment phase began Wednesday.

Jurors deliberated an hour before returning the guilty verdict in the deaths of
Samuel Roberts, Tiffani Peacock and Celso Lopez inside their Edna home.

A police affidavit says the robbery soured when one of the victims recognized
the masked attackers by their voices.

Defense attorneys blamed the shootings on Ramey's co-defendant, LeJames Norman,
who was arrested trying to cross into the United States from Mexico.

During the trial, Ramey's girlfriend testified that she helped him throw two
guns into Lake Texana, from which they were recovered.

The trial was moved to Victoria from Edna, about 25 miles northeast, after a
change of venue request.

DALLAS

Peru to open Dallas consulate

The second Peruvian Consulate in Texas is expected to open later this year in
the Dallas area, where authorities have been criticized for their handling of
incidents involving citizens of Peru.

The state's only Peruvian Consulate in Houston, which serves Texas, Oklahoma and
other states, estimates that up to 10,000 Peruvians live in the Dallas-Fort
Worth area.

The consulate could take up to five months to open because officials are trying
to find a location, secure funding and transfer documents to Dallas, the
Peruvian Association of Dallas-Fort Worth said.

Events in recent years highlight the need for a consulate nearby, said Gabriel
Egusquiza, president of the Peruvian Association of Dallas-Fort Worth.

Last year, a Peruvian nanny was convicted of killing Kyle Lazarchik,
14-month-old boy from McKinney.

Edgar Vera, 45, died in August 2005, two weeks after police officers in Allen, a
Dallas suburb, used pepper spray on him while responding to a suspicious-person
call.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

AMERICAN DIGEST

BYLINE: Compiled by American-Statesman staff

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 446 words


From subtle to scandal

'I regret these resignations turned into such a public spectacle.'

President Bush, urging Congress not to subpoena White House staff for testimony
related to the firings of eight federal prosecutors.

vv

Politics, not performance

'I respectfully request that you reconsider the rationale of poor performance as
the basis for my dismissal. It is in our mutual interest to retract this
erroneous explanation. Politics may not be a pleasant reason, but the truth is
compelling.'

Margaret Chiara, the U.S. attorney in Grand Rapids, Mich., in an e-mail to
Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty after she had been asked to resign.

vv

Speaking of being fired

'It changes the trajectory of my career.'

Philip de Vellis, 33, creator of a video parody attacking U.S. Sen. Hillary
Rodham Clinton that surpassed 1 million views on YouTube. Blue State Digital
LLC, a company that advises Democratic candidates, said it fired de Villis.

vv

Who needs health care?

'You know, when I was raised, I didn't have insurance, and my family did just
fine.'

Texas state Rep. Robert Talton, R-Pasadena, on legislation intended to make it
easier to enroll in the Children's Health Insurance Program.

vv

Devil is in FBI's details?

'We do not trust government always to be run by angels, especially not this
administration. . . . It is not enough to mandate that the FBI fix internal
management problems and recordkeeping, because the statute itself authorizes the
unchecked collection of information on innocent Americans.'

U.S. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., on charges the FBI abused its authority to
collect personal information of Americans, and the Democrats' push for Congress
to re-evaluate the Patriot Act.

vv

Heated debate

'It seems that everything is blamed on global warming. How come you guys never
seem to notice when it gets cold?'

U.S. Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., to former Vice President Al Gore during a
congressional hearing on climate change. Although some U.S. weather stations
measured record cold temperatures in January, this winter was the warmest
worldwide, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

vv

Getting inside their heads

'The day I'm able to explain to you North Korean thinking is probably the day
I've been in this process too long.'

Christopher Hill, U.S. chief envoy, after six-nation negotiations on North
Korea's nuclear program stalled once again.

Most popular on statesman.com

The five most e-mailed stories by statesman.com readers, March 18 through
Thursday:

1. Senator says retirees may lose benefits

2. Loss may not end Durant's UT days

3. March madness over tolls grips Legislature

4. Wider rules on self-defense approved

5. The truth about flipping

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 1022 words


Thinking big with Mr. Moody

Re: May 21 article "Mr. Moody's grand college tour."

The article on Akins High School teacher Charles Moody was inspiring.
Introducing distant horizons is a noble purpose of the teaching profession, and
Moody has gone beyond the blackboard to show new possibilities in the realm of
higher education. Attitudes such as this bode well for the nation's future.

GEORGE SEAGERT

Austin

*

With all the negativity in the media today, it was very inspiring to read Robyn
Ross' article on teacher Charles Moody. I have had the pleasure of knowing his
family since childhood. Just as his grandfather Gov. Dan Moody left a legacy,
Charles, too, is making a difference in the world. How wonderful to see the
smiles on the students' faces!

MARY PITTS

Austin

Turn heat up on legislators

Opposition by key state legislators and state officials to the undeniable
effects humans are having on climate change and global warming shows that either
they should have been required to pass an IQ test before being sworn into office
or declared their abiding allegiance to Exxon Mobil on their ethics reports.

It's time to turn up the heat on obstinate legislators and head-in-the-sand
state officials and let them feel the full effect of a climate change in the
Capitol.

JERRY STEPHENS

jdstephens36@suddenlink.net

Georgetown

Liberal politics

After years of living in Texas, it has become clear that any means is justified
by the end when liberal politics are involved. The latest scam would allow
people to vote without having proper ID because it would amount to a poll tax.

Naturally, the real reason the left doesn't want people to be ID'd at the polls
is because that would stop illegal voters from voting, and the only way for the
left to win a state-wide election is to cheat.

Anyone who thinks that is a false accusation must have missed history class the
day they taught about the LBJ days when the dead rose to vote and ballot box
stuffing was the norm.

KURT STANDIFORD

akurtreply@mail.com

Austin

Losing in Iraq

We lost the Iraq war when President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney were
elected. No one else would have misled us to invade Iraq. Thank the French for
at least trying to warn us.

We have three options to end the Iraq misadventure.

1. Wait out the election cycle. January 20, 2009, will come. America will have
new leaders.

2. Impeachment. For this to work, both would have to be impeached and removed
from office.

3. Constitutional crisis. Examples would be legislation to set a war deadline,
defund or deauthorize the war.

I think we are stuck with door No. 1.

DAVID CRUMP

davcrump@yahoo.com

Austin

Cartoon's implication

Re: May 11 editorial cartoon.

Ben Sargent's cartoon implies that if you're not able to be identified as a
legal voter, you're probably a Democrat. I wonder why?

KATHY PILLMORE

kpillmore@austin.rr.com

Austin

Library at Northcross

The people fighting to keep Wal-Mart out of Northcross Mall have apparently
overlooked their best option - the Austin Public Library. The library board has
already selected a site for a new North Village Branch, but construction has yet
to begin. The Northcross site is even better situated for a new main library -
lots of parking, easy access, bus routes and lots of space.

If we can relocate the main post office to Northeast Austin, we can surely
relocate the main library to a high-value public square and maybe even keep our
skating rink, too.

DUGGAN FLANAKIN

dflanakin@austin.rr.com

Austin

Horse slaughter

Texas state Sen. Glenn Hegar, R-Katy, is once again demonstrating a total lack
of morality, honesty and decency. He is attempting to sidestep a Texas law
preventing the slaughter of horses for consumption of their meat.

Why is it that Republicans continue to push tobacco, gambling, assault weapons,
corrupt government administrators and now even the most basic and obviously
wrong concept of killing horses?

JERRY HOFROCK

notebanker@gmail.com

Austin

Transportation standards

Re: May 10 article "Special session over toll roads?"

For many decades, highways were a state-of-the-art part of our national
infrastructure. They were designed and financed well. Now, in spite of our great
wealth, our tax structure cannot provide the means to properly maintain previous
standards of highways, public schools or public health.

Very wealthy individuals and corporate America use their political power to
avoid paying taxes commensurate with their wealth. The deck is stacked so that
the national infrastructure is neglected and squeezed, giving corporations the
ability to privatize and profit from the weakened segments of national
responsibility. The same interests are served in favor of preemptive war and
enormous military spending that further fattens the corporate interests.

Thank goodness there are some legislators trying to hold the line against
privatizing more toll roads.

ED HARTWELL

Austin

Energy needs

With legislation pending that could affect the TXU buyout, it's important that
our lawmakers remember that Texas still has substantial energy needs. TXU is
moving in the right direction with their reduced order of new power plants and
greater commitment to renewable energy.

We don't need further delays, especially in the form of legislation that is
harmful to the economic growth of the state.

JENNIFER ABELL

Austin

Knowledge before acting

Sen. Dan Patrick's failed bill to require a woman to have an ultrasound before
an abortion, suggests it is important to have knowledge of something before
acting.

How about requiring legislators to live a week or so with poor families with
sick children before allowing a vote to cut CHIP, Medicaid or Medicare funds? Or
accompany a legal immigrant through the maze of immigration law before
considering laws to make it more difficult to become a citizen?

ROBERT ELLZEY

Austin

Attorney general question

If my observations are correct, a Texas Ranger's investigative report on the
Texas Youth Commission was suppressed and only the sharp eyes of a legislative
assistant allowed this story to surface. Besides being significantly convenient
for the last election, should this confirm that the office of attorney general
is occupied by a vacancy?

JIM HARRIS

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

For the love of Prius

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc and Pete Szilagyi AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: STATESMAN CARS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 932 words


Last year, Toyota sold 186,000 Prius gas-electric hybrids, and the words
"hybrid" and "Prius" are virtually synonymous in much of the world. Pete and Pam
each spent a week evaluating this revolutionary and unusual car.

Pam: Driving a hybrid is like joining a special club. You get to bypass a lot of
gas stations and feel virtuous because you're trying to do something to save the
planet.

Pete: Not many cars can give you that warm feeling. The Prius, the Honda Civic
Hybrid and Toyota Camry Hybrid are probably greenest of the green.

Pam: But the Civic and Camry also come in gas versions, so it's not the same as
buying a Prius, which only comes as a hybrid. You drive one of these, and it
says something about you. (And if you watch that smart-aleck cartoon South Park,
what it says is that you're pious.)

Pete: Smug is the word I'd choose. Even hundreds of thousands of hybrids are not
going to stop global warming and overseas oil shipments, but I think lots of
people buy hybrids because they at least want to feel like part of the solution
instead of part of the problem.

Pam: You're right. After gliding into work in a super-quiet, gas-stingy Toyota
Prius the other day, I sat at my computer and Googled the words "Prius" and
"bumpersticker." My fave? "Weapon of Less Consumption."

Pete: The Prius is probably the world's most computerized car. Microprocessors
control nearly every function, which kind of leaves the driver going along for
the ride. I think it's amusing to watch the dashboard screen as it shows the
hybrid switch between electric power, gas power and a combination of the two.

Pam: It's mesmerizing! I also liked the wide-angle camera that lets you see
puppies or children that might be frolicking in harm's way as you back up. It's
handy because the rear visibility of the Prius isn't very good.

Pete: Handy, yes, but the camera's also expensive, part of the optional $4,500
navigation system on our test unit. (Prius prices start around $23,000.) The
Prius' front visibility is almost too good, with the big, leaned-back windshield
dumping the Texas sun in the driver's lap. Otherwise, the Prius is more
user-friendly than you'd expect, with more back seat room than some bigger cars
and decent storage accessible through the hatchback. The passenger compartment
is almost as big as a Camry's.

Pam: I had a few issues with the car - brace yourself for a jolt when you drive
over a speed bump, for example - but I forgot a lot of them when I checked my
mileage, which hovered just under 42 mpg. Now that's not as good as the 51
highway and 60 city that the window sticker boasts, but it's better than most
cars on the road today.

Pete: Those are EPA estimates and absurdly inaccurate. The car companies are
required to post them. My mileage during the week was 40.9, and that would have
been a couple mpg higher if the Prius' air conditioner didn't have to work as
hard.

Pam: Here's a tip: If you live in Texas, or any place with a lot of hot sun,
don't buy a black car. The test vehicle was the color of coal, and it felt like
a hot iron when I had to lean against it for a photo shoot. Ouch!

Pete: Driving the Prius was not much different from other smallish cars.
Acceleration and handling were OK for a commuter car but hardly sporty, though
its aerodynamic shape and combination of electric and gas motors allow the Prius
to run past the speed limit.

Pam: Another thing I noticed? The braking feels weird. I'm sure it's because the
car is recharging its batteries when it slows, but I couldn't get used to the
gritty feeling.

Pete: All hybrids have unusual-feeling brakes because they engage an electric
generator. But they get the Prius stopped. I appreciated the silence when you
stop at a light. The gas motor shuts off to save gas and then starts again when
your foot leaves the brake pedal. This feature helped the Prius earn a perfect
10 on the EPA's greenhouse gas emissions score. That's why Al Gore is like a
walking Prius advertisement.

Pam: Now if Eco Al could just persuade his son, recently ticketed for driving
more than 100 mph in his Prius, not to drive quite so fast.

Pete: Little Al's ticket surprised a lot of people who didn't think the Prius
could hit triple digits. Hey, it's a real car. A real thrifty, real clean, real
car.

The Pete 'n' Pam column appears monthly. Contact Pete Szilagyi at
petesz@macconnect.com and Pamela LeBlanc at pleblanc@statesman.com or 445-3994.
Comparison shopping

According to Pete 'n' Pam "
 Target audience: Greenies and technophiles.
 Highs: Pete ... Quality, reliability, innovation; Pam ... Quiet ride, nice
mileage, rear-view camera
 Lows: Pete ... Sunny cabin, unattractive styling; Pam ... Weird, gritty
braking sensation
 Bottom line: Pete ... Would be a great little car even if it weren't a hybrid;
 Pam ... Recycle your plastic bottles! Use a canvas bag for groceries! Drive a
Prius! (Thanks, I feel better now.)
 EPA rating for greenhouse gas emissions (10 is best, 2 worst): 10


Comparison shopping
A snapshot of the XXX and three other vehicles in its class.

Make/model
Base price
EPS mileage
Power train
Horse-power
Website
Toyota Prius
$22,940
51 city, 60 highway
1.5-liter 4 cylinder, 50-kilowatt electric motor, continuously variable
transmission, 2-wheel drive
110
toyota.com
Honda Civic Hybrid
$23,235
49 city, 51 highway
1.3-liter 4-cylinder, 15-kilowatt electric motor, continuously variable
transmission, 2-wheel drive
110
automobiles.honda.com

Saturn Aura Green Line
$24,995
28 city, 35 highway
2.4-liter 4 cylinder, hybrid electrical generator, 4-speed automatic, 2-wheel
drive
164
saturn.com Car
Source: Manufacturers Comparison shopping


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Environmentalists have a beef with livestock industry

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 693 words


For years, environmentalists in Texas have linked power plant emissions to
global warming. But new studies suggest another factor contributing to Texas'
ranking as the U.S. leader in greenhouse gas emissions: cows.

This month, an article in the British medical journal the Lancet said people
should eat 10 percent less meat, or, put another way, limit meat consumption to
about one small hamburger per person per day to help stave off global warming .
The article was the latest in a batch of reports to draw a connection between
livestock and global warming.

Some scientists say that raising animals for meat contributes to climate change.
The deforestation often required for grazing land means fewer trees to absorb
greenhouse gases, which are blamed for global warming. Meanwhile, the energy
used to grow feed grains and to transport meat leads to emissions of the
greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Also, manure and livestock flatulence can produce
the greenhouse gas methane.

Texas leads the nation in beef production, with a population of about 14 million
head of cattle , according to U.S. Department of Agriculture statistics.

National and regional cattle groups waved off the recent findings and said they
aren't worried about meat consumption slipping.

"A number of the studies that have come up lately have grossly overstated the
amount of greenhouse gases that are attributable to livestock production," said
Joe Schuele , a spokesman for the Colorado-based National Cattlemen's Beef
Association.

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency data show that agriculture, including
nonlivestock activities, accounts for 2 percent to 6 percent of national
greenhouse gas emissions.

"A lot of the people who offer opinions on what types of food production are
environmentally friendly don't take into account that not all land is suitable"
for crops, Schuele said. "Much of cattle-grazing land in the United States would
be totally inappropriate for raising cultivated crops or vegetables. It's not
suitable for anything other than raising cattle."

The issue is likely to stew in Austin when former Vice President Al Gore comes
to town Oct. 1 to give a talk at the Erwin Center.

The group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has vowed to hand out
flyers and use a billboard ("Too chicken to go vegetarian?" it asks) in pressing
Gore, perhaps the world's most prominent environmentalist, to give up meat, said
Bruce Friedrich, a PETA spokesman.

Meanwhile, the Humane Society has put together an advertising campaign that asks
"Which one of these contributes more to Global Warming?" above a picture of a
car key and a fork.

"It's not the one that starts a car," reads the tagline.

The dietary difference between a vegetarian and a meat-eater is about the same
as the greenhouse gas difference between a Camry and a sport-utility vehicle,
says a report by University of Chicago researchers called "Diet, Energy, and
Global Warming" that was published last year in the academic journal Earth
Interactions .

"Far from trivial, nationally this difference amounts to over 6% of the total
U.S. greenhouse gas emissions," the report concludes.

The Lancet article says greenhouse-gas emissions from the agricultural sector
account for about 22 percent of total global emissions; livestock production
accounts for almost 80 percent of the sector's emissions.

"Gains in health and environmental sustainability should help to offset any
(initial) discomforts from restrictions on some popular foods and altered
dietary customs," wrote the authors of the Lancet report, led by Anthony
McMichael , a professor at Australian National University.

Livestock associations say they work with the environment, not against it.

"We're the ultimate conservators of nature," said Bill Hyman , executive
director of the Independent Cattlemen's Association of Texas. "We try to keep
the grass growing because that's the food for our livelihood. We stop flooding,
stop erosion, try to keep noxious weeds out of the pasture and try to raise our
beef as safe as possible. We're producing a product off our land, and it's going
to be our land for the next generation."

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 State Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 601 words


AUSTIN

Ooh, a downtown celebrity sighting

Green festival set for Saturday

The City of Austin hosts its Green City Festival at City Hall on Saturday from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.

The festival includes chats about rainwater harvesting, climate change,
sustainable foods and natural gardening.

Free oral cancer screenings

Volunteers with the Texas Academy of General Dentistry will offer free oral
cancer screenings to the public from 4 to 8 p.m. today and from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday at the LiveStrong Village at the Austin Convention Center, 500 E. Cesar
Chavez St.

The village is part of the annual LiveStrong Challenge, the Lance Armstrong
Foundation's grass-roots advocacy effort for people affected by cancer.

Since 2001, nearly 13 percent of the 660 people screened at Lance Armstrong
events have been referred to dentists with suspicious lesions. When found early,
oral cancer has an 80 percent to 90 percent cure rate.

The program is made possible by funding from the Jack T. Clark Foundation.

BASTROP

Art on the bridge this weekend

The Bastrop Fine Arts Guild will host its fifth annual "Art on the Bridge" Fine
Art Festival on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

Art is displayed on the Old Iron Bridge, which overlooks the Colorado River and
leads into Bastrop's historic downtown. Visitors can spend the day viewing works
by local guild members and other Texas artists.

TEXAS DIGEST

RIO GRANDE VALLEY

Mexico transfers water to U.S.

The State of Texas received more than 224,000 acre-feet of water from Mexico at
the Amistad reservoir near Del Rio, the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality announced Thursday.

The transfer closes out a five-year cycle that marks the first time since 1992
that Mexico has wholly fulfilled its water obligations with the United States
under a 1944 treaty .

Farmers in the Rio Grande Valley depend on the water for their crops; the
224,639 acre-feet roughly equals the amount of water farmers in the area use for
two months during the peak demand period .

An acre-foot is equal to 325,851 gallons ; Mexico delivered 1.75 million
acre-feet of water to the United States between October 2002 and September, the
minimum amount required under the 1944 treaty .

HOUSTON

Wrecker tows 3-year-old

A wrecker towed a vehicle with a 3-year-old boy sleeping inside to a private
storage lot on Wednesday. The child was not hurt.

The boy's aunt had left her Toyota RAV4 to go into a business. She called police
when she realized the car was gone.

Police said there didn't appear to be any wrongdoing on the tow truck driver's
part. Spokesman John Cannon said the car's windows were dark enough to prevent
the driver from seeing the inside.

"Anytime you leave a child unattended inside a vehicle, no matter what the
conditions are, we take that very seriously," Cannon said.

The aunt was questioned by police, and their findings will be submitted to the
district attorney's office. The boy was released to his grandmother.

WAR DEAD

Texan's among bodies identified

DNA helped identify the remains of nine men, including one Texan, recovered
after their plane crashed during a World War II bombing run to Germany.

Military officials on Thursday announced the remains of the personnel, including
1st Lt. Raymond Pascual of Houston, will be returned to their families for
burial.

The July 7, 1944, mission involved a B-24J Liberator that left North Pickenham,
England, to bomb an aircraft factory near Bernburg, Germany.

Some German citizens with an interest in military history learned of the
potential crash site in 2001. Group members later recovered remains from
apparent burial sites.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Global warming debate fires up redneck in Perry

BYLINE: JOHN KELSO AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 632 words


I'm thinking about filing an open records request with the governor's office to
find out where Rick Perry keeps his membership card to the Flat Earth Society.

The reason I should do this is that Perry, in a speech he made last month to
California Republicans, said he doesn't believe in human-made global warming.

"I've heard Al Gore talk about man-made global warming so much that I'm starting
to think that his mouth is the leading source of all that supposedly deadly
carbon dioxide," Perry said. "Virtually every day another scientist leaves the
global warming bandwagon."

So instead of being gubernatorial, the governor is being goobernatorial.

When asked which scientists are leaving the global warming bandwagon, Perry's
office presented as evidence about two dozen articles that didn't have much to
do with the subject of scientists. For example, one article from the Tehran
Times (whose motto is, "If Ayatollah Once, Ayatollah a Thousand Times") talked
about how Gore doesn't deserve the Nobel Peace Prize because as a senator he
voted for the Gulf War.

That's a crackerjack PR staff Perry's got there, huh? Excuse me for sounding
like Mr. Smarty Pants, but if I was in charge of Perry's publicity, I don't
think I'd pick stuff out of the Iran Daily Bugle. Then again, maybe Perry's
staff just couldn't find anything appropriate to clip from the Darfur newspaper.
So, as part of my open records request, I guess I'll just have to also ask for
those embarrassing photos of Perry drinking tequila shots with Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .

Then again, maybe Perry wants to keep global warming going because he likes to
watch the polar bears swimming on Animal Planet .

You know how you used to judge how trailer-parky a goober was by whether he was
one of those cranks who thought man landing on the moon was a hoax perpetrated
in a TV studio? You know the dude I'm talking about - the guy in the wife-beater
undershirt who gets NASA swapped out in his head with NASCAR.

Well, that's all switched now, and the dumbest redneck on the block is now the
guy who doesn't believe human activity has an effect on the weather.

This is not to say that global warming isn't the only thing Perry doesn't
believe in. He probably doesn't believe that objects in the rearview mirror may
be closer than they appear. And he probably doesn't believe that if you're an
employee, you should wash hands before returning to work.

Kidding aside, I don't have any hard evidence that climate change is happening,
other than what I've seen through simple observation and digging for facts. For
example, this July we got nearly 10 inches of rain at Camp Mabry, compared to
the normal figure of 1.97 inches. I also noticed that Monday was the first real
cool front we've had in Austin this fall, and that it showed up about a month
later than usual. But perhaps the biggest clue of all that global warming exists
is that here it is nearly November and Leslie hasn't switched to Spandex .

Still, I suspect Perry not believing in global warming is part of a plot to fill
up Austin's new pricey downtown loft towers, of which there are suddenly too
many.

Here's how that works. Let's just say global warming is left unchecked because
of leaders like Perry who deny it exists, and the seas rise 20 feet. Which is no
great loss in Texas, because it means Houston goes under water, which is good
except for two reasons, neither one having to do with the Houston Astros. It
creates a massive mosquito infestation, and all those Houston people have to
move somewhere else.

So, all the wealthy Houstonians come to Austin and fill up all the new condos.

Then again, maybe Perry is just trying to get the doublewide vote.

John Kelso's column appears on Sundays, Tuesdays and Fridays. Contact him at
445-3606 or

jkelso@statesman.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

URBAN AFFAIRS

BYLINE: From staff reports AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 283 words


AUSTIN

Stones pay to the tune of $300,000

Local parks will get some satisfaction from the Rolling Stones concert.

About $300,000 in proceeds from the October concert will go toward beautifying
neighborhood parks and Zilker Park, the Austin Parks Foundation announced this
week.

The foundation plans to award the money as grants. Half of it will be spent on
improving smaller parks in the Barton Hills, Zilker, Bouldin Creek, Old West
Austin, West Austin and Rollingwood neighborhoods. The Austin Parks and
Recreation Department plans to use the remaining $150,000 to add to the
irrigation system at Zilker Park.

Neighborhood groups, the city parks department, Capital Sports & Entertainment
and Charles Attal Presents reached the agreement during the planning of the
Stones concert.

Some of the Austin City Limits music festival proceeds will also go towards park
improvements. The Parks Foundation plans to announce some of the grants in
March.

Staying green on the home front

The greenhouse gas issue takes a decidedly domestic bent at a lecture Friday.

A green building specialist will talk about what homeowners can do to improve
their energy efficiency and cut down their bills. According to the Environmental
Protection Agency, about 20 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, which
contribute to climate change, come from homes - from electricity demand, heating
and waste.

Rich MacMath, a staffer at Austin Energy's green building program, will give a
talk called "Choosing our Future: Greenhouse Gases or Green Homes?"

The talk, part of the Hot Science - Cool Talks Outreach Lecture Series at the
university's Environmental Science Institute, starts at 7 p.m. at Welch Hall on
the University of Texas campus.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Texas and the environment end up losing in TXU deal

BYLINE: Robert W. Gee and Brett Perlman, SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS AUSTIN
AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 707 words


The recent agreement by two investment firms to buy TXU Corp. contained an
unprecedented armistice with two environmental adversaries. TXU agreed to
withdraw plans to build eight of 11 coal plants in return for their support. TXU
claimed that the announcement "transformed" the company virtually overnight from
a national environmental pariah to a role model for sustainable development.

Though the deal sets a new standard by recognizing climate change concerns, the
agreement barely begins to reconcile the state's power needs with environmental
imperatives.

These needs were heightened when the Electric Reliability Council of Texas
(ERCOT), the agency that assures grid reliability, testified that by 2009 the
state will fall below its 12.5 percent reserve benchmark. This reserve margin is
the cushion of excess generation required to keep the lights on. ERCOT stated
that the reserve margin could drop to less than 6 percent in three years.

The report contained other troubling numbers. If the state has an extremely hot
summer, the reserve margin could fall to 8 percent. Without new generation
capacity, the state could lack sufficient capacity by 2011.

These figures are worrisome because they may indicate an increased blackout
risk. At low reserve levels, ERCOT's staff has estimated that the probability of
such a loss is about 3 percent a year.

While the probability seems relatively low, the economic consequences of a
blackout could be very high, with estimates ranging between 80 and 120 times the
retail cost of electricity. A two-hour blackout like the one on April 17 could
cost the economy between $21 million and $32 million.

The TXU announcement also may have the perverse effect of causing more pollution
in the short run. The pact canceled eight state-of-the-art coal plants using
less polluting Wyoming coal but allowed three highly polluting lignite plants to
continue.

Though TXU claimed it could cut pollution at the lignite plants, two state
administrative law judges rejected that claim and found that no lignite plant
had used the pollution control technology proposed by TXU.

TXU also announced that it will return to service a number of expensive, highly
polluting, out-of-date gas plants to meet power needs.

So the agreement, when closely examined, seems to be a politically expedient
compromise that seeks to gain environmental support for the transaction but
fails to fully address either the state's power needs or environmental concerns.

We think it's better to focus on developing a comprehensive statewide solution
that balances the state's power needs and environmental concerns by setting
achievable targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) - the electric utility industry's
research and development arm - concluded that a multi-pronged strategy with
aggressive goals could achieve a 40 percent reduction in carbon emissions by
2030.

To do so, the state would need to develop a bold set of policies, such as:

* Improve energy efficiency and reduce demand. Commitments to energy efficiency
and demand-side management programs will be required to meet the state's
short-term needs.

* Consider retail innovations. Texas could use competition to provide price
plans encouraging customers to cut peak demand, avoiding the need to build
plants.

* Consider next-generation technologies. The state should develop incentives to
encourage environmentally friendly generation technologies to bring wind
generation to market and speed the commercial development of clean coal and
carbon sequestration technologies.

* Put all options on the table. Though controversial, nuclear energy must be
considered since it is a large-scale, non-emitting source of power.

* Think outside the box. Neighboring states have a glut of power that Texas can
access without building plants. Excess power in the Panhandle and Louisiana can
help but would require new transmission lines.

These are just some thoughts that could be brought to bear in creating a
framework to balance the state's power needs and environmental concerns.

Gee is a former chairman of the state Public Utility Commission and a former
assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Energy. Perlman is a former PUC
commissioner.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

CAPITOL ROUNDUP

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 332 words


EDUCATION

Parents of disabled students

support dozen new bills

Parents of students with disabilities were at the Capitol on Tuesday to endorse
legislation intended to strengthen public education for special needs students.

Texas lawmakers have filed 12 bills that would require health insurance
companies to provide coverage for therapies needed by 3- to 5-year-old children
with autism. The measures also would strengthen teacher training for educating
students with disabilities and give parents more control and information.

''This critical legislation would put Texas on the side of all children with
disabilities who attend our public schools,'' said Laura Butler, who has a son
with multiple disabilities. ''It's a real solution that helps ensure public
schools will be able to provide the critical services all of our families
need.''

The package of legislation announced Tuesday would apply to an estimated 500,000
Texas students with disabilities that require special schooling needs.

ENERGY

Solar rebates, credits

Some Texas lawmakers want to make it easier for homeowners to use solar power in
their homes.

Proposed legislation would create the TexSun Solar Energy Rebate Program, funded
by a 65-cent fee on utility bills. The measure would give rebates to customers
to offset the initial cost of installing solar electric power. Those customers
would also get credit for surplus energy they produce from the solar panels.

''With Texas' sky-high utility bills and the threat of global climate change,
our state needs to make an investment in solar power,'' said Rep. Garnet
Coleman, D-Houston, who filed the legislation.

Sen. Rodney Ellis, D-Houston, filed a companion bill in the Senate.

Quote of the day

''I'd rather feel like the guillotine is falling.'

Sen. Chris Harris, R-Arlington, on his bill that calls for replacement of the
Texas Youth Commission board of directors.

Compiled from staff and wire reports

(BOX)

TODAY'S SCHEDULE

The House will convene at 10 a.m.

The Senate will convene at 11 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 30, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

SWIMMER'S SEA CHANGE

BYLINE: Pamela LeBlanc AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1039 words


A plastic dinner tray from McDonald's doesn't belong on the beach. But when
Aaron Peirsol found a tray in the sand at Newport Beach, Calif., a few years
ago, he picked it up and put it to new use. Plunging into the surf, the world's
fastest backstroker used it as a kickboard, paddling into the ocean waters
alongside the city where he grew up. As he swam, he thought about how he had
explored the back bays of Newport Beach as a kid, poking at ocean creatures and
contemplating the never-ending blue. About how this ocean he once knew as a
junior lifeguard was changing. How the first rains each spring now bring runoff
and bacterial growth that temporarily close the beach.

"That moment sticks with me," says Peirsol, who moved to Austin in 2002 to swim
for the University

of Texas. "It's a beautiful beach, but there's so much stuff there that
shouldn't be there - cups, Styrofoam, random things."

Peirsol, 24, who collected three gold medals at the 2004 Olympics in Athens and
hopes to do the same at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, wants to do something to
help clean up the world's oceans. He's now teamed with Oceana, an environmental
advocacy group dedicated to protecting and restoring the world's seas, and with
Oceana's help has created his own nonprofit, Race for the Oceans.

It doesn't matter if you live on the beach or in Austin, he says. "I just think
it's a certain level of respect we all should have for the environment."

Child of the ocean

Oceans cover more than 70 percent of the Earth's surface. They provide our food,
regulate our climate and generate oxygen. But growing human populations are
straining marine ecosystems and depleting coastal resources. Coral reefs and the
sea creatures that live there are threatened.

Peirsol learned to swim in salt water. He once swam with dolphins in the
Bahamas, marveling at how they mimicked his movements, flipping and twisting
whenever he did. A beach bum at heart who epitomizes California surfer dude
cool, he's building a house in Costa Rica. He's drawn to the sea, where his love
of swimming was born.

About a year ago, Peirsol realized he could use his prominence in the swimming
world to push for healthier oceans, and contacted Oceana. The group supports an
in-house staff of scientists who trace changes in the seas, studying fishing
methods, the rate fish are taken out of the sea and how that impacts the health
of the world's oceans. Oceana opposes bottom trawling and shark fishing, and its
Web site includes a printable pocket guide that tells consumers what fish
supplies are sustainable and best to eat.

As a spokesman for Oceana, Peirsol reaches a different audience - the swimming
community, says the agency's communications director, Juliana Stein.

Race for the Oceans was launched by Peirsol earlier this year. Through his Web
site, racefortheoceans.com , supporters can pledge money for every mile Peirsol
swims leading up to the Beijing Olympics. He swims about 100 miles a month, so a
pledge of one-tenth of a cent per mile would cost about $10 per month. Proceeds
will benefit Oceana's scientific research and lobbying efforts.

He's also planning an open-water swim race, with the help of Oceana and another
of his sponsors, Toyota's Engines of Change program. No date has been set, but
the 5-kilometer swim probably will take place in Southern California. That race
will put Peirsol back in the ocean, where his whole swimming career began.

Student of the pool

Peirsol swam at his first Olympic games when he was just 17, collecting a silver
in the 200-meter backstroke in 2000. Four years later, he swept the backstroke
events at the Athens Games, winning gold in the 100- and 200-meter races as well
as the 400-meter medley relay. He went pro in 2004 and will graduate this
December with a degree in government. He still swims for UT swim coach Eddie
Reese as a member of the Longhorn Aquatics club team.

At the World Championships in Melbourne, Australia, this spring, Peirsol did
something no backstroker had ever done - he swam the 100-meter backstroke race
in under 53 seconds, setting a new world record. Another remarkable thing
happened at the same meet: Peirsol was beaten in his signature event, the
200-meter backstroke, by Ryan Lochte, who also set a record in the process.
Lochte likely will be Peirsol's biggest competition in Beijing, but the Austin
swimmer is embracing the challenge.

"It's been a while since I've chased someone's record," he says.

Right now, life is consumed by swimming. Peirsol logs up to four hours a day in
the water, and lifts weights, too. At 6 foot, 3 inches, he weighs 200 pounds and
eats "as much as I can put down" in five meals a day. "The hard thing for us is
keeping weight on," he says. He does his best, though, rattling off a list of
favorite local restaurants that includes Foodheads, Austin Land & Cattle
Company, NeWorlDeli, Changos, Juan in a Million and Mi Madre's. "I just love
food."

He calls Austin his home now, and likes its "green-ness" and the active
lifestyle that's so prevalent here. He tries to do what he can to preserve the
environment by recycling, avoiding plastic foam products and conserving water.
"It's just the little stuff," he says. His attitude is rubbing off on his
roommate, another former UT swimmer, Drew Edwards. "He's got this big huge
canvas bag," Edwards says. "Anytime I come back from the store and forget to
take it, he gives me a hard time. 'You should have come back here and gotten
this bag ...' "

Just one small thing, but an easy way to respect the environment.

pleblanc@statesman.com; 445-3994

Aaron Peirsol
 Former University of Texas swimmer Peirsol still lives - and trains - in
Austin. He's now preparing for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. He's also raising
awareness about ocean conservation.
* Personal best times:
50-meter backstroke, 25.30 seconds (July 2005)
100-meter backstroke, 52.98 seconds (March 2007)
200-meter backstroke, 1:54.44 seconds (August 2006)
*  Olympic medals:
2004: Gold 100-meter and 200-meter backstroke and 400-meter medley relay
2000: Silver 200-meter backstroke
*  To learn more about Oceana, or to print out a consumer guide to sustainable
fish supplies, go to oceana.org. To make a donation to Race for the Oceans, go
to www.racefortheoceans.com.



LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

URBAN AFFAIRS

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 388 words


NEW NAME FOR PLAZA THIS WEEK?

The plaza outside City Hall could get a new name this week.

The Austin City Council will vote on a resolution Thursday to rename the plaza
the Dan H. Davidson Austin City Hall Plaza in honor of the former city manager
who died in June.

Davidson "had the vision to assemble a former lumberyard site and adjacent city
blocks as city-owned land," where City Hall was eventually built, the resolution
says.

Davidson graduated from Texas Tech University in 1959 and began his career in
public service in San Antonio, where he worked as a city planner before moving
to a management job in St. Petersburg, Fla. He came to Austin in 1969 and served
as city manager from 1972 to 1981.

Council Members Brewster McCracken and Betty Dunkerley have co-sponsored the
resolution.

HELP SOUGHT IN HOME ENERGY PLAN

Some elements of Austin's Climate Protection Plan might need a little help from
the Texas Legislature if they are ever to take effect, Mayor Will Wynn said
Tuesday.

The plan calls for two major changes of the home-sale process: energy efficiency
upgrades and disclosure of a home's historical energy use. Wynn acknowledged
when presenting the plan in February that the upgrade provision, in particular,
would be controversial.

The Austin Board of Realtors claimed that the city was treading on state turf by
tinkering with the real estate transaction process. Turns out the Realtors might
have a point.

Wynn said on Tuesday that the city might need some "legislative relief" to move
forward on both the upgrade requirement and the disclosure issue.

A city task force should be formed by the end of the year to bring everyone to
the table and hash out these issues . The Realtors will have a big seat at that
table, Wynn said.

Wynn made his comments while discussing the recommendations of the
zero-energy-capable home task force, which are on the City Council agenda today
along with building-code changes that begin to implement the recommendations.

The objective of the point-of-sale provisions is to improve the energy
efficiency of existing housing stock, which far exceeds the number of new homes
that will be affected by the upcoming building code changes.

"Why should only home buyers of newly constructed homes benefit from this
science and benefit from this very different affordability equation?" Wynn
asked.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 9, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant advocates face familiar tests

BYLINE: Juan Castillo AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1058 words


A year ago Tuesday, a euphoric throng conservatively estimated at 12,000 people
marched up Congress Avenue in downtown Austin in one of the largest civil
protests in city history. Dressed in white to symbolize peace and waving
American and foreign flags, legal and illegal immigrants and their supporters
protested a congressional proposal that would have made it a felony to be in the
country illegally, and they called on Congress to pass more liberal immigration
laws.

Shouting "El pueblo unido, jamás sera vencido" ("United, the people never will
be defeated"), demonstrators heralded the awakening of a potentially potent
political force.

An estimated 3 million to 5 million people participated in similar
demonstrations across the country, an unprecedented mobilization among Latinos,
said Luis Plascencia, an assistant professor at Arizona State University.

The nationwide spectacle left an impression for another reason.

"The undocumented - the invisible - became visible," said Nestor Rodriguez,
co-director at the Center for Immigration Research at the University of Houston.
"They established themselves as a presence and said, 'We are here.' You may not
like their voice and what they want, but they became actors."

Yet, as organizers prepare for a new round of marches and rallies - the first
demonstrations are Tuesday at the Capitol - little has changed in the push for
new immigration rules.

The U.S. House measure that triggered the huge demonstrations died, but so did
congressional efforts to overhaul immigration laws. That has left cities and
states ratcheting up their own efforts to pass laws cracking down on the
nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, including 1.5 million in
Texas.

At the state Legislature, lawmakers have filed more than three dozen proposals
targeting illegal immigrants and seeking to lessen the burden they put on social
services.

Most of them are in a holding pattern in the House State Affairs Committee,
where the chairman, David Swinford, R-Dumas, has said that many measures will
probably die because of constitutional issues.

Beginning with a 4:30 p.m. rally on the Capitol steps, Tuesday's demonstrations
will seek to reinforce that message, urging state elected officials to leave
immigration enforcement to the feds.

Organizers say that they still are a cohesive force and that they expect
thousands to march, including busloads of supporters from Houston, San Antonio
and other cities. They plan another major march May 1 and say they remain
focused on championing federal immigration rule changes that protect workers and
families and create more opportunities for illegal immigrants to legalize their
status.

If a rally in Dallas that drew only about 5,000 people last week was an
indicator, crowds could be smaller this year. And the exultant optimism of last
spring has yielded to pragmatic assessment of challenges ahead.

"Sometimes, these changes take time," said Leslie Helmcamp of Catholic
Charities' Office of Immigrant Concerns and a leader in the Austin Immigrant
Rights Coalition. "Maybe last year, the climate wasn't right (for immigration
reform). Maybe we had a little more work to do to really make clear what the
issues are."

Still, supporters contend that had it not been for their very public protests,
the U.S. House measure making undocumented immigrants felons would have passed.
(With rare exceptions, felons are ineligible to receive any legal status in the
United States.)

"It was because people took to the streets, because political leaders started
seeing such widespread disapproval for anti-immigration bills, that they held
back a lot of what would have been called immigration reform," said Luissana
Santibañez, a 23-year-old University of Texas student.

Critics found plenty not to like about the demonstrations, calling them brazen
displays by people who had violated immigration laws. Put off by the display of
Mexican and foreign flags by people who said they wanted full inclusion in
American society, critics questioned protesters' allegiance. Subsequent
demonstrations featured more American flags.

Even some immigrant advocates wondered whether protesters had inadvertently
galvanized the opposition. Among them was Ignacio Aviles, who feared that
another march would give opponents more reason to stiffen their resolve.

But last week, Aviles, a U.S. citizen and dental technician who works with
immigrant groups here, said that his position had evolved and that he now
believes the marches are constructive. He is helping plan Tuesday's
demonstrations.

"I think it would be worse not to do anything," said Aviles, 58, a native of
Aguascalientes. At least changes to immigration law are still on the table, and
protests have helped convey a message that immigrants are here to work and to
improve the country, Aviles said.

Aviles said the demonstrations also awakened legal immigrants. Stirred by the
protests, they are applying in record numbers to become U.S. citizens, which
would give them the right to vote.

"The only way to achieve our goals and to win our rights is with the vote,"
Aviles said.

Maria Luisa Bautista, a legal immigrant from Mexico who founded the Austin-based
Inmigrantes Latinos en Accion, said some undocumented immigrants want to
participate in new protests but have been asking whether police will make
arrests or immigration agents will conduct raids.

"We can't guarantee anything," Bautista tells them. "But if it's a peaceful
march, we don't have to be afraid."

In the days before another massive march last May, reports circulated that
federal immigration agents were conducting raids across Central Texas. Officials
neither confirmed nor denied the reports, saying only that agents conduct
planned, intelligence-driven investigations every day.

Helmcamp said that a new push for immigration reform will keep the issue in the
public eye.

"I think people will understand that this is good for the community, and we need
to have a sound immigration policy that helps people legalize their status so we
know who's in the country," Helmcamp said.

Rodriguez said marches and demonstrations can continue to have impact if they
are strategically planned. Whether they move Congress to act, only time can
tell, he said.

"Look at all social movements," he said. "The women's suffrage movement. It took
many marches."

jcastillo@statesman.com; 445-3635

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1095 words


MADE IN AMERICA: THIS PREDICAMENT

Foreign dependency makes for dismal future

Re: Feb. 15 article "Chrysler parent hits the brakes."

So, now Chrysler adds to the masses at GM and Ford by laying off thousands of
workers.

We rely on foreign oil. Are we also going to rely on foreign car manufacturers?

I see a big problem in our future. Their cars may offer better gas mileage,
nicer interiors, state-of-the-art stereo equipment, but do we really want to
rely on other countries to get us to grandma's house in 2020?

Americans need to buy American. Everything is going to foreign manufacturers.

I see a very dismal future for our economy, our people and our lives.

JAN BLYTHE

jabberon@flash.net

Austin

SOS due for hard times

Re: Feb. 11 editorial "If judge's decision bankrupts SOS group, our environment
loses."

If the recent legal decision ultimately forces SOS into bankruptcy, it will not
be the last we hear of Bill Bunch and his group of extremists. They will only
reappear under a new entity imposing their radical approach upon others with a
continued series of legal entanglements, mostly frivolous.

It's been long overdue for this group to be condemned in waging legal wars that
are often irresponsible and cost the consumer and taxpayers in more ways than
anyone realizes. The sad thing is that they will likely shuck their
responsibility of paying the proper retribution by abusing another legal channel
- bankruptcy.

I'm all for a balance of economies and the environment, but the SOS method of
organized legal abuse with an extreme environmental agenda is not what is good
for the people of Austin.

CLAY BRANDENBURG

clayb@osmtech.com

Cedar Park

Perry would run from heat

Re: Feb. 12 letter "Perry vs. Gore."

Lynne Ovington has a great idea, but sadly it is just a pipe dream.

Getting Gov. Rick Perry onto the stage with Al Gore on the subject of global
warming would be like pulling teeth with a rubber band. He could be the next
politician to run to an adjoining state and check into a motel to escape the
heat.

Great idea. I hope someone will pursue it.

BRICE COEN

Round Round

Austin would take on heat

Re: Feb. 8 article "City considers earth-friendly rules."

Global warming is the most urgent environmental challenge of our time, and Mayor
Will Wynn rose to that challenge by proposing a bold plan to reduce Austin's
global warming emissions.

The world's leading scientists find that warming of the climate is "unequivocal"
and warn that - given current trends - temperature extremes, heat waves and
heavy precipitation events will continue to escalate in frequency, and the
earth's temperature and seas will continue to rise into the next millennium.

Science is also clear about what we need to do to address the problem:
immediately and significantly reduce emissions of the pollutants that cause
global warming.

Wynn's support for policies needed to achieve steep reductions will ensure
Austin faces this problem head-on and set a vital precedent for strong national
action.

LUKE METZGER

Director

Environment Texas

luke@environmenttexas.org

Austin

Better pay for caregivers

Re: Feb. 13 article "Stricter caregiver hiring is sought."

We at Services for the Elderly support legislation broadening the list of crimes
that would prevent a person from being hired as a caregiver for the elderly. We
already consider the bulk of a person's record, not just the minimum.

However, another factor is the very low pay rate for caregivers that work in
nursing homes or in the homes of elderly or disabled folks. Thousands of people
on Medicaid are cared for by employees who receive $5.15 to $7.50 per hour for
their work. These employees live in constant financial stress.

The current Health and Human Services exceptional budget requests funds to raise
the reimbursement rates to caregiving groups. A better salary scale would
certainly help us find and retain the best caregivers, which is what our elderly
and disabled citizens deserve.

KATY KAPPEL

katy@sfteaustin.org

Austin

No money for vouchers

As an educator with a decade of experience teaching in private schools, I
strongly oppose vouchers. There is not enough money.

My 900-student-plus public school must hold a fundraiser to pay the salary of
our one computer technician. Teachers have bus duty because there is no money
for crossing guards. Federally mandated TAKS tests costs the state millions to
develop and administer, and we gladly take every student who walks in our door,
regardless of the level of parent support or severity of disability.

Yet private schools want tax money? Forget it.

Until private schools are required by law to take every student who walks in
their door, follow Individualized Education Programs and administer and pass the
same tests public school students are required to pass, this cannot even be open
to debate. It's apples and oranges until then.

DANIEL MASON

Austin

Press for the truth

The Defense Department's inspector general showed that the Bush administration
and Pentagon lied to the American people to scare us into invading Iraq. The
Libby trial showed how the press refused to tell what it knew to keep access to
administration officials. Sadly, the press has not learned from its mistakes.

Instead of checking what the Pentagon and administration say with actual experts
who have not already committed themselves to war with Iran, the press takes at
face value what proven liars say about Iran and ignores evidence of Saudi
Arabian support for the insurgents.

This is the same error that led the United States to disaster in Iraq. It is six
years past time for the press to do its job and tell the truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth. The press' duty is to the people, not to the
president.

NATHAN G. HARDEE

Austin

Judges must want a palace

I remember when the federal judges took over the post office a few years ago and
spent tens of millions of dollars remodeling it. Now they are intent on building
a luxurious new courthouse and, in the process, destroying the framework of the
Intel building.

A good architect could utilize the concrete frame and save untold millions. The
feds saving money? That's the rub. I guess that I'm just a dreamer because it
will never happen.

The judges want a a fancy new building that shows how wonderful they are and
don't care how much it costs the taxpayers.

JOHN M. FINLEY

Austin

Gimme an A!

Why not call a TxTag what it really is - a TaxTag!

Gov. Rick Perry (I voted for Kinky Friedman) should make the hard choice and
increase the gas tax rather than saddle us with the inconvenience of toll booths
and more backed up traffic.

TOM JEFFREY

tomjeffrey@toast.net

Liberty Hill

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

One way or another, we'll pay for a high dropout rate

BYLINE: ARNOLD GARCIA JR. AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G03

LENGTH: 641 words


We have talked for years about the state of the Texas education system: How it
is funded, how effective it is and how it can be improved. We have talked about
the dropout rate and what can be done about it.

There have been sporadic successes, but a community that professes to love
change hasn't moved the education needle much. There is still an achievement gap
between minority students and white ones, and the dropout rate - even at 10
percent - is simply too high.

Educators are quick to point out that the blame for dropouts is a shared one
and, of course, they are right. Parents should be involved, but we're at a point
where we need to stop fixing blame and focus on fixing problems. If it were
easy, we would have done it by now, but moaning about difficulty won't get us to
a solution.

To be blunt, we tend to think of schoolchildren as warm and fuzzy abstractions.
When students and their schools don't fit our fanciful Dick and Jane notions of
how they should look and behave, we are quick to write them off.

We should dump that thinking and approach schools as an economic development
tool, because that's what they are. Where do you think your future co-workers
and employees come from? Where do you think future employers come from?

That brings us back to the dropouts. Though there is some complicated accounting
involved in calculating the dropout rate, the Austin school district reports
that 473 students dropped out in 2006. The actual number is probably higher, but
taking that at face value, that's 473 lives headed for a bleak economic future.
Odds are high that many of them will resort to crime. Arresting, trying and
convicting them is costly, and that's only the beginning. The cost of
incarcerating a Texas inmate is $40.06 a day and that meter doesn't stop for
weekends and holidays.

We pay for that. We also pay for the wages that they don't earn and taxes they
will never pay and for the lives they wreck in their wake. So the costs keep
adding up. We either do something about it or open our wallets wider.

That's the message being delivered by group that calls itself Education Equals
Economics. The organization represents efforts of the Austin Area Research
Organization, the University of Texas, Austin Community College and others.

They are not wasting time making moral arguments about children being left
behind. Executive Director Susan Dawson and others in the group, including Ed
Sharpe, a professor of educational administration at UT, are preaching a
pragmatist's gospel of self interest.

"Closing the gaps to education across all groups would benefit the Central Texas
region by almost $52 billion by 2030," Dawson says. But they are not just
talking; they have been hosting meetings in Round Rock, Manor, Austin and San
Marcos trying to get people in those communities involved in mapping an
education strategy.

They are looking to the communities to tell educators what will work for their
kids for the simple reason that we're not so rich we can afford to throw people
away. A demographic bomb has exploded in Texas, adding to the urgency of finding
ways to keep young people in school and educating them to compete in a global
economy.

Public education has picked up more than its share of detractors and critics,
but public education is still the principal source of learning for a vast
majority of youngsters.

That means public education and educators are going to have to learn to compete
on a variety of fronts. They must compete with private schools, and they must
compete for the attention of students.

We don't have a whole lot more time for navel-gazing either. Everything, Sharpe
says, has to be examined for effectiveness. He's right. Education has to learn
to compete because if it loses, we'll all pay and we'll keep paying.

For information about E3 and a schedule of meetings, visit www.e3alliance.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Have yourself a sarcastic Christmas

BYLINE: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin AMERICAN-STATESMAN ARTS WRITER

SECTION: XL; Pg. T26

LENGTH: 4085 words


The people at Yellow Tape Construction Company - which is a theater collective,
not an actual construction company - really do take the spirit of the holidays
seriously. Yeah, believing in the spirit of belief is a warm and lovely thing.
Really.

"We just wanted to have a little fun with it," says Yellow Tape co-founder
Jonathan Morgan.

They also wanted to have a little fun with over-the-top Christmas musical
extravaganzas and other spectacular entertainments that show up every December.
And they wanted to poke fun at absolutely every holiday movie and television
special that ever was.

"The Ultimate Christmas Musical: The Musical," which opens today at Salvage
Vanguard Theater, takes it all on: Christmas musicals, holiday movies, stage
extravaganzas and feel-good television specials.

After all, the Yellow Tapers are the equal opportunity spoofers who brought
Austin "I Love My Dead Gay Son: The Musical," a campy musical that was a riff on
both the 1980s smash movie about mean high-school girls, "Heathers," and campy
musicals. "Dead Gay Son" was a hit with audiences and critics, selling out its
three-week run.

No wonder it's impossible to have a completely serious conversation with any of
this crew.

Morgan outlines the plot of the two-act, 90-minute musical like this: Santa has
grown way old. Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer is a celebrity jock in love with
celebrity, and his fellow reindeer are similar poserlike jocks with attitude.
Frosty the Snowman is the spiritual center of the North Pole community who
nevertheless kidnaps Little Billy, a boy who's grown embittered with Christmas.
And the North Pole is populated by very contemporary elves: One has carpal
tunnel syndrome. Another is your basic angry disenfranchised computer nerd. And
don't forget the weary, jaded homemaker elf.

"You know, it's the basic feel-good story about how the spirit of disbelief
threatens the Christmas," says Morgan, but then adds: "But we're having a 'So
You Think You Can Santa Dance' contest at intermission and we want audience
members to dress in Christmas costumes and compete for the prize!"

Audience costume contests are just a natural extension of Yellow Tape's
collaborative creative process. Though some of the company roughed out a script
for "The Ultimate Christmas Musical" months ago, the real creative process took
place when the cast of 22 started rehearsing a couple months back. With
performers boasting sketch comedy and improv comedy backgrounds, everybody had a
hand in shaping their characters.

"I'm just naturally funny on my own," deadpans Leticia Leal Evans, who plays
Jeannie, the lonely single girl elf. "And besides, I'm really into myself."

"The Ultimate Christmas Musical" joins a long list of Austin holiday
productions, some of which have been returning for decades. A sparkly
spectacular for the whole family, Ballet Austin's annual production of "The
Nutcracker" is now in its 45th annual run. And Austin Symphony Orchestra has
been singing Handel's Messiah annually for 14 years. Zachary Scott Theatre has
been getting people to boogie along with "Rockin' Christmas Party" for 14 years.
And Salvage Vanguard Theater's "Best Salvage Vanguard Christmas Ever" has packed
crowds into Little City Coffee Shop for raucous, off-beat holiday-themed sketch
theater for 10 years.

"We wanted to offer something a little crazy and with really wacky songs," says
Morgan, who adds that the show is geared toward audiences age 14 and up. "Why
not have a little sarcastic time with the holidays?"

jvanryzin@statesman.com; 445-3699

'The Ultimate Christmas Musical:
 The Musical'
 When: 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays through Dec. 22
 Where: Salvage Vanguard Theater, 2803 Manor Road
 Cost: $15
 Info: 466-5221, www.yellowtape.org
Nov. 29 (today)
'A Christmas Cactus.' Christmas Eve is tough for female private investigator
Cactus O'Riley, a white-hot redhead with the holiday blues. Comedy, mystery and
 romance converge in this contemporary Christmas tale. 8 p.m.
Thursdays-Saturdays through Dec. 15, also at 2 p.m. Dec. 15. Gaslight Theater,
204 N. Main St., Lockhart. $10-$16. (512) 376-5653. www.gaslighttheater.com.
'La Pastorela.' Austin Latino Theater Alliance presents its 10th anniversary
production of the traditional Mexican Christmas musical pageant that outlines
the story of the shepherds' journey to Bethlehem. This production is not only
enacted with pageantry and traditional songs, but also with modern jokes, crazy
 costumes, a little gospel music, some breakdancing angels and devils and other
 surprises. 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays through Dec. 15. Mexican American
Cultural Center, 600 River St. $8-$15 (Thursdays pay-what-you-wish.)
www.lapastorela.com.
'Plaid Tidings.' Thanks to a heavenly phone call from Rosemary Clooney, the
singing quartet of Sparky, Smudge, Jinx and Frankie are returning to Earth
again to spread holiday cheer with their 1950s and 1960s-style musical
stylings. 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 2:30 p.m. Sundays through Dec. 30. Groten
 Stage, Zachary Scott Theater Center, 1426 Toomey Road. $38-$45 (discounts for
seniors, students, and groups of eight or more; $24 Youth price for children
ages 6-12). 476-0541, www.zachscott.com.
'Rockin' Christmas Party.' One of the longest-running Austin traditions,
"Rockin' Christmas Party" is a musical extravaganza full of shake, rattle and
roll. Wild costumes and 40 towering beehive wigs add to glitz and glam of rock,
 soul, gospel and holiday hits. 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 2:30 p.m. Sundays
through Dec. 30. Kleberg Stage, Zachary Scott Theater Center, West Riverside
Drive and South Lamar Boulevard. $38-$45 (discounts for seniors, students, and
groups of eight or more; $24 for children ages 6-12). 476-0541,
www.zachscott.com.
'The Santaland Diaries.' The inimitable Martin Burke once again takes the stage
 as Crumpet, a Macy's elf, who is not exactly thrilled with herding the hordes
of screaming kids through their photo op with Santa in this stage adaptation of
 David Sedaris' sardonic holiday tale. 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays. 2:30 p.m.
Sundays through Jan. 6. Zachary Scott Theatre Center, Whisenhunt Stage, 1510
Toomey Road. $33-$43, Discounts for seniors, students, and groups of eight or
more. 476-0541, www.zachscott.com.
 Nov. 30 (Friday)
'A Biscuit Brothers' Merry Musical Christmas!' Join the Biscuit Brothers for a
family sing-along holiday extravaganza filled with music to celebrate the
season. 7 p.m. Scottish Rite Theatre, 207 W. 18th St. $3-$10. 472-7247,
www.scottishritechildrenstheatre.org.
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol.' Dickens' classic story gets the full Broadway treatment
with the musical version of Ebenezer Scrooge's tale by composer Alan Menken of
'Beauty and the Beast' fame. 7:30 p.m. Friday. Various days and showtimes
through Dec. 23. Georgetown Palace Theatre, 810 S. Austin Ave., Georgetown.
$8-$20. (512) 869-7469, www.georgetownpalace.org.
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque.' Shrewd Productions revives its campy
holiday-themed show that celebrates the classic burlesque shows of 1950s and
1960s. Intended for mature audiences. Opens 10 p.m. Friday. Shows continue 10
p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays through Dec. 15. Hyde Park Theatre, 411 W. 43rd St.
$14-$30. 479-PLAY.
 Dec. 1 (Saturday)
'Birdsong.' Conspirare Children's Vivaldi's Et Exultavit and Fauré's Pie Jesu
highlight a holiday program of works inspired by Maya Angelou's poem 'I know
why the caged bird sings.' 7:30 p.m. St. Louis Catholic Church, 7601 Burnet
Road. $5-$10. 476-5775, www.conspirare.org.
'A Biscuit Brothers' Merry Musical Christmas!' (7 p.m., Scottish Rite)
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Merry TubaChristmas 2007.' Presented in more than 200 cities throughout the
United States and in several foreign countries, 'Merry TubaChristmas' corrals
tuba and euphonium players of all ages for a fun-filled free concert of
traditional Christmas carols especially arranged for the booming brass
instruments. 1 p.m. Academic Mall in front of the Lois Perkins Chapel,
Southwestern University, 1001 E. University Ave., Georgetown. (512) 863-1379,
www.tubachristmas.com.
'Noël, A Classical Birthday Celebration.' On the faculty of both Georgetown
University and the University of Texas, harpist Delaine Fedson will perform
holiday repertoire, including solo and chamber works by Marcel Samuel-Rousseau
and Benjamin Britten. 7 p.m. Saturday, Jessen Suditorium, Rainey Hall, UT
campus, Whitis Avenue and West 21st Street. $5-$10. 471-5401.
'The Nutcracker.' Ballet Austin presents its 45th annual production of 'The
Nutcracker,' the classical ballet about the magical adventures of Clara's
wintertime dream. This year, a little extra magic will accompany the show in
the historic Paramount Theatre. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 6-8, 14-15, 19-22; 2
p.m. Sunday, Dec. 9, 15-16, 22-23. Paramount Theatre, 713 Congress Ave.
$17.50-$65. (866) 443-8849, www.balletaustin.org.
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa.' This whodunit dinner theater mystery by Capital City
Mystery Players finds Santa a total loser and everyone out to kill him. When
someone does, it's up to the audience to figure it out. The super sleuth of the
 evening wins a fabulous prize. 7 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 13-14, Dec. 20-22.
Spaghetti Warehouse, 117 W. Fourth St. $29.95. 404-9123.
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas.' Second Youth Family Theatre presents their
delightful holiday show about a selfish toy maker whose magic brings his
creations to life just for himself. Yet, the toys long to be loved by children
and so they take action. 10 a.m. Saturdays through Dec. 22, 2 p.m. Sundays
through Dec. 16. Scottish Rite Theatre, 207 W. 18th St. $3-$10. 472-7247,
www.scottishritechildrenstheatre.org.
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 2 (Sunday)
'A Christmas Carol' (2 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'Plaid Tidings' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (2 p.m., Scottish Rite)
 Dec. 3 (Monday)
'Noël, A Classical Birthday Celebration.' 7 p.m. Alma Thomas Theater, Fine Arts
 Center, Southwestern University, Georgetown. Free. (512) 863-1379.
 Dec. 4 (Tuesday)
 Handel's  'Messiah.' Austin Symphony Orchestra is joined by Chorus Austin for
its annual concert of this great oratorio. 8 p.m. Riverbend Centre, 4214
Capital of Texas Highway (Loop 360). $15-$35. 476-6064, www.austinsymphony.org.
 Dec. 5 (Wednesday)
'A Monster Carol.' It's a funny, campy Halloween/Christmas-themed play for the
whole family. 'A Monster Carol' follows the happenings at Vincent's House of
Wax, a wax museum where the figures come to life at night, when a ghostly
visitor comes calling on Christmas Eve. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday-Dec. 13, 2 p.m.
Dec. 8-9. Mainstage University Theatre, Texas State Theatre Center, 601
University Drive, San Marcos. $5. (512) 245-2204.
 Dec. 6 (Thursday)
'Caroling at Noon.' Take a noontime break from the hustle and bustle of the
holiday season and join local musicians - including the University of Texas
Bassoon Ensemble and the St. Stephen's Episcopal School - in a free program of
seasonal music. There's caroling favorite Christmas tunes, too. Each free
concert is followed by an optional $7 lunch. Noon Thursdays through Dec. 20.
St. David's Episcopal Church, 304 E. Seventh St. 472-1196, www.stdave.org.
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Monster Carol' (7:30 p.m., Texas State)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
 'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 7 (Friday)
'Best Salvage Vanguard Holiday Ever.' The folks at Salvage Vanguard Theater
know how to have fun for the holidays. Writers pen 10 five-minute pieces based
on a mystery holiday theme word and then have only four hours of rehearsals
before presenting it to a live audience! This year's mystery holiday theme
word: cheer. 9 p.m. Dec. 7-8. Little City Espresso Bar and Cafe, 916 Congress
Ave. $7-$35 (pay-what-you-wish). 474-7886, www.salvagevanguard.org.
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'A Monster Carol' (7:30 p.m., Texas State)
 'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 8 (Saturday)
'Best Salvage Vanguard Holiday Ever' (9 p.m., Little City)
'Christmas at the Carillion.' A most Austin holiday tradition since 1994, Craig
 Hella Johnson and Conspirare - the Grammy-nominated chorus - sing sacred and
secular holiday music, art music and popular music. 8 p.m. University
Presbyterian Church, 2203 San Antonio St. $15-$40. 476-5775,
www.conspirare.org.
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'A Holiday Choral Concert.' Join the combined choruses of the University of
Texas School of Music in traditional holiday music with a family-friendly
concert to celebrate the holiday season with carol sing-along. 8 p.m. Bates
Recital Hall, Music Building, Trinity Street and Robert Dedman Drive.  $5-$10.
471-5401.
'Holiday Concert.' Capital City Men's Chorus is joined by an ensemble of brass
players for a fun and joyous selection of holiday songs including the
'Hallelujah' chorus from Handel's Messiah and an appearance from the Sugar Plum
 Fairy. 8 p.m. Central Christian Church, 1110 Guadalupe St. $15.
www.io.com/ccmcaus.
'A Monster Carol' (2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., Texas State)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (10 a.m., Scottish Rite)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 9 (Sunday)
'Christmas at the Carillion' (2:30 p.m. St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, 8134
Mesa Drive. $15-$40.)
'A Christmas Carol' (2 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'Holiday Concert' (4 p.m., Central Christian Church)
'A Monster Carol' (2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., Texas State)
'The Nutcracker' (2 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (2 p.m., Scottish Rite)
 Dec. 10 (Monday)
'Christmas at the Carillion' (8 p.m. St. Mary Cathedral, 203 E. 10th St.
$15-$40.)
 Dec. 11 (Tuesday)
'Christmas at the Carillion' (8 p.m. St. Martin's Lutheran Church, 606 W. 15th
St. $15-$40.)
'Chistmas Sing Along' Fa-la-la-la-la! Join guest conductor Carlton Dillard and
the Austin Symphony Orchestra - and special guests Frosty the Snowman, Rudolph
the Red-Nosed Reindeer and the big man himself, Santa Claus - in a free
family-friendly sing-along concert of holiday favorites. 8 p.m. Riverbend
Centre, 4214 Capital of Texas Highway (Loop 360). Free. 476-6064,
www.austinsymphony.org.
 Dec. 13 (Thursday)
'Caroling at Noon' (noon, St. David's)
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Monster Carol' (7:30 p.m., Texas State)
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa' (7 p.m., Spaghetti Warehouse)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas.' Funnyman Rob Nash returns with
his hilarious one-man multicharacter tale about all things family and
Christmas. Fred calls his mother for the first time in three years. Margot
juggles her annual New Year's Party, the Junior League, Bible Study and Book
Club. Ashley gets her heart broken by Maddie (again!) at the mall over a
watermelon banana smoothie with granola and M&Ms. Windsong creates a Wild Inner
 Child Weekend retreat experience. And that's just scene one! How is a family
to cope with the holidays? 8 p.m. Thursdays-Sundays through Dec. 30. Vortex
Theatre, 2307 Manor Road. $10-$30. 478-5282, www.vortexrep.org.
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 14 (Friday)
'A Cathedral Christmas.' Texas Choral Concert sings traditional holiday choral
music and popular carols. 8 p.m. Dec. 14-15, 3 p.m. Dec. 16. Central Christian
Church, 1112 Guadalupe St. 372-3233, www.txconsort.org.
'A Christmas Cactus' (8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa' (7 p.m., Spaghetti Warehouse)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 15 (Saturday)
'A Cathedral Christmas' (8 p.m., Central Christian Church)
'A Christmas Cactus' (2 p.m. and 8 p.m., Gaslight Theater)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'Holiday Concert for Children.' Austin Vocal Arts Ensemble sings global holiday
 music of many different traditions in a free family-friendly concert augmented
 by multimedia effects. 4 p.m., Northwest Hills United Methodist Church, 7050
Village Center Drive. Free. 719-3300, www.chorusaustin.org.
'La Pastorela' (8 p.m., MACC)
'The Nutcracker' (2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Romp! The Holidays are for Hugging.' Featuring lively children's entertainer
Reppy, 'Romp' is a monthly interactive entertainment experience that educates
and enlightens. Reppy creates inspiring skits, sketches, character comedy,
theater games and original songs with positive messages about families, and
growing up. 3 p.m. Dec. 15 and 29. Vortex Theatre, 2307 Manor Road. $7-$30
(pick your price). 478-5282,  www.vortexrep.org.
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (10 a.m., Scottish Rite)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
'X-Mas: Unwrapped! A Holiday Burlesque' (10 p.m., Hyde Park)
 Dec. 16 (Sunday)
'A Cathedral Christmas' (3 p.m., Central Christian Church)
'A Christmas Carol' (2 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'Christmas Classics.' Decked out in Victorian costumes, Austin Girls' Choir
sings traditional carols and other holiday songs. 4 p.m. Tarrytown United
Methodist Church, 2601 Exposition Blvd. $10. 453-0884.
'The Nutcracker' (2 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Sing-It-Yourself "Messiah." ' Join Chorus Austin in one of the ultimate DIY
holiday concerts, a production of Handel's 'Messiah' in which you sing it
yourself. And you could even win a chance to conduct an encore of the
Hallelujah chorus. 4 p.m. Northwest Hills United Methodist Church, 7050 Village
 Center Drive. $5-$20. 719-3300, www.chorusaustin.org.
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (2 p.m., Scottish Rite)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 19 (Wednesday)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
 Dec. 20 (Thursday)
'Caroling at Noon' (noon, St. David's)
'Celtic Christmas at the Cathedral.' Renaissance Austin Theatre Company
presents live Celtic music, Irish dancers, bagpipes and the Schola Cantorum
choir of St. Mary Cathedral. 8 p.m. St. Mary Cathedral, 203 E. 10th St.
$18-$22. 431-6290, www.celticcenter.org.
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa' (7 p.m., Spaghetti Warehouse)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 21 (Friday)
'Celtic Christmas at the Cathedral' (8 p.m., St. Mary Cathedral)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'The Nutcracker' (7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa' (7 p.m., Spaghetti Warehouse)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 22 (Saturday)
'A Christmas Carol' (7:30 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'The Nutcracker' (2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Really Bad Santa' (7 p.m., Spaghetti Warehouse)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Toys Take Over Christmas' (10 a.m., Scottish Rite)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 23 (Sunday)
'A Christmas Carol' (2 p.m., Georgetown Palace)
'The Nutcracker' (2 p.m., Paramount)
'Plaid Tidings' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 27 (Thursday)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 28 (Friday)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 29 (Saturday)
'Plaid Tidings' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Romp! The Holidays are for Hugging' (3 p.m., Vortex)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Dec. 30 (Sunday)
'Plaid Tidings' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'Rockin' Christmas Party' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
'12 Steps To A More Dysfunctional Christmas' (8 p.m., Vortex)
 Jan. 3 (Thursday)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
 Jan. 4 (Friday)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
 Jan. 5 (Saturday)
'The Santaland Diaries' (8 p.m., Zach Scott)
 Jan. 6 (Sunday)
'The Santaland Diaries' (2:30 p.m., Zach Scott)
 Jan. 8-13
'A Tuna Christmas.' It's just 24 hours before Christmastime in Tuna, Texas, and
 all manner of craziness breaks out amongst the eccentric denizens of the third
 smallest town in Texas as the yard decorating contest is threatened by a
mysterious vandal and the local production of "A Christmas Carol" is about to
tank. Oh my heaven! Fresh from the successful premiere of their latest "Tuna"
show, Joe Sears and Jaston Williams return with their hilarious holiday show. 8
 p.m. Jan. 8-12, 2 p.m. Jan. 12-13, 7:30 p.m. Jan. 13. Paramount Theatre, 713
Congress Ave. $24.50-$52.50. (866) 4GET-TIX, www.austintheatre.org.
IMAX Christmas movies
 TODAY THROUGH JAN. 6
'The Polar Express: An IMAX 3D Experience.' All aboard! Catch the 3D IMAX
version of the animated film about a young boy who takes an extraordinary train
 ride to the North Pole and embarks on a journey of self-discovery. The
chugging of the train's engine resonates through 44 different speakers mounted
throughout the theater for a full surround-sound effect. Based on the classic
Caldecott medal-winning children's book by Chris Van Allsburg. Multiple daily
showings through Jan. 6 (Closed Dec. 24-25 and Jan. 1). Bob Bullock Texas State
 History Museum, 1800 N. Congress Ave. $5-$7. 936-8746,
www.thestoryoftexas.com.
 SATURDAY THROUGH DEC. 30
'Santa Vs. The Snowman: 3D.' Probably the oddest yet most charming 30-minute
family Christmas film can now be experienced in 3D. Featuring the voices of
Jonathan Winters and Ben Stein, 'Santa vs. the Snowman' tells the story of a
lonely, neglected snowman who is jealous of Santa's celebrity status and so
decides to steal the limelight by kidnapping Santa and taking over his village.
 Not so fast! A riotous polar war ensues as Santa's elves battle an army made
of snow with hot chocolate squirt guns, giant igloo robots, jet-propelled
reindeer and a 50-foot-tall toy Nutcracker soldier. Multiple daily showings
through Dec. 30 (Closed Dec. 24-25). Bullock Texas State History Museum, 1800
N. Congress Ave. $5-$7. 936-8746,  www.thestoryoftexas.com.



LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 7, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Giving a GREEN Christmas

BYLINE: Jenny Miller AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: GLOSSY; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 91 words


Bing Crosby might have yearned for a Christmas in white, but around here we're
more taken with green. Lest snowmen and winter sleigh rides become extinct all
together as global temperatures warm, let's invest in holiday gifts whose
"green" qualities render them an investment for future generations. And every
generation has something to enjoy, from organic meals delivered to your door to
a sustainable skateboard and the best in organic baby gear. An emerald, pine or
jade-colored holiday season? Sounds like the kind we want to know.

- Jenny Miller

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 5889 words


Wallace Dwight Benson

June 12, 1929 - April 3, 2007

-

Joyce Jeanne Benson

May 13, 1929 - Nov 17, 2006

Wallace Dwight Benson died on April 3, 2007, at age 77, just 136 days after his
wife of 48 years, Joyce Jeanne Benson (nee Fleischmann), died on November 17,
2006, at age 77. The couple lived in Austin, Texas, for the last ten years.

Wallace was born in Madison, WI, on June 12, 1929, and Joyce was born in
Chicago, IL, on May 13, 1929. The couple met when both of them were teachers at
West Bend High School and married on June 14, 1958. Each earned a Masters Degree
from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and served a full career in public
education in Wisconsin, the majority in the Madison Metropolitan School
District, retiring in 1989.

Upon retirement, they relocated to historic Goliad, Texas, restored a gracious
1900s era home, and established "The Madison" Bed and Breakfast, an area
landmark which still operates today. After seven years, they retired a second
time and moved to Austin, Texas, to be nearer to their two children and four
grandchildren.

Wallace was drafted into the US Army and served with the military police in
Korea in 1951 and 1952. The couple will be interred together at the Central
Texas State Veterans Cemetery near Fort Hood at Killeen, Texas.

Wallace and Joyce were both quite proud of their many years of educational
service to Wisconsin youth. Memorial donations may be made in their honor to the
UW Alumni Club of Austin Scholarship Fund at www.uwalumni.com

Eugene "Gene" Casarez

Our beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend, Eugene "Gene" Casarez, age
84, of Austin, was called upon to share in the Lord's glory on Thursday, April
5, 2007.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Abraham and Eufemia Casarez; brother,
Frank Casarez; and sister, Mary Saldana.

Eugene was the kind of man that how ever you met him, he made a lasting
impression; no one was a stranger to "Mr. C." He had the most loving and
friendly personality that everyone was drawn to. As a husband he provided
endless love and support, as a father he provided a home filled with happiness,
as a grandfather he shared stories of his life and a warm meal for lunch. As an
usher he served our Lord and the church faithfully. As a career optician he
guaranteed a quality pair of eye glasses and smiling face. As a baker he
provided a variety of empanadas and tostadas that absolutely no one could turn
down. Looking back on his 84 years, all these things capture Eugene, and yet it
captures only a small amount of all his wonderful characteristics.

He is survived by his loving wife of 54 years, Eladia Casarez; sons, Joe Albert,
Martin and wife Laurie; daughters, Margaret Cano and husband David, Socorro
(Coco) Casarez and companion Steve Cerda, Mary Frances (Kika) Garza;
granddaughters, Marcie Alvarez, Christine Cano, Erica Garcia, Amber Casarez; and
only grandson Shea Casarez; brothers, Pete Casarez and wife Theresa, Frutoso
"Tuto" Casarez, Robert (Beto) Casarez of La Feria, Texas; sister, Manuela
Sanchez; numerous nieces and nephews; and lifelong friends, Gilbert "Shorty"
Gonzales, and Mr. and Mrs. Matias Limon.

"and He will call me someday to my home far away. Where in His glory forever
I'll share"

The family would like to express a special thanks to David and Regan Garrett of
OSA Optical for their support, friendship, and prayers as well as the AFD & EMS.

In lieu of flowers memorial contributions can be made to San Jose Catholic
Church.

Serving as pallbearers will be Martin Bermudez, David Cano, Joe Cano, Jesse
Casarez, Pete Casarez, Jr., John Manuel Rodriguez.

Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, April 9, 2007 at
San Jose Catholic Church. Mass of the Christian burial will be celebrated at
10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, April 10, 2007 at San Jose Catholic Church with Reverend
Miguel Duarte officiating. Interment will follow at Assumption Cemetery.

Memorials and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Dearing

Harry Leonard Dearing passed away peacefully on April 4, 2007. He was surrounded
by his family, including, Audrey, his beloved wife of 56 years.

Leonard was born July 8, 1925, to Harry and Kathryn Warren Dearing. His
birthplace was the family home at 804 Patterson, Austin, Texas. He grew up
there, where the family kept a milk cow and chickens, pecan and peach trees.

As a child, Leonard would visit the war veterans at the Confederate Veterans
Home. He roamed the surrounding fields, running after rabbits and squirrels and
swimming in the Colorado River. He attended Matthews Elementary, University
Junior High School and graduated from Austin High School in 1943.

Upon graduation from high school, Leonard, only 17 years old, enlisted in the
United States Navy, where he proudly served in the Pacific campaign on Iwo Jima,
Saipan and Wake Island until his honorable discharge in 1946. Upon his return,
he met his future wife, Audrey Traugott, and they married on August 18, 1950, in
San Antonio, TX.

Leonard was a gifted salesman and for a period of time managed the Western Auto
Store in Corpus Christi, Texas. Later, he joined Republic Gypsum Company as a
building materials salesman in the Austin area.

During his years of community service, Leonard was proud to be a part of
Manville Water Supply Board and the Pflugerville Independent School District
Board of Trustees, serving each of the organizations as President during his
tenure. He was the GPCC Citizen of the Year for 1998 as well as honored as a
participating supporter of the FFA Chapter at Pflugerville High School.

Leonard enjoyed his many long time friends from the Austin High band. He was
known throughout the community for his barbecue skills. For many years, he could
be found almost every weekend barbecuing for someone's birthday, wedding or
anniversary.

He is survived by Audrey T. Dearing and children, Denise Dearing, of Georgetown,
Harry and Shelley Dearing, The Woodlands, TX, and Linda and Ken Poehl,
Pflugerville, TX. His grandchildren are Jesse Dearing of Arlington, TX, Harry L.
Dearing, III, of the Woodlands, and Savannah and Sierra Marinos, Pflugerville,
TX.

Please honor Leonard by making a donation to the Pflugerville Education
Foundation, P.O. Box 773, Pflugerville, TX 78691, or to a charity of your
choice.

Services will be held at 10:00 o'clock in the morning, Tuesday, April 10, 2007,
at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 500 Immanuel Road, Pflugerville, TX. Leonard was a
member there for 48 years. The family will be present at the viewing from 6 to 8
o'clock p.m., Monday, April 9, 2007, at the Cook-Walden Funeral Home at
Pflugerville.

John E. Stephenson

John E. Stephenson, age 74 of Austin, was born November 13, l932, and passed
away on Saturday, March 31, 2007.

John served in the U.S. Army from l952 until l953. He then worked for Phillips
Pipeline, as a welder, for 34 years.

He was preceded in death by his son, Bobby Stephenson and daughter-in-law, Vera
Stephenson.

Survivors are his son, Mark Stephenson; daughter, Candy Stockstill; and eight
grandchildren.

The family will receive friends 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Monday, April 9, 2007, at
Harrell Funeral Home, Austin.

Graveside services will be held at 10:00 a.m., Tuesday, April 10, 2007, Live Oak
Cemetery.

The family wishes to express their gratitude and appreciation to all the friends
at Riverbend RV Park in Luling, Texas, and the staff at Brackenridge Hospital.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to American Heart Association, Texas
Affiliate Inc., P.O. 15186, Austin, TX 78761.

Guest book and obituary available online at harrellfuneralhomes.com

Wilburn George "Slim" Trueper

Wilburn George "Slim" Trueper died peacefully on Thursday, April 5, 2007, at the
age of 79.

Wilburn was born October 10, 1927, in Prairie Valley, Texas. He grew up on the
family farm before enlisting in the Army during World War II. Returning from the
service, he began a long career in the construction field.

Wilburn was preceded in death by a son, Dale Richard, and a daughter, Leona
Davis.

He is survived by Olivia, the mother of his children; a son, David Wayne and
wife Lisa of Elgin, Texas; grandchildren, Trisha Diane Campbell and husband
Doug; Kalie Beth Trueper of Georgetown, Texas; and Lily Katherine Trueper of
Elgin, Texas. He is also survived by sisters, Stella Grant and Glennie Pohler,
both of McDade, Texas.

Funeral services will be held 10:00 a.m. Monday, April 9, 2007, at Elgin Funeral
Home Chapel in Elgin. Graveside services will be 1:00 p.m., Monday at Prairie
Valley Cemetery, West Point, Texas.

Arrangements entrusted to the staff of Elgin Funeral Home, 712 N. Ave. C, Elgin,
Texas (512) 281 5697.

Clyde C. Whiteside

Austin investor Clyde C. Whiteside, age 95, died on March 23, 2007, at
Westminster Manor Health Care Center of congestive heart failure. He was born on
January 14, 1912, to Clarence and Minnie (Strahn) Whiteside in Keokuk, Iowa.
Following graduation from University of Iowa with a degree in accounting, Mr.
Whiteside joined the U.S. Army in 1941 and received his Masters in accounting
from the U.S. Army Finance School in May 1956 while stationed at Fort Benjamin
Harrison in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was promoted to the rank of Lt. Colonel in
the Finance Corps, serving tours of duty in Alaska, Boston, Chicago, Memphis,
Germany and the Panama Canal Zone.

Following his Army career, Mr. Whiteside joined the Dale Carnegie organization,
and moved to San Antonio, Texas where he sang with the San Antonio Chordsmen and
embarked on additional entrepreneurial pursuits. A long-time resident of Austin,
he was active in Kiwanis for 25 years, a member of Tarrytown First United
Methodist Church, participant in the Liberty Mutual Legends of Golf tournaments,
and member of the Austin Club and the Republican Party.

Mr. Whiteside married Naomi Watt in 1941 in Fulton, Missouri, to which union
were born four children. He later married Mildred Stevens of Austin in December
1976. They enjoyed many years of traveling and civic activities together. He is
survived by his wife, Mildred; three daughters, Katherine (Donald) Houk of
Euless, TX, Peg Whiteside, and Judith (Edwin) Borke, both of Waunakee, WI; five
grandchildren, David (Rebecca) Forrest of Houston, Timothy (Jennifer) Forrest of
Carmel, IN, Rebecca (Thad) Rutter of Rochester, MN, Brian Borke of Waunakee, WI,
and Paul Borke of Madison, WI; eight great-grandchildren, Greg and Joe Forrest,
Ryan, Alex and Jacob Forrest, and Joshua, Micah and Joy Rutter; a step-daughter,
Pam (Rick) Oshlo and two step-grandaughters, Lisa (Oshlo) Moutz and Laura
(Oshlo) Burleson. He was predeceased by his parents, his brother Robert, an
infant son, and step-son Jon Stevens.

A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, April 11th at 2:00 p.m. in the
Westminster Manor Chapel, 4100 Jackson Ave. in Austin, Texas.

Memorial contributions may be made to a charity of your choice.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Thurmond Bernard Woodard

Thurmond Bernard Woodard, born on January 9, 1949 in Ocala, Florida, was called
home on April 4, 2007 after a valiant battle with cancer. True to form, Thurmond
demonstrated great courage and dignity as he fought the disease since being
diagnosed in late 2005. His family was blessed to have been with him in his
final moments.

Thurmond was first and foremost a man of God, a husband and a father. He was
also an invaluable friend, mentor and a counselor to many that he met during his
30-year career in finance, marketing and human resources.

Thurmond is survived by his loving wife of 37 years, Suzanne, and their
children, Michelynn "Miki" of Los Angeles, California and Derek of Austin,
Texas; sister Towanna Comer of Ocala, Florida; his mother-in-law; two
brothers-in-law; two sisters-in-law; two nieces; one nephew and a host of
cousins, aunts, uncles and friends. He was preceded in death by his parents,
Deacon Ed and Sister Theora Woodard and his brother, Deacon Sherry Vernon
Woodard.

Thurmond is a proud graduate of Hampton University in 1970 with a bachelor's
degree in Accounting. He also pursued a graduate degree at the University of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

Mostly recently, Thurmond was the vice president for Global Diversity and the
Chief Ethics, Privacy and Compliance Officer for Dell Inc. A visionary leader,
Thurmond leaves a legacy of inclusion and collaboration and spread these values
to all of the communities he touched. His long standing dedication to fostering
a culture of respect and integrity made him one of the most admired leaders
amongst his peers and colleagues.

Prior to coming to Dell, Thurmond was President and Chief Operating Officer for
Atlanta-based R. Thomas Consulting and Training, Inc. He also served as Vice
President and General Manager of an international division of Flexel, Inc.
Thurmond spent 17 years at Johnson Wax, serving as Director of Finance in Europe
and later as General Manager in the Caribbean for one of the company's consumer
and industrial product businesses.

Integrity, spirit, generosity, strength, commitment, humor, and kindness;
Thurmond embodied all of these and positively impacted the lives of all he
touched. Despite his illness, he still made the time to challenge, lead and
mentor those around him.

Thurmond was a devout member of David Chapel Missionary Baptist Church where he
served as a Deacon and Sunday School teacher and along with his wife, led Crown
Financial Ministries.

Thurmond was a member of several organizations and served on the board of
trustees for Huston Tillotson University, the board of the Congressional Black
Caucus Foundation, the Ethics and Compliance Officers Association, the board of
advisors for Catalyst, and was a member of ELC. In recognition of his leadership
and accomplishments, Thurmond was also selected for membership as an Archon of
Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity.

Thurmond had a passion for golf, pistachios, loved a good cigar and sports of
any kind. He loved to laugh and was happiest spending time with his family and
friends and collecting art and wine from his travels around the world.

A champion for all, Thurmond's impact was wide-reaching and his sensible
counsel, generous spirit, tireless dedication and optimism were cherished and
admired by all he touched.

Information about the various services are listed below. In lieu of flowers,
memorial donations may be made to: M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, P.O. Box 4486,
Houston , TX 77210-4486, www.mdanderson.org/ gifts

Please include "For Thurmond Woodard" on your check or online donation. Your
gift to M.D. Anderson Cancer Center will make a difference in the struggle
against cancer by providing vital support for innovative programs at one of the
world's premier comprehensive cancer centers. Thank you for your generous and
thoughtful support.

Austin Services: Tuesday, April 10 - 7:00 p.m. - Wake; David Chapel Missionary
Baptist Church, 2211 East Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd., Austin , TX 78702,
(512) 472-9748

Wednesday, April 11 - 3:00 p.m. - Funeral, St. James Baptist Church, 3417 East
Martin Luther King Boulevard, Austin, TX 78721, (512) 928-2753

Florida Services: Friday, April 13 - 7:00 p.m. - Wake, Summers Funeral Home,
2238 NW 10th St, Ocala , FL 34475, (352) 351-0566. Saturday, April 14 - 11:00
a.m. - Funeral and Interment, Shady Grove Baptist Church, 9225 SW 27th Ave,
Ocala, FL 34476, (352) 237-3422.

Austin Services entrusted to Barry J. Franklin, CFSP, and King-Tears Mortuary,
Inc.

In Loving Memory of

Shanna Furr

Happy Sweet 16th Birthday Shanna! We love you so much. It's so hard to believe
you are not here with us. We think of you always. You will be forever in our
hearts.

Love, Mom, Dad, Sissy, Aaliyah, Alley, Mema, Aunt Debbie, Princess, Alex and
family

In Loving Memory of

Manuel V. Romo

Happy Birthday Dad

Forever in our Hearts

It broke our hearts to lose you,

But you did not go alone.

For part of us went with you,

On the day God called you home.

With lots of Love from your wife, Del; your children, Jay, Phil, Rose, Vera,
Sharon and Brian; your sons-in-law, David, Daniel, Carlos and Israel; your
daughter-in-law Carol; your grandchildren; and your great grandchildren.

With lots of love,

your boy Manny.

Melody Starks-Tyler

Melody Starks-Tyler died on Friday, April 6, 2007, at 5:55 p.m. in Victoria,
Texas. Melody was born August 23, 1932, in Amarillo Texas. She had long
struggled with COPD and departed after greeting the last of her four children at
her bedside Good-Friday. She met judgment with certainty and courage. So when
she was ready to die she said thus, "it is good ... to look for hope from God to
be raised up again by him..." 2 Mac.7-14 (KJV). Her life exemplified service
before self, and it was God and family she served. Her love was as constant as
the sky and stars and her loyalty unimpeachable. She was a woman of passion; she
loved family and friends completely, and spoiled to fight anybody or anything
opposed to those she loved.

She is survived by two sisters, Patrick Barker and Shelia Phillips; four
children, Melanie Pentecost, Stephen Bret Tyler, Kathleen Ann Manley and Michael
Thorp Tyler and one grandchild, Hannah Elizabeth Tyler.

There will be a memorial service Monday, April 9, 2007, at 2:00 p.m., at
Rosewood Chapel on Mockingbird Lane. In lieu of flowers please send
contributions to the RNC of Texas.

Thurmond Woodard

The Board of Directors of the Ethics & Compliance Officer Association expresses
its deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member and friend, Thurmond
Woodard, and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family.

Russell Ray Weatherford Sr.

Russell Ray Weatherford Sr., passed away April 5, 2007.

He was preceded in death by his mother, Barbara Quist and son, Russell
Weatherford, Jr.

He is survived by his father, Aubrey Weatherford, Sr., step father, Jack F.
Quist, Sr., brother, Aubrey "Buddy" Weatherford, Jr., brother, Jack F. Quist,
Jr., and one granddaughter.

A memorial service will be held Saturday, April 14, 2007 with time and location
to be announced at a later date.

Liz Pieper

Dec 24, 1969 to April 7, 2007

As the younger brother to Liz, it is my sad duty to inform the world of her
passing. By the young age of 37, Liz had come to touch many lives in her
professional and personal life. Throughout her working life, Liz was dedicated
to providing service to others. Liz was a valued member of several law
enforcement agencies as a police dispatcher. After receiving a degree from
Southwest Texas State University, Liz continued her efforts in the name of
justice by working with the Travis County Pre-Trial Services Office.

Liz joins her mother, Judith Pieper, in our Father's Kingdom.

Liz is survived by her partner in life, DK Punzi of Austin; her father, David
Pieper; her older brother, John Pieper; her younger brother, Bill Pieper of New
Braunfels, his wife, Brenda, and their two children, Jordan and Paige.

The family will receive friends on Friday, April 13, 2007, from 7:00 till 9:00
p.m.

Liz loved life, her family and her many, many friends. Please join us in our
celebration of Liz's life. Services will be held on Saturday, April 14, 2007,
2:00 p.m., at Harrell Funeral Home at 4435 Frontier Trail in Austin, Texas. A
burial will follow at the Live Oak Cemetery.

The Pieper family has requested that in lieu of flowers, donations be made to
the Hope Hospice of Austin, Texas.

Guest book and obituary available online at harrellfuneralhomes.com

Edward F. McGee

Edward F. McGee died April 3, 2007 following a persistently strong battle with
brain cancer. Born in 1951 in Austin, TX, he spent his high school years in
Houston, and lived in the San Marcos/Austin area for most of his adult life. He
retired from Texas State University the end of January 2007 after 28 years of
service.

Ed was a lover of the outdoors and all things of the natural world. He spent
countless hours propagating all kinds of plants, many of which beautify his home
in San Marcos. Much of his time was spent in sharing his love of nature with his
family: camping, observing nature and traveling, primarily in west Texas.

Surviving are his wife, Donna Browning and his sons, Benjamin McGee and Nicholas
McGee, to whom he was a dedicated partner, father, and friend. Also surviving
are his sisters, Margaret and Ann McGee, aunt, Mary Anne McGee, uncle, Robert
McGee, and cousin, Mary Beth Coleman.

Special thanks to Dr. Gina DeSanto, who, in sharing her own journey had a
profound effect on Ed's journey with brain cancer. Also a very special note of
appreciation to the Grounds Department at Texas State University who supported
Ed in living strong.

Memorials can be made to the Lance Armstrong Foundation (www.livestrong.org LAF,
P.O. Box 161150, Austin, TX 78716-1150) or to the Chihuahuan Desert Research
Institute (www.cdri.org CDRI, P.O. Box 905, Fort Davis, TX 79734).

At Ed's request, there will not be a memorial service.

Garnet Ida Robbins Grigson

1916 ñ 2007

Garnet Ida Robbins Grigson passed away on Wednesday, April 4, 2007, at the age
of 90.

Born August 5, 1916, in Hamlin, Texas, to John Franklin Robbins and Ida Adaline
Shelley Robbins, Garnet was the youngest of eight children, all born, raised and
buried in Texas: Jewell Elizabeth Deel, Sarah Pearl Pittman, John Shirley
Robbins, James William Robbins, Oliver Franklin Robbins, Louella Deane Robbins,
and Ruby Ethel Neel. She grew up in small Texas towns in and around Sweetwater,
the Rio Grande Valley and southeastern Texas, graduating from Liberty High
School in 1934.

Garnet attended Baylor University, graduating with a degree in Business and
Education in 1940. Attending Baylor was a dream come true, and her commitment to
the university didn't end with graduation. She drew her husband into her
life-long passion for all things "Baylor", sending their two children to college
there, following sports and news of Baylor and contributing to the institution
as a life-time member of the Baylor Alumni Association and Bear Club.

In 1944 she met Charles Owen Grigson (Charlie), the love of her life, and they
were married July 24th of that year. After a few years in California, the family
moved to Texas, living mostly in Odessa where they raised their children while
Garnet taught school for more than 35 years. In the 1960's, she went on to
receive a Masters of Education from Texas Tech University. This was accomplished
while raising her kids, teaching at the high school and junior college and going
to school on weekends and in the summers. She was an inspiration to those who
knew her, especially her children.

In retirement she and Charlie moved to Buchanan Dam, where they could be closer
to family and their grandchildren while enjoying the beautiful hill country.
Always active in church, they became members of the Chapel of the Hills Baptist
Church and quickly involved themselves in the lives of the church and community.

Garnet was always active, mentally if not physically. She was an avid sports fan
ñ "I only like sports that involve a ball" ñ and loved to play games and do
puzzles. Her memory was legendary to the last ñ naming all the cousins, nieces,
nephews and their children, and remembering dates and places when those much
younger could not. Garnet truly lived every moment of her life, enjoying what
she could do, not dwelling on what she couldn't. She never gave up, and she
never complained. She was strong, smart, steadfast, thoughtful and loving.
Garnet drew her strength from her unwavering faith, the support of her family,
and the belief that tithing, daily prayer, Bible reading and church attendance
were not merely concepts, but how to live. Those that knew her received the
gifts of her kindness.

Garnet was preceded in death by her parents, her brothers and sisters and her
husband of over 61 years.

She is survived by her two children: son, Charles Oliver Grigson and his wife,
Kathleen, their children, Charles Chandler and Natalie Kathleen Grigson, of
Austin; and daughter, Gayle Grigson/Stone, and her children, Katherine Alexandra
and Owen Nicholas Stone, of Chapel Hill North Carolina.

The family would like to extend their heartfelt thanks to Beverly Smith, Beckie
Polk, Rhonda Herridge, Sherry Merkel, Patricia McDuff, Diane Rogers, Don Brock
and many others who have given their love and care to Garnet.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Sunday, April 8, 2007, in
the Edgar Funeral Home, Burnet.

Funeral services are scheduled for 2:00 p.m. Monday, April 9, 2007, in the
Chapel of the Hills Baptist Church, Buchanan Dam, Texas. Graveside services are
scheduled for 2:00 p.m. Tuesday, April 10, 2007, in the Sweetwater Cemetery,
Sweetwater, Texas.

Services entrusted to Edgar Funeral Home, Burnet, Texas.

Please send any donations to Chapel of the Hills Baptist Church or the charity
of your choice.

Mildred Kelly Love

Mildred Kelly Love, a loved and cherished woman in the community and an
instrumental woman within her family, went to meet her Savior, the dear Lord, on
April 7, 2007, after a long illness at the prime age of 87.

She became a Christian at an early age and totally devoted her life to God and
to the development of all around her to "trust and obey" the Lord. She was
instrumental in the lives she touched. Truly she is with the Lord now. She will
be sorely missed by all who knew her.

She was born Mildred Lucille Kelly in the Pine Prairie community outside of
Huntsville, Walker County, Texas, on March 31, 1920. After high school at
Huntsville High, she attended Sam Houston State Teachers College in Huntsville,
Texas. During World War II, she and her sister, Evelyn, worked in Washington,
D.C. for the FBI where their brother Sam was an agent for the FBI. In the late
1940's Mildred worked for Burns Detective Agency in Dallas. In 1949 she returned
to Sam Houston State to complete her B.S. degree in Elementary Education. She
taught school in Tomball, Galena Park, Houston, and Corpus Christi, Texas. She
later taught 2nd grade at Eanes Elementary in Austin for 18 years where she
completed 30 years of teaching, and where she transformed 2nd graders into
successful, formidable adults.

After retirement she never slowed down. She cultivated a vegetable garden, was a
sweet influence to her family and friends, and lived her life to the fullest,
thoroughly enjoying and helping to take care of her grandchildren and
great-grandchildren.

Mildred is predeceased in death by her parents, Mary Lilla Kelly and Samuel
Hervey Kelly; sister, Katherine Thompson; brother, Samuel H. "Bud" Kelly, Jr.;
and husband. William R. Love, Sr.

She is survived by her two sons William Russell ("Bill") Love and wife Connie of
Utah; Jerry Dale Love and wife Carolyn of Pearland, Texas; beloved sister,
Evelyn Radford; grandchildren, Wayne Love, Ray Love, Ronnie Love, Jennifer
Whitfield, Robert Love, Michael Love and Christen Appawoo; as well as her nieces
and nephews, Dottye, Phil, Diana, Pam, Lynda, Nanette and Daniel (which she
treated as sons, daughters, and grandchildren); their children; many
great-grandchildren; and a host of friends.

Mildred attended church at Bethel Assembly of God and previously attended The
Church of Glad Tidings and Central Assembly of God. Mildred is also survived by
her beloved Dachshund, Nancy.

The family will receive visitors at Harrell Funeral Home on Tuesday from 6:00
till 8:00 p.m. The funeral will be held on Wednesday at 10:00 a.m. at the
Funeral Home with the Reverend Clyde Poldrack officiating. A graveside service
will follow the funeral in Huntsville, Texas, at 2:00 p.m. Temporary interment
(until Jesus comes again) will be at Buck Foster Cemetery in Huntsville, Texas.

Pallbearers are Jerry Love, Wayne Love, Ray Love, Ronnie Love, Michael Love and
Gordon Chandler.

In her sweet words: "To God be the Glory! Amen."

Lucille M. Herrera

1916 - 2007

Our beautiful beloved Mother, Lucille M. Herrera, has gone home with our
heavenly Father, Lord and Savior Jesus Christ on Friday, April 6, 2007, at the
age of 91 years. She joins our Dad, her beloved husband of 68 years, Dafnis
Herrera, and a daughter, Guadalupe "Pita" Collinge, and her other brothers and
sister, and a granddaughter, Elizabeth Chavira.

Granny, as we all knew her, was born on February 16, 1916, in Austin, Texas, and
married Dafnis in 1931. The majority of her adult life, she was a herbalist and
herbal consultant. She was a retired salesperson for a men's retail store in the
"downtown" area for 25 years. She also raised her children and volunteered as a
teacher's aid for 1st grade and Kindergarten. She volunteered at the Pan
American Recreation Center teaching exercise classes.

She campaigned for local politicians too. Her greatest joy was always for
gardening, and she truly had a green thumb. Granny was an excellent cook and
baker, and continued cooking until the age of 88 years. We will always remember
and miss all her wonderful talents and accomplishments.

We want to express our appreciation to the Southwood Care Center, Hospice of
Austin and special thanks to Dr. Guadalupe Zamora.

Survived by her beloved daughters, Gloria Herrera-Sanchez and husband Dan,
Lucille Hakim; three sisters, Annie Ledesma, Frances Rincon, Rose Tanneland; a
son-in-law, George Collinge; nine grandchildren and twelve great-grandchildren.

The Herrera family will receive friends at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, April 9, 2007,
at the Mission Funeral Home-Remembrance Chapel (Cesar Chavez), with the
Recitation of Holy Rosary at 7:00 p.m. Mass of Christian burial will be
celebrated at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, April 10, 2007, at Cristo Rey Catholic
Church; Rev. Fr. Jesse Euresti officiating. Interment will follow in Capital
Memorial Park Cemetery in Pflugerville, Texas.

Serving as Pallbearers will be Seyed Jamal Hakim, Michael Gil, Glen Johns, Brady
Weums, Manuel Ledesma, Jr. and Victor Rincon.

To view memorials on-line, visit www.missionmemorials.com

Carl Galloway

Carl Galloway, age 79, went to be with the Lord on Thursday, April 5, 2007, in
Houston.

Survivors include his loving wife of 58 years, Dorothy Galloway; daughter, Caran
Galloway; son, Marvin Galloway and wife, Mary Lynn; grandsons, Andrew and Alan;
and great-granddaughter, Kyla; and many loving nieces and nephews.

Funeral services will be conducted at half past eleven o'clock in the morning on
Monday, April 9, 2007, in the chapel of Mount Olivet Funeral Home, 2301 North
Sylvania, Fort Worth, Texas. Burial will follow in the Mount Olivet Cemetery.

A memorial service in Houston will be held at half past ten o'clock in the
morning on Friday, April 13, 2007, at First United Methodist Church of Houston,
1320 Main at Clay, Houston, Texas. A reception will follow at the church.

Hazel Crawford Forister

Hazel Crawford Forister was born in Fairfield, Texas on February 6, 1922. She
passed away on April 6, 2007 in Conroe, Texas where she had lived since October
2005. Hazel was raised and lived in the Austin area for most of her life. She
was a volunteer for many years at Seton Medical Center and very much enjoyed her
work at the "Sprouts" CafÈ. Hazel is preceded in death by husband, B.R. Forister
and brother, John Lee Crawford.

Hazel is survived by her son, Ted Theilen and wife, Brenda of Conroe;
granddaughters: Tanya and husband, Brad Maddin of New Waverly; Tiffany and
husband, Dr. Scott MacTavish of Kingwood; great-grandchildren: Samantha, Keaton,
and Sadie Maddin; Kane and Sailor Mactavish; step-son John Forister and wife,
Judy and their children Amy Forister, Leslie and husband, Justin Briggs and
their children, Blakely and Bennet Biggs; brother, Maurice Crawford and wife,
Liz; sister-in-law, Pearl Crawford and many nieces, nephews, and dear friends.

The family will receive friends at the funeral home on Sunday, April 8, 2007
from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at Cook-Walden Funeral Home. Graveside services will
be held at 10:00 a.m., Monday, April 9, 2007 at Austin Memorial Park.

Chrystian Jordan Esquivel

Our beloved Baby Chrystian Jordan Esquivel, 4 days old, was called by our
Heavenly Father on Friday, April 6, 2007.

He is survived by his parents, Crystal Esquivel and Alex Orona; grandparents,
Christine Valdez and Rueben Esquivel, Anita Torres and Lupe Orona;
great-grandparents, Esteban and Josie Valdez, Victor and Lupe Torres, and Linda
Esquivel; great-great-grandparents Ramon and Olivia Rivera, Eulalia Garza; and
numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins.

He is preceded in death by great- great-grandparents, Esteban and Dolores
Valdez; great-grandfather, Frank Esquivel.

Funeral service will be held at 2:00 p.m. at Mission Funeral Home Remembrance
Chapel, with Deacon Ralph Arevalo officiating. Burial will follow at Assumption
Cemetery.

"I will always love you and miss you, Tata."

Love Momma

Funeral arrangements entrusted to the care of Mission Funeral Home, 1615 E.
Cesar Chavez, (512) 476-4355. To view memorials on-line, visit
www.missionmemorials.com

Alex Joseph Dixon

March 4, 1986 - April 5, 2007

Alex Joseph Dixon was escorted by angels to his eternal home in heaven on April
5, 2007. Alex was born on March 4, 1986, in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and
spent most of his short life in Austin where he graduated from LJB High School
and attended Austin Community College and Texas State University. Alex had moved
last fall to Olympia, Washington, where he lived with his brother and had plans
of attending college.

Alex leaves behind his mother, Debra Coe; father and step-mother, Michael and
Colette Dixon; his older brother, Ryan Dixon; and his little sister and best
friend, Madison Dixon. Grandparents Paul and Margaret Coe, Bess and Howard
Dixon, and Russell and Carol Lynch, godparents, and a host of aunts, uncles,
cousins, and friends too numerous to mention (you know who you are) will all
remember and miss Alex's quick wit, laughter and dazzling smile.

In his brief 21 years, Alex's life shone like a beacon to those who knew him. He
was inquisitive and intelligent always seeking to find the underlying reason for
the way things were never accepting the status quo. He was intolerant of
injustice and systems that fostered prejudice and inequality. Alex held strong
beliefs yet was respectful even when engaging in political or theological
debates. He was a young man of great integrity who made his parents very proud.
At the same time, Alex was always ready to share his beautiful smile and make
others laugh. His sense of humor was legendary and occasionally got him into
trouble at school and out of trouble at home - an attribute in which he took
great pride. Alex enjoyed dinners at Chuy's, hanging out with friends at Barton
Springs, classic rock and roll, his old blue Volvo, and his beloved dog, Candy.
Alex was also a talented musician who quickly mastered the piano, trumpet,
guitar, and drums. Friends have said that Alex could do just about anything he
put his mind to and usually did so better than most whether that was back flips
off diving boards or playing poker. Family mattered greatly to Alex, and he made
a point of keeping in frequent contact with them no matter how great the
distance.

At the time of his passing, Alex was had returned to his childhood faith in
Jesus Christ. We know that Alex lives now in a place that Christ has prepared
for him in a realm we cannot even imagine. He will also live in our hearts
forever.

A Celebration honoring Alex's life will be held Saturday, April 14, 2007, at
3:00, at Bethany United Methodist Church, 10010 Anderson Mill Road. Please wear
bright colors and bring a written memory to share.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the charity of your choice.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Funerals and Memorials

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 6678 words


In Loving Memory of

Felicitas V. La Fuente

May 18, 1926

It's been a year and nine months since you left us. We grieve the loss of your
wonderful loving presence. It was truly a blessing having you as our mother. We
now struggle with the pain of grieving. You are at peace and suffer no more. You
are in our thoughts everyday and we miss you more than words can express. We
love you and always and forever your children, grandchildren and great
grandchildren.

"Happy Birthday Mom"

Brenda Collier Williams

Brenda Collier Williams, 57, of Taylor passed away Sunday, May 13, 2007 in
Galveston.

Visitation will be 6:00 - 8:00 p.m., Friday, May 18th at Providence Funeral
Home. Celebration of Life Services will be 3:00 p.m., Saturday, May 19, 2007 at
Providence Funeral Home Chapel with Rev. Larry Caldwell and Bishop Willie L.
McNeal officiating. Burial will follow at Taylor City Cemetery.

Brenda Collier Williams was born on August 3, 1949 in Houston, Texas to Willis
and Jacqueline (Gunnels) Collier. She married Tommy R. Williams, Sr. and this
marriage was blessed with four beautiful children. Brenda was a member of Mt.
Calvary Baptist Church and active in the Carment Kiara Youth Organization. She
was a devoted and loving wife, mother, sister, mother-in-law, and grandmother.
Brenda was always outgoing and friendly, she never met a stranger. She loved to
draw and was an excellent cook. Brenda loved family gatherings and always made
sure everyone had enough to eat whenever they came to visit.

She is preceded in death by her parents and husband, Tommie Williams, Sr.

Brenda leaves to cherish her memory: her daughters, Tammy Kiara and husband,
Carment of Austin and Teronica Williams of Thorndale; sons, Tommy Williams, Jr.
Courtney of Thorndale and Terrick Williams and wife, Veronica of Liberty Hill;
grandchildren, Lorenzo Williams, Terrick Williams, Jr., Emilio Williams, Nakia
Williams, and Cinque Kiara; sisters, Bridgette Collier and Adrienne Collier of
Houston, Monique Wells of Minneapolis, Minnesota and Bernadette Howard of
Austin; brothers Miguel DeLeon of Crystal, Minnesota and Willis M. Collier, Jr.
and wife, Lotty of Sugarland; and a sister in law, Mattie Epperson of San
Antonio.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Carment Kiara Youth
Organization, P.O. Box 14166, Austin, TX. 78761 in Brenda's memory.

Friends are invited to share their words of comfort in an online tribute at
www.Providencefuneralhome.com in memory of Brenda Williams.

Gloria Maria Sargologos

Gloria Maria Sargologos, 78, of Austin, beloved sister, aunt, wife, mother and
grandmother, passed away on Tuesday, May 15, 2007.

Born Gloria Maria Villarreal on Oct. 7, 1928 in San Antonio, she was one of nine
siblings. She met her husband, Nicholas Sargologos, Jr. in San Antonio. Together
they raised five children. A stay at home mom and the wife of a serviceman, her
travels took her all over the world including Greece, Libya and many other
places. After retiring in Austin, she and her husband loved nothing more than
spending fun times together with their family. Constant smiles and warm feelings
went side by side during these times. Some of her favorite times were spent with
the extended family on Lake Medina, just north of San Antonio. These occasions
would bring together her sisters, brothers and their families along with good
food, great times and wonderful music that lasted into the night.

Gloria was very much a people person. She possessed the type of personality that
others were drawn to and simply could not resist. She was a dear friend to many
and loved spending time with them all. Always on the lookout for a great
bargain, Gloria loved attending yard sales and would beam over the finds she
would acquire, many of which would find their way to one of her children. She
loved her children more than anything in the world and proved it again and
again. She and her husband sent all five children to college and were proud to
see them all graduate. One of her true blessings and delights were her nine
grandchildren. Having them over to visit would always brighten her day.

She is preceded in death by her husband and brother, Daniel Villarreal.

She is survived by sons and daughters-in-law, Edward L. Sargologos, Nicholas J.
and Christine Sargologos, Steven M. and Monika Sargologos; daughters and
sons-in-law, Laura E. and Paul Radcliffe, Lisa C. and William Gregory;
grandchildren, Christine, Katherine, Taylor, Nicholas and Sarah Sargologos,
Tyler and Ryan Radcliffe, Ashley and William Gregory; brother, Victor Villarreal
and sisters, Aurora Vaca, Minerva "Minnie" Rivas, Ethel "Monda" Martinez, Angie
Hettinger and Beatrice Aldrighetti.

Services will be held at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, May 18 at Cook-Walden/ Capital
Parks Funeral Home, Pflugerville with interment following at Cook-Walden/Capital
Parks Cemetery. Please visit the family's web-site at www.mem.com

Corrine Hall Rune

Corrine Hall Rune, born October 30, 1912 in Conroe, TX to CG and Ella Mae Hall.
Passed away May 12, 2007 in Flower Mound. She was 94 years old.

Corrine was one of the first female graduates of Rice University.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Jack Lynch Rune. She is survived by
her son, Michael Jay Rune; daughter, Sandra Florrine Shea, three grandchildren,
Michael Jay Rune II, Alissa Shea and Andrew Paul Shea; and one niece, Marion
Jistil.

Graveside services will be held at 9:00 a.m. on Saturday, May 19, 2007 at Forest
Oaks Memorial Park in Oak Hill, Texas.

To sign an online register book or to send condolences please visit
www.flowermoundfuneralhome.com.

Ernesto P. Rosas

Our beloved Ernesto P. Rosas, age 57, resident of Austin was called by our
Heavenly Father on Monday, May 14, 2007.

He was preceded in death by grandbaby Angel Juarez; parents Cristobal and Maria
De La Luz Rosas and brother Chris Rosas.

Survivors include beloved wife of 37 years Julia Rosas; children Claudine Juarez
and husband James, Christina Rosas, Christopher Rosas and Monica Serrato;
grandchildren Christian Rosas, Isabella Juarez, Christopher Rosas Jr. and
Charles Rosas; brothers Norberto Rosas, Daniel Rosas, Rudy Rosas, Rick Rosas,
Ben Rosas and Ruben Rosas; sisters Janie Rosas, Gloria Moreno, Yolanda Trejo,
Lucia Franco and Melissa Campos; aunt Beatrice Brown.

Recitation of rosary Thursday, 7:00 p.m. at the Mission Funeral Home Serenity
Chapel 6204 South First Street.

Mass of Christian burial will be celebrated Friday 1:00 p.m. at Our Lady Of
Guadalupe Catholic Church 1206 E. Ninth Street.

Interment will follow at Assumption Cemetery with a reception following at Our
Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church Hall 1206 East Ninth Street.

Serving as pallbearers are Gilbert Moreno, Alfredo Segovia, Victor Martinez,
Matias Solis, Frank Martinez and Mark Solis.

Honorary pallbearers are Christian ,Christopher Jr. and Charles Rosas.

To view memorial on-line, visit www.missionmemorials.com

John "Sonny" H. Pruett

John "Sonny" H. Pruett, age 71 of Liberty Hill Texas passed away on May 16,
2007. Sonny was born in Austin, Texas on April 2, 1936. He passed away at Scott
and White hospital in Temple surrounded by his wife and kids.

He is preceded in death by his beloved parents John and Nora Pruett. Sisters
Opal, Dorthy, and Helen.

Sonny is survived by his loving wife Barbara of 48 years. Son James and his wife
Debbie. Daughter Kathy Parks and her husband Dennis. Two grandsons Travis and
Justin Parks. Sister Mary Holder and Brother Levi Pruett. He also leaves behind
many nieces and nephews. He also leaves behind his most loved Chihuahua. "CoCo."

Family visitation will be Friday at 5:30 p.m. at the Clements-Wilcox Chapel.
Graveside services will be held Saturday, May 19, 2007 at 11:00 a.m. at the
Liberty Hill Cemetery.

Clements-Wilcox Funeral Home in Burnet in charge of arrangements.

Frank Fenton Painter

Frank F. Painter, 83, passed away Monday, May 14, 2007, after a courageous
battle with prostate cancer. He was born in Graham, Texas, on February 11, 1924,
to Reuben and Garnet Warren Painter.

He was predeceased by his parents, sister Marion Garrison, brothers Garnet and
Robert Painter and first wife, Ruth.

Frank is descended from the Jacob Painter family who settled in Pennsylvania in
the 1700's. The family originated in Mecklenberg, Germany. Frank attended Bolles
Academy in Jacksonville, Florida, and graduated from Salem High School in Troup,
Texas. He played varsity football and the trumpet in the band in both schools.

Frank left John Tarlton University at age 17 to join the U.S. Navy at the onset
of World War II. He spent 1941 through 1946 aboard several destroyers and
battleships in the Pacific Theater where he participated in many of the major
battles against the forces of Japan.

After earning a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Oklahoma in
1950 with a major in geology and minor in paleontology, Frank devoted the rest
of his working life to the oil and mining industries. He was chief geologist for
several companies including Baker and Taylor Drilling, Delta Petroleum, and
Brown Enterprises. His geology employment took him to many sites around the
world where he had exciting adventures: Brazil, Venezuela, Algeria, Mexico, as
well as many states in the U.S. As an independent oil producer he discovered
oilfields in Dimmit and Jim Wells Counties among others.

Frank moved his family to Austin in 1970 after Hurricane Celia destroyed the
family home in Corpus Christi.

Frank had a magnetic personality that brought life to any room. He loved
beautiful music, travel, reading, and growing exotic plants in his garden. He
was a man of prayer and great faith. His amazing life of adventure and survival
in the untamed Amazon is a source of great fascination to his family. He will be
long remembered as a loving dad, a doting husband and a man who taught his
children how to live life to the fullest and never fear adventure. His
affectionate embraces, his gusto for life and the joyful smile that lit up a
room will be missed by all who knew him. His cooking was legendary and a source
of inspiration for his children who all have followed in his culinary footsteps.

Visitation will be at 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, May 17, 2007, in the Colonial
Chapel of Cook-Walden Funeral Home Rosary will follow at 7:00 p.m. Funeral Mass
of the Resurrection will take place at St. Theresa's Catholic Church at 1:00
p.m. on Friday, May 18, 2007, with a reception following at 2:00 p.m.

Private interment will take place at Arlington National Cemetery at a later
date.

He is survived by his adored wife and best friend, Juanita, and his beloved
children: daughters, Molly and husband Chris Snyder of Alabama, Lisa and husband
Doug Carroll of Virginia, Therese and husband Jim Hogan of Paris, France, and
Jeannie and husband, Jeff Fulbright of Georgia; sons, Charles and wife Linda of
Louisiana, Frank, Jr., and wife Erin, of Virginia, and Victor and wife Inge of
the Netherlands. He is also survived by his cherished grandchildren, Jessica
LoPresti of Virginia; Sean Painter and Greg Rowland of Louisiana; Eileen and
Frank Painter III of Virginia; Mireille, David, Sabine, Abram and Mercedes
Painter of the Netherlands; and Heather, Austin, Calvin and Jordyn Fulbright of
Georgia. The grandchildren were the delight of Frank's life and they all adored
their grandpa.

In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to Caritas of Austin, P.O. Box 1947,
Austin, TX 78767; to Capital Area Food Bank of Texas, 8201 S. Congress Avenue,
Austin, TX 78745; or to the charity of your choice.

The family wishes to thank the physicians, nurses, and staff of Texas Oncology
for their excellent care and compassion. We also wish to thank Hospice Austin,
especially Alice and Leo, and Drs. Michael McMinn, Leo Toupin, and Michael
McClelland for their expert care and friendship.

Gloria V. Martinez

Gloria V. Martinez, 77, passed away May 15, 2007. She was born in General
Zuazua, Nuevo Leon, Mexico to Jesus Villarreal and Benita Villarreal Flores. She
is survived by her husband of 59 years, Oscar M. Martinez; seven children,
Gloria Davila and husband Victor, Oscar M. Martinez, Jr. and wife Rosa, Jose
Luis Martinez and wife Hannia, Nelly Martinez, Javier Martinez and wife Eva,
Cesar Martinez and wife Virginia, and Edith Martinez; eight grandchildren, nine
great grandchildren and many other loving relatives and friends.

Visitation will be Friday, May 18th from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. with a Rosary at
7:00 p.m. at Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home where funeral services will
be held at 10:00 a.m. Saturday, May 19th. Interment will follow in
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Cemetery.

Rosemary Noele Emilie

Madewell

Rosemary Noele Emilie Madewell, 42, of McDade, Texas escaped from Toronto,
Canada in 1984, with her sister, Michelle, to join their parents, Hans and
Audrey Krier in Gladewater, Texas. Only to be swept away by wayward musician,
and husband of now 22 years, David Madewell. Fate and a VW bus brought Noele and
David to south Austin; Michelle and her parents also moved to Austin shortly
thereafter.

Noele's generosity and labor helped a significant number of Austin's
singer/songwriters and other miscreants (but mostly David) trying to make it in
the music business during the time she worked as head waitress at several Austin
landmarks, (Bean's, Sholz's, Lazona Rosa, and The Filling Station). Noele also
operated a camera for Hank Sinatra Productions. But the career she loved most
began when she became a fulltime mother in 1992 "giving us Emilie, Jacob, Holly
and David, Jr." David said. "She blessed us with her presence, yet she was taken
from us May 12, at M.D. Anderson in Houston." Noele continues giving. Her last
wish was that her body be donated for research at M.D. Anderson to help find a
cure in order to save others from the cancer that ravaged her body and took her
life.

Noele's family wishes God's blessings to neighbors and friends for their
tremendous support following her diagnosis a year ago. And the family sends
heartfelt thanks to everyone for their continuing love and support. Memorial
donations can be made to the Madewell Children's Fund at Elgin Bank.

A celebration of Noele's Life will begin at 1:00 p.m., Sunday, May 20 at the
McDade Watermelon Festival Grounds. For more information, call 512-273-2092.

DeCourcy Kelley

DeCourcy Kelley, former AISD School Board member and ACC Trustee, died May 8,
2007, in Austin, Texas. She was 77.

Lucerle DeCourcy Scott Kelley was born May 19, 1929, in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
and grew up in Amarillo, Texas. She moved to Austin to attend the University of
Texas, where she met her future husband, H. Paul Kelley, after mutual friends
set them up on a blind date to play bridge. They married in 1949, and two years
later she graduated with honors from UT with a B.A. in French, a minor in
Spanish, and teacher certification in mathematics. A Navy wife, she followed her
husband to Pensacola, FL, San Antonio, TX, and Princeton, NJ. In Princeton, she
worked for the Educational Testing Service while Paul finished his doctorate and
completed his naval service. The family returned to Austin where Paul accepted a
professorship at the University. While raising three sons, DeCourcy also became
active in her church and in various university and community organizations,
including the University Ladies Club, the PTA City Council, and the Austin
League of Women Voters. Her passion for quality education led her to run for
office, and in

1974 she was elected to the AISD School Board. During her term, she helped guide
the district through the difficult task of desegregation. She concurrently
served on the Board of Trustees for Austin Community College and was
instrumental in helping the college receive accreditation. When her term
expired, she served as Executive Director of the Austin Women's Center,
concentrating her efforts to bring affordable health care and health education
to women in the community. In 1983 she became president of the ACTV Board of
Directors. The public access television station was in its infancy, and DeCourcy
initiated negotiations with the City of Austin for a five-year access management
contract.

DeCourcy was a staunch Democrat who worked tirelessly for organizations that
supported Democratic ideals. She served as the Chair of the Travis County
Democratic Women's Committee, and later served on the Texas Women's Political
Caucus. She was a frequent delegate to Travis County Democratic Conventions, and
firmly believed in Equal Rights legislation, and in transparency and
accountability in government. Always one to lead by example, she valued equality
and integrity, and sought to live her life and serve the public while upholding
her principles.

In retirement DeCourcy stayed active. She and Paul made frequent visits to
theaters in New York and New Orleans. They were both members of Singers
Unlimited, and enjoyed getting together with friends to sing show tunes and jazz
classics. DeCourcy later joined the local chapter of the Sweet Adelines
Barbershop Harmony Society. She also co-taught the Women's Issues Sunday school
class at University United Methodist Church. In her spare time she read all
manner of books, played bridge avidly, and indulged in the occasional piece of
chocolate. Her family and friends will miss her wit, vivacity, and welcoming
manner.

DeCourcy is preceded in death by her husband, H. Paul Kelley. She is survived by
her loving sons, Roger; Scott and his long-time girlfriend, Elisabeth Wright;
Gordon and his wife, Anne; by nieces, Barbara Kelley Willis and her husband,
Christian; Theo Scott-Scheiern, DeCourcy Lurlene Squire, and Nancy Fisher; by
nephews, Harvey Scott and Ralph Squire; by grandchildren, James, Kimberlie
Keller and her husband, David; by grandnieces, Carissa and Miranda; and by
grandnephew, Neal Scott-Scheiern; as well as by many nieces and nephews through
marriage.

A celebration of DeCourcy's life will be held on May 21st at 1:00 p.m. at the
University United Methodist Church, 2409 Guadalupe St., Austin. Parking will be
available in the Platinum lot at the corner of 25th St. and Guadalupe. A
reception will immediately follow in the Fellowship Hall.

Flowers are requested from family members only. Memorial donations may be made
to the Department of Educational Psychology at the University of Texas, where a
scholarship is being established in Paul and DeCourcy Kelley's name, or to the
Central Texas Civil Liberties Union, or the music program at University United
Methodist Church, or to a charity of choice in her name.

Donald Arthur Kassebaum

Donald Arthur Kassebaum, 63, Systems Network Administrator of Austin passed away
Saturday.

He is survived by his three children: Thomas James and his family (wife Tina
Marie (Mailloux) and their three daughters: Alyssa Kathryn, Kimberly Aeryn and
Kaylee Nicole), Tamara Marie and Timothy Andrew.

He has lived in Austin for the past 22 years, working for The University of
Texas at Austin, IBM, Texas Parks and Wildlife and others.

Memorial service 6:00 p.m. Saturday May 19, 2007 at Austin-Peel and Son Funeral
Home 607 E. Anderson Lane Austin, TX. 78752

Elizabeth Ann Hogue

August 8, 1962 - May 16, 2007

Elizabeth Ann Curtice was born in Beaumont, Texas to Morton Curtice ("Curtice"),
and Katherine Curtice on August 8th, 1962. Liz Hogue, 44, left our World
following a courageous battle with lung cancer.

Our precious wife, mother, daughter, sister and friend went to meet her Lord on
May 16, 2007. Liz was the middle child of Curtice and Katherine. She was a 1980
graduate of B-C-P High School in Beaumont, TX. She placed her faith in Jesus
Christ in 1983, receiving the everlasting salvation available to all who would
repent and trust him. She married Mark Hogue and moved to Austin in 1985,
sharing a wonderful life together raising two incredible children, Lacy and
Grayson.

Professionally, Liz was a top producing real estate agent and was associated
with Coldwell Banker United, REALTORS for the past eleven years. Her
professional accomplishments, as well as her flare for fashion and style, were
nothing short of amazing. Her tireless work ethic and larger than life persona
allowed Liz to be one of the best of the best. She was consistently ranked as
one of the top Coldwell Banker agents in the state and the nation based on sales
volume, but more important than her "awards" was her phenomenal approach to
customer care that allowed so many clients to walk away from their "transaction"
as her friend for life. She was a charismatic "cheerleader" when she described
her well earned new listings to the office. And her enthusiasm netted her
admirable results by being awarded the coveted International President's Circle
Award, a recognition given only to the top 3% of producers in the country.

When not at the office, Liz gave back to the Real Estate community by being very
active in a long list of professional organizations, including the Austin
Chapter of Certified Residential Specialists, and the Austin Chapter of the
Women's Council of Realtors, where she served as VP in 1997 and was voted
Realtor of the Year twice, in 1997 and 2000. She also chaired one of the most
successful chapter fund raisers the WCR Style Show, an annual charity event.

At home and in her neighborhood, "Lizzie" never stopped giving. She was
committed to being a good neighbor as well as a good realtor in the RiverPlace
community. During her 11 years in the "hood" she hosted Easter egg hunts, Fourth
of July events and Dads in the Hood occasions for hundreds of community
children. And in true Liz style, she sponsored a successful yard of the month
club, keeping things looking as good at home, as in professional life. The
entire real estate community did their best to support Liz through her journey.
She was loved.

She is survived by her wonderful husband of 22 years, Mark, and their beautiful
children, Lacy-21 and Grayson-17; her brothers, Dewayne Curtice and wife Karen,
Steven Curtice and wife Holly along with their son Tyler. She had a wonderful
family of in-laws: Mark's parent's Guy and Ethel Hogue, sister Sandra Carruth
and her husband Doug along with nieces Jennifer and Sandie, brother Bill Hogue
and wife Sarah along with nieces Alice and Ashley, and his sister Sharon Hogue,
all of Houston. She is also survived by aunts; Mary Potts of Crystal Beach,
Betty Wells of Vidor and her great aunt Meo Smith of Nederland along with many
cousins from Southeast Texas.

Hundreds of friends and family have followed Liz's journey on the internet at
www.caringbridge.org/ visit/lizhogue

In lieu of flowers the family has asked for donations to be made to Global
Ministry Teams, PO Box 848, Inman SC 29349 c/o D. Jaynes.

Memorial Service to be held Sunday, May 20 at 2PM at Hill Country Bible Church
at 12124 Ranch Road 620 N, Austin, 78750. Graveside Services and Reception to
follow.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Wayne Kenneth Harwood

Wayne Kenneth Harwood was born on May 11, l946 in Albemarle, North Carolina.
Wayne grew up in Albemarle and was active in scouting as a boy. He earned the
level of Eagle Scout. He attended college at Chowan College in Murfreesboro,
North Carolina, and worked for Braniff Airlines early in his career. Wayne
joined the US Army in l969 and served as a Paratrooper and Medic in the honored
82nd Airborne Division. Among other distinctions, he earned the Army
Commendation Medal for exceptionally meritorious service during the Vietnam War.

Wayne then pursued business ventures, which included account management for a
major industrial supplier in Dallas and Austin, and entrepreneurial enterprises
including a boat lift company on Lake Conroe, Texas. His most recent endeavor
was as an Environmental Scientist for Hill Country Environmental, Inc. in
Austin.

Wayne loved the outdoors, and was as avid road and mountain biker, and active in
numerous bike groups around Austin. However, the priority of his life was
spending time with his son, Cody. Wayne was instrumental in finding the
international adoption agency, through which the infant Cody (born Sergey
Sergeyevich Surzhko) was brought to the US in l995. Wayne spent many happy hours
teaching Cody to ride, fish and enjoy nature.

Wayne is survived by his son, Cody Wayne Harwood of Spicewood, Texas, close
friend, Lisa McCurley of Austin, and sister, Maxine Harwood, of Richmond,
Virginia.

A memorial mass will be held on Saturday, May 19, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. at Queen of
Angels Chapel, 20600 Siesta Shores Drive, Spicewood, Texas. In lieu of flowers,
donations may be made to the American Diabetes Association, www.diabetes.org.

Guest book and obituary available online at harrellfuneralhomes.com

Frances Self Harrison

"Nannie"

Frances, "Nannie", Harrison passed away on Wednesday, May 16, 2007, at the home
of her daughter Becky and son-in-law Joe J. Joseph Jr., of Austin, surrounded by
her family and friends.

Frances was born in Clay, Alabama on July 4, 1922. Frances was one of nine
children. She was preceded in death by her husband of 56 years, Edgar "Ed"
Harrison of Fairfield, Texas. She is survived by three daughters, Becky and
husband Joe J. Joseph, Jr. of Austin, Nancy and husband David Legg of Temple and
Jill Marsh of Tyler; sisters Bobbie Hobbs of California and Billie Rogers of
Virginia and brother Tim Self of Tennessee; six grandchildren, Joe J. Joseph III
and wife Jamie of Austin, Nora Joseph Davis and husband Frank of Menard, Eddie
T. Joseph and wife Windy of Austin, Dane Legg and wife D'Ann of Temple, Daryl
Legg and wife Renee of Temple and Deric Legg and wife Allison of Dallas and 12
great grandchildren and countless friends.

Frances enjoyed art work, playing bridge and spending time with family and
friends. Her biggest joy was spending precious moments and making wonderful
memories with her grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

The family would like to thank Dr. Dina Tebcherany and staff of Texas Oncology
for their excellent care and compassion, Hospice Austin, especially Tania
Watkins and Griselda Pulido and Visiting Angels, especially Kenya Hamilton and
Monia Glenn for their time and friendship.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests that memorials be made in her name to
Sacred Heart Church, Elgin, Texas or Hospice Austin.

The pallbearers are Joe J. Joseph III, Eddie T. Joseph, Frank Davis, Dane Legg,
Daryl Legg and Deric Legg.

Interment is at Fairfield Cemetery in Fairfield, Texas on Friday, May 18, 2007
at 2:00 p.m.

Jack O. Hale Jr

Our beloved Jack O. Hale Jr., age 41, resident of Austin was called by our
Heavenly Father on Wednesday, May 16, 2007.

He was preceded in death by father Jack Oliver Hale Sr.

Survivors include his loving wife Mary Hale; son Jack Oliver Hale III and
daughter Crystal Pearl Hale; mother and step-father Betty and Hershal Carlson;
brother Michael Hale; sisters Sharon Garcia, Martha Monreal , Deedee Eastland
and a large, loving extended family and many dear friends.

The family would like to extend our heartfelt thanks to John Kelly and the staff
of John Kelly Auto Sales for all of your caring and compassion during this
difficult time.

Recitation of rosary Friday, 7:00 p.m. at the Mission Funeral Home Serenity
Chapel 6204 South First Street.

Funeral Service, Saturday 10:00 a.m. at Mission Funeral Home Serenity Chapel.

Interment will follow at Assumption Cemetery.

To view memorial on-line, visit www.missionmemorials.com

Lois Marie Obermiller Goebel

Lois Marie Obermiller Goebel was born November 17, 1922, in Williamson County,
Texas the fifth child of Otto Heinrich Christoph Obermiller and Maria Theresa
Grill Obermiller.

She was baptized as an infant and confirmed her faith within the Lutheran Church
as an adolescent. She graduated from Cameron High School and attended the
University of Texas, Wichita State University, and the University of Houston.

In 1955, she was married to James William Goebel. To this union a daughter and
three sons were born; Charles Albert, Helen Marie, Paul Joseph and Richard
James. Six grandchildren were her joy and blessing; James Sebastian, Amanda
Christine, and Clara Elena Goebel; and Jacob Lawrence, Wyatt James, and August
Moore Goebel.

In addition to raising four children, Lois excelled at making homes special
places as the family moved from Austin, Texas to Wichita, Kansas to Houston,
Texas and then to Danville, California, all following James' career. Lois and
James ultimately retired to winter and summer homes in Mascotte, Florida, and
Creston, North Carolina.

In her lifetime she and James also traveled to Mexico, Canada, England, Dubai,
Chile, Venezuela and Germany.

Lois was active in her churches, including Sunday and Vacation Bible schools,
Bible Study, and Altar Guild. She was also active in the Beta Sigma Phi sorority
in during her Austin years. She met world famous scientists while working at the
Physics Department of the University of Texas, and she also fostered and
maintained friendships with artists and others teaching at the University. She
loved books, and passed her lifelong love of higher education, literature, and
the arts to her children and grandchildren.

With children mostly grown, Lois turned her hand to market research. Her love of
people and her focus on accuracy and detail soon made her a preferred contractor
with many research firms. In later years, she and James were active volunteers
with the Ashe County North Carolina Library.

Lois loved her homes and entertaining friends and family. She enjoyed cooking
and could be counted on to set the perfect table for any occasion.

She was preceded in death by her parents, sister Mildred Ophelia, and three
brothers, Lawrence H., W. S. Elmo and Victor J. Obermiller. Also preceding her
in death were niece Charlotte Marie McCord and nephew Donald G. Obermiller.

She is survived by her husband, James Goebel; her daughter; Helen Goebel of
Seattle, WA, and her three sons, Charles Goebel of Plano, Texas; Paul Goebel of
Austin, Texas; and Richard and Laura Goebel of Austin, one brother, H.L.
Obermiller of Corpus Christi, Texas and her six grandchildren - Sebastian,
Amanda, Clara, Jake, Wyatt, and Gus. She was well loved and will be missed by
her many nieces and nephews

A memorial service was held 13 May 2007 at Zion Lutheran Church, Groveland,
Florida. Funeral Services will be held 19 May 2007 at St. Martin's Lutheran
Church, Austin, Texas (saintmartins.org). Burial will be held in Capital
Memorial Park, near Austin.

Memorials are requested by the family to the American Cancer Society
(cancer.org) or the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America (ccfa.org).

Texas services under the direction of Cook-Walden/Capital Parks & Funeral Home
(dignitymemorial. com/cook-walden).

Ethel Sorenson Fox

Ethel S. Fox passed away at home on Wednesday, May 16, 2007. She was born
November 28, 1914, in Taylor, Texas, to Neils M. and Maggie K. Sorenson. The
family moved to Austin in 1924. After graduating from Stephen F. Austin High
School, Ethel attended The University of Texas. Prior to her marriage, she was
employed by Economy Engraving.

On March 30, 1942, Ethel married the love of her life, August W. ("Mike") Fox in
Corpus Christi, Texas. They were married 55 years until Mike's death on January
20, 1998. Mike and Ethel were charter members of Asbury United Methodist Church
where they belonged to the Couples Class and Ethel was active in her Naomi's
Circle.

In addition to her parents and her husband, Mrs. Fox was predeceased by brothers
Alvin Ray and Roy Cecil Sorenson, and by her sister, Nellie Sorenson Drabant.
She is survived by her daughter, Cheryl, son-in-law, Eugene G. Preston, and
granddaughters, Johanna L. Preston and Louisa T. Preston.

The family wishes to thank Stonebridge Health Center and Odyssey Hospice for
their excellent care of Mrs. Fox. Memorial contributions may be made to Asbury
United Methodist Church, 1605 East 38 1/2 St., Austin, Texas 78722.

The memorial service for Ethel Fox will be held Friday, May 18, at 11:00 a.m. at
Weed Corley-Fish Funeral Home, 3125 N. Lamar. Graveside services will follow at
Capital Parks Cemetery in Pflugerville.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Jordan Everett

Jordan Everett, age 97 of Burnet, TX. died May 16, 2007. He was born on October
11, 1909 in Lampasas, TX. to J.F. Everett and Carrie Newton Everett. Jordan grew
up and attended public school in Lampasas and attended Texas Tech University. He
moved to Burnet in the 1930's and soon became owner of the local Western Auto
store. He owned and operated the store for over 30 years. During his time at
Western Auto Jordan began work as a rural mail carrier, a career he had for
another 30 years or so.

Active in his community and church, Jordan served as a member of the Burnet
School Board and was a longtime member of the Kiwanis Club. He was a member of
Valley Lodge 175 AF & AM and last summer had received his 75 year pin for
membership in the Masonic Lodge. Jordan was a charter member and past president
of Cassie Community Center of Lake Buchanan. He was a member of the Burnet
Presbyterian Church for over 60 years where he contributed in most every
position of leadership possible. For many years he dedicated his time to caring
for the plants, flowers, and trees of the church grounds. He enjoyed his home on
Lake Buchanan, going to deer camp, the Texas Tech Red Raiders and the Dallas
Cowboys.

Jordan is survived by his daughter Alicia White of Burnet; grandchildren James
Jordan White and fiancÈe Linda Cormier of Laurel, MD., Philip Michael White and
wife Tracy of Baltimore, MD., Todd Jones of Buchanan Dam, and Leann Myers and
husband Bert of Llano, TX. He is also survived by his sister Lila Faye Everett
of Marble Falls. Jordan is also survived by great grandchildren, nieces,
nephews, and other relatives. He was preceded in death by his wife Alice and by
his daughter Martha Jones.

Memorial services will be held at 3:00 p.m. Sunday, May 20, 2007, at the Burnet
Presbyterian Church with Rev. Susan Liljestrand officiating.

In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to Burnet Meals on Wheels,
102 E. Johnson, Burnet, TX. 78611 or the window replacement fund of the Burnet
Presbyterian Church of Burnet.

Arrangements entrusted to Clements-Wilcox Funeral Home Burnet.

Isaiah Medford Cuerington

February 1, 1915 - May 15, 2007

The last leaf on the tree peacefully joined his parents, Aaron Magellan and Mary
Louise Cuerington, two brothers, and five sisters in Eternal Celebration with
our Heavenly Father.

The remaining family would like to extend our heartfelt appreciation to his
extended family of Girling Hospice and the staff of Monte Siesta Nursing Home.
You have been a great blessing.

Funeral services will be held at 2:00 p.m. Friday, May 18, 2007, in the Chapel
of King-Tears Mortuary, Inc. Interment will follow at Evergreen Cemetery.

Nathaniel D. Coburn

Nathaniel D. Coburn, Austin attorney and water sports enthusiast, died
unexpectedly in Austin last Tuesday. He was 33.

Mr. Coburn graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in
English. He earned his law degree at The John Marshall Law School in Chicago,
IL. He was a law clerk for Jeffrey M. Goldberg & Associates in Chicago, IL
before joining Spivey & Ainsworth Attorneys at Law in Austin, TX. He contracted
with area attorneys in Austin, TX and Portland, OR and ultimately opened his own
litigation practice in Austin in 2003. In addition to law, he followed his other
passions of life guarding and scuba diving. He managed the Barton Springs Pool,
directed the Austin Aqua Sports Dive Shop, and started an associated aquatic
foundation for disabled divers.

Mr. Coburn served since 2005 on the Membership Committee with the Texas Trial
Lawyers Association in Austin. He was admitted in 2006 to the U.S. District
Court, W. Dist. of TX, and was also a member of the Trial Lawyers for Public
Justice and the Capital Area Trial Lawyers Association.

His love for the law and the water was universal. He enjoyed seeking justice for
clients in the legal system, and thrived while life guarding at Barton Springs
or scuba diving off the coasts of Cuba, Thailand and Texas. He is survived by
his wife, Minda Markle, his parents Rufus and Pat Coburn of Austin, TX, and his
brother Ted Coburn, his wife Marsha, and their son Zachary of Dallas, TX.

The family will receive friends from 12:00 to 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, May 19,
2007, at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home.

The family asks that honorary donations be made in lieu of flowers, to the
Surfrider Foundation, www.surfrider.org/donate, (949) 492-8170 or Surfrider
Foundation, P.O. Box 6010, San Clemente, CA 92674.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Vera Carmignani

Vera Carmignani, of Sallisaw, Oklahoma ended a valiant battle with cancer on May
12, 2007.

Ms. Carmignani was born in Galveston in 1949, raised in Austin and later moved
to Oklahoma.

Carmignani is survived by her son, Cori Alexander, her daughter, Christina
Alexander, father, Winston Bode, brother, Todd Bode, and sister, Georgianne
Harms.

Ruth Anne Barnes

Nov. 9, 1914 - May 16, 2007

Ruth Anne Barnes passed into the loving arms of her Heavenly Father and back
into the waiting arms of the love of her life, her husband George, in the early
morning of May 16, 2007 at the age of 92. Life for this beloved wife and mother
began November 9, 1914 in Sabinal, Texas the daughter of Carl C. Blackwell and
Verna B. Blackwell.

Ruth spent her young life on a ranch in rural Hays County, Texas and started
public school in a one-room schoolhouse at Elm Grove outside of Buda. She went
on to graduate from Buda high school. She came to Austin in the late 30's and
one of her first jobs was as an elevator operator at the Norwood building in
downtown Austin. She was married to George W. Barnes on September 2, 1944 and
became the loving mother to two sons, George W., Jr. and Charles Michael.

She went back to work as a tax clerk for the IRS in the late 60's in order to
help purchase a new home for her family. She was a member of Faith United
Methodist Church for many years.

She possessed a superb vocabulary and loved reading and working crossword
puzzles, a practice which she continued right up to the end. Her main love
though was working in her yard and growing things. She had two green thumbs and
a love for anything that grew. Her yard once won the "yard of the month" prize
from the local garden club and she had a sign in the front yard and a small
write-up in the local paper. She was so proud of that accomplishment that she
continued to speak of it for many years afterward. Her son, Michael, was in the
process of having her front yard professionally landscaped so that she could
once again have a garden spot to be proud of. Unfortunately she never got to see
it.

Those who knew her loved her for her gentle disposition, sweet smile and quiet
nature. She had a strong will and a very frugal nature and as a result her
family never went without anything that was truly needed. If all humanity were
as kind and gentle as this woman, the world would be a much better place indeed.

Preceded in death by her husband of 62 years, George W. Barnes, Sr., and their
son George W. Barnes, Jr., she is survived by one son Charles Michael Barnes of
Austin, one sister Mary Jo Malone and her husband James D. Malone of Austin and
one "adopted" daughter Sandra Barnes- Ballard and her husband Porter N. Ballard
of Covington, VA as well as four grand-children, three great- grandchildren and
several nieces and nephews.

The family wishes to extend a special thank you to Dr. Jonathon Klocek, Ruth's
caregiver and very special friend Linda Ruth Jennings and to the staff of Stone
Bridge Health Center and Seton Hospital for their special care and concern for
Mrs. Barnes and her family.

The family will receive friends from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m., Saturday May 19,
2007 at Faith United Methodist Church, 2701 South Lamar Blvd. in Austin with a
Celebration of Life Service to follow at 10:00 a.m. officiated by Reverend
Sheree Maberry Harris. Interment will follow services at Cook-Walden/ Forest
Oaks Memorial Park.

In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations in her memory be made to
Faith United Methodist Church and/or the Salvation Army.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

FUNERALS AND MEMORIALS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 2949 words


Christopher Thomas Pickren

June 30, 1987 - May 14, 2007

Christopher passed from this life into the heavenlies on May 14th at 11:35 p.m.
He was my gift from God for almost 20 years and he made my job of being his
father way too easy. Chris truly was an awesome young man and he was all of the
things that make a father proud. He was honest, hard working, compassionate,
caring, and he loved the Lord his God with all of his heart, mind, and soul.
Chris never met a stranger and he genuinely cared about his friends and his
family.

Chris graduated from Bastrop High School in 2005 and immediately enrolled at Sam
Houston State University in Huntsville Texas where he became a Criminal Justice
Major.

Soon after school started, Chris was invited to join the Sigma Chi Fraternity.
He did join the fraternity and became partners, brothers, and friends with the
best bunch of young men that I have ever met. They all affectionately called him
"Pick".

Chris loved to hunt, fish, and shoot skeet and on a recent shooting match with
some friends, he was accidentally shot. He survived for 15 days but never
recovered consciousness. It truly was an accident and there is no blame. In this
life sometimes bad things do happen to good people. We can't control what
happens to us but we can control how we respond. We choose to walk in
forgiveness.

Chris lived his life with a commitment of being a good man, of doing the right
things, standing up for what he believed in, and being the best friend that he
could be to all that he called friend. He sure did enjoy a good laugh and he
knew how to make others laugh too. Just ask his friends, because, according to
some of them, he was also quite the practical joker.

He knew how to live life to the fullest and he never went halfway with anything
that he did. If he got involved with an activity or sport, he gave it his 100%.
Even when he didn't win or if he didn't come out on top, he would always say
"Hey Pop, I did my best". I was always very proud of that.

Chris left behind me, his dad, John Pickren and a younger brother named Travis
Pickren who is almost seventeen. Chris was always very proud of his brother and
was very protective of him. Travis of course thought the sun rose and set
wherever Chris was at. Travis and I are going to miss Christopher very much but
we take great comfort in the fact that Chris is in heaven with his Heavenly
Father, and that he is with his mother who passed on five and a half years ago.
We also take great comfort in the fact that we know and trust that our God has a
greater plan that we might cannot understand at this time. Chris left this life
early and we know that God will not let that be in vain.

Everyone is invited to come and say goodbye to Chris on Saturday, May 19th at
1:00 p.m. at the Cathedral Of Praise church located at 3406 Tarleton Lane in
South Austin. This service will be followed by a graveside service at the Alta
Vista Cemetery located on South Street in Bastrop. These services will be
conducted by the AllFaiths Funeral Home located on St Elmos Drive in South
Austin. This is where you may also send flowers or cards. All donations to help
offset medical cost may be sent to: Cathedral of Praise, 3406 Tarleton Lane,
Austin, Tx. 78746.

Jake "Buddy" Sandgarten

Jake "Buddy" Sandgarten left us after a brief battle with cancer. He was born
October 31, 1924 and died May 17, 2007. He is survived by: his older brother,
Hyman Sandgarten; niece Joan Gardner; younger sister, Esther Jacobson and
husband David; nephews Mickey Sandgarten and wife, Mary Anne; and Joe Jacobson.
He is also survived by his life partner of forty-plus years, Ruby Anderson.

Buddy loved life, was rarely seen without his black Stetson and his western-cut
suit. He served in the United States Army in the Infantry for World War II.
Later he was an independent businessman in Austin for over thirty years
beginning with D&S Service Station and expanding into Motor Parts Warehouse.

Buddy was a lifelong member of Congregation Beth Israel and Ben Hur Shrine
Temple. Graveside services will be at Oakwood Cemetery on Sunday, May 20, 2007,
at 2:00 p.m. Honoring Buddy as pallbearers will be Stan Anderson, Glenn Schwabe,
Mickey Sandgarten, Joe Jacobson, Ronnie Rose and Jim Monagham. Honorary
pallbearers will be Dr. Dina Tebcherany, M.D., Jimmy Nassour and Rox Covert.

In Lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Shriners Hospitals for children.

Clifford John Homeyer

Clifford John Homeyer, 78, passed away on Sunday, May 13, 2007. Clifford was
born May 21, 1928 and grew up in Austin, Texas. He served in the US Marines from
1946 to 1948 as a Corporal. He was a dedicated and hard worker his entire life
and always helped out those in need.

Clifford was a devoted and loving husband and father who will be truly missed by
his family and friends. He is survived by his daughter Carol Sloan of Bryan, and
her three children Jared Sloan (Lexington, Kentucky), Erik Sloan (Groton,
Connecticut), Scotti Sloan (Houston, Texas), and daughter B.K. Gale (Jim) of
Olathe, Colorado, and her five children Brandon Blackburn (US Army, Currently
Stationed in Iraq), Ashley, Andrew, Sarah, and Brianna Gale.

He is also survived by his sister Marilyn Allison (Harvey), and brother Buford
Homeyer (Laura). He was pre-deceased by brothers Clarence and Fred.

Clifford was laid to rest by his true love and loving wife Sarah who died in
1982.

We're going to miss you Dad

David Ray Womack, Jr.

Commander U.S.N., Retired

David Ray Womack, Jr., was born on October 25, 1933 to the late David Ray
Womack, MD and Amoret Gates Womack in New Orleans, Louisiana and passed away on
May 17, 2007, in Austin, Texas.

David graduated from Sewanee Military Academy in Tennessee and was accepted into
the Naval ROTC program at the University of Texas, where he graduated with a
degree in Aeronautical Engineering. He was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity.

At UT he met Carolyn Huff and upon his graduation they married. Their honeymoon
consisted of a driving trip to Pensacola, FL where he entered the Naval Flight
Training program. He had a 21 year career in the US Navy serving in Coronado,
CA, Alameda, CA, Adak, AK, Whidbey Island, WA, Iwakuni, Japan, Corpus Christi,
TX, and his last duty station in Arlington, VA.

After retirement he and his family relocated to Austin and he worked for the
State Auditors Office as a CPA.

David is survived by his wife of 50 years, Carolyn, and is the proud father of
three sons, Richard and wife Margaret of Conifer, CO, David and wife Michelle of
Spicewood, TX, Bob and wife Marilyn of Plano, TX. In addition he is survived by
9 grandchildren, brother Marvin and wife Eva, and sister-in-law Nancy Rogers,
all of Austin. A grandson Lee, preceded him in death.

Memorial services will be held at 2:00 p.m. on Monday, May 21, 2007 at
Weed-Corley-Fish Chapel. A private family burial will be held.

In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made to the Settlement
Home, 1600 Peyton Gin Road, Austin, Texas 78758 or to a charity of your choice.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

William H., "Tex", White

William H., "Tex", White of Leander, passed away Tuesday, May 15, 2007 at age
60.

Tex White was born in Hamlin, Texas on August 22, 1946. Following high school,
Tex joined the U.S. Navy and saw service in Viet Nam. Tex was a master welder
and metal fabricator.

Tex and his wife Kim E. White relocated to this area 11 years ago where Tex
worked as a foreman and maintenance supervisor for Texas Quarries. Tex was
wonderful husband, father and friend. He will be missed.

Tex is survived by his wife Kim and his children TerriKay, William H. IV, Leslie
Ann, Julio A. Morales and Damaris I. Morales; grandchildren Hunter, Tyler,
Xander, Madison, Brady, Isabella and Donnell; sister, Rena Jo and Tommy McClure;
brother, Mr. and Mrs. Bobby Wayne White. He was preceded in death by an infant
son, Tommy Lee White.

Services will be at 2:00 p.m., Sunday, May 20, 2007 at Beck Funeral Home in
Cedar Park.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to the American Heart Association,
P.O. Box 15186, Austin, Texas 78761.

Arrangements under the direction of Beck Funeral Home, 1700 E. Whitestone Blvd,
Cedar Park, Texas 78613.

In Loving Memory of

Christina Heron

Missing you! Remembering You! Loving you!

Forever in our hearts and minds until we meet again!

Mommy, Daddy and Katie

Memorial Day

Tribute Ads

Memorial Day represents a day of national awareness and reverence for those
individuals who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country.

This Memorial Day we will publish special tributes to honor and remember those
individuals who have served our nation.

Please call 512-445-4005 or email obits@statesman.com for additional
information. Special rates are available and notices should be submitted by
Friday, May 25th.

In Memory of

Celestina Selvera

May 19, 1941 ñ Dec. 23, 1997

Happy Birthday! We think of you every day and remember your warm smile and
loving arms.

Love always, your husband Frank Sr., children David, Frank Jr., Robert, Liz,
Grandchildren and Great Grandchild.

In Memory of

Raymond S. Torres

May 19 ,1939 - April 12, 2000

Happy Birthday Dad

Your always in our hearts and thoughts everyday.

Love always, Raymond Jr., Bobby and Linda, Rose Ann, and Margo, Mom, and all the
Grandkids and friends

In Memory of

Ramona G. TreviÒo

March 15, 1929 - May 19, 2006

It's been a year today that our heavenly father called you to his home. The hurt
is still very fresh in our hearts. Not one day goes by that we don't think about
you. We will always cherish every loving memory of you. We love you Mom! We miss
you! And you will forever be in our hearts!! Love you always!

Pearl, Teresa, Connie, Lee, Jr., Johnny, grandchildren and great grandchildren

Rosemary Noele Emilie

Madewell

Rosemary Noele Emilie Madewell, 42, of McDade, Texas escaped from Toronto,
Canada in 1984, with her sister, Michelle, to join their parents, Hans and
Audrey Krier in Gladewater, Texas. Only to be swept away by wayward musician,
and husband of now 22 years, David Madewell. Fate and a VW bus brought Noele and
David to south Austin; Michelle and her parents also moved to Austin shortly
thereafter.

Noele's generosity and labor helped a significant number of Austin's
singer/songwriters and other miscreants (but mostly David) trying to make it in
the music business during the time she worked as head waitress at several Austin
landmarks, (Bean's, Sholz's, Lazona Rosa, and The Filling Station). Noele also
operated a camera for Hank Sinatra Productions. But the career she loved most
began when she became a fulltime mother in 1992 "giving us Emilie, Jacob, Holly
and David, Jr." David said. "She blessed us with her presence, yet she was taken
from us May 12, at M.D. Anderson in Houston." Noele continues giving. Her last
wish was that her body be donated for research at M.D. Anderson to help find a
cure in order to save others from the cancer that ravaged her body and took her
life.

Noele's family wishes God's blessings to neighbors and friends for their
tremendous support following her diagnosis a year ago. And the family sends
heartfelt thanks to everyone for their continuing love and support. Memorial
donations can be made to the Madewell Children's Fund at Elgin Bank.

A celebration of Noele's Life will begin at 1:00 p.m., Sunday, May 20 at the
McDade Watermelon Festival Grounds. For more information, call 512-273-2092.

Elizabeth Ann Hogue

August 8, 1962 - May 16, 2007

Elizabeth Ann Curtice was born in Beaumont, Texas to Morton Curtice ("Curtice"),
and Katherine Curtice on August 8th, 1962. Liz Hogue, 44, left our World
following a courageous battle with lung cancer.

Our precious wife, mother, daughter, sister and friend went to meet her Lord on
May 16, 2007. Liz was the middle child of Curtice and Katherine. She was a 1980
graduate of B-C-P High School in Beaumont, TX. She placed her faith in Jesus
Christ in 1983, receiving the everlasting salvation available to all who would
repent and trust him. She married Mark Hogue and moved to Austin in 1985,
sharing a wonderful life together raising two incredible children, Lacy and
Grayson.

Professionally, Liz was a top producing real estate agent and was associated
with Coldwell Banker United, REALTORS for the past eleven years. Her
professional accomplishments, as well as her flare for fashion and style, were
nothing short of amazing. Her tireless work ethic and larger than life persona
allowed Liz to be one of the best of the best. She was consistently ranked as
one of the top Coldwell Banker agents in the state and the nation based on sales
volume, but more important than her "awards" was her phenomenal approach to
customer care that allowed so many clients to walk away from their "transaction"
as her friend for life. She was a charismatic "cheerleader" when she described
her well earned new listings to the office. And her enthusiasm netted her
admirable results by being awarded the coveted International President's Circle
Award, a recognition given only to the top 3% of producers in the country.

When not at the office, Liz gave back to the Real Estate community by being very
active in a long list of professional organizations, including the Austin
Chapter of Certified Residential Specialists, and the Austin Chapter of the
Women's Council of Realtors, where she served as VP in 1997 and was voted
Realtor of the Year twice, in 1997 and 2000. She also chaired one of the most
successful chapter fund raisers the WCR Style Show, an annual charity event.

At home and in her neighborhood, "Lizzie" never stopped giving. She was
committed to being a good neighbor as well as a good realtor in the RiverPlace
community. During her 11 years in the "hood" she hosted Easter egg hunts, Fourth
of July events and Dads in the Hood occasions for hundreds of community
children. And in true Liz style, she sponsored a successful yard of the month
club, keeping things looking as good at home, as in professional life. The
entire real estate community did their best to support Liz through her journey.
She was loved.

She is survived by her wonderful husband of 22 years, Mark, and their beautiful
children, Lacy-21 and Grayson-17; her brothers, Dewayne Curtice and wife Karen,
Steven Curtice and wife Holly along with their son Tyler. She had a wonderful
family of in-laws: Mark's parent's Guy and Ethel Hogue, sister Sandra Carruth
and her husband Doug along with nieces Jennifer and Sandie, brother Bill Hogue
and wife Sarah along with nieces Alice and Ashley, and his sister Sharon Hogue,
all of Houston. She is also survived by aunts; Mary Potts of Crystal Beach,
Betty Wells of Vidor and her great aunt Meo Smith of Nederland along with many
cousins from Southeast Texas.

Hundreds of friends and family have followed Liz's journey on the internet at
www.caringbridge.org/ visit/lizhogue

In lieu of flowers the family has asked for donations to be made to Global
Ministry Teams, PO Box 848, Inman SC 29349 c/o D. Jaynes.

Memorial Service to be held Sunday, May 20 at 2PM at Hill Country Bible Church
at 12124 Ranch Road 620 N, Austin, 78750. Graveside Services and Reception to
follow.

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Loretta Ewart

Loretta Ewart, age 76 died Wednesday, May 16 of final stage Chronic Obstructive
Pulmonary Disease at Mildrena Bracksieck's home, her sister, in Meadowlakes, TX.

A memorial service will be held in Marble Falls, TX at the First United
Methodist Church, 1101 Bluebonnet Dr. 1:30 p.m. May 19.

Born in Edcouch Elsa, TX, she was married to Oscar Ewart who died in 1980.

She is survived by her daughter Debbie Petro of Odenton,MD. Ms. Ewart graduated
from SWT with a master's in English and taught English and she worked for the
Texas Department of Agriculture and traveled throughout Texas and other
countries. She then wrote for the Lower Colorado River Authority.

Loretta Ewart loved her work and her coworkers. She loved to travel and has
friends in other countries. She sang for the Westlake Methodist Church and
composed hymns. In 1996 "I Will Praise the Name of God with a Song" was
dedicated to Loretta, written by M.L. Daniels. Loretta was very involved in the
Democratic Party and was trying to help Veteran's through donations. Her
memorial service will be on Armed Force's Day.

Ayers

Alice Ann Ayers left this earth to be with her Heavenly Father on May 16, 2007.
"Ali" is now at rest from her many health struggles. She endured more than most
could during her life but never gave in and time after time surprised the
medical caregivers by "beating the odds" and surviving surgery after surgery. On
Wednesday the Lord brought her comfort and took her home.

"Ali" was an accomplished athlete as a young girl, brought a spark and challenge
to her friends and family, was voted "most wittiest" in school and even had her
own business for a while "Ayers Above The Rest". "Ali" is survived by her loving
and supportive mother Bobbie Jean Ayers- Wilkerson, sister Linda Adams and
brother-in-law Don Adams, brother Roy Ayers, III, dear friend and companion of
18 years Sue Griffin, nephews Mark Adams, Tom Adams, Jason Ayers, Stephen Ayers
and niece Kayla Ayers.

She was preceded in death by her father, a gentle man, Roy Ayers, Jr.,
grandfathers Roy Ayers, Sr. and Luther Rose, grandmothers Alice Ayers and Delia
Ann Rose, "adopted" grandmother Violet Griffin, stepfather Tom Wilkerson and
cherished uncle, Bill Rose.

Reception and viewing will be held Saturday evening 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. at
Cook-Walden/Capital Parks where funeral services will be held Sunday, May 20th
at 1:00 p.m. in the chapel, 14501 N. IH 35, Pflugerville, TX. Officiating will
be Alice's uncle, Jerry Rose. Pallbearers are Roy Ayers, Don Adams, Mark Adams,
Tom Adams, Tom Cox and Matthew North.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Funerals and Memorials

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. B11

LENGTH: 2895 words


Dorothy Warren

Dorothy Landry LeFeaux Warren was born on April 16, 1931 in Chattanooga,
Tennessee.

She was raised in Dallas, Texas, graduating from North Dallas High School, in
1948. She attended Austin College in Sherman, Texas, where she met her life's
partner, Clarence Warren. Miss Dot and Coach were married on Christmas Eve,
1949. Clarence Wayne Warren, Jr. was born to them on March 15, 1951, and Coach
graduated from college that spring. After several years of coaching on the small
town circuit, they accepted a move to coach in Dallas in 1955. Landy LeFeaux
Warren was born to them on June 21, 1956.

Coach retired in 1984, and he and Miss Dot moved to her father's farm in
Maringouin, Louisiana. They lived on the farm until 1995, when they moved to
Jennings, Louisiana to be near their grandchildren. They again followed the
grandkids in 2000, moving to Round Rock, Texas.

Miss Dot is survived by her husband of nearly 58 years, Coach; their son Wayne,
his wife Gina and their sons Trey, Rick and Brandon; her son Landy, his wife
Lori and their children Emily and Landy II; her sister Laura Rose and her
husband Col. Richard Hilland (USAF Retired) and their children Becky and Laurie;
her nephews Steve and Mark Peirce; her sister-in-law June Martin and her
children J.D. Adkins, Nancy Randolph and Johnna Martin. Miss Dot was preceded in
death by her sister and brother-in-law, Nancy and Jim Peirce; her mother Dorothy
LeFeaux; and her father Henry LeFeaux.

Miss Dot and Coach are members of the Round Rock Presbyterian Church. She was a
member of the Daughters of the American Revolution and the Round Rock Newcomers
Club. In lieu of flowers memorials should be made to benefit the Round Rock
Presbyterian Church Building Fund.

A memorial service will be held at 11:00 a.m., Friday, May 25, 2007 at the Round
Rock Presbyterian Church.

Arrangements under the direction of Beck Funeral Home Cedar Park/Leander
512-259-1610.

Sybil Stallings

Sybil (nee Ryan) Stallings, a longtime resident of Austin, TX and former active
member of St. Luke United Methodist Church died peacefully on Sunday May 20,
2007 in Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, PA.

She was the wife of the late Gordon Young Stallings and is survived by her
daughter, Linda Stallings Sykes, M.D.; grandchildren, Katherine Stallings Sykes
and Talmage Wesley Sykes III; and sister, Annette Unger.

The family will receive friends from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Friday, May
25th at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home followed by a graveside service at Austin
Memorial Park.

In lieu of flowers, the family kindly suggests that contributions be made to
Bryn Mawr Hospital, 130 S. Bryn Mawr Ave. Bryn Mawr, PA 19010

Obituary and guestbook online at wcfish.com

Edwin Carl Rosenbusch

Edwin Carl Rosenbusch, 84 of Georgetown, died May 20, 2007 at his home. Pastor
Steve Melton will preside at graveside services in the Liberty Hill Cemetery at
10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, May 23, 2007. Serving as pallbearers will be; Clay
Miller, Neil Guerin, Jason Hooten, Jason Splawn, Mervin Naumann, and Walter Carl
Rosenbusch.

Edwin was born June 25, 1922, to Alfred Carl and Emma Louise (Gerstmann)
Rosenbusch in Mudd, Travis County, Texas. He grew up in and around Travis and
Williamson Counties. He met and married his wife of 63 years, Margie Blair in
Austin on May 19, 1944. Margie said that he won her heart by playing guitar at
community gatherings in and around the Leander area. When World War II broke
out, Edwin answered his country's call serving as an interpreter in the 35th
Division of the 9th Army in Germany. He was wounded in action early in the
Battle of The Bulge, earning him the purple heart. When he returned home to his
family, Edwin worked for the Leander School District as a mechanic and welder
for 23 years. He also worked farming and ranching in western Williamson County,
watching over his livestock and riding his tractor, where he felt closest to
God. He was a lifetime member of the VFW Post 8200 in Liberty Hill, DAV Post173
in Austin, and Teacher's Retirement System of Texas.

Edwin was preceded in death by his parents, brothers; Walter and Raymond, and a
sister; Alma Naumann. He leaves to cherish his memory his loving wife Margie of
Georgetown, daughters; Carolyn (Leonard) Miller of Georgetown and Donna (Billy
Ray) Guerin of Georgetown, sisters; Clara McInnis of Mason, Alfrieda Hinson of
Seguin, and Hilda Rylander of Waco, four grandchildren; Clay Miller, Neil
(Stephanie) Guerin, Kristen (Jason) Hooten, and Stacey (Jason) Splawn, four
great-grandchildren; Caleb Guerin, Brady Splawn, Jadyn Hooten, and Haley Splawn.

The family suggests memorial contributions be made in his name to the VFW, First
Baptist Church of Leander or the charity of your choice. The Gabriel's Funeral
Chapel in Georgetown is in charge of arrangements.

James Wesley Moore

March 15, 1914 - May 20, 2007

Our beloved father, grandfather and great-grandfather, James Wesley Moore, went
to be with his Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, on May 20, 2007, at the age of 93
years.

Born on a farm near Liberty Hill, Texas to James Calvin Moore and Lula Ida Perry
Moore, Jim graduated from Liberty Hill HS and soon moved to Austin. A well known
retail businessman, he owned the women's shoe departments at Craig's and
Cliff's. He was an active member of Hyde Park Baptist Church for many years and
was a charter member and past president of the West Austin Lions Club.

He was preceded in death by his parents; his wife of 65 years, Luna McCullough
Moore; son, Jim; brother, Perry Moore; sisters, Jewell Eiler, Mae Chapman, and
Bessie Randic.

Survivors include sister, Cora Belle Smith (Leon) of Houston; son, Duane Moore
(Alice) of Austin; daughters, Peggy Moore Heatter (Vic) of Flower Mound, Kathy
Ollivier (John) of Atlanta, GA, and Cynthia Hobby (Danny) of Austin;
grandchildren, Vicki Courtney (Keith) of Austin, Scott Pou (Lisa) of Flower
Mound, Cheryl Metcalf (Mark) of Austin, Christy Koenig (Jay) of Bryan, Jason
Hobby of Austin, and Mandy Hobby of Austin. Also surviving are ten
great-grandchildren and several nieces and nephews. Jim loved his family and
always encouraged them and praised them.

The family would like to thank the Third Floor staff at Ashwood Assisted Living
and the personnel of Southern Care Hospice for their kind attention and care of
Jim during his last two months of life.

Memorial contributions may be made to Lone Star Lions Eye Bank, P.O. Box 347,
Manor, TX 78653.

Visitation will be on Wednesday, May 23, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. at the
Cook-Walden Funeral Home, 6100 N. Lamar Blvd., Austin, funeral services will be
held on Thursday, May 24, at 1:00 p.m. at the Cook-Walden Chapel with burial
immediately following at Austin Memorial Park on Hancock Drive in Austin.

Frances Barrett McDermott

Frances Barrett McDermott, longtime resident of Austin, peacefully went to the
Lord on Tuesday, May 22, 2007. Fran was born in Sommerville, Massachusetts on
September 27, 1919 to Jacob and Beatrice Barrett.

She is preceded in death by her parents; brother, Vincent Stanley Barrett; and
her beloved eldest son, John Fredrick McDermott. Fran will be sadly missed by
her loving son, James Francis McDermott, Sr., and wife, Carolyn Graham
McDermott; niece, Linda Valcourt; granddaughter, Stacy Leigh McDermott of El
Paso; and grandsons, James Francis McDermott, Jr., David Michael Slover and
wife, Ginger Jenkins Slover, and Christopher Scott Slover and wife, Meghan
Gibbens Slover. Nanny's great-grandchildren, her pride and joy are Nicole
McDermott of El Paso, Mason Michael Slover, Carson Graham, and Betsy Graham
Slover.

Per Fran's request, her immediate family will celebrate her life in a private
graveside service.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Angel Heart Hospice, LLC, 8213-A
Shoal Creek Blvd., Suite 104, Austin, Texas, 78757.

Devyn Michelle Kimbell

Nov. 12, 1989 - May 21, 2007

"Forever 17"

A celebration of our baby's love of life will be held at 7:00 p.m., Thursday,
May 24, 2007, at the Memorial Chapel of Cook-Walden/Capital Parks Funeral Home
in Pflugerville. Devyn died tragically on Monday.

She is survived by her parents, Denise and David Kimbell and her big brother,
Scott; grandparents, Steve and Olga Hall and Jim and Ellen Kimbell, her best
friend, Michael Fariss; other loving relatives and many dear friends.

Visitation will be held between 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., Wednesday, May 23, 2007
at the funeral home.

In lieu of flowers, memorials are suggested to Round Rock High School for
Partners in P.E., Attn: Roger Hembree, 300 N. Lake Creek Blvd., Round Rock,
78681. 512-464-6000.

Gary Martin Holt

Gary Martin Holt passed away on May 18, 2007 after a courageous battle with an
illness.

He was born in Lubbock, Texas and his parents moved the family to San Antonio
where he was raised. Gary was avid sports fan and excelled in both baseball and
football. Gary moved to Houston as a young man where he raised his family and
owned his own construction business. In 1993, Gary relocated to Austin, Texas
where he established G.M.H. Contracting and made Austin his home. Gary was a
loving father, a devoted husband and friend to many. He loved to dance, play
golf and spend countless hours with his family and friends. He will be dearly
missed and forever loved and remembered.

Gary was preceded in death by his father, Gilford Holt, mother, Kenneth Holt,
his dear brother Richard Holt, and nephew Jim Knight.

Gary is survived by his wife Brigette Bertrand and his son Wesley Holt, both of
Austin, his daughter, Tiffini Mason, son-in-law Eric and grandsons Connor and
Evan live in League City. Gary is also survived by his brother Larry Holt and
sister-in-law Kelly from Round Rock and by his sister Charlotte Knight-Woisin
and brother-in-law Ron who live in Floresville.

Visitation will begin at 5:00 p.m., Thursday, May 24, 2007 at Brookehill Funeral
Home. There will be a Chapel Service at 11:00 a.m. Friday, May 25, 2007 at
Brookehill Funeral Home Chapel with interment to follow at Mission Burial Park
South.

Lillie Belle Gage Dildy

Nov. 23, 1921 to May 21, 2007

Lillie Belle departed this earth on May 21, 2007 to go to her Heavenly home
where she is free from pain and suffering.

She was born on November 23, 1921 in rural Lee County, Texas to Wilburn and
Mimie Gage. She lived all of her life in the Elgin and Austin area. She was a
homemaker and a charter member of the Crestview Baptist Church in Austin, where
in her younger years she enjoyed working with the small children. She always
gave a tithe to her church.

She was married to the love of her life, Curtis Bentley Dildy, for 54 years. She
is survived by her children: daughter, Peggy and husband Frank Allen of Ben
Wheeler, TX, a son, Curtis W. Dildy and wife Connie, of Palestine, TX. Four
grandchildren, Greg Allen, Ben Wheeler, TX, Cathy Allen, Ben Wheeler, TX, Sheri
Dildy, Lockhart, TX, Tracy Miller, Lockhart, TX. Three great-grandchildren,
Brent Preston, Brandon Miller and Brooke Miller. One sister, Velma Schneider and
husband, Ted, of Elgin, one sister-in-law, Mrs. Bonnie Gage, of Austin, TX, one
aunt, Edna Marek, of Pflugerville, TX. Numerous nieces and nephews and several
special friends in Elgin and Austin.

She is preceded in death by her husband, Curtis B. Dildy, parents, Wilburn and
Mimie Gage, two brothers, Hollis Gage, and Virgil Ray Gage.

Her family would like to thank the Taylor HeathCare and Odyssey Hospice for the
their care of her during her last days and our special thanks to Cassie, Connie,
Trish, and John, who put our minds at peace about her care and comfort and the
love shown to her family during this difficult time.

Services will be conducted in the Elgin Funeral Home Chapel at 4:00 p.m.,
Wednesday, May 23, 2007. Bro Mark Nygard will officiate. Visitation will be at
3:00 p.m., Wednesday, prior to the service. Private burial will be at Pleasant
Grove Cemetery.

Memorials can be made to Odyssey Hospice HealthCare Program, in Austin, TX, your
church or a charity of your choice.

Colonel Robert Owen Crabtree

USAF Retired

1916 - 2007

Our Dad was an honorable gentleman of iron will, a man among men. Whether in the
oil fields of West Texas and New Mexico, or flying fighters in 3 wars in Asia,
our Dad had the respect of those around him.

After a 30 year career in the Air Force, he retired to spend the next 35 years
raising cattle.

The Colonel, as most called him, was a principled man of high moral standards
and had a genuine compassion for all animals.

"Do not cry for me; I am not here.

I am now free to soar with the eagles -

High in the thermals - above the clouds.

I am weightless - there are no boundaries.

If you cry, it will be for yourself,

for I am free."

The family will receive visitors from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Thursday, May
24, 2007 at Cook-Walden/Forest Oaks Funeral Home. Graveside Services will be
held 10:00 a.m. on Friday, May 25, 2007 at Ft. Sam Houston National Cemetery in
San Antonio, TX.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the National Cowboy & Western
Heritage Museum, 1700 N.E. 63rd Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73111.

Everett Carson Carey

Everett Carson Carey, 61, of Wimberley TX, died at home on Saturday, May 12,
after a relatively recent onset of cancer. Carey was born August 26, 1945 in
Corpus Christi. He was reared in the state and graduated from Texas A&M
University with a mechanical engineering degree in 1967.

Carey was considered one of the state's prominent land brokers, real estate
businessmen and community leaders.

Prior to his illness, he served as President of the Texas Alliance of Land
Brokers Assoc., and as an Honorary Director. He established AmanVerde Land Co.,
a real estate/ranch/mortgage business headquartered in Wimberley. His business
partner and wife of 25 years, Judy, will continue to operate the company.

Very active in community affairs, Carey served as a member of the board and Vice
President of Wimberley Lion's Club, member of the executive board and
stewardship chairman of Chapel in the Hills church, President of Hays County
Republican Club, member of the board for EMS, a volunteer with Hays County
Community Emergency Response Team and was an avid outdoorsman with memberships
in a number of wildlife conservation organizations.

Upon graduation from Texas A&M, Carey began a 36-year engineering career leading
to senior management positions with major companies focusing on international
market development. He specialized in sales management, engineering and
construction of large turn-key projects and industrial plants worldwide,
particularly in the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions. His positions included
Managing Partner with MENA Partnership, Ltd.; Sr. Vice President of ABB Lummus
Global Inc.; Vice President of Raytheon Engineering & Constructions; and Vice
President of Far East Operations for Foster Wheeler Corp.

In addition to his wife, Judy, Carey is survived by his daughter, Angela
Cathleen Baker, her husband, Michael and grand-daughter Scarlett of Teddington,
England and a sister Patricia Sue Evans of Fredericksburg, TX.

Carey's memorial service will be held Saturday, May 26, at 11:00 a.m. at Chapel
in the Hills, 14601 Ranch Road 12, Wimberley, TX 78676. Interment will follow at
the Chapel in the Hills Memorial Garden columbarium.

In lieu of other remembrances, the family requests that donations be made in
Carey's name to Chapel in the Hills (for children's playground project) at P.O.
Box 1808, Wimberley, TX 78676.

Lucy Mae Bailey

Dec. 12, 1907 - May 20, 2007

Lucy "Mae" Bailey passed away peacefully on May 20, 2007 after living a long and
active life for nearly 100 years. She will always be remembered in her
neighborhood as the "sweet little lady who feeds all the birds and animals."
And, indeed, she did. No bird, fish, duck, goose, squirrel or deer ever went
without a handout at her lakefront home in Golden Beach.

Mae was born on December 12, 1907 to William Lee Roberts and Alice Shumake
Roberts in May Pearl, Texas. She had only one sister who died at age two.

Mae married Charles Middleton Drayton, a pilot, in 1922 and they enjoyed a very
happy and loving marriage until his untimely death in airplane crash in Mexico,
where they were living. She later moved to Houston and worked for several years
for Foleys.

She married Ray Elliott in 1944 and welcomed his two daughters, Edith and Ray
Lavern, into her life. She later attended the University of Houston and
graduated from the School of Business and found employment with the clothing
store, Casual Corners.

In 1971, Mae moved to Buchanan Dam, Texas to experience life as a retiree. Two
years later she married Ross "Bud" Bailey and they enjoyed many years of "the
good life," fishing, get-togethers with friends, and lots of fun. Bud passed
away in 2000.

Mae enjoyed the company of friends until the end of her life and was interested
in the activities of everyone, often sharing her own wonderful and hilarious
stories of her life's adventures.

Generously thinking of others, Mae left her body to the Science Department of
Baylor University. Lucy Mae Bailey leaves behind her dear friend and caregiver,
Annie Greeson, and a host of friends and neighbors who will miss her smiling
face, twinkling eyes, generous heart, and warm spirit.

Amidst the surroundings of the things she loved so much, her friends and family
will conduct an outdoor celebration of her life at her home at 104 Bass Circle,
Buchanan Dam. The time is set for 2:00 p.m. on Sunday, June 3, 2007.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 21, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CENTRAL TEXAS DIGEST

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G02

LENGTH: 467 words


GROCERS

Whole Foods extends

tender offer for rival

Whole Foods Market Inc., hoping to salvage the purchase of rival Wild Oats
Markets Inc., extended its tender offer for all Wild Oats shares again, to Aug.
10.

Whole Foods, the nation's largest natural and organic grocer, said 57.1 percent
of Wild Oats shares had been tendered by the close of business Thursday. Whole
Foods announced in February it would pay $18.50 per share, or $565 million, for
Boulder, Colo.-based Wild Oats. The Federal Trade Commission sued to block the
deal, arguing it would concentrate too much power in one company and cause
prices to rise.

A hearing is scheduled for July 31 in federal District Court in Washington.

BROADBAND

Time Warner expands its telephone services

Time Warner Cable, which delivers broadband phone service to more than 2 million
residential customers nationwide, started a phone service aimed at small to
midsize businesses.

The cable company says it will offer a business-class phone service with prices
starting at $40.99 a line that will include unlimited local and long-distance
calls in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico.

The move marks an intensified push by Time Warner to build its business by
expanding its phone service. The phone service offers some business features in
its basic package, including caller hunting, inbound and outbound call
restrictions and three-way call transfers. The service also can be bundled with
other Time Warner business services, including high-speed data communications
and security services.

Spokesman Roger Heaney said that typical business phone customers will have
their phone calls handled by a separate broadband modem that can serve up to 12
phone lines in addition to a separate modem for high-speed Internet access.

SEMICONDUCTORS

Freescale says it cut 700 jobs worldwide

Austin-based Freescale Semiconductor Inc. disclosed future details on job cuts
that the company mentioned in late May.

Freescale told financial analysts this week that it cut 700 jobs worldwide as it
reduced costs in response to slower business conditions.

Freescale took $36 million in charges for severance payments in the second
quarter. It expects to receive annualized cost reductions ranging from $55
million to $65 million starting in the third quarter. Freescale had about 24,000
workers worldwide and about 5,400 employees in Austin, before the job reduction.

ENERGY

Austin-area gas prices average $2.89 a gallon

Gasoline prices edged down about a penny in Central Texas this week, bringing
the average price per gallon to $2.89.

The statewide picture was mixed.

Amarillo drivers, who have been paying the highest prices in the state, got a
little relief, with a 12.3-cent drop that left that city's average at $3.18.

Prices rose, however, in Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth and Galveston.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LCRA lawyer takes helm at river authority

BYLINE: Asher Price AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 892 words


The Lower Colorado River Authority selected Tom Mason, its general counsel and a
former environmental lawyer, as its new general manager Wednesday.

The appointment was cheered by some of the river authority's staunchest critics,
who have blamed it for easing development in the Hill Country.

Mason will be paid $300,000 a year in the post. Joe Beal, who stepped down
Wednesday, made $320,000 and received a bonus of $175,000 from the agency's
board this year. Beal announced in August that he planned to retire from the
river authority.

Mason inherits a sprawling utility with a storied history, deep pockets and a
lot of political clout.

The new job is a far cry from what Mason had planned in 1971, when he first
arrived in Austin to study at the University of Texas. He had hoped to teach
English after school, but he ended up managing a record store in Dallas, and
eventually he decided to go to law school in Austin.

A clerkship in the environmental division of the state attorney general's office
whet his appetite for environmental law.

Mason worked for a couple of years in private practice with Austin environmental
lawyers Rick Lowerre and Stuart Henry in the early 1980s. Then he went to work
for Larry Soward, now a commissioner on the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality, as part of an effort to force Texas cities to clean up their wastewater
discharges. (Austin, for example, was polluting the Colorado with undertreated
sewage.)

In 1987, Mason took a job as a natural resources lawyer at the LCRA. He was
convinced that he would spend only a year or two at the river authority, but he
became interested in its mission as a utility with a public service charge.

"The public mission issues I find personally attractive," he said. "You run
yourself like a business, but you're also accountable."

The nonprofit utility, with no taxing authority and no money from the
Legislature, earned more than $1 billion in revenue last year.

Created by the Texas Legislature in 1934 as a conservation and reclamation
district, the river authority made its mark with a series of dams along the
Colorado River that protected Austin and downstream cities from floods and
created hydroelectric power for the Hill Country.

Since then, the river authority has branched off into major electric and water
supply operations.

It operates more than 3,300 miles of transmission lines statewide and sells
wholesale electricity to more than 40 retail utilities, including cities and
electric cooperatives that serve more than 1 million people in 53 counties.

Mason will have to steer the river authority through sticky negotiations with
the utilities; current contracts run out in the year 2016, and the river
authority wants to extend them to 2041.

Growing demand for power, as well as issues like climate change and the
possibility of a federally imposed carbon tax, complicate the energy landscape
as contract negotiations go forward, he said.

The river authority also owns about 16,000 acres of recreational land along the
Highland Lakes and Colorado River, including more than 40 parks, natural science
centers and nature preserves.

In the past decade, the LCRA has expanded its water business, buying up water
operations in western Travis County and sending water pipelines through the Hill
Country.

Critics say the water operations have enabled suburban sprawl through the Hill
Country; the LCRA has said it is simply meeting demand.

"We have a legal obligation to provide water on an indiscriminate basis," Mason
said. "We can't say we'll provide water to people on this side of the basin and
not to others."

Henry, a critic of the river authority's water supply policies, said that
Mason's appointment speaks well of the LCRA.

"Tommy is a real professional; I don't think he carries his own agenda," Henry
said. "If the board wants to push development in the Hill Country, Tommy will do
it. If the board doesn't want to push development in the Hill Country, Tommy
won't do it."

Perhaps the greatest challenge for the new general manager is a looming deal to
share water with San Antonio.

For four years, the LCRA and the San Antonio Water System have studied the
feasibility of the plan, which would send as many as 50 billion gallons of water
a year to San Antonio. The San Antonio Water System would pay for the water, and
LCRA would use the money for conservation programs and, in all likelihood,
reservoirs downriver.

But the cost of the plan has steadily risen, from an $800 million preliminary
estimate to about $2.4 billion.

Former state Sen. Ken Armbrister, legislative director for Gov. Rick Perry, was
an early possibility for the general manager job, but Ray Wilkerson, chairman of
the LCRA board, said he never talked directly with Perry about it.

asherprice@statesman.com; 445-3643

Tom Mason
 Age: 54
 Upbringing: Grew up in Pasadena, where his father worked in a Shell oil
refinery.
 Education: Graduated from the University of Texas with a bachelor's degree in
the Plan II honors program in 1975; graduated from UT Law School in 1980.
 Family: Wife Janis Monger is media director for public interest attorney group
 Texas Appleseed  and works for an Alzheimer's research consortium; daughter
Kate attends Pitzer College in California; son Hart attends Garza Independence
High School.
 Residence: In West Austin, near Camp Mabry.  Headline goes here please
 Box No Indent



LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

'Elders' work on problems around globe

BYLINE: Bob Deans WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1017 words


WASHINGTON - One led the movement that toppled apartheid. Another brought loans
to the global poor. Another led the United Nations, another the United States,
and yet another is under house arrest in Myanmar.

All are Nobel Peace Prize winners bound by common concerns for ending war,
eradicating poverty and amplifying political voices that otherwise go unheard.
Together, this group - Nelson Mandela, Muhammad Yunus, Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter
and Aung San Suu Kyi ­- and eight other activists and former leaders and
diplomats have gathered to conduct informal diplomacy aimed at helping to solve
some of the world's most intractable problems.

They have a Web site, a mission statement and a name, "The Elders," inspired by
the traditions of African tribes who turn to senior members for sage counsel.

Analysts say the Elders can make a difference, using their access to leaders,
their moral authority and their ability to serve as a useful back channel for
the informal diplomacy that can help to fill in the gaps in the capabilities of
national governments.

"Relations between states are only a very small part of the complex web of
international relations " of businessmen visiting prime ministers, of civil
rights activists seeing foreign ministers," said former American diplomat Daniel
Serwer, a conflict resolution expert with the U.S. Institute of Peace, a
nonpartisan think tank funded by the U.S. Congress.

"These people have access," Serwer said of the Elders. "Among them, they could
probably see any head of state on Earth."

They also stand for something, individually and collectively.

"These are people who are known throughout the world as not only citizens of a
nation but people who care about all of the world. And that permits them a voice
that is quite unique and which very few governments can ignore," said former
White House aide Robert Pastor, interim co-director of the Elders.

"The Elders are not trying to substitute for, or duplicate, what governments or
intergovernmental organizations are doing, but really to supplement, reinforce
and fill the gaps," Pastor said. "The critical question will be whether they can
join their individual influence to create a collective source of power that can
do what governments and intergovernmental institutions cannot."

That covers a lot of ground. For all the power and influence of the United
States, its global partners and the United Nations, enduring conflicts persist
worldwide, alongside global ills ranging from disease and climate change to
violations of human rights.

At the turn of the millennium, British rock star Peter Gabriel and airline
magnate Richard Branson began talking about ways they might harness the moral
authority and global access of figures such as Mandela.

In July, the idea bore fruit, when Mandela, who spent nearly three decades in
prison for leading the opposition to South Africa's racial oppression, and 12
other senior statesmen banded together to form the Elders.

The group's first mission, conducted in late summer, was to Sudan.

There, Carter and fellow Elders Lakhdar Brahimi, an Algerian diplomat, Graca
Machel, a Mozambican advocate for women's and children's rights, and
anti-apartheid leader and Anglican priest Desmond Tutu looked at ways to resolve
Sudan's long civil war and the violence in the Sudanese region of Darfur, where
more than 225,000 civilians have died in what President Bush has condmned as a
genocide.

In addition to Darfur, the Elders have set their sights on trying to help
resolve conflicts in Myanmar, where an authoritarian government has run
roughshod over pro-democracy activists for decades; Zimbabwe, where political
refomers face their own repression at the hand of strongman Robert Mugabe; and
the Middle East, where six decades of bloodshed and enmity between Arabs and
Israelis continues to destabilize the region and cause loss and despair for its
inhabitants.

There are limits, certainly, to what moral authority and a great Rolodex can
accomplish. Mideast experts, for example, say resolving the Arab-Israeli
conflict will require tough actions by both parties, not the kind of mediation
the Elders might provide.

At the same time, the sorry history of Mideast peace efforts demonstrates the
limits of state power and influence and, perhaps, Pastor said, the opportunity
for nonstate actors to play a constructive role.

"The fact that, for 60 years, the Middle East has been seared by conflict, is a
classic case of where governments have not found the path toward peace, though
the people clearly hunger for it," Pastor said.

Similar conclusions might be suggested by Myanmar, Zimbabwe and Darfur.

"In those cases," Pastor said, "one hopes that the collective moral authority of
the Elders might find new paths towards helping the sides resolve the conflict."

bobdeans@coxnews.com

The Elders
 Five Nobel Peace Prize winners and eight other leaders and activists have
joined forces as 'The Elders' to help spread peace, democracy, prosperity and
hope using informal diplomacy and statecraft.
 Jimmy Carter: Former U.S. president whose post-White House work includes
monitoring elections and promoting democracy.
 Nelson Mandela: Spent 27 years in prison for his opposition to apartheid in
South Africa; served as country's first post-apartheid president.
 The Rev. Desmond Tutu: Anti-apartheid activist and a leader in the
reconciliation program that followed apartheid's demise.
 Kofi Annan: Former U.N. secretary-general.
 Ela Bhatt: Organizer and advocate for women's rights in India.
 Gro Brundtland: Medical doctor, public health advocate and former prime
minister of Norway.
 Fernando Cardoso: Former president of Brazil.
 Mary Robinson: First female president of Ireland and former U.N. high
commissioner for human rights.
 Aung San Suu Kyi: Leader of the struggle for democracy in Myanmar.
 Graca Machel: Social, political and economic activist in Mozambique.
 Lakhdar Brahimi: Former Algerian diplomat.
 Li Zhaoxing: Former Chinese diplomat and foreign ministry spokesman.
 Muhammad Yunus: Founder of the Grameen Bank Project in Bangladesh and father
of the global micro-credit movement.



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The invasion has begun

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G03

LENGTH: 71 words


Invasive species are a clear and present threat to our native ecosystems, and
local gardeners have a responsibility to stem the tide, writes Mandolin Shannon
of Austin. " Since climate change is a global problem, it requires all of us to
take action, writes John Bruton, the European Union's ambassador to the United
States, who is visiting Texas this weekend. Read more commentary online on Other
Takes at statesman.com/opinion.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 892 words


Christmas Mountains

Re: Dec. 16 Mike Leggett column "Climb past misinformation for clarity on land
sale issue."

Were John Poindexter (who has a bid in for the Christmas Mountains) truly the
conservationist he claims to be and not afflicted with the disease to acquire
that seems to plague the ultrarich, he would work hard at keeping the Christmas
Mountains in the public domain (as a state natural area or part of the national
parks system) by setting up a generous endowment to ensure that the property is
managed in perpetuity according to the stringent and appropriate conservation
guidelines set forth by the Mellon Foundation.

This same endowment could be used over time to acquire an easement to access the
area. This is the way private citizens become servants of the public good and is
the true meaning of a public/private partnership.

Of course, Poindexter is free to purchase private property on the open market
and conserve and manage wildlife to his heart's content.

MAUREEN HOWELL

Austin

Respect for Obama

I cringe every time I hear U.S. Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., referred to as a
"boy" or "when he was in kindergarten."

Whether it is on purpose or not is hard to tell. But this is often a way to
diminish the authority and strength of black men at points of power.

HUDSON "BILL" PHILLIPS

Austin

CAMPO stands up to Legislature

Re: Dec. 17 Ben Wear column "21 questions on missing toll cash are still
hanging."

Central Texas has been ignored by the state for decades, and Austin is the
nation's most congested city of its size because of it. Now, because the
Legislature and the Texas Department of Transportation have abdicated their
responsibilities, our only choices to build new roads are ones we come up with
ourselves - specifically, through tolls.

The Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization made this inevitability a
little easier to swallow by securing some of state funding. Now, the state may
be walking away even from that.

A strong transportation system takes more than good intentions. It takes money.
A lack of money - or refusal to spend it here - bears responsibility for our
crushing traffic problems. It is past time someone stood up for the residents,
business owners and commuters in this region.

I commend Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, for this effort.

PHIL PARKER

Austin

U.S. can't become isolationist

U.S. Rep. Ron Paul, R-Texas, is as worthy as the rest of the candidates; none
seems to stand out.

But one of his ideas concerns me. Like so many Americans, Republican and
Democrat, he seems to have a somewhat tarnished view of the world.

Bring all the troops home? Haven't we tried that before as "isolationist"
America - until Dec. 7, 1941? The only difference is the world is now much
smaller and far more dangerous. If we stick our heads in the sand, the world
will come calling, and it won't be tiny wooden planes loaded with conventional
bombs.

I agree with Paul in part on some issues. However, withdrawing troops from
President Bush's war in Iraq has to be planned and based on all factors that may
affect our national security. Any withdrawal must absolutely be devoid of
politics.

RAMON C. NOCHES

Austin

Republicans as conservationists

Re: Dec. 17 article "Local lawmakers diverge on climate change."

Jason Embry aptly describes the environmental dilemma facing Central Texans and
all Americans. With the future characterized as Republicans versus Democrats,
the environment loses - and we all lose.

Republicans and Democrats are good at many things, but both parties must do a
better job of working together for a clean environment.

Many environmentally concerned Republicans are ready to abandon the party
because it does not represent their environmental views. Republicans for
Environmental Protection is working to reform the party from within and return
to a core value of Theodore Roosevelt: Conservation is Conservative.

The Republican Party, with its "can-do" attitude, will excel in environmental
protection when it sets environmental priorities.

Science observes what is going on and will not save us from peril. We must work
together to save ourselves.

Republicans must be an important part of this process.

IRA YATES

Austin

Matters of torture

Re: Dec. 21 article "Bush: 'No opinion' on CIA tapes until after inquiry."

It was reported that Rep. Lamar Smith , R-Texas, cited information he
purportedly received from CIA Director Michael Hayden that the tapes were
destroyed to prevent terrorists from developing "effective counter-strategies."

What in God's name would be an effective counter-technique for waterboarding?
Holding your breath?

CARROLL O. DAVID

San Marcos

Democrats' claims

One hundred years from now, the Democrats will claim to be the anti-abortion
party just as now they claim to be the pro-minority, anti-slavery party.

In 1935, it was the Democrats who defeated the anti-lynching bill, and it was
Ronald Reagan who signed the bill that made the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s
birthday a national holiday.

RICK HILL

rick.hill@c-fan.com

Buda

Looking for better harmony

Don't the people at the Long Center for the Performing Arts know that the blue
windows in the front clash very badly with the green in the roof?

And to add insult to injury, by trying to replicate the tile look with the
windows, they have created a tacky visual cacophony. Hope the music inside is
more harmonic.

MEG WILSON

nunoweaver@austin.rr.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Record cold brings snow, sleet to Central Texas

BYLINE: Andrea Lorenz AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 863 words


"Unprecedented" and "unbelievable."

When snow hits Central Texas in April, meteorologists pull out the superlatives.

A rare cold front brought snow, sleet and freezing rain to the Austin area
Saturday, canceling events, postponing the Urban Music Festival and contributing
to the death of one motorist.

"I've never seen anything like this happen," said Bob Rose, a meteorologist with
the Lower Colorado River Authority.

The cold front broke two temperature records in Austin. And Camp Mabry has had
freezing precipitation this late in the spring only once before.

The normal high temperature for the date is 78 degrees. The high on Saturday was
50, the lowest daily high on record. Temperatures then dipped to 34 degrees, the
lowest ever, with the possibility of dropping even more by midnight.

Snow fell in northern Williamson County, in Killeen in Bell County and in Burnet
County, Rose said.

Much of Central Texas remained under a snow advisory until midnight and a winter
weather advisory until 4 a.m. today with a freeze warning in effect until 8 a.m.
Rose said drivers should be careful because bridges and overpasses could freeze
overnight.

Light sleet and freezing rain are expected to taper offabout noon. Temperatures
are expected to rise to about 48 to 50 degrees today.

"To the best of my knowledge, there has never been an Easter with snow here in
Austin," Rose said, describing the event as both "unbelievable" and
"unprecedented."

One person died Saturday evening in Leander when a pickup and a Ford Mustang
collided on U.S. 183 at Osage Drive, said Chris Heisler, spokesman for the
Leander Fire Department. The wreck was probably weather-related, Heisler said.

The driver of the truck was taken to Brackenridge Hospital. The driver of the
Mustang died at the scene. Police did not release their names Saturday night.

From midnight Friday to Saturday evening, the Austin Police Department worked
185 accidents, many more than the norm, said spokesman Michael Pollard. There
were minor injuries.

In Georgetown, snow started falling at noon and lasted for about 45 minutes,
residents said. Alex Isenhour said he was surprised to see snow in Georgetown
Square, but he remembered that he'd talked with his family in San Angelo, and
they were getting snow there. He thought: "Maybe it's not that big a deal."

At the Spamarama festival in Waterloo Park in Austin, the weather didn't stop
Joanna Saddler from wearing a "Sexy Pirate's Costume" she bought online. In
fishnet stockings, knee-high boots splattered in mud and a low-cut blouse,
Saddler didn't think about forgoing the costume. "Being sexy is good," she said.

Spamarama, which usually attracts anywhere from 6,000 to 10,000, brought in only
a few hundred people because of the weather, workers there said. The rain
canceled the City of Round Rock Easter egg hunt Saturday morning. The Urban
Music Festival, which showcases hip-hop, soul and R&B music, was postponed.

The Texas Relays, which usually fill a 20,000-capacity stadium at the University
of Texas, drew 2,000 people, with only about 100 spectators remaining in the
stands by the end of the day. Many athletes withdrew from competition rather
than risk injury in the cold.

The unusual weather was caused by an arctic front from Canada colliding with low
pressure from the west, bringing moisture from the Gulf of Mexico and the
Pacific Ocean. Both of those happening at the same time is rare, Rose said.

"We're not alone in this," Rose said. "A good part of the country right now is
below normal."

In Washington, visitors awoke Saturday to see cherry blossoms coated with snow.
The National Weather Service predicted record lows today for parts of the
Southeast and Midwest, and an unseasonably cold weekend for much of the
Northeast. Snow was forecast in parts of Ohio, Michigan and New England.

A few flights were delayed in Austin on Saturday because of the weather, and
more delays are possible early this morning, said Lisa Koenig, spokeswoman for
Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.

The rest of Texas has also been hit with unseasonable weather, with Lubbock
getting two inches of snow Saturday and North Texas receiving a dusting.

In Georgetown, the downtown square was nearly abandoned after Saturday's brief
snowfall.

Even so, workers at the County Seat restaurant expected a big crowd today.

"Even if the weather is lousy, it's Easter Sunday," manager Melissa Sorenson
said. "That's our big day."

alorenz@statesman.com; 246-0008

Additional material from The Associated Press and staff reporters Marty Toohey,
Randy Riggs and Deborah Sengupta

(Graphic box)

April 7 record temps

The chilly high on Saturday was the lowest ever, as was the daily low.

Previous record temperatures at Camp Mabry compared to Saturday's records.

Daily high Daily low

1938: 60 degrees 1971: 37 degrees

2007: 50 degrees 2007: 34 degrees

2007*: 32 degrees

*Anticipated overnight

Surce: Bob Rose, LCRA; National Weather Service

Urban Music
Festival on hold

 Saturday's festival will be rescheduled for a date to be announced within 30
days. All tickets for Saturday's performances will be honored.
 Festival patrons who bought two-day or VIP passes can keep their wristbands
for the rescheduled performances.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The British are coming (as dollar falls)

BYLINE: Shelley Emling INTERNATIONAL STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. H05

LENGTH: 656 words


LONDON - To the delight of U.S. exporters and the dismay of U.S. tourists, the
dollar touched a 26-year low last week against the British pound and was less
than a penny from an all-time low against the euro.

Because of growing concern about the U.S. economy, many industry analysts say
they expect the dollar to continue trending downward, deepening the economic
impact for Americans.

The weakness ''is remarkable and reflects the weakening of the U.S. currency due
to sustained bilateral trade deficits with nearly all economies,'' said Jack
Strauss, an economics professor at St. Louis University.

''Unfortunately, the high trade deficits are still around and imply a continued
weakening of the dollar,'' he said.

A weak dollar means Americans will pay more for imported items, from clothes to
cars.

But few groups will be affected more than American travelers. The current
exchange rate means that a 200-pound hotel room in London - comfortable but by
no means the height of luxury - costs $400.

Betty Stark, a travel industry consultant based in Madison, Wis., said she
thinks Americans might defer travel to Europe until the exchange rate moderates,
often choosing instead to vacation in their own country.

''This kind of decrease in the value of the dollar can put a major dent in a
travel budget,'' she said. ''Add to that the doubling earlier this year of the
air passenger duty on flights leaving British airports, and I suspect some
travelers will put off travel plans to a later date.''

The higher duty, which took effect Feb. 1, is designed to reduce the demand for
air travel and thus aviation's effect on climate change. It means that
passengers flying in economy seats on long-haul flights out of Britain pay about
$78.50 more to travel.

Henry Harteveldt, a travel expert at Forrester Research in San Francisco, said
he expects Americans who do plan to travel to Europe to make more use of
vacation packages this summer.

By the same token, a weak dollar raises costs for U.S. companies with many
foreign-based employees and facilities, such as Coca-Cola.

The upside is that it makes U.S. products less expensive on international
markets, a boon to companies such as aircraft manufacturer Boeing Co., the
biggest U.S. exporter in 2005, with $54.8 billion in sales.

And a weak dollar is great for Europeans who travel and spend their money in the
U.S.

Emboldened by the strength of the pound, British archaeologist Andrew Pearson
decided to take the plunge and buy the ski lift-side condo in Breckenridge,
Colo., that he's always wanted.

Priced at $240,000, the property cost the avid skier only 120,000 British
pounds.

''It's something I've wanted to do for a long time but was putting off until I
saved more money,'' said Pearson, who closed on the house Friday.

''The No. 1 destination for buyers is Florida,'' said James Hickman, sales
director at Caxton FX, which analyzes overseas purchasing trends. ''Because
property prices in that state have dropped recently, British buyers are enjoying
a double benefit,'' he said.

Indeed, Europeans are eyeing America as one big bargain basement.

The Association of British Travel Agents reported that some agents have seen as
much as a 30 percent rise in bookings for American holidays in recent weeks as
the pound has strengthened against the dollar.

Many Britons are making weekend shopping trips to New York, where they can buy
an iPod that costs 239 pounds in Britain for only $379, equal to about 190
pounds.

''Certainly business is up, as you'd expect,'' said spokesman Sean Tipton. ''We
expect to see even more interest during the summer holidays to places like
Florida and New York.

''Everything from hotel rooms to jeans are just a really good deal,'' he said.

The pound surged above the $2 mark on foreign exchange markets this week for the
first time since September 1992. It continued to trade Friday above $2, while
the euro neared its all-time record against the U.S. currency of $1.3666.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

School takes truancy fight home

BYLINE: Raven L. Hill AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 983 words


Students, parents and community members didn't come empty-handed to a recent
meeting about the contingency plan for struggling Johnston High School, whose
doors could be ordered shut by the state this summer because of low test
performance.

They came bearing posters that read "We Love Johnston" and displayed their "Ram
Pride" on T-shirts.

As the meeting began, Principal Celina Estrada-Thomas described a school climate
where students feel safe and where teachers want to work. Then she detailed the
campus' attendance problems. More than 600 of Johnston's 760 students had more
than 10 unexcused absences last year, she said. That means almost 80 percent of
students missed two weeks of class or more.

Students love their school, but maybe not enough to go to class.

At Johnston, passing rates on the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills test
fell since last yearin 12 of 16 student group categories, which are broken out
along racial and socioeconomic lines. It's hard to grasp test material when you
are not in class to learn it.

Months of discussion over Johnston's fate have focused on a seemingly
inexhaustible list of culprits in the school's failures.

Many Johnston supporters have blasted a testing system that they say doesn't
measure students' capacity to learn and state legislators who approved the
high-stakes tests. They have castigated district officials about policies that
allow students in the Johnston attendance zone to transfer to other schools and
have accused them of neglecting the campus. They have pointed to the revolving
door of teachers and principals, believing they didn't care enough to stay.

There has not been as much talk, at least not publicly, about the responsibility
that students and parents share: Show up. On time. Every day.

"It has to come from the home first," says parent Esmeralda Fuentes, whose son
will be a junior in the fall. "Parents need to send these children to school.
They're not children anymore. They're really young adults, so they have to take
it on themselves and go."

Dustin Manchaca, who will be a senior in the fall, said parents might feel
helpless.

"In East Austin, a lot of parents struggle already," he said. "Once you're in
high school, they consider you almost a young adult, and it's really your
responsibility."

Truancy has been a problem since the onset of compulsory education. Johnston was
no different when Art Guerrero went there in the 1960s and Principal Gordon
Bailey would send students in his car to pick up their truant classmates.

"From their homes, on the street, wherever we could find them," Guerrero said.

Guerrero later worked as a truancy officer in the early 1970s. His visits with
parents yielded various excuses, most of them stemming from financial problems.
"A lot of kids felt it was their responsibility to get a job," he said. "For the
young ladies who had babies, that would make it twice as hard to go back."

Many students who attend Johnston are in similar situations today.

More than 80 percent of Johnston students come from families with low income.
The school's pregnancy rate is about 14 percent.

"A lot of our students have children of their own. A lot of our students live
with grandparents. If they have to take them to the doctor or hospital, then
that student can't be in school," parent Geneva Oliva said. "Not all students
miss school because they want to."

However, others say too many Johnston students simply lack motivation.

"It's about half and half," said Cantrell Daniel, a senior. "Some kids are just
not coming (for the sake of) not coming."

Brianna Russ, an 18-year-old parent, graduated in May. After getting off work at
9 a.m., Russ said, she'd go straight to class, bringing her 4-year-old daughter
to the on-campus child care center.

"They make sure that anything you want to do, you can do," Russ said.

Johnston received an additional $2.5 million in federal and private grants last
year because of its low-performing status and high numbers of at-risk students.
The campus has a Twilight School that permits students who work to attend
evening classes.

This fall, district administrators plan to implement First Things First at
Johnston, a school reform strategy that emphasizes parental involvement. Parents
will be matched with a campus advocate, a teacher or staff member, who is
assigned to their child in the hopes of addressing the attendance problem. A
district committee will also deal specifically with the school's truancy issues.

"Students see so many examples in the community and in their families that to
them, (skipping school and dropping out) is the norm," said Gonzalo Robles, the
campus dropout prevention specialist. "What we're trying to do is change the
culture."

Last year, in a similar attempt, each teacher was assigned to track 15 students'
progress. It didn't work very well, Robles said.

"Somehow, somewhere, the system broke down," he said. Academics took priority
and tracking students was more difficult than expected.

Parents and students said they appreciate Johnston administrators who call home
about unexcused absences, get social service agencies involved to deal with
personal or family problems and provide bus passes to help them get to school.

Robles said he wants parents to know the school has an open-door policy.

"What I would encourage the parents to do, even though we know they have to work
two or three jobs, is take the time to call the school, to visit the school,
just like they did in elementary school," Robles said.

Superintendent Pat Forgione said he hopes that parents and students will step up
now that the district is trying to address the truancy problem with a systematic
approach.

"Ultimately, attendance is a voluntary act. We need the community to say, 'I'm
not going to let any child stay home.' You can't learn if you aren't there."

rhill@statesman.com; 445-3620

(Graphic box: see microfilm)

Attendance rates at Austin high schools

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Oh, say, can you read?

BYLINE: Jeff Salamon AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. J05

LENGTH: 2569 words


We all know what July Fourth commemorates: that famous day in 1776 when our
forefathers claimed for us the inalienable right to spend at least one evening
each summer grilling hot dogs, drinking beer and sitting beneath a starry sky
while fireworks burst in the air.

But what if it were otherwise? What if July Fourth were, instead, a day of
national reflection, during which Americans contemplated the state of their
union? To that end, I asked some local writers - novelists, journalists and
academics - to recommend a book that they thought would be worth sitting down
with on Independence Day. Any sort of book was allowed - new or old, history or
fiction - so long as it spoke in some way to the American condition circa 2007.
(Thankfully, no one asked me for a precise definition of this rather nebulous
phrase.) Here are their responses.

- Jeff Salamon

Douglas Brinkley

Professor of history at Rice University and author of 'Rosa Parks'

'Harriet Tubman' by Beverly Lowry

Talk about an amazing life! Harriet Tubman, famed Underground Railroad activist,
was dubbed the "Moses of Her People." But reading Austinite Lowry's riveting
book taught me for the first time who she really was. Her inner-self comes
shining through the pages. The reader follows Tubman as lumberjack and nurse and
intelligence sleuth. Wake up, Hollywood! This should be a movie.

Karen Olsson

Staff writer, Texas Monthly, and author of 'Waterloo'

'Angels' by Denis Johnson and 'The House of Mirth,' by Edith Wharton

These books are about as different as two American novels can be, the first a
sort of harsh and beautiful dream about down-and-out drifters, the second a
satirical social novel about the fin-de-siecle idle rich. But each in its own
way questions whether personal independence is attainable, through the
perspectives of people condemned or exiled by society. (That's the July 4 hook,
anyway. The real reason to read them is that they're great books.)

H. W. Brands

Dickson Allen Anderson Centennial Professor of History at the University of
Texas , who is currently working on a biography of Franklin Roosevelt

'People of Plenty: Economic Abundance and the American Character' by David
Potter

This 1954 book makes a compelling case for the hot dogs, rather than the
patriotic speeches, as the salient feature of Fourth of July celebrations.
America's appeal to the world rests on its wealth, not its ideals. Heady stuff
for having been written at the height of McCarthyism.

Spike Gillespie

Public speaker, wedding and funeral officiant and author of the forthcoming
'Quilty as Charged: Undercover in the Material World'

'Angle of Repose' by Wallace Stegner

I started this Pulitzer Prize-winning book 11 years ago and put it down because
even though it was astoundingly good, I had too many negative associations with
the person who recommended it. I picked it back up this year and was reminded
that Stegner is a master. It's the story of the "civilizing" of the West in the
late 1800s told, in part, through the letters of Susan Ward, an Eastern lady
married to an engineer. Really, it's the story of the difficulties of marriage.

Sanford Levinson

Professor, UT School of Law

'First Democracy: The Challenge of an Ancient Idea' by Paul Woodruff

I write these words from Athens, where I have just attended an international
conference on contemporary constitutionalism. So perhaps it is understandable
that my choice for the Fourth is my colleague Paul Woodruff's meditation (and
defense) of Athenian democracy. A wonderful work of historical retrieval (with
the added bonus of being short and readable), it is also clearly embedded in a
justified concern about the present state of our own purported democracy. What
Thomas Paine wrote 231 years ago - "These are the times that try men's souls" -
need be modified only to add "and women's" in order to be all too pertinent, and
Woodruff helps to explain why.

Evan Smith

Editor, Texas Monthly

'All The President's Men' by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein

Because, at a time when investigative journalism is imperiled by the tip of the
budget cutter's knife, we can stand to be reminded that asking tough questions
of elected officials is the ultimate act of patriotism.

James Sidbury

Associate professor of history, UT, and author of the forthcoming 'Becoming
African in America: Race and Nation in the Early Black Atlantic'

Frederick Douglass' 'Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American
Slave'

Douglass' narrative is simply an amazing book, but the many editions that
include his speech "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July" are particularly
appropriate as a reminder that a meaningful commitment to what we celebrate on
the Fourth should involve trying to live up to the as yet unattained promises of
the United States' founding, rather than simple and uncritical celebration.

Kirk Lynn

Co-producing artistic director of the Austin theater company Rude Mechanicals,
whose adaptation of David Rees' Internet comic 'Get Your War On' tours Europe
this summer

'Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln' by Doris Kearns
Goodwin

Though Joan of Arc is unassailable as first place in a list of least likely
nonfictional lives, Abraham Lincoln is our country's closest contender to date.
In addition to the obvious factors of poverty and ugliness that should have
barred Honest Abe from achieving the presidency, his more obscure tendencies
toward critical thinking, humility and mercy seem like the real outliers given
our current Commander-in-Chief's obstinacy, narcissism and sanction of torture.
Doris Kearns Goodwin's book charts the construction of Lincoln's Cabinet from
his political opponents in order to sharpen his arguments when he was right and
correct his errors when he was wrong.

Lorraine Pangle

Associate professor of government at UT and author of the forthcoming 'The
Political Philosophy of Benjamin Franklin'

'The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin'

This charming classic is, if anything, more in need of being read today than
ever. Through the unforgettable tale of his own checkered youth and rise to fame
and fortune, Franklin explores the questions of how individuals can set about to
find happiness and what qualities of character and habits of mind a nation needs
to cultivate in order to be able to sustain free self-government. With his
penetrating and humorous insights into human nature, human foibles and the
possibilities that still exist for human happiness, Franklin can begin to cure
some of the worst ills that beset our republic 300 years after his birth: the
extremes of moralistic intolerance on the one hand and of cynical disaffection
from our common political and social life on the other.

Rolando Hinojosa-Smith

Ellen Clayton Garwood Professor at UT's Department of English

'Kennedy Versus Lodge: The 1952 Massachusetts Senate Race' by Thomas J. Whalen

I bought this book months ago and it stood in line with others as I worked my
way through them. The study takes us back to JFK's race against the
Establishment and the established standing senator from Massachusetts, Henry
Cabot Lodge Jr. The reader will encounter people to be admired, such as
then-presidential candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower, and those who deserve no
respect whatsoever, such as Wisconsin Sen. Joe McCarthy, and the roles they
played in that race, perhaps the very last in which two intelligent men debated
sensibly, logically, with no personal ill feeling - much less the ad hominem
attacks, insults, lies and chicanery that are central to modern campaigning. The
importance of television was also seen and felt for the first time in this
country's history.

James K. Galbraith

Professor at UT's LBJ School of Public Affairs

'The Assault on Reason' by Al Gore

I have not yet read "The Assault on Reason." But I recommend it on the strength
of everything else Al Gore has done this past decade. This includes his work on
climate change and his opposition to the Iraq war from the beginning. It
includes also the fact that he won the presidential election of 2000, suffered
the most vile political crime in American history when it was stolen, and yet
today has re-emerged as our leading voice of inconvenient truth.

Gretchen Ritter

Professor of government and the director of the Center for Women's and Gender
Studies at UT and author of 'The Constitution as Social Design: Gender and Civic
Membership in the American Constitutional Order'

I recommend reading aloud three proclamations that invoke the Declaration of
Independence. The first is the Declaration of Sentiments, authored by Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and approved by the Women's Rights Convention in 1848. It intones,
"We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are created
equal." It calls upon America to live up to its commitments and provide rights
to all people. Four years later, the great abolitionist Frederick Douglass said
that for the slave the Fourth of July is a day of national hypocrisy. "To him,
your celebration is a sham; your boasted liberty, an unholy license ... your
shout of liberty and equality, hollow mockery." Douglass' righteous anger was a
national call to conscience on the eve of the Civil War. Finally, a century
later on the Washington Mall in August of 1963, Martin Luther King Jr. spoke of
the Declaration of Independence as a promissory note. "This note was a promise
that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the
unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." These
speeches remind us of the importance of the Fourth of July as a source of
inspiration and reflection on the promise of American life for all people.

Jake Silverstein

A senior editor at Texas Monthly and a contributing editor at Harper's Magazine

'Agee on Film: Reviews and Comments' by James Agee

Most of the movies taken up in this collection of pieces written between 1941
and 1949 will be unfamiliar to today's reader. But Agee's writing is so full of
humor and good sense that this hardly matters. He perfectly captures what it
feels like to see the picture in question (" 'Roughly Speaking' is, I fear, a
faithful history of the American middle class. It glories in the idea that this
is still a country where you don't get shot for dreaming. The one dream worth
about ninety per cent of its footage is the making of money . . . The whole
thing depresses me beyond words. Jack Carson, however, is likable, as always.").
What emerges is a true cultural history. Reading through the book, one gets a
sense of long-dead American years.

Janet M. Davis

Chair of the Department of American Studies at UT

'The Shoemaker and the Tea Party: Memory and the American Revolution' by Alfred
F. Young

We've heard a lot about the experiences of the Founding Fathers as architects of
the new republic but precious little about the ways in which ordinary Americans
participated in the making of the new nation. This book tells the story of a
Revolutionary War veteran and struggling shoemaker named George Robert Twelves
Hewes (1742-1840). As an impoverished, elderly man, Hewes chronicled his life
story to federal officials in order to qualify for a veteran's pension in 1832.
Told with startling and intimate clarity, this exploration of historical memory
is a stunning meditation on the shared meanings of democracy and freedom across
class lines and the enduring conundrum of inequality in America.

James E. McWilliams

Associate professor of history at Texas State University-San Marcos

'Washington's Crossing' by David Hackett Fisher

As a brilliant social history of the Revolutionary War, with a particular
emphasis on the battles of Princeton and Trenton, "Washington's Crossing"
reveals a Gen. Washington who is intimately engaged with the soldiers he
commands rather than aloof and above the fray of battle. Given that we're now in
a war in which it's perfectly acceptable for the Commander-in-Chief to declare
"Mission Accomplished" from an offshore location while the grunts mired in
battle unknowingly await an unpredicted backlash, Fisher's story is as noble as
it is sad.

Sarah Bird

Author of 'The Flamenco Academy'

'The Fifty-first State?' by James Fallows

Actually, this is not a book; it's a magazine article that appeared in The
Atlantic Monthly and can be read online at www.theatlantic

.com/doc/200211/fallows . The most important thing to notice about this document
is that it was published in November 2002, nearly half a year before the U.S.
invaded Iraq. Had one read it then, one would have been well-prepared for a
national discussion of the issues that Fallows raised with such clear-eyed
prescience: the true costs of a war with Iraq; the military inadvisability of
such an attack; the strategic importance of the oil-rich country; the
quagmiresque nightmare of making war on a country that is a country in name
only. One would have then waited in vain for such a discussion and wondered
whether all the copies of this issue bound for Washington, D.C., had gotten lost
in the mail.

Steven Isenberg

Senior lecturer of humanities, UT, and former publisher, New York Newsday

'The Teammates: A Portrait of Friendship' by David Halberstam

From the man who gave us "The Powers That Be" and "The Best and the Brightest,"
two of the best books on media and Vietnam, "Teammates" is the story of a buddy
trip made by Ted Williams's Red Sox teammates to see him before he died. This is
a signature part of the American story and character: baseball, heroes, growing
old and the summoning of boy's dreams and days by old men who knew the glory of
the game and live it with unfading loyalty.

Lewis L. Gould

Emeritus professor of history at UT and author of the forthcoming 'Four Hats in
the Ring: The Presidential Election of 1912'

'Theodore Roosevelt, Social Justice and Popular Rule, volume 17 of the 20-volume
'Works of Theodore Roosevelt'

This selection of Roosevelt's speeches as a presidential candidate in 1912
reminds us that TR was right a century ago when he said, "In the long run, this
country will not be a good place for any of us to live in unless it is a
reasonably good place for all of us to live in."

Tom Palaima

Dickson Centennial Professor of Classics at UT , and a specialist in the ancient
and modern experience of war and violence

'Back from the Front: Combat Trauma, Love and the Family' by Aphrodite Matsakis

Aphrodite Matsakis has worked for 30 years healing the psychological and
emotional wounds suffered by the families of veterans. Here she lets husbands,
wives and children tell their own stories. They are all heroes for having the
courage to speak honestly about the long-term personal and social costs of war.
You don't have to be or know a veteran to read this book. You will find yourself
somewhere in it, and it will give you a new definition of what it means to be a
patriot.

Bill Minutaglio

Journalism instructor at UT and author of biographies of George W. Bush and
Alberto Gonzales

'Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything To
Solve One of The Last Mysteries of World War II' by Robert Kurson

It's a classic turn-the-page adventure story and an acutely personal saga about
two ordinary Americans taking huge gambles - and how these driven men were
finally able to bring peace to foreign families that had once sent their sons to
attack the United States. It reminds us that when America steps away from its
wars, it's often the ordinary folks, not the bureaucrats, who build bridges to
our former enemies.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved
